

401 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1997
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 63 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
State Jobless Rate Drops

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
New Jersey gained more than 4,000 new jobs last month, pushing the unemployment rate down to 5.5 percent, from 5.6 percent, the State Department of Labor reported yesterday. An estimated 21,400 jobs were created in the first quarter of this year, an 18 percent increase over the same period in 1996, a department spokesman said. The national unemployment rate is 5.2 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1997



402 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1997
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Legislators Visit Arsenal

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: ROCKAWAY TOWNSHIP

 BODY:
Republican members of New Jersey's delegation to Congress traveled to Picatinny Arsenal yesterday to meet with workers who have watched nearly 1,400 jobs disappear since the Cold War ended. About 3,700 people are still employed there. 
 Research and development of weapons technology is the major focus at Picatinny. If inflation is taken into account, the Defense Department has curtailed its spending on weapons modernization by as much as 67 percent in the past 12 years, Representative Rodney P. Frelinghuysen of Morristown told the workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (84%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (84%); DEFENSE SPENDING (84%); 

PERSON: RODNEY P FRELINGHUYSEN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1997



403 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Hudson Battle Heats Up Over Standard & Poor's

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
In an escalating border war, state and city officials in New York are assembling a package of tax breaks and other incentives to keep Standard & Poor's from accepting a lucrative offer to move its headquarters and 2,000 employees to New Jersey.
The jostling between New York and New Jersey over this well-known corporation led recently to a public dispute between a city official and New Jersey's Governor, Christine Todd Whitman, and highlights the continued use of tax breaks by competing states and cities to retain jobs or lure companies to new locations. 
 According to New York City officials and real estate executives, New Jersey has offered tax incentives and other subsidies worth more than $50 million to lure Standard & Poor's to a new million-square-foot tower at Newport City, a complex on the Jersey City waterfront.
State and city officials in New York this week offered what they hoped was an equally alluring incentive package to keep the company in lower Manhattan, possibly in a 900,000-square-foot space at 55 Water Street, a concrete tower on the East River or a similar space in the World Trade Center. Details of the package were not available.
Standard & Poor's, a division of McGraw-Hill Companies, is seeking to bring its bond rating agency and financial information services under a single roof. The company now occupies space at 25, 26 and 65 Broadway. Like many large companies in New York's financial services industry, Standard & Poor's has threatened to move if it does not get tax breaks.
The tension over Standard & Poor's is so great that officials in New York and New Jersey declined to discuss it publicly, as did McGraw-Hill.
The latest skirmish in what officials refer to as the "border wars" broke into view on April 11 at a breakfast sponsored by the Association for a Better New York at the New York Hilton Hotel. Charles Millard, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, asked the guest speaker, Governor Whitman, how she could talk about cooperation between the states when she had broken a pledge not to poach on New York companies by offering a $50 million subsidy to lure a New York corporation to New Jersey.
He did not name the company, but to many downtown landlords and real estate brokers in the audience, the question was a clear reference to New Jersey's effort to capture Standard & Poor's.
Governor Whitman responded that New Jersey did not seek out any New York companies and negotiated only with chief executives who initiated contact with her administration. She said New Jersey would compete for companies on the open market, though she denied that a new $1 million ad campaign was aimed exclusively at luring companies from New York to New Jersey.
"New Jersey's recently announced ad campaign shows they're violating the no-poaching agreement," Mr. Millard said yesterday. "The Mayor will always be very aggressive about protecting New York City jobs."
The no-poaching agreement was reached in 1994 among officials from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. But the issue has continued to flare up, with public officials especially attuned to the political and economic consequences of losing or gaining jobs.
"In many ways, this is a symbolic battle," said Michael T. Cohen, president of Williams Real Estate Company and a downtown landlord. "The city is on a roll. We haven't lost a big tenant in a long time. But to lose a tenant of the magnitude of Standard & Poor's would send the exact opposite message the city wants to send."
On Monday, Harold McGraw 3d, president of McGraw-Hill, led a delegation of top executives on a tour of 55 Water Street and the World Trade Center. Later that day, according to executives familiar with the negotiations, New York State officials delivered an incentive package to the company, followed on Wednesday by the city's proposed tax break. The combined package is said to be worth about $50 million, or $25,000 per job at Standard & Poor's.
City and state officials hope that McGraw-Hill will sign a deal at 55 Water. But space at that building is suddenly in demand and owners are also negotiating with Chubb LifeAmerica, Goldman Sachs and Reliance Insurance.
"I don't think the downtown market is in the kind of shape that allows 55 Water to be so choosy," Mr. Cohen said. "My guess is, if they can land Standard & Poor's they'll do a deal."
But one city official familiar with the negotiations added: "If it's not 55 Water, it'll get very complicated. It's either the Trade Center or Jersey."
Alan J. Steinberg, assistant commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Commerce and Economic Development, disputed Mr. Millard's contention that New Jersey was luring New York corporations. Moreover, he said, New Jersey did not accuse New York State officials of similar transgressions for their efforts to lure Mercedes-Benz of North America to an 80-acre site in Orangetown, N.Y., from its current headquarters in Montvale, N.J.
Though he declined to discuss his negotiations with Standard & Poor's, Mr. Steinberg said the state had a duty to talk to every corporation that inquired about relocation benefits.
"I am not going to confirm whether or how much incentives we have offered anybody," Mr. Steinberg said. "But we have not offered any incentives to any New York company that did not approach us first. There is nothing in the no-raiding agreement that precludes a company from coming to us first."
Many urban planners, as well as the Citizens Budget Commission and the Regional Plan Association, say that officials in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are squandering public resources by fighting corporate migration.
"It's a zero-sum game and you've got to believe the public sector could spend the money more wisely," H. Claude Shostal, president of the Regional Plan Association, said. "You could put that money into schools and transportation programs that would benefit everybody, and the whole pie would grow. But it's difficult for elected officials not to play the game."
In the early 1990's, Prudential Insurance Company, Morgan Stanley and others received hundreds of millions in tax breaks after threatening to flee Manhattan.
In 1995, the Giuliani administration created a series of general tax breaks and zoning changes to lure companies to lower Manhattan and the financial district, where more than 20 million square feet of office space sat empty.
But last year the Whitman administration came back with its own initiative for luring companies to New Jersey, the Business Employment Incentive Program. The incentive program provides companies that move to New Jersey with grants equaling up to 80 percent of the total income taxes paid by employees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MHFI (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MCGRAW HILL FINANCIAL INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1997



404 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 23; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Skin Game

BYLINE: By Patsy Sims; Patsy Sims teaches at the University of Pittsburgh. An updated edition of her book "The Klan" was recently published.

 BODY:

THE LAST PLANTATION
Color, Conflict, and Identity:
Reflections of a New World Black.
By Itabari Njeri.
308 pp. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Company. $24. 
 In the 1970's, the journalist Itabari Njeri embraced Black Power, adopting an African name, wearing only African clothes and abandoning a love for classical music that seemed incompatible with her new cultural identity. She left the movement three years later, having come to believe that black nationalism too often led to "a kind of cultural chauvinism indistinguishable from racism."
Today Ms. Njeri, a contributing editor of The Los Angeles Times's Sunday magazine, defines herself as "healthily ethnocentric." The daughter of a Guyanese-Jamaican-American nurse and a Georgia-born African-American philosopher-historian, she comfortably embraces her mixed heritage (including a great-great-great-grandfather who was a notorious English pirate), wears designer clothes and is back to listening to opera.
Her diverse personal history has drawn Ms. Njeri to the issues of color, identity and ethnic conflict that are at the heart of her provocative new book. In "The Last Plantation" she uses the fatal 1991 shooting in Los Angeles of a black teen-ager, Latasha Harlins, by a Korean merchant, Soon Ja Du, who suspected Latasha of stealing, to "put flesh" on the continuing friction between blacks and other people of color, and among blacks themselves. While she clearly develops a closeness with the Harlins family she never achieves with the Dus, she is evenhanded in her attempts to see both sides: Latasha was no angel, she discovered, nor was Mrs. Du quite the villain she was made out to be.
Many analysts blamed racism for the 1992 Los Angeles riots set off by Latasha's shooting as well as by the beating of Rodney King. Ms. Njeri argues instead that what must be addressed is economic and social inequities as well as a "societally induced sense of inferiority." The disproportionate rage Latasha and Mrs. Du demonstrated during their encounter, she says, grew out of "long-festering wounds" caused by their mutual histories of subjugation. Both women were victims of what she calls an "internalized oppression" that makes the mind "the last plantation."
In exploring the hierarchy of color that has long divided black people, Ms. Njeri draws on interviews as much as on personal experience. She relates the moving story of a dark-skinned woman named Gloria who as a child was taunted by her lighter grandmother and cousins with "nigger-nigger-nigger-nigger." Today Gloria nurses a fear that her own "vanilla ice cream-colored" daughter will also reject her. Meanwhile, Ms. Njeri writes, the "preferences accorded lighter-skinned people in this society are the source of a deep, continuing resentment." An anonymous man once left a message on her voice mail criticizing her for talking "like a . . . white girl." "You need to change that message," he said. "I seen you on TV, and I got a leash for yella bitches like you."
While Ms. Njeri possessed the confidence to take the attack in stride, others of her kin have not. One light-skinned cousin, desperate to prove how black he really was, bought into the Harlem street life and was gunned down during a drug deal. His siblings also struggled to be accepted: a younger brother was killed by drugs and alcohol, and another one is in prison.
Ms. Njeri advocates the proposed multiracial census designation, which would allow the children of interracial marriages to embrace their total heritages. She is critical of black politicians who bury the issue because they fear blurring racial lines will erode their power base. "Race was once synonymous with community for African Americans," she writes. "But the rope attached to the anchor has become a noose, choking off social growth. . . . Though our own communities have to be the base from which we act, the rope attached to the anchor should be long enough to allow us to move into other communities."As this country approaches the millennium, she says, it demands "internal coalitions that transcend differences of color, culture and class, as well as those beyond the limits of group identity, to insure political and economic advancement."
"The Last Plantation" lacks the lyricism of Ms. Njeri's highly praised first memoir, "Every Good-Bye Ain't Gone." Nevertheless, it offers valuable insights that could help eliminate the narrow black-white categories that have fed this country's racism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (92%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (72%); HISTORY (69%); RIOTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



405 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: A Gritty Part of Chicago Gets a New Sparkle

BYLINE: By JILL SCHACHNER CHANEN 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
WHEN Mayor Richard M. Daley speaks of the "miracle on Madison Street," he is not referring to the Chicago Bulls, but rather of the transformation of the Near West Side where the team plays.
 The team, which won four National Basketball Association championships this decade, has been, along with the Chicago Blackhawks hockey team, among the few attractions drawing people to the neighborhood -- earlier to their home in the Chicago Stadium and now to the United Center. 
 But in the last five years the once blighted neighborhood has been transformed by developers who, with the city's aid, have been rebuilding the abandoned industrial sites into loft and town house residences, businesses, shops and restaurants to create a thriving mixed-use community.
The turnaround of the Near West Side has been the result of a carefully planned city strategy to revive an area that was, as little as 10 years ago, better known as a skid row.
Bordered by two major highways, Interstate 90 (John F. Kennedy Expressway) and Congress Parkway, and less than two miles west of the Loop business district, the Near West Side once housed wholesale food and flower markets and a variety of service businesses, such as insurance offices and printers.
In the late 70's and early 80's many of the industrial users vacated their cavernous, multifloor warehouses and factories and moved to the suburbs or elsewhere in the city to build more efficient single-story structures.
Because the real estate market here experienced severe reversals in the 80's, the bulk of these warehouses remained empty until the Daley administration began to focus its attention on the neighborhood. Six years ago, Mr. Daley selected the Near West Side -- home to the United Center sports arena, and the Bulls, the Blackhawks and Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Studios television and film complex -- as the first beneficiary of the city's Strategic Neighborhood Action Program, said Terry Teele, Mayor Daley's deputy chief of staff.
The city designed the program to lure private investors to the area by rebuilding streets and bridges, widening sidewalks, demolishing dilapidated buildings and planting flowers and trees. The city also offered to match owner funds on facade improvements for shops or businesses. In all, said Michael Harris, a deputy budget director, the program cost $49 million from 1993 through 1996.
The Democratic National Convention, which was held last summer at the United Center, was the impetus for completing the improvements, Mr. Teele said.
SINCE the program went into effect, an estimated 5,000 new rental and condominium lofts have been developed in abandoned factories and warehouses, and town houses have risen on vacant lots where buildings were razed. Mr. Teele said two banks, three restaurants and a branch of a national drugstore had opened in the neighborhood in the last year.
The transformation of the Near West Side has been remarkable, said Gary Cowen, who with his wife, Nina, has opened two rental basketball complexes called Hoops in the area in the last five years. "People driving through here used to just hope that they were able to get through without any problems," said Mr. Cowen. "Now, there has been a shift to people finding the development interesting and stopping to look around."
Lewis Kostiner, who with his wife, Anne, owns Annie Properties, said that after renovating 13 buildings in the Near West Side over the last 10 years he had so much confidence in the neighborhood that he has begun construction of his first loft condominium project in the area. The 1,500-square-foot lofts in his renovated buildings rent for an average of $1,800 a month.
Mr. Kostiner's latest project, at 850 West Adams Street, will offer 37 lofts, with prices beginning at $300,000 for 2,000 square feet of finished space, an average of $150 per square foot. He has taken deposits on a third of the units already, he said.
Prices for the Annie Properties condominiums are at the high end of most loft conversions in the area. For example, at the new Stadium Center lofts, just three blocks from the United Center, prices for the 800- to 3,000-square foot lofts are based on $135 to $140 a square foot. The developers there plan to build 137 units with 44,000 square feet of commercial space on the ground floor, said Linda Broznowski, a real estate broker with Beliard, Gordon & Partners, the project's sales agent.
Just east of I-90 sales prices for the China Club lofts, a 112-unit conversion of a warehouse once housing a nightclub, averaged $130 per square foot for the 700- to 1,500-square foot condominiums, of which all but three are sold, said Harry Huzenis, president of Jameson Realty, the building's listing broker.
Prices for the Near West Side lofts and town houses can be as much as $50 a square foot cheaper than those in more established areas like Lincoln Park on the north side of Chicago, said David Ruttenberg, president of the Belgravia Group, which is building a 196-unit complex of new condominium apartments and town houses called Fulton Station a block east of China Club. Prices will range from $140,000 for a 1,000-square foot, one-bedroom unit to $287,500 for 2,000-square-foot town houses with two bedrooms and a family room.
"It makes sense that [the prices here] are cheaper because this is a new neighborhood and we need to offer an inherent value," he said.
THE new residences are attracting a diverse group of buyers, including young professionals who work in the Loop and empty-nesters returning from the suburbs to live in the city. Mr. Huzenis said that nearly 50 percent of the sales at the China Club lofts and at another project he is selling in the Near West Side have been to single women.
Mr. Ruttenberg said he felt that the relatively low crime rate in the area is attracting the large number of women buyers. Since much of the area was an abandoned manufacturing district, no one has been displaced by the development to create resentment over gentrification. The resulting residential neighborhood is composed of people of the same socio-economic group, he says.
But like any other mixed-use community, tensions are beginning to erupt among the residents and business owners. Walter Burnett, the 27th Ward Alderman who represents the Near West Side on the Chicago City Council, said he had been fielding complaints from residents about noises, smells and trucks blocking alleys and driveways.
Business owners, he said, are fearful that they will be run out of the area by residential developers and retailers. Already, several upscale restaurants and stores have taken over stalls in the food market along Randolph Street.
Mr. Burnett said that he was supportive of the businesses' concerns, adding that he had asked the city to study the possibility of rezoning a subtantial portion of the neighborhood to create a planned manufacturing district. If passed, the classification could halt the residential and commercial development there.
"When we were preparing for the Democratic National Convention," Mr. Burnett said, "I ran into a situation where a lot of the business people were in fear that the improvements were being done just for the residential developers and that they would be pushed out. The beautification efforts have attracted a lot of residential developers who have been buying up land and the buildings and converting them to lofts. But the businesses' concern and my concern is preserving jobs in the city."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 37-unit loft condominium at 850 West Adams Street, where prices begin at $300,000 for 2,000 square feet of space. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Near West Side, Chicago

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); CHICAGO BULLS (84%); CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (58%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (58%); CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (58%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BULLS (84%); CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (58%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (58%); CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (58%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RESTAURANTS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES MAYORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); RESTAURANTS (88%); ICE HOCKEY (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); WHOLESALERS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); SPORTS (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); SUBURBS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CHANEN, JILL SCHACHNER OPRAH WINFREY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



406 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2117 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION;
Where Did the Reliable Old TV Season Go?

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
FOR MANY AMERICANS, LIFE USED TO BE defined, parceled out, made understandable by the concept of seasons. Outside, there was changing weather, of course, and baseball and football. Inside, there was a television season.
In September, along with new sweaters and new teachers came a new crop of comedies, dramas and variety shows. The prime-time schedule remained a living-room constant until mid-April, interrupted only by a few reruns here and there, usually around the holiday season, when many people were visiting neighbors for eggnog anyway. Until the 1970's, there wasn't even an interruption in October for the World Series, because those games were played during the day. 
 Things changed in another way in the 70's when the term second season entered television's vocabulary and a batch of new series started to appear every January. But over all, the prime-time schedule stayed relatively stable through the 80's, and certainly the hits stayed in place as reliably as the days of the week.
Like channels whizzing by with the help of a remote control, though, all things must pass. Gradually, haphazardly, following no real blueprint, the television season has been transformed in the 90's into something almost unrecognizable. Indeed, the original concept of such a season is virtually a relic.
The television season still starts in the middle of September, but after that comes a deluge of inconsistency: three weeks of interruptions for baseball's post-season play, then November, the first ratings "sweep" month, when the networks engage in special programming designed to help their local affiliates gain bigger audiences and therefore favorable advertising rates; then the quick disappearance of shows that have failed; then midseason entries, followed by another sweeps month, February; then spring "tryouts," followed by yet another sweeps month, May. Throughout all of this, the need to ration the precious supply of fresh episodes creates confusing gluts of repeats, something that used to happen only in summer.
"There's no question the TV season is nothing like it used to be," said Steve Sternberg, who studies television as a senior partner with BJK&E Media, a firm that buys time for advertising clients. "Ten years ago I could go down a list in my head and tell you everything that was on the networks in prime time. I can't do that now. If people who do this for a living are confused about the season, imagine what it's like for an average viewer."
The simplest way to explain what has happened to the television season is to say that it has become too long, a good six weeks longer than it used to be. Last year, the television season was officially extended through the month of May; before that, it ended in the second week of April. But underlying that simple explanation is a complex of puzzling factors that leave everyone, television programmers and viewers alike, exasperated and yearning for the old days.
If you ask programmers what frustrates them most about scheduling the television season now, the first word that emerges is "sweeps." (The next sweep period starts on Thursday.)
"From a pure network point of view, I'd like to be able to say, 'Forget about the sweeps,' " said Leslie Moonves, the president of CBS Entertainment. "But you can't, because of the affiliates."
Sweep periods existed in the 1950's, but only in recent years have they gained their special sway. They have never been for the benefit of the networks, which are rated for advertising purposes every night, or even for the affiliates in major cities, which are rated in most months. Beyond the 50 largest cities in the United States, however, television stations live and die according to the sweep-month ratings.
As network television continues to lose more and more viewers to cable, network programmers are beginning to resent the pressure on them to load much of their best programming -- specials and highlighted episodes of regular shows -- into the three sweep months. "The torque of competitive pressure created by the sweep month is getting out of hand," said Jamie Tarses, president of ABC Entertainment. "After you get your schedule set, the first thing you think about is the sweeps. It's no longer about the long term. It's about what have you got for November, then February, then May."
This year, even as they have watched their audiences dwindle to new lows for March and April, the networks have been sitting on an arsenal of potent programming, including mini-series like "The Last Don" and "The Odyssey" and the television premieres of movies like "Forrest Gump" and "The Mask." These specials would have helped maintain viewers' interest in March and April, but all of them -- along with four original episodes of every hit show -- had to be held in reserve for May.
The May sweep is especially troubling for the networks because it comes at the end of the season, when the numbers of viewers are lower in any case, because of better weather and longer daylight hours. In recent years, there has been an additional problem. As Preston Beckman, a senior vice president and scheduling strategist at NBC, put it, "Some people believe the season is already over." The primary reason for this is that in March and April they have often tuned in to their favorite shows only to find reruns. And that's because the dominance of the sweeps has disrupted the traditional math of the television season.

A Tough Division Problem
In television's infancy, and through most of the 1960's, a total of 39 original episodes of a show would be ordered by a network. These ran out in mid-April, signaling the end of the season and the start of repeats, which extended through the summer. But the rising cost of producing a weekly show -- it has gone up almost tenfold since the late 50's, to an average of just under $1 million for a sitcom episode and $1.5 million for a drama -- and the ever-more-complicated logistics of weekly production forced networks and studios to pare down to a usual order of 22 episodes for a season.
Because the season now lasts through May, apportioning this total becomes truly daunting. "You want to start the season with four episodes in a row," said Mr. Beckman. "Then you have to save four for each sweep month. That's 16. That means you have six left for December, January, March and April. That's tough."
It's so tough that every network now routinely tries to order extra episodes of its best shows: NBC is able to get 24 new episodes of "Friends," for example; CBS gets 26 of "The Nanny." In general, Mr. Beckman, said, extra episodes of sitcoms are easier to get, because they are cheaper and less time-consuming to produce than dramas.
But some producers won't agree to deliver more than a couple of extra episodes, fearing that doing so will dilute the quality of the product. "We'd take every episode of 'X-Files' that Chris Carter would give us," said Peter Roth, president of entertainment for Fox. But Mr. Carter, the show's executive producer, won't go past 24 episodes, Mr. Roth said, "because each one is handmade."
The programmers' task in spacing episodes is made even harder by the fact that many contemporary shows -- dramas like "E.R." and sitcoms like "Mad About You" -- are written with continuing story lines. When a developing story is interrupted by a rerun, audiences are unhappy.

The Curse of the Repeat
This spring, "E.R.," the most popular show on television, was sent to the bench for six weeks because last season "E.R." fans complained about a long spell of repeats in March and April. Of course, this spring, fans have complained because "E.R." was off the air completely. "When you're trying to juggle repeats," Mr. Beckman said, "you're damned if you do and damned if you don't."
More than anything, television's rhythms have been disturbed by the slow spread of this deadly virus called repeats. Mr. Sternberg, the television analyst, has been tracking the use of repeats in the middle of television season for more than a decade. "Network erosion is directly a result of in-season repeats," he said. "Back in 1987, in the December, January, March and April period, there were about 13 percent repeats on the network schedules. It's now up to about 27 percent."
He told a story that illustrates the real threat of the repeat virus.
He and his wife were home ready to watch one of their regular shows recently when his wife noted that it was a repeat episode. "She started surfing channels," Mr. Sternberg said.
Finally she found something interesting. "Only later," he continued, "did she realize it was on the Lifetime channel. She had never seen anything on that channel before. But the next night, when we sat down to watch TV, the first thing she said was, 'What's on Lifetime?' "
The network programmers know that every time they use a repeat they are driving loyal viewers into the arms of Lifetime, A&E, Discovery or any of the other 40 cable channels now in most American homes.
The programmers also know that viewers, even a show's devoted fans, often haven't seen an episode that is being repeated but believe that they have anyway. Thus the specter of the repeat is almost as damaging as the repeat itself.
Which is why several networks are looking for ways to avoid telling viewers that a repeat is on. Mr. Beckman said NBC had been "questioning" why TV Guide and other listing services include the (R) designation after the description of a network episode when they do not for an even older episode carried by a cable station in syndication.
Ms. Tarses of ABC said her network might stop indicating in its on-air promotions whether the forthcoming episode of a show is new or not. "Do we have to tell the story line in our promos?" Ms. Tarses asked.
Even if ABC doesn't reveal a story line, you may still tell that a repeat is coming on ABC -- by watching a different network. One of the latest trends in this viciously competitive atmosphere is for one network in its promos to point out the reruns of another network's popular shows.

A Faulty Innovation
This year, hoping to avoid the curse of the repeat in getting from February to May, the network programmers tried to refine one recently devised strategy: they regarded the eight weeks beginning in March as a kind of spring-training period. An assortment of new shows were called up for five- or six-week stints on the schedule.
This tryout period may have come in like a lamb, but it went out like a lamb chop.
"Pretty much nothing worked for anybody," Mr. Moonves of CBS said. The one mid-season show to emerge as a potential hit, "King of the Hill," an animated comedy on Fox," had its premiere back in January, the more traditional time to introduce midseason shows. On the other side of the ledger was a long list of flops: "Arsenio" on ABC, "EZ Streets" on CBS, "Pauly" on Fox and "Prince Street" on NBC, among others.
The strategy also backfired in the case of the new shows that filled in for hits like "N.Y.P.D. Blue." That ABC hit was replaced by "The Practice," which was widely praised and stands a good chance of returning in the fall. But Ms. Tarses said: "I will think twice before I do that again. There may be a subtle message to viewers when you put a show in for a hit like that. It's like they decide: don't let this become a habit because our real habit show is coming back."
She argued, however, that introducing numerous new shows in spring makes sense, because a network needs to have a place to try out new shows and because it's still usually worthwhile to avoid a numbing skein of repeats.

Seasons to Come
Whatever their strategies for March and April 1998 may be, almost all the network executives agree that if they don't come up with a new system for constructing a season, network television will continue to decline. "The landscape is so changed, you need new solutions," said Ms. Tarses. "The old solutions just won't work anymore."
Mr. Roth of Fox suggested one new solution: get rid of the traditional season altogether. To compete with cable, he pointed out, the networks need to find ways to get original programming on the air not just from September through May but in the summer as well.
"The concept of abdicating in the summer, and using all those repeats during the season, is archaic thinking," he said. "Economic wisdom be damned. It has just got to stop. We have to look at the broadcast year in a totally different way."
What that way will be, no one is prepared to say. But what is essential for the networks is, as Mr. Roth put it, "to literally create a new system where people will watch network television all year long."

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Mark Gagnon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BASEBALL; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; TELEVISION AND RADIO PROGRAMMING TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (95%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); BASEBALL (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



407 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
F.A.A. Forecast: More And Bigger Planes

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THESE are boom times for the airlines, with record traffic, record profits and record crowding on airplanes, too. The industry and the Federal Aviation Administration think the trend will continue, which means changes -- some positive, some not -- for travelers.
For one thing, planes will be bigger, with one "super jumbo" model now on the drawing boards planned to carry more than 700 people. For another, planes will probably be more crowded. The average load factor, or proportion of seats filled, hit 67.5 percent last year, a record, and will go a bit higher, the F.A.A. said; in 1991 it was less than 61 percent. 
 But ticket prices will decline, the F.A.A. believes, with lower pay for airline employees and more efficient airplanes, and other experts predict new routes and less changing of planes, especially for international trips.
The F.A.A. recently issued an aviation forecast predicting that domestic passenger traffic, which was up 5.5 percent in 1996 over 1995, will rise by an average of 3.9 percent over the next 12 years, reaching 827.1 million by 2008, from 546.2 million this year.
International passenger traffic, up 3.5 percent last year over the previous year, will grow even faster. Traffic to and from Latin America will surpass traffic across the Atlantic in that period, the F.A.A. predicted.
But the airplane fleet will grow more slowly, and planes will get bigger, especially on international routes, according to the agency. The biggest change is in the Pacific, where the average seat capacity is expected to rise to 366, from 326 now.
The forecast assumes a smooth ride for the economy, globally and in the United States, with the Consumer Price Index rising at 2.8 percent a year and oil prices at only 2 percent a year. It does not contemplate recessions or wars, which have in the past triggered crises in civilian air transportation.
While the prospect is for growth, the two big airplane manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus Industrie, differ about what that means for planes. Each had been working on a design substantially larger than the largest now in service, the Boeing 747-400, introduced in 1989, which seats about 380 people in a standard configuration but can accommodate 585 in one-class seating for short trips.
Airbus is completing the design work on a double-decker plane, possibly with an escalator between decks, that could seat up to 736 people. Airbus, a consortium of European manufacturers headquartered in Toulouse, France, plans to decide late next year whether it will build the plane, which could fly as early as 2003. It calls the plane the A-3xx (the x's indicating that Airbus has not committed to build it). Airbus says the market for the "super jumbo" is 1,400 planes in 20 years.
But Boeing recently announced that it was cutting back on planning on its 747-x, which would have had a similar capacity. The reason, said David Nielson, manager of configuration and development for the plane, is that the market is becoming fragmented. Ten years ago, he said, most traffic over the Atlantic was in 747's to major airports; now, he said, people fly direct to smaller cities, in smaller planes. The same will happen over the Pacific, he said.
So Boeing is developing planes like the 777-300x, with one engine under each wing, two aisles in the cabin and as much space as the original 747's.
Anything substantially larger than the 747-400 could be a nightmare for some airports. Richard Leigh, marketing director for the A-3xx at Airbus, acknowledged that "airport constraints are an important factor."
Many airport taxiways and gates are simply too small for a bigger plane. But big Asian airports are new enough and their taxiways broad enough to allow such flights, so there will be pressure on American airports to upgrade. If the super jumbos do come, Mr. Leigh of Airbus acknowledged, they will take a little longer than 747's to board and disembark.
With the increasing volume of flights will come an increasing number of accidents; Boeing predicts one major jet crash a week around the globe by 2010, unless the number of crashes per million flights is cut. In the United States, the rate is now 0.5 crashes, serious enough to destroy an airplane for every million departures.
In January 1995, Federico F. Pena, then the Secretary of Transportation, pledged that the Government would strive for an accident rate of zero; more recently, in February, a White House commission led by Vice President Al Gore called for lowering the accident rate by 80 percent.
Some of the factors that would permit that are now emerging; new navigation and computer systems, for example, that will reduce the frequency of planes' flying into mountains. On the other hand, new problems are arising, especially in developing countries; maintenance errors could become more frequent, and so could crashes involving age-related problems, as jets that are 30 and even 40 years old become commonplace.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Artist's conception of new Airbus. (Airbus Industrie)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (86%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (86%); EUROPE (78%); LATIN AMERICA (69%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (69%); 

CITY: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION AIRBUS SAS (86%); BOEING CO (85%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (86%); EUROPE (78%); LATIN AMERICA (69%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (69%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); AIRLINES (91%); CIVIL AVIATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); TRENDS (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); AIR SERVICE (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); TICKET SALES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



408 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 2; Page 13; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Motherly? Not Her! Nature Is Trying to Kill You

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
IN THE HEART OF LOS ANGELES, the gooey but benign La Brea tar pits suddenly belch rivers of glowing lava. Soon, as ads for the movie "Volcano" warn, "The Coast Is Toast."
Deep in the Amazon, an impossibly large anaconda chases a hunter up the mast of a boat. The man shoots himself rather than suffer death by slow constriction. 
 In Oklahoma, meteorologists stalk a three-headed tornado, hoping to fill it with beeping sensors. But the roaring beast turns on its pursuers like an enraged rhino.
Movie villains, no matter how evil, used to be played almost exclusively by people. Only rarely did a King Kong appear, and even then the monster ape was more tragic hero than bad guy. If a natural force played a role, it was most often a supporting one, like the hurricane in "Key Largo" that served mainly to intensify the emotions and reactions of the trapped gangsters and innocents. Or, humanity was at fault. Radioactive tests spawned giant ants. In "Crack in the World," a pulpy 1965 science fiction picture, an underground nuclear explosion began to split the planet.
But now, in one big-budget film after another, the evil that men do has given way to Mother Nature unglued. Moviegoers are being buffeted by all manner of geological, biological and climatological phenomena, souped up beyond all imagining by computerized special effects.
Perhaps natural-disaster films reflect a growing sense in society that humans, whose technology makes them feel so in control, so safe, are attracted to stories where things are totally out of control. Perhaps the end of the Cold War, the drop in the crime rate and other social trends have put old villains out of work.
Or it may simply be special-effects envy, as studios vie to create the latest greatest illusion in the race for box-office gold. With gigabytes of computer power at their beck and call, the effects specialists of the 90's have little to hold them back, so that even humans with the muscles and weaponry of an Arnold Schwarzenegger character can't compete with giant asteroids and tidal waves for eye-popping impact. "Twister," the movie credited with kicking off the trend last summer, has taken in almost $500 million worldwide.
And so for now, at least, Mother Nature has become Hollywood's biggest, and most expensive star: the computer effects for a tricky lava scene cost as much as $10,000 a second, according to Mick Jackson, the director of "Volcano," the next -- but not last -- in a cluster of what could be called "geo-pics." At $20 million a picture, a mere mortal like Jim Carrey earns only around $3,000 a screen second.
Some of Hollywood's old guard wince at the lack of story-telling in many of these films. Saul Zaentz, the veteran producer of literary movies, the latest of which, "The English Patient," just won him his third Academy Award for best picture, said the new disaster films seek to grab the audience, but not by the brain. Special effects overwhelm the story -- if there is one, he said; titles like "Twister," "Anaconda" and "Volcano" mirror the films' single-mindedness.
"You sit there and watch and everything goes by you," Mr. Zaentz said. "You don't have to participate. You don't have to think. You can be scared, but you're not thinking."
Mr. Zaentz added that he has nothing against special effects. In "The English Patient," he used a computer to multiply 4 paratroopers into 80. But his own Amazon project, "At Play in the Fields of the Lord," contained no animatronic snakes.
Film makers working on nature-as-villain movies, however, say there is nothing wrong with the trend, as long as everyone enjoys the ride. Mr. Jackson, whose $100 million "Volcano" is scheduled to open on Friday, said he had always wanted to wreak a little havoc, and people enjoy watching -- from a distance.
"When I was a kid, in our garden sometimes we had plagues of ants," said Mr. Jackson, whose credits range from BBC documentaries to "The Bodyguard," which starred Whitney Houston. "My mother showed me how to heat up a kettle of water and pour it into the ant hill. In 'Volcano,' I get to do the same thing to L.A.
"It's really just another kind of ant hill. The ants initially start scurrying around, many are killed, but they eventually regroup and rebuild."
Fire and flood figure prominently in disaster films in the works. "Tsunami" tracks frantic efforts to protect San Francisco from a giant wave racing across the Pacific. "Armageddon," "Galileo's Wake" and "Deep Impact," in various stages of development, are all about comets or asteroids colliding with Earth.
The real driving force behind these projects, however, is economics: the need of studios to produce at least one big film a year that can create streams of income from overseas (what is more universal than the fear of natural disaster?), from video rentals and from cable television.
Some films are even tied into theme-park rides. One planetary-collision movie was so linked to a planned amusement park ride that script changes were ordered to accommodate changes in the ride, according to two people involved in that project, who spoke only on condition that they and the movie not be identified. That film has not been shot.
There also remains a fundamental macho competitiveness among the studios, which frequently try to derail or outdo rival projects by pumping money into their own variants. This year, "Volcano" and "Dante's Peak" survived a head-to-head battle of the volcanoes that ran up costs to more than $100 million apiece.
The asteroid pictures are not faring as well. With the competition putting most in what the industry calls "development hell," the only cosmic collision movie close to being filmed is "Deep Impact," inspired by Arthur C. Clarke's novel "The Hammer of God" and the 1951 science-fiction classic "When Worlds Collide." The executive producer is Steven Spielberg.
Directors and producers say the cost of today's special effects has sharply raised the stakes of studio rivalries that have always existed. "Twenty-five or 30 years ago, I remember hearing a conversation between a couple of executives about some upcoming pictures," Mr. Zaentz said. "One guy said, 'They've got bees, but we've got rats." Now rats have become giant volcanoes.
Directors, however, say there are good reasons why disaster films are popular, from the high-minded to the low-brow.
On a Freudian level, Mr. Jackson suggested, "disaster movies answer a need."
"The more anxious we get, the more we need fables and fairy stories in which the worst possible things happen," he added. "We watch it happen, watch people acting out our worst nightmares."
Somehow, though, humanity finds a way to emerge from the ashes -- literally in the case of "Volcano." A key to that movie, Mr. Jackson said, is its emphasis on racial divisions in Los Angeles, which are eliminated at the end, when everyone is covered in a monochrome layer of gray ash.
But the escalating capability of technology is also encouraging the production of these films. Ideas can be filmed that could not even be imagined several years ago.
"Now we can do almost anything," Mr. Jackson said. "We can go back to all those movies of the 50's, 60's and 70's and take out the cardboard nature and put in something totally convincing."
His technical crews, for example, worked for weeks to mesh scenes in which actors' faces are lit by the glow of approaching lava with scenes in which "mini lava" flows through a small-scale set.
In the end, though, it is audiences' appetite for the stimulation of ever-bigger natural disasters that appears to be insatiable.
"THE AUDIENCE increases its expectations movie by movie," Mr. Jackson said. "They've gotten tired of human villains, who are still subject to human limitations. With a force of nature and a computer, you can be as evil as you like. Someone gives them a twister and they love it. So someone says, how about a volcano?"
Or a giant anaconda. It would be hard to find a biological villain that could outdo the 40-foot animated snake that stars in the eponymous Columbia Pictures film, which brought in $16 million in its first weekend.
Some groups dedicated to defending nature are enjoying these films. In a way, they help put people in their place, said Andy Goodman, president of the Environmental Media Association, a private group in Los Angeles whose mission is to infuse environmental themes and practices into the entertainment industry.
"Twister," Mr. Goodman said, "demonstrates the awesome force of nature and how puny we are in comparison. That's not such a bad thing."
He even sees last summer's greatest box-office hit, "Independence Day," as fitting that mold. "My personal theory is that "Independence Day" was a very subtle environmental tract," he said. "We as a people are sucking this Earth dry. We know that, particularly here in America. But we can't hate ourselves.
"So what do we do? We create an extraterrestrial foe that is sucking planets dry and moving on. We project our deepest darkest fears about ourselves on something else we can really hate and destroy."
Mr. Goodman added a last thought: "Who defeats them? Jeff Goldblum, the environmentalist in the movie. They should've called it Earth Day."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Running Amok In "Volcano," above, opening on Friday, and "Twister," from last year, moviegoers are buffeted by all manner of natural phenomena. (Warner Brothers and Universal City Studios; 20th Century Fox); In 1965, when the film "Crack in the World" was released, it was humanity that caused nature to rebel. Now nature erupts on its own. (Paramount Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (72%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (72%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; DISASTERS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); TRENDS (89%); FILM (89%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (86%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); TSUNAMIS (77%); TORNADOES (76%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); HURRICANES (76%); METEOROLOGY (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); SHOOTINGS (71%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (71%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (70%); COLD WAR (66%); CRIME RATES (63%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C JIM CARREY (57%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



409 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: ON LANGUAGE;
History Is Toast

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
In our use of its recent slang sense, we have come to the end of history.
History, the with-it user of vogue lingo will recall, was a cheery term for "goodbye," as in "I'm history"; another sense was "out of it; passe," as in "Nobody hums that tune anymore; it's history." A more extreme version of that sense was "finished, washed up, wrung out and cast aside," as in "Forget about her; she's history." (The word's demise seemed to be further hastened by Francis Fukuyama's amusing musing about Clio in his provocative book titled "The End of History.") 
 But history, in its sense of "hopelessly old-fashioned; last year's craze" is back in the mists with twenty-three skidoo. In our breathless run-up to the millennium, the hot term for outcastedness -- expressed in a combination of scorn and revulsion -- is toast.
"Hey, dude. You're toast, man" was a passage in The St. Petersburg Times of Oct. 1, 1987, the earliest citation the Oxford English Dictionary research staff has of this usage. "Actually, the trendiest way of saying someone is finished is to say 'He's toast,' " wrote the columnist George Will the following year. "The women in Bush's entourage also are turn-you-to-toast toughies."
Nearly a decade later, Tom Friedman, a foreign-affairs columnist for The New York Times, envisioned Secretary of State Madeleine Albright urging Jiang Zemin, the Chinese leader, toward the next stage of economic development because "if you can't deliver that next stage you're toast." The columnist concluded his imaginary dialogue by having Jiang ask, "What does it mean to be toast?"
It means "burned, scorched, wiped out, demolished" (without even the consolation of being remembered, as history offered). Makers of a movie about a volcano in California wrote the tag line "The Coast Is Toast." When Ted Turner, the magnate who enjoys sailing, almost fell overboard, he told an interviewer in 1992, "I thought I was toast -- I would have died"; five years later, firing his own son after a merger, the tough-loving father said, "He's toast."
Thus has the simile warm as toast been thrust aside. The noun's standard meaning -- "sliced bread singed by heat," from the Latin torrere, "to burn" -- is being temporarily overrun by its slang meaning. A less torrid Caribbean sense was described by Roger Abrahams in the July 1962 American Folklore magazine as "the long narrative poem called the toast." However, the verb to toast continues to mean "to salute with a glass in hand and an encomium on the lips"; a similar sense of the verb can be discerned in the Caribbean meaning "to accompany reggae music by shouting."
If toast comes after the end of history, what will come after the final scraping of toast?
A far more horrific term: roadkill.
Representative Peter King, Republican of New York, used the term as he played Casca to Speaker Newt Gingrich's Caesar recently: "As road kill on the highway of American politics," he wrote in The Weekly Standard, "Newt cannot sell the Republican agenda." This followed the metaphor used by Mr. Friedman, whose toast usage is cited above, referring last December to nations that fail to get their international economics right as "road kill on the global highway." Frequent use of roadkill with information superhighway can be expected, especially in Internet prose.
The original meaning was "an animal killed by a motor vehicle and lying on a roadside." The first O.E.D. citation is from 1972, as Richard and Rochelle Wright wrote in the book "Cariboo Mileposts" about magpies: "They. . .usually feed on carrion or road-kills."
Now the metaphoric sense means "no longer viable," with a second sense of "easy victim"; Charlie Nobles, a sportswriter for The New York Times, described the Miami Hurricanes college basketball team as "formerly viewed as Big East road kill." Drop the hyphen; close up the space and write it as roadkill.
Will the vogue meanings of the nouns toast and roadkill follow the course of all-but-forgotten history? We'll know when all is said and done. (At the end of the day is toast, but roadkill will not soon be shunted aside by pavement pizza.)
 
DOUBT IS OUT
Alarm shown here 18 months ago about the vogue use of I'm not sure that to mean "I'm fairly certain that's a lot of hooey" has failed to dampen the delight in this locution shown by practitioners of sly derogation.
"I'm just not sure whether Sky is a mass-market service," a media-securities analyst was quoted regarding Rupert Murdoch's planned satellite service that might draw viewers from the cable industry. Note it was not the forthright I doubt that or the even more resolutely opinionated "Sky won't fly"; just that certain uncertainty.
The verb doubt is obviously out. Not since when all is said and done was shoved aside by the Britishism at the end of the day has the tried-and-true been so thoroughly ousted by the trendy.
My philosophy: If you can't stop 'em, correct 'em. Should it be I'm not sure that, or whether, or if? The answer rests on whether you want to express uncertainty or disbelief. (I just used whether because I am in genuine doubt about which you want to express.) If you're sincere about not being sure about the future of Rupert's Sky venture, use whether or if. (I like whether better because it's less ambiguous than if.) But if you're not really uncertain in your own mind, and your purpose is to cast doubt on or spread disbelief about Mr. Murdoch's enterprise, use that.
Am I splitting hairs? Sure; that's what mavens do. But on this, I'm backed up by Randolph Quirk, the usagist who sits in the British House of Lords as an independent spokesman on education: "When I'm not sure is followed by that, the meaning of I'm not sure is 'I doubt,' a polite denial. But when I'm not sure is followed by whether or if, the meaning is either 'I wonder' or 'I don't know.' There's a subtle difference."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (ILLUSTRATION BY TERRY ALLEN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (78%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIA (50%); SAINT PETERSBURG, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ST PETERSBURG TIMES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (78%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIA (50%); SAINT PETERSBURG, FL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (88%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); FOLKLORE (73%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



410 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY;
A Cigar-Store Indian, an American Dream

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
"IN my shop, you see something you don't see much these days," Sanj Patel said with a grin.
And what's that? 
 "An actual cigar-store Indian."
The joke caused chortling in the cozy, shoebox-like confines of Sanj's Smoke Shop, a tiny cigar store that Mr. Patel, 29, opened up three months ago on Broad Street in Bloomfield. Since opening day, he has not taken a day off.
"I'm here 8 in the morning to 9 at night, seven days," he said happily. Mr. Patel, an American citizen, came here from India as a high school student. He got his basic business education working at an uncle's deli in Elmwood Park.
When people think about the issue of immigration in New Jersey, whose population growth in recent years is entirely attributable to the phenomenon, it is useful to consider a place like Sanj's Smoke Shop and realize that -- here and there, at least -- the much-derided American dream still remains a work in progress.
Mr. Patel saved the money for his shop by working part-time in the uncle's deli, and full-time for years as an entertainment makeup artist. He also clerked at a cousin's tobacco and candy shop, where he first developed what would become a connoisseur's appreciation of quality hand-rolled cigars.
"I never drank, or smoked a cigarette, but I just started loving good cigars, way before cigars got so famous," he said.
After breaking his back in a car accident, he returned to India last year to visit his parents. While recovering, he hatched his business plan. "I always wanted to have my own cigar shop," he said. "So I went for it."
This is no candy-store game. A top-shelf cigar costs from $5 to $20, and demand is such that some brands are nearly impossible to get. A favorable rating in one of the slick cigar magazines will immediately sweep a brand clean off the shelves of even the big retailers in Manhattan. Mr. Patel keeps his stock competitive by carefully cultivating a personal network of cigar lovers, some of them distributors who can come up with a few boxes of the hardest-to-find brands for a guy they like.
Cigars require a lot of seed money, plus unassailable expertise and vigilant customer service. Mr. Patel has already spent $65,000 on inventory. He has a tiny apartment above the shop and lives off savings, plowing all profits back into the business. He and relatives built the shop's fixtures, including three large humidor display cases.
Rents are not high on Broad Street, with its cluster of luncheonettes and beauty shops. The location was ideal because good cigars cut across economic lines, and blue-collar Bloomfield is bordered by affluent Glen Ridge and Montclair. Mr. Patel's shop is already an egalitarian salon where cops, laborers, bankers and lawyers sometimes bump shoulders.
Today a cigar shop is one of the few places left where strangers can be heard engaging in a reasonably cogent discussion of foreign policy.
"Kennedy, he put in the embargo against Cuban cigars, but I read he always made sure he had a good supply of Havanas in the White House -- the hypocrite," a customer who drives a van for a living snorted.
"Sure, you go to Washington," a lawyer told him knowingly. "The State Department is still the best source for smuggled Cuban cigars."
At the counter, Laura Quigley, 33, of Glen Ridge, was inspecting a $33.99 cigar cutter made out of a .44-magnum bullet, a gift for her boyfriend.
"I buy my own cigars here," Ms. Quigley said brightly, digging into her purse to show off labels from her current favorite brands. "I think men are basically intimidated by women who smoke cigars, but who cares?"
Mr. Patel, who also has invested some money in a Nicaraguan cigar factory, doesn't blow any smoke about instant riches. The cigar business is fiercely competitive, with a product made slowly by hand. A good brand requires years of agricultural and marketing development.
Mr. Patel plans to build a solid customer base from the little shop in Essex County. Then he wants to open up more shops, franchises. His overriding theory is that the current madness in cigars is "a fad with maybe another three, four years to go." After the cigar faddists move on to whatever the next new thing is, Mr. Patel hopes to prosper long-term in a business where the payoff comes from knowing your product and providing personal service.
Mr. Patel doesn't believe in waiting around for some lucky break. "Before I opened the shop, I said to myself: You have this much money. Now, you can go to Atlantic City. Or you can think smart and work hard. You can be a great businessman."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BLOOMFIELD (NJ); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CIGARS TOBACCO STORES (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (78%); SMOKING (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (74%); RETAILERS (73%); BUSINESS PLANS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); IMMIGRATION (54%); 

PERSON: PATEL, SANJ

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



411 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: County's Open Space: The Final Frontier

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
WHILE the county touts its record of saving 18 acres of parkland for every 1,000 residents, conservation groups are increasingly growing anxious. Hearing the drone of new construction in the background, they worry that county government is resting on its laurels as farmland and other open space is scooped up for buildings.
"The situation is dire," said John Feingold, executive director of the nonprofit Westchester Land Trust. "We're in imminent danger of losing those special qualities that make Westchester Westchester." 
 The county may be justifiably proud of its record for preserving parkland -- 10 acres for 1,000 residents is the recommended national standard. Yet conservationists like Mr. Feingold say that in light of the latest pressure for construction, officials should be doing more. There were 10,5072 acres of farmland in Westchester in 1984; a decade later, there were only 6,091, he said.
Meanwhile developers, citing a healthy economy and robust demand for new houses and office space, contend that rather than invading the landscape, they are answering a growing need.
"It's a brisk market, and it looks like it's going to continue for a while," said Rob Parahus, a vice president for Toll Brothers Construction, which is building luxury homes and town houses in 13 states and in Ardsley, White Plains, Mount Kisco, Pound Ridge, Briarcliff and other Westchester locations.
Reacting both to the strains of increased development and to criticism that officials are not doing enough, the county's Planning Commissioner, P. Lynn Oliva, said last week: "We can't do everything. Sometimes we want to buy, and landowners don't want to sell. Sometimes they want to sell, but for too much. Often there is the concern that if the county steps in, the land goes off the local tax rolls.
"The bottom line is that there is a lot of competition these days for a limited number of government dollars, and other avenues to preservation have to be explored." The Commissioner recommended that private groups and municipalities find alternative land-preservation solutions and not rely solely on the county to cut the losses.
Westchester began accumulating parkland with the establishment of the Bronx Parkway Commission in 1906 and continued a massive acquisition program in the next two decades, buying Ward Pound Ridge in Cross River, Saxon Woods in White Plains, Playland in Rye and Tibbetts Brook in Yonkers, among other holdings.
Today, it counts 16,000 acres of parkland preserved for 893,000 residents, including an extensive network of trails along former rights of way.
But Ms. Oliva, saying that the county can no longer afford to think of itself as a wealthy parent with deep pockets, suggested that conservationists and government officials take a lesson from the way residents of Hastings-on-Hudson, the county and the state and cooperated in 1993 to save 48 acres of land from development.
"That kind of cobbling together of resources will be the way of the future," the Commissioner predicted.
In Hastings, the county and state each contributed one-third of the $3.35 million cost of purchasing Hillside Woods, and the Village of Hastings-on-Hudson raised the rest through a bond issue. The land was owned by a New York City developer who had planned to build 82 homes on it.
It has not been easy, however, for public and private sectors to cooperate. In part that is because they are at odds over where to focus their land-preservation efforts.
The county has sought to enrich its stock of parkland in southern and central Westchester -- what Commissioner Oliva said is "a matter of demographics, where most of the people are."
The nonprofit groups and many municipal officials, though, are worried about land in the northern part of the county, where they say most of the most ecologically sensitive properties and endangered species are.
Cynthia M. Curtis, a Councilwoman in North Salem, remarked about the slow but steady population shift to the north and said: "Officials have to start recognizing the value of preserving land all over Westchester, not just in the crowded areas of the south. If they fail to pay more attention to the newly developing areas, it will be too late when they finally start scratching their head and wondering what happened to all the open space that they once took for granted."
An hour north of Times Square, roadways and driveways are quickly demarking the once rural landscape, frightening off the wildlife and intensifying fears that -- if not too late already -- the situation has reached what Mr. Feingold called "the point of last opportunities."
"It's the tyranny of small decisions that I worry about," he said. "Individual developments in and of themselves may not be harmful, but they are having a cumulative effect."
Many of the conservationists' concerns have focused recently on three housing developments in the north: 117 acres in North Salem, 93 acres in Lewisboro and 110 acres in Mount Kisco.
In North Salem, the property in question is known as Turkey Hill, where perhaps two cars a week travel along a dirt road and bobcats and coyotes hold sway. The land was recently described by the Wildlife Conservation Society, the parent group of the Bronx Zoo, as the most ecologically rich private site in the county.
Now a developer wants to build three horse farms on the land, and although Mrs. Curtis is not happy about that, she acknowledged that because of its size, the property could have been subdivided for 20 or 30 homes.
"In that sense, we're grateful, although it also would have made a wonderful preserve," she said. "But it's too late for that now."
Frustrated in its effort to convince the county to acquire the land, the municipality has convinced the developer, North Salem Associates, to concentrate construction on the southern part of the tract, leaving as much contiguous space open as possible.
The developer has also agreed to leave one riding trail open to a bridal club and to place some of the land in conservation easements, which would prevent further development, Mrs. Curtis said.
In Lewisboro, a developer, Victor Weingarten, has proposed grouping 14 houses on 36 acres of his Woods at Waccabuc property and allowing the remaining 57 acres to be managed by the Westchester Land Trust and left open to the public.
Carol J. Coggeshall, chairwoman of the Westchester County Soil and Water Conservation District Board, suggested that municipalities like Lewisboro keep an inventory of open space and attempt to save property before a crisis develops.
"Otherwise, it's like trying to close the barn door after the horse is out," she said. "We understand that we can't preserve everything, but at least we can try to minimize the damage."
In Mount Kisco, Toll Brothers has 92 luxury homes under construction but has agreed to give 38.7 acres to the 90-acre Marsh Sanctuary, which borders the property.
Robin Purcell, vice president of the sanctuary's board of directors, said the developers agreed to make the gift after neighbors threatened to sue them for an alleged violation of a deed restriction. Toll Brothers has also planted a double row of pine trees to shield the sanctuary from the construction.
Aware that they can neither stop development nor thwart the demand for new construction, conservationists like Mrs. Purcell are agreeing to compromises. "It's not the ideal resolution to the problem, because sanctuaries shouldn't be bordered by houses, and dogs and cats can do a number on rodents and nesting birds," she said. "But the meadows still look open."
She said that in 1988 the county had offered to pay one-fourth of the purchase price for the property now under construction but Mount Kisco officials would not make up the difference because they wanted the land developed for its ratables.
At the nonprofit Regional Plan Association in Manhattan, Robert Pirani, a director, said that many factors go into assessing the success of land preservation efforts and that criteria like acres saved per thousand people describe only one aspect.
"That's just a single yardstick, and it doesn't begin to tell the whole story," he said, explaining that there are other, less quantitative factors to be considered.
"It's not always the number of parks or ball fields that can be counted, but the sense of the landscape that you get as you drive through a place," said Mr. Pirani, whose organization focuses on development issues in the New York region. "To me, Westchester looks more and more like it is falling victim to the same kind of suburban sprawl that other areas have."
As Mr. Feingold at the Land Trust group said: "It's a delicate balance. The southern portion of the county is already urbanized, but perhaps we can still hold on to what's left in the north."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Club Pointe development, bordering woods in White Plains, above. Top: wetlands at Michigan Road picnic area, Ward Pound Ridge Reservation. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; LAND USE POLICIES COUNTIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



412 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Now Sleepy Hollow, But It's Still Home

BYLINE: By HERBERT HADAD 

DATELINE: SLEEPY HOLLOW

 BODY:
FLYING from New York to Rome recently, Pasqualino Guzzo, who has lived in this village since 1973, was asked by a Florida couple seated nearby where he hailed from. "For years I went to Europe and said I'm from North Tarrytown and people didn't know. They felt it was part of Tarrytown. But on this flight I said Sleepy Hollow." He broke into a broad smile. "Now they know the name."
Dropping by for a slice at the Fleetwood Pizzeria, which Mr. Guzzo operates on Beekman Avenue, the main commercial thoroughfare of this village, Luigi Tucci, recalled a similar experience. 
 Mr. Tucci, a retired representative for European industrial companies and a 35-year resident, met a professor on the Queen Elizabeth 2. " 'Oh you come from Sleepy Hollow country,' he said. 'I'm working on a book about it.' "
Mr. Guzzo, who with his wife, Guiseppina, has raised seven children in this village, added from behind his counter: "Sleepy Hollow is independent now. The new name is good for real estate. It's good for business. It's good for the people."
The name change, favored by a margin of more than two to one in a special election four months ago, attracted international publicity, including a visit by Peter Jennings, the ABC-TV news anchorman, who interviewed voters at the polling place at the Hudson Valley Writers' Center in its remodeled train station overlooking the Hudson River.
So one thing became certain: most people in this village of 8,200 feel good about the new name even if Sleepy Hollow remains dramatically bifurcated.
Some of its people live in graceful, upper-income single-family houses with leafy gardens in sections traditionally called Philipse Manor and Sleepy Hollow Manor, while others live in moderate-income apartment buildings or modest private homes strung closely along plain and even bleak streets.
The big question remains, however: does the new name really have significance beyond community pride?
Two more visitors to the Fleetwood Pizzeria represented two distinctly different points of view. "This is a fine town," Roger Billharz, an electrician, said. "I like it, but I voted no. Fix up the town. Get more parking. Then change the name."
James Yosifidies, a landlord for rental properties and a restaurateur, said he planned to open a restaurant on the corner of Beekman Avenue and Washington Street about 300 feet from the pizzeria in early June. "There is value in the name," he said. "It gives us an identity." Asked the name of his new place, Mr. Yosifidies said, "The Sleepy Hollow Restaurant."
About 500 feet down Beekman Avenue as it leads to the former General Motors Riverside assembly plant, Johnnie Veras was selling groceries and Hispanic specialties from his Stop No. 1 store.
"I was against the name change," he said. "It costs a lot of money to change the name, and it makes no difference in my business."
Mr. Veras, a native of Santo Domingo who has lived here for 23 years, said it was his observation that the sizable Hispanic community did not care much about the issue.
When he was asked during the campaign to put a sign in his window urging the change, he complied. "But some people came in and said, 'Take it out or I won't shop here,' " he said. He removed the sign.
Shirley Ferraro, a school crossing guard, had an understandable view of the hoopla over the name: "I've seen no change in the traffic pattern on Beekman.
Mayor Sean Treacy last month won a third two-year term to the $2,400-a-year part-time job, and he had a far more rosy view. First, he said, the cost for new stationery, signs, decals on village vehicles, police badges, and the like, will total only about $10,000. "But the new name has generated a great deal of interest from investors and developers," he said. "I've had inquiries from people interested in the G.M. site now that we've completed rezoning away from manufacturing to a mix of commercial and residential uses. I've had discussions with merchants in town who want to expand their businesses."
As for the real estate boom, it would seem premature. "There are people purchasing property in the inner village," Mr. Treacy said. "I suspect there is some speculation. Two-family homes seem to be jumping off the listings."
Physical evidence, said the Mayor who is also chief engineer at Yonkers Raceway, is right around the corner:
*Westchester County awarded Sleepy Hollow a $150,000 grant to help improve storefronts on Beekman Avenue and two other small commercial arteries, Cortlandt and Valley Streets. The money will match that of business owners up to a maximum of $15,000.
*Construction is expected to begin soon for a new waterfront park to be called Sleepy Hollow Landing. It will serve as the home mooring, Mr. Treacy said, for the Ferry Sloops organization, which now keeps its replica of a merchant schooner at Yonkers. About $600,000 has been received from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the park.
*The Westchester Arts Council gave the first cultural grant Sleepy Hollow has received. The playwright Staci Swedeen and the choreographer Diane Coburn will create an "interactive theater piece" called "Mystery at Spook Rock," which incorporates local legends and history. It will be presented the last two weekends of June at the old train station there.
*A new rubber-wheel trolley to coax tourists to visit Sleepy Hollow, Tarrytown and Irvington will be brought in by Hugh Casey, who operates the Tarry Inn restaurant on Beekman Avenue. The trolley would join one operated successfully last year by the Historic River Towns of Westchester, which represents the tourism interest of towns from Peekskill to Yonkers.
Another person in a position to know the pulse and feelings of Sleepy Hollow is Mark Arduino, who publishes the weekly Village News & Town Report.
"Strictly from the marketing perspective," he said one recent day from his storefront office, "the name change is the cheapest and easiest thing to do to advance the village." He said it was only a small group of old-timers who remembered back to the World War II era when Tarrytown and North Tarrytown had separate high schools and football rivalries who are nostalgic about the old name.
This village has a reputation for bare-knuckle politics, and while Mr. Arduino and Mayor Treacy would seem to hold some similar views, Mr. Arduino's paper supported the opposition.
Two of the more reflective opinions over the name change came from Annegret Wolf Rice, an artist, teacher and real estate agent, and her husband, Berkeley Rice, an editor and nonfiction author, who have lived in an English-style cottage overlooking the Hudson for the last 23 years and raised two sons here.
"There is an all-around hopeful feeling and one full of possibilities about this village," she said. "But I moved from Switzerland 30 years ago, leaving that country behind. This time we've left a name behind. I have certain regrets. I feel bad for people who were born here because their home-town name has dissolved."
As for a real estate boom, she said: "I still think it's wishful thinking. There are no automatic benefits to the economics. Putting a new dress on someone leaves them the same underneath. I haven't seen any immediate results."
Mr. Rice said his vote favoring the name change was made reluctantly. "I had nothing against North Tarrytown," he said. "It was fine. It never bothered me. I'm not convinced that changing the name will by itself bring more tourism or more corporate business."
He compared the name change to the practice in England of white-washing the fronts of buildings before visits by the Queen. "When the Queen is gone, the original paint starts to show through again," he said.
"There was a certain elitism in the desire to change the name," Mr. Rice said. "With G.M. leaving, yuppie newcomers wanted to get rid of the blue-collar image of the town.
"I'm suspicious of attempts to change the character of something simply by changing its name," he said, reflecting his wife's position. "But it's worth giving it a chance though not if it means dressing up in period costumes on weekends for the tourists. Then Disney might take over the whole village."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Annegret Wolf Rice and her husband, Berkeley Rice, outside their Sleepy Hollow home. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (73%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SLEEPY HOLLOW (NY); NORTH TARRYTOWN (NY); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (88%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ROME, ITALY (73%); 

SUBJECT: NAMES, GEOGRAPHICAL CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (87%); ELECTIONS (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); WRITERS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (63%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); 

PERSON: HADAD, HERBERT ELIZABETH II (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



413 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
A Small Town Helps to Save a Big Rental Complex

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: COLLINGSWOOD

 BODY:
FOR more than a decade this Camden County borough watched the 1,037-unit Sutton Towers, its biggest apartment complex, steadily slip into decline. In the summer of 1995 its owner filed for bankruptcy.
Rather than leave the future of the local landmark to an uncertain fate, the borough took ownership to the land beneath the complex and, in an innovative agreement, became a 45 percent owner of the four-building site to insure its revival as a mixed-income rental. 
 Now the property at the corner of Collings Avenue and Whitehorse Pike, which had been 50 percent vacant as recently as last fall, is in the midst of a leasing and renovation program. It also has been renamed Parkview, its name when built in the 50's as one of the first high-rise apartment complexes in South Jersey.
Eighty percent of the 550- to 1,000-square foot one- and two-bedroom units in the 9- and 10-story buildings are being leased at market rents of $575 to $875. The remaining units are reserved for elderly residents with low and moderate incomes -- a housing product that is in short supply in the area, borough officials said.
Getting involved in the project was a way for Collingswood "to control its own future," said M. James Maley Jr., a borough commissioner and lawyer who led the negotiations on the agreement. It was struck last July after nearly a year of discussion involving the borough, GE Capital Corporation, which took back the property through bankruptcy in late 1995, and Capital Properties Associates, a Manhattan-based developer.
Under the agreement the borough and Capital Properties formed the for-profit Park Collingswood Urban Renewal Corporation to buy and redevelop Parkview. Capital Properties, which owns the remaining 55 percent of the complex, is also managing and renovating it.
Financing for the nearly $50 million redevelopment is coming mostly from the sale of bonds, including $36.5 million issued by the Camden County Improvement Authority to buy the complex from GE Capital, retiring its $27 million mortgage. GE Capital is guaranteeing those bonds against default.
The $9.5 million remaining after the mortgage is retired is to be used for the renovation, along with $7.6 million from separate bonds sold by the borough and invested in the project and $5 million from Capital Properties. The borough also gave the project a 25-year tax abatement.
"We assured ourselves that the market was there, but without these financing incentives we would not have done the project because it would not have made economic sense," said Richard Cohen, president of Capital Properties. Putting the package together required joint action by the county, borough and GE Capital along with his company, Mr. Cohen said, adding that "we need each other, desperately."
This is the first project in New Jersey for Capital Properties, which has worked with GE Capital on other troubled developments and owns and manages some 7,000 condominium and rental units in 10 states.
Betty D. Davis, senior vice president of GE Capital, said of the deal: "It is the best strategy to maximize the value of the asset."
The deal was appproved by the state's Local Finance Board, part of the state's Department of Community Affairs, which oversees housing. The board provides financial oversight to municipalities, counties and improvement authorities.
Mr. Maley. the borough commissioner, said the borough would repay its debt from several sources -- payments in lieu of taxes, which will be at least the $819,000 a year the property had paid the borough, and profits from the project's rental income.
He said that since the project was not initially expected to be profitable the borough projected Parkview's redevelopment would have cost each taxpayer $25 in each of the first two years. By trimming its budget that cost was eliminated this year.
The borough still could lose money if the project fails. But, said Mr. Maley, "there was more to lose if we did nothing."
PARKVIEW is the biggest taxpayer in the 1.2 square mile borough. And at full occupancy it represents 20 percent of Collingswood's 5,000 households.
"If Parkview went south it had the potential of taking the whole community down with it," said Frank Law, the Mayor of Collingswood, referring to concerns of its impact on the borough's finances, schools and property values.
Wendy Morze, who with her husband, Ronald, have owned their home across the street from the complex for 24 years, said she feared the value of her property would fall if Parkview was left to deteriorate. As for the deal, she said: "It is a big responsibility for the community and there is no 100 percent guarantee of success. But something had to be done to keep Collingswood a family-oriented town."
Mary M. DiBartolomeo, a 72-year-old widow who has lived at Parkview for eight years, was also worried. "I was ready to leave because the complex was close to becoming a slum," said Mrs. DiBartolomeo. But she said the redevelopment effort convinced her to stay. "It will be a beautiful place again when all the work gets done," she said.
Through the late 60's Parkview flourished, attracting tenants who included a Federal judge, a United States Representative and many doctors and lawyers. But in the 80's a series of changes in ownership and management pushed the complex into a downward spiral.
The situation worsened in the first half of this decade. The owner, Sutton Towers Associates of Newark, Del., fell behind on its tax payments, ultimately accummulating arrears of more than $1 million, and stopped making needed improvements.
From 1990 to 1995 over 200 violations were filed against the complex. After the borough made two unsuccessful attempts to work with Sutton to turn the property around Sutton filed for bankruptcy.
Despite its risks, industry professionals consider the strategy to revive Parkview a creative way to rescue a troubled project.
The number of troubled properties has dwindled as the state's real estate market has improved. Moreover, the investment climate for apartments has remained strong nationally for the last five years.
But troubled properties still exist, said Nathan Slovin, executive vice president of the New Jersey Apartment Association, a trade group in East Brunswick. The major reasons are poor management or owners' inability to anticipate improvement costs, he added.
Parkview's redevelopment "involves players not typically involved in such projects, Collingswood key among them," said Mr. Slovin. If successful, Parkview could be a model, he added.
Involvement in such a deal is possible under a 1992 amended state law that enables municipalities to assist in redevelopment of areas that they designate as in need of rehabilitation. Collingswood declared the Parkview site such an area.
The law also puts limits on the amount of profits the redevelopment entity could earn based on a formula tied to the renovation cost and acquistion price. In the case of Parkview Collingswood, which owns the apartment complex here, the for-profit entity can earn 12 to 15 percent in profits a year, said Mr. Maley, and any additional profits go to the borough.
To rebuild its value, Parkview is undergoing a $16 million renovation. The improvements, to be completed by year's end, include installing new mechanical systems and windows in the four buildings and upgrading their lobbies and common areas, said Mr. Cohen of Capital Properties.
Apartments are also being renovated at a cost of $10,000 each, he said, and a health club is being added to the existing amenities, among them a swimming pool and tennis courts. The buildings frame a retail plaza, overlook a municipal park, and offer views of Philadelphia.
Since leasing began in February more than 200 apartments, 30 of which had been set aside for the elderly with low or moderate incomes, have been leased, said Mr. Cohen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 1,037-unit Parkview rental complex in Collingswood, now undergoing a leasing and renovation program. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

Map showing the location of Collingswood, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (68%); GEC (LSE) (68%); GE (SWX) (68%); GE (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLLINGSWOOD (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SUTTON TOWERS (COLLINGSWOOD, NJ); BANKRUPTCIES; RENTING AND LEASING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; PARKVIEW (COLLINGSWOOD, NJ) REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



414 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2906 words

HEADLINE: Astoria's New Odyssey of Growth

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
WHEN Steve Valiotis chose the name for his new real-estate company in 1983, he picked the word "alma," Greek for leap or jump. Mr. Valiotis hoped Alma Realty would be the base for a dramatic rise for his career after a few years of joining partners in making real-estate investments in Manhattan. The leap has come to pass, he says, but the biggest part has occurred not in Manhattan but in the Astoria section of Queens, where he and other Americans of Greek origin or descent continue to make a striking impact on business life and real estate activity even as the ethnic composition of Astoria grows more diverse.
As a citadel of Greek-Americans in New York City, Astoria has been infused in recent years with new immigrants from Bangladesh, the Philippines, Ireland, Colombia, India, China, the Dominican Republic and Pakistan, all of whom have been arriving in greater numbers than new immigrants from Greece. 
 No matter to Mr. Valiotis. He moved his business to Astoria in 1989, six years after founding Alma Realty, and last year he bought a vacant 36,000-square-foot garage building on 31st Street for expansion. The building stands in the very shadow of the 30th Avenue station of the elevated line that carries the N train through Astoria to its final stop at Ditmars Boulevard. Mr. Valiotis has resurrected it for office, store and garage space. Alma Realty's own office occupies the entire second floor. The first floor will have four stores.
"It's in my business interest being here, and it's my own community," said Mr. Valiotis. "Astoria is close to Manhattan, it's close to the train. My bank is a few blocks away. My two kids go to school at St. Demetrios, a couple of blocks away. My costs are a third, a fourth of what they would be in Manhattan."
The harmonious interplay of loyalty and self-interest is apparent in the accounts of the younger Greek-American brokers, investors, contractors, builders and business operators at work in Astoria, and is providing the impetus for commercial growth. Garages are becoming stores. Factory buildings are becoming offices. A catering hall becomes a night club. And in one case, a mixed-use building has provided apartments above a strip of new stores.
Even if the investors no longer live in Astoria, many of them seem to consider it home turf. As years go on, many who are or were residents build upon their Old World faith in real estate as an investment and put their money where their heart is.
"My parents were firm believers in real estate -- it's the Mediterranean attitude," said the American-born Nick Golfinopoulos. At the age of 32 he has already had a taste of development work in the reconstruction of a 10,000-square-foot site, where a garage building formerly stood, into commercial and residential space in partnership with his mother, who lives next door.
The second phase of their project -- apartments on the roof of the already completed stores, set back behind a broad terrace -- is about to be marketed, and the family is already planning a new project a few blocks away on 31st Avenue. "Gradually we're hoping to do more sites in Astoria," Mr. Golfinopoulos said.
"We have in our mind that in real estate you never lose," said his mother, Ourania, a partner in the family business, Hermes Transport & Trading Corporation, which provides in-port transportation and other services to merchant vessels and seamen. "You may make less money than in other things, but you never lose."
One commercial developer who has already built up a few sites is Spiros Moshopoulos. Currently he is marketing the Apollonion Building, at 34-11 35th Avenue. It is a reconstruction of a factory that was once part of the Astoria Studios -- a filming and production center now rehabilitated and operated as the Kaufman Astoria Studios -- into a state-of-the-art office building, so far untenanted.
"In all Astoria there is not one modern office building," said Mr. Moshopoulos. "It's all doctors on top of stores on Broadway, 30th Avenue and Steinway Street."
Not entirely, perhaps, but certainly it is Astoria's vibrant commercial life that is the mark of those major streets. Parts of Astoria have become a regional draw through a Greek-oriented nightlife, especially on Broadway near the N train's 31st Street station. For local shopping, Steinway Street is still the main commercial thoroughfare, but for restaurants, cafes and night-time activities that draw Greeks and non-Greeks too, most of the action is on Broadway, and to a lesser degree on 30th Avenue and Ditmars Boulevard.
COMPLIMENTARY press accounts have helped draw a regional clientele recently to Uncle George's, a lively 24-hour Greek restaurant at Broadway and 34th Street. But the revelers in that vicinity do not overlook the many other eating and entertainment opportunities -- at the Grecian Cave, Z Disco, the Omonia Cafe, Kolonaki's (a year-old cafe), Akroyiali's (for seafood), Tierras Colombianos (Latin food; Greek ownership), the Galaxy Cafe, and the more upscale Karyatis Restaurant, with a pianist and singer.
They are all on the blocks between 31st Street and 36th Street on Broadway. Farther on, at 41st Street, is the Edelweiss Cafe. And a few blocks to the north, the recently opened Sirocco's, a nightclub just off the Grand Central Parkway on 25th Avenue and 49th Street, has been drawing regional customers to shows featuring a regularly changing cast of entertainers, sometimes flown in directly from Greece. The building had been used by a catering establishment until it was renovated last year.
"They've been packing 'em in on weekends," said Nick A. Andriotis, who is in charge of residential sales for Mr. Valiotis at Alma Realty. "I would never have believed that second and third generation Greek-Americans, yuppies, would come back here from their houses on Long Island for entertainment on weekend nights."
Mr. Andriotis embodies the progression found among Greek-Americans involved in real estate in Astoria. He emigrated to the United States 40 years ago at age 16. From a first job as an elevator operator at a Manhattan hotel at the age of 17, he found his way into the restaurant business, and is still the co-owner of one, the Art Cafe, at 52d Street and Broadway in Manhattan. He and his family live in a two-family house that he bought in Astoria 35 years ago. He has purchased a few condominiums purely for investment, he said.
The longterm movement of Greek immigrants has been from the west side of Manhattan between the 20's and 40's to Astoria, and from there to northern Queens or northern Long Island, demographers say. But even those who leave Astoria find their way back to the heartland on weekends for church attendance, shopping, night life or family events. Similarly, dispersed Chinese-Americans return to Chinatown; Italians from afar flock to the Arthur Avenue neighborhood of the Bronx.
Once the early Greek arrivals got to Astoria, they found that earlier waves of Irish, German and Italian immigrants had preceded them, said Frank Vardy, a demographer at the Department of City Planning. Many of the German immigrants came to work in the Steinway piano factory in Astoria.
But the earlier European immigrants are not being replaced by new immigrants from Europe because immigration law gives priority to reuniting families. That favors the more recent Asian and Hispanic arrivals, who still have close relatives in the home country.
The community's boundaries are generally accepted to be 35th Avenue on the south, 49th Street on the east, and the East River on the north and west. The area had a population of 142,400 in the 1990 census, the Planning Department reported. Census data show that 61.4 percent of the total were "white non-Hispanics" and 22 percent were Hispanics, but not all respondents report their ancestry.
However, said Mr. Vardy, 16,700 residents did report that their ancestry was Greek, second only to the 24,900 who said their forebears were Italian. Then came the Irish, at 12,900, and the German, 7,800.
Many of the immigrants eventually bought homes. Astoria had 2,900 owner-occupied housing units in 1990. Most of them are one- or two-family houses, but there are also many three- or four-family homes. The Greek American Home Owners Association in Astoria, believed to be the largest in the state, has 1,500 members, said George Alexiou, its president.
Rental occupancy is common in these houses, and rents are unregulated since the buildings have fewer than six dwelling units. As owner-occupants get older and move away or die, many of the larger houses are sold to investment buyers, or else held by relatives, for rental occupancy exclusively. These apartments help provide housing for many of the newer immigrants, who probably could not afford to buy. The new buyers often turn out to be local Greek-American business people. One such is Mr. Alexiou himself, who runs Alexiou Realty, a Century 21 firm. He owns four houses with rental apartments, as well as his own house.
But these days there are not many rental availabilities, the brokers say, because rising rents have slowed turnover. "To move from a one-bedroom to a two-bedroom you have to go from $500 a month to $700, so people don't move," said Charles Sciberras of the Re/Max Today agency on Steinway Street.
"People used to rent in Astoria and then they'd move to Manhattan after they got a job," said another broker, Ted Kouris of Metropolis Realty. "Now they stay -- yuppies, Arabs, Bangladeshi. Last year was our strongest year ever because we had so few vacancies."
In Astoria, one-bedrooms typically rent for $700 to $800 a month, two-bedrooms for $850 to $1,000 and three-bedrooms for $1,000 to $1,200 -- regardless of the type of building they are in, a four-family, eight-family, 25-family or 60-family, Mr. Kouris said.
Mr. Kouris himself is 38 years old and has been a homeowner in Astoria for 15 years. Both his parents are from Greece, but he was born in the United States. In addition to his own house, he owns two other Astoria properties -- a store with an apartment above and a two-family house.
IT is in pure commercial real estate that most of the larger investment activity is occurring. The people handling it are frequently Greek-Americans with a long association with Astoria.
Mr. Moshopoulos, 49, the developer of the Apollonion Building, came to the United States from Greece in 1970 at the age of 22, living at first with an uncle in the Jamaica section of Queens. "At that time it was not easy in Greece," he said. "I had the American dream. I wanted to work hard and be somebody."
The hard work began in a friend's coffee shop. He bought out the friend after a year, bought another coffee shop, sold both shops, started driving a truck to supply diners and other restaurants, and finally bought a strip of stores in Astoria where there had been a fire. His plan was to rebuild the space and use half of it himself for short-term storage of tomatoes from Florida. The project introduced him to the construction business.
Since then he has expanded his ownership to include the entire blockfront of stores, on 34th Avenue at 28th Street, and also bought and rebuilt other stores in Woodside and put up a new 10-unit condominium called Pantheon House on 33d Street. He has his own construction company, the Thirty-four Square Corporation.
His most ambitious undertaking has been the Apollonion Building, a 48,000-square-foot structure at 35th Avenue at 34th Street. In the late 80's it was to have become a new headquarters building for the Atlantic Bank, a worldwide quasi-governmental Greek-owned financial institution with a several branches in Astoria. A change of government in Athens in 1990 led to a change in plans, however, and the bank put the building back on the market.
Mr. Moshopoulos bought it in 1994, installed his own offices and a bingo operation in a two-story 8,000-square-foot building on the property and moved ahead with the reconstruction under a plan by the Long Island City firm of Gribler Konnaris Associates. A corner of the building was carved out at 35th Avenue and 35th Street to create a grand entrance.
"The space works well for medical groups or law offices," said Joseph B. Eliasoph, a broker for Sholom & Zuckerbrot Realty Corporation, which is marketing the building. The likely major tenant is one such with a connection to the Greek community, he said.
Another route to commercial development was traveled by the Golfinopoulos family. Their mixed-use commercial and residential project at 23d Street and Broadway, next door to Mrs. Golfinopoulos's house, is in the rapidly developing western stretch of Astoria near Vernon Boulevard and the East River. Mr. Golfinopoulos and his three younger siblings were born in the United States of parents who emigrated in 1951. His parents were the "quintessential immigrants who made good," he said.
His late father had been a radio officer on a Greek merchant ship. After his death in 1978, Mrs. Golfinopoulos sold the family house in Whitestone and bought one in Astoria next to the garage where Hermes Transport, the family business, kept its fleet of vehicles.
"We decided it was a huge waste -- we didn't need all that space for our vans and sedans," Mr. Golfinopoulos said. So the property was redeveloped in two stages, first with 9,600 square feet of stores on the ground level, and then with five apartments on the roof, work that could be done as-of-right under the prevailing Broadway zoning.
Construction is currently nearing completion, with high-polished granite flooring in the hallways and large rooftop terraces providing the appropriate quasi-Mediterranean touches. They are large apartments, the largest a three-bedroom renting for $1,275 a month. John Carusone of Long Island City is the architect.
Mr. Valiotis of Alma Realty was 26 years old when he arrived alone from Greece in 1972 to join a sister living in the Corona section of Queens. His first job was as a dishwasher in his brother-in-law's restaurant. Two years later he was making pizza in a pizza parlor.
He bought a newsstand near a railroad station, sold it two years later, opened a pizza place on 14th Street in Manhattan with friends, sold it in a few months, joined a friend in the furniture business, and stayed in it for 11 years. With his furniture partners, Richard Penzer and Bill Correa, he bought two empty loft buildings and renovated them to living lofts. The group also sponsored a handful of West Side co-op conversions.
"Then I came to Astoria," Mr. Valiotis said. "I saw an opportunity in condominium conversions." He did three in Astoria -- plus three others in Flushing and two in Jackson Heights -- and he still owns and manages many unsold apartments in a portfolio of about 1,000 apartments in co-op or condominium buildings citywide.
In 1988 he and partners started the Marathon National Bank, an Astoria-based institution that competes with Atlantic Bank, along with Interbank and Olympian Bank, in the Greek-American community. He has built a new 14-unit condominium at 32d Avenue and 23d Street in Astoria, and has hopes of doing other development projects.
The opportunities for these are limited because undeveloped land is scarce. Many of the commercial projects therefore arise from the redevelopment of old stores for new tenants on the commercial strips of Steinway Street, Broadway, 30th Avenue and Ditmars Boulevard.
A Robbins health and beauty-aid store had been a fixture on Steinway Street for years. But the chain went into bankruptcy, and the store at 30-37 Steinway was closed. Now the landlord has made a deal with the Lerner's of New York chain, which will open a new store in about nine weeks, said Michael D. Friedman, of Clay-Daniel Associates of Bayside, the broker in the deal.
MEANWHILE, the management team of the original Robbins chain has opened a new store under the Robbins name at 30-18 Steinway Street. Tony Barsamian, chairman of the Steinway Street Business Improvement District, said that turnover of this kind was not unusual but that vacancies never lasted long.
As for sales of commercial properties, they are few and far between, according to George Stavroulakis, president of Neon Realty. "We have buyers, but not many people are willing to sell," he said. One reason may be that long-time owners are unwilling to saddle themselves with the big capital gains taxes that arise from selling commercial property that has appreciated greatly in value over many years.
The tax, ironically, has emerged as one of the strongest arguments against the Old World pattern of investing in real estate as a method of assuring financial security in old age. James Korakis, 72, a small investor who came to the United States 42 years ago and started out working as a dishwasher and a cook, spoke of it bitterly.
Most of the assets that he accumulated for retirement, he said, are in two 20-family buildings that he bought in 1970. Now he would like to sell and get out of the business. But if he sells, Federal and other taxes will take away 44 to 48 percent of his gain, he said. "This is the nightmare we face," said Mr. Korakis. "This is the best country in the world. I used the opportunity it gave me. Now it's my time to move on to a normal life, but with the present circumstance of capital gain, I cannot do it. It is impossible, impossible."

GRAPHIC: Photos: George Konnaris, architect, left, and Spiros Moshopoulos, developer, at the Apollonion Building, at 34-11 35th Avenue. (pg. 1); Nick Golfinopoulos and mother, Ourania, at commercial and residential project at 23d Street and Broadway. (pg. 1); With its restaurants, cafes and other attractions, Broadway is the hub of night-time activities that draw Greek-Americans and others to Astoria, Queens. Some entertainers are flown in directly from Greece. (pg. 6) (All photographs by Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Astoria, Queens: Astoria is a citadel of Greek-Americans in New York City. (pg. 1); Map showing the location of particular buildings in Astoria, Queens. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GREECE (91%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDIA (76%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (76%); MEDITERRANEAN (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OLD WORLD BAKERY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ASTORIA (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); GREECE (91%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDIA (76%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (76%); MEDITERRANEAN (56%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GREEK-AMERICANS; REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); TRENDS (72%); TRAINS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



415 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2383 words

HEADLINE: Front Row Center

BYLINE: By LESLIE KANDELL 

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
THE first building of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center isn't finished yet, but that's fine. It will be, in time to become part of the nation's last such large-scale complex to begin work in this millenium. Signs of healing are visible in the area, and since the wound in this city's side was touched, doubters have seen the vision and begun to believe.
But completed or not, who will come to such a place -- and in such a place as this? As booking proceeds, and subscriptions are bought, answers come into focus. 
 The audience will be whoever is looking for the American Ballet or Alvin Ailey, Wynton Marsalis, Itzhak Perlman, the Israel and New York Philharmonic, the Concertgebouw and Boston Symphony, Jessye Norman, Midori, Isaac Stern or Yo-Yo Ma. Those starry names will be in that place of homey brick and generous windows. They are appearing the first season, which will begin Oct. 18. Yes it will.
Their performances, and a host of pop concerts, plays, and world-music events -- notably a Portuguese festival -- take care of the center's evenings. Who else will come, in broad daylight, is children -- thousands of school-children, who will see dance, theater and music.
Till a decade ago, the center's existence was only in the mind, mostly the mind of former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, whose tenure (1982-1990) is fondly remembered as the glory days of arts funding. New Jersey arts should be second to none, Mr. Kean announced at a news conference in February, and the center is going to breathe life into "the state's most inept city."
The original concept was to build a home for the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra, but it evolved into "let's have a world-class arts center," Mr. Kean said. "Newark was a tremendous risk. Doubters are now supporters. There will always be skeptics -- less tomorrow than today."
Nothing concrete was done without concerted clout. Mayor Sharpe James fought to have the center built in Newark. Three governors (Mr. Kean, Jim Florio and Christine Todd Whitman) lent their support, as did Federal lawmakers (Senator Frank R. Lautenberg and Representative Donald M. Payne), and corporate leaders and foundations. The center's 2,750-seat Prudential Hall (the insurance company, based in Newark) and the 500-seat Victoria Theater (a New Jersey foundation established with money from the Chubb insurance fortune) are the result of what is known as "naming gifts."
Four years ago, in front of an invited audience and television cameras, the Military Park Hotel was imploded. It still wasn't too late to go back on the idea till, maybe, early 1995, when the dull steel skeleton, circled by a fence that displays school-children's murals, rose out of the ground. Even then, the project could possibly have been left hanging, like some Caribbean hotel frame abandoned after a hurricane, when investors try another island.
But now the $180-million dare is taken. The building's outside is in place, sporting a digital belt sign thanking sponsors, and a banner: "Done by August One." The subscription phone line is open. This thing is happening.
The signs are everywhere.
Promoting the arts is hard work. Promoting the arts in Newark can be harder. Ask Lawrence P. Goldman. As chairman and chief executive officer of the center, it's his job. Right now, he's the biggest ad the arts center has. He knows what he's after and he states it clearly.
"The center is here," he says, "not out in a field where two highways cross, not out in the Meadowlands. Arts do better in cities. Terrible forces are tearing us apart. Arts find threads to bring us together."
Minor Latham, Barnard College's great southern writer, used to make student playwrights reveal their characters' motivations the minute they stepped onstage. "What's eatin' him?" she would demand. What's eating Mr. Goldman? He doesn't even live here -- why is he on this stage?
Because of the Depression, his own father didn't finish college. But Mr. Goldman, 51, who grew up in White Plains, not only finished, he earned a doctorate in urban affairs at Princeton. Like other universities at that tumultuous time, Princeton had turned toward urban issues, and in 1969, Mr. Goldman wrote a study of Newark politics.
In the course of the study, he worked for the campaign of Kenneth A. Gibson, who in 1970 defeated Hugh J. Addonizio (convicted that same year in a multimillion-dollar Federal kickback case), to become Newark's first black mayor. Mr. Goldman remained at Princeton, conducting a seminar on problems of Newark, Trenton, Camden and New York. In time, he became director of real estate planning and development on the Carnegie Hall tower built as part of the hall's restoration. And in 1989, he returned -- home, he says -- to help realize Mr. Kean's dream.
Arriving at Newark Airport about 10 years ago, Mr. Goldman noticed there was not one postcard of Newark in the gift shops. He wanted the city to have an architectural icon, but not the post-riots fortress type. Today, the Center can be seen from the plane, as well as the train approaching Penn Station. He will live to buy the postcards in the airport.

A Home for the Arts, A Symbol of Community
Although the McCarter Theater, American Ballet and the Alvin Ailey troupe are affiliates, the only resident company is the 75-year-old New Jersey Symphony, which will continue its circuit-riding concert route, but has longed for a performance space to call home. Next year, its Newark productions will double in number, to 40.
"It's a vote of confidence in the orchestra by the center," said Robert Wagner, principal bassoonist. "Not very many orchestras have had brand new halls built for them by other organizations. It's an opportunity to strut our stuff with the big boys."
He talked of the performers' amenities in the new space, and remarking on the repairs still unfinished at Symphony Hall, the 72-year-old, 2,800-seat auditorium on Broad Street. Mr. Goldman makes an additional point: "What's missing at Symphony Hall is the feeling of a total big night out, the highlight of the week."
Zdenek Macal, the Czech-born music director hired six years ago, was romanced from the outset with tales of a great new hall to be built, and and the need for the orchestra, under his aegis, to continue its steady musical ascent and enlarge its audience. Mr. Macal says he responded:, "Let me work. Just bring them in and let me play for them."
This center is a "complex" in more ways than one, and bears a complex burden indeed -- honorable, but perhaps too grandiose to be credible. People of every age, class and race are supposed to bond into a culturally aware "community" of hope for the present and future of multiple performing arts.
That's a tall order.
But besides teamwork or brotherhood, community means locale, which in Newark's case includes a long-failing school system, a double-digit unemployment rate, desolate streets and a sense that all is not safe -- even if it is. The racial antagonism of the 1960's created what some political leaders have called a reservation for the poor, a place segregated from its surroundings by race and class: the majority of the residents are poor, black and stuck here; most of the work force is white and mobile, commuting to and from the prosperous suburbs.
Stephanie Hughley, in charge of the center's programming, would probably not mind being called its evangelist. She began a news conference saying "God is in this place." Using the word community in its sense of outreach and diversity of planned performances and commissions, she exhorted listeners to "come on a journey you have never been on -- experience the world."
Community, meaning brotherhood, is the warm way construction workers greet Mr. Goldman, whom they see talking up the center on television as well as taking visitors around the site.
The center's first event, an August preview, will be a concert for hard-hat workers. "We heard Bruce is playing," says one, speaking of Bruce Springsteen and eyeing Mr. Goldman hopefully. At the moment, the center's music -- 106.7 Lite FM -- comes from their portable radios.

One Building, Many Welcomes
 "Newark," the center's architect, Barton Myers, has said, "is not about megastructures." Like the programming, the cozy design of the building shows eagerness to make everybody happy. They took the term "user friendly" and ran with it.
The rounded brick facade is not imposing -- certainly not from the outside, or in daylight. It welcomes in an unprepossessing way, like a cup of hot tea. At night, though, the tall windows will glow from the inside, affording a festive welcome and illuminating a manicured area of cafes and record stores (which they pray will sprout up) long absent from what has been a deserted business district.
From the intimacy of orchestra-level boxes to the natural light in the rehearsal room, a lot of thought has been given to things that show up once you're inside. Mr. Myers modelled the center, body and spirit, on his design for a counterpart in Portland, Ore. The mahogany-stained cherry wood, velour curtains, and colors are meant to give the feeling of being in a wood instrument.
The lighting is designed to celebrate wood and fades out brick. Dining rooms look out at the square and the Manhattan skyline. In Mr. Myers's words, "It's the Broadway experience, rather than the Lincoln Center experience."
Mr. Goldman, who often quotes the architect, is a practiced guide. Wearing a hard hat, he steps purposefully over concrete bleachers that will become graded levels of seats, and he sidesteps cardboard, cables, and construction debris without losing his train of thought: "We try to be engaging on a human scale," he says. "Arrival will be festive, people will jostle and see people in boxes -- the buzz of seeing and being seen. You'll quietly file into the hall, spaces get quieter, till it's just you and what's happening on the stage."
A single chair, loosely covered in plastic, sits alone in the middle of the main auditorium. It has to be from the smaller theater, because it is not the forest green of the Portland center, also planned for Prudential Hall, but blue-green, to match the Victoria. Temporarily displaced, it waits to be brought there.
So far, 23 $1 million boxes have been named, two to go. The boxes come with private salons -- once known as fainting rooms -- that have bars, and of all things, television. (In case you arrive with enough time to watch your favorite soap opera or newscast.) The salon will be locked if you're not at that performance, but the box seats will be sold.

On Hearing an Oboe In the Very Last Row
Acousticians do not agree that creating perfect sound quality must be a mystery. But how else to explain the extensive reworking required in many halls, including Carnegie, Avery Fisher, and now, the Vivian Beaumont Theater?
Most new auditoriums have adjustable parts, and the acoustician's contract extends past the opening of the building -- Artec, the center's company, will be tinkering and improving for more than two years after the Newark center opens.
The two-part ceiling in the main hall can be raised for operas and lowered for concerts, reflecting sound toward the audience. But in a rock concert, absorption is called for. Various cabinets and velour drapes are there for that.
No one wants ambient noise. Acoustical joints, which are deep, narrow fissures in the floors outside the halls, cut vibration from outside sources. One is covered with clear Lucite, to show off the joint, as it were.
"The risk of problems is substantially reduced by experience," said Lawrence Kirkegaard, principal acoustician at Kirkegaard & Associates, a firm involved in the Carnegie Hall redo. "If a solo oboe can be heard in the last row, a declamatory voice can be heard in narration. Artec has quite a successful track record. No one else is called to fix up after them."
So long as the acoustician supervises closely and consistently, there should be no chance of another fiasco like the one at Carnegie Hall, where a layer of concrete, that Mr. Goldman refused to discuss, mysteriously appeared under the stage, flattening the sound.
The center is an enclave, and till it is firmly established, will be treated as such. There has been just too much worry, too much invested in the center, to afford any crime that would flash to the media and possibly doom the enterprise. Theatergoers will stroll from the $10 million renovated garage, underneath the refurbished Military Park, to a lighted coffee-and-magazine kiosk outside the building.
A shuttle bus to connect the center with Penn Station, and Broad Street Station on the Morris Line, is out of the "hopes" mire and into the planning stage. Mounted and motorcycle police vow constant presence.
"It's hard," Mr. Goldman said, "to picture getting out of a car in the evening, parking next to other dressed-up people clutching tickets, anticipating. You'll feel like you're secure."
A nice-looking, $7 million new ramp at Exit 15, to bring suburban traffic neatly off I-280, close to above-ground parking, is well under way. In daylight, education is the center's job.
The Victoria Theater will be filled with children during the day, as part of an extensive program already in place. Schools will apply for scheduled visits and projects. The administrative offices have indoor windows, Mr. Goldman said, "so we can look at the children and be reminded of our purpose."
If the center fails, will the buildings crumple? Stand proudly forever, in a telling final image? They are an emblem of the neighborhood's no-guarantee hopes.
Putting the center into play is phase one, of two. Phase two, still a pipe dream, includes plans for a separate concert hall and office towers. Two voices, perhaps prophetic: "No arts center makes money -- they all have to raise it." (Mr. Goldman) "Whatever is needed, Larry got it." (Mr. Macal)
There will be a honeymoon period. Most people will sample a couple of evenings, feel the security, try the restaurant. They'll check on the promised kiosk and shuttle.
By the millenium, the center's survival question will be in the forefront. But for now, without doubt, that which is intended has begun to happen.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The stage of Prudential Hall, from five levels up. The 2,750-seat auditorium, the heart of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, is scheduled to open in October. A banner outside reads: "Done by August One." (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Work on Prudential Hall, the larger of two chambers, and other parts of the arts center requires 250 construction workers full time. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); Lawrence P. Goldman, president and chief executive officer of the performing arts center, at a recent ceremony to announce the schedule of events for the inaugural season. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 11)
 
Chart: "Inaugural Line-up"
The inaugural season of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center begins in October. Ticket prices for the main hall, Prudential Hall, range from $8 to $53, depending upon the group or artist, and location, with special discounts available for children. All seats in Victorial Hall are one price, depending upon the group or artist. The telephone number for subscription sales is 1-888-GO NJPAC.
 
October
 
19......Itzhak Perlman
23......Cesaria Evora & Madredeus
25......George Street Playhouse/Harmony (matinee) v.
26......George Street Playhouse/Harmony v.
29......George Street Playhouse/Harmony (matinee) v.
 
November
 
1.......George Street Playhouse/Harmony v.
Midori
2.......Western Opera/Carmen
Sergio Salvatore & James Gibbs v.
8.......Gulbenkian Orchestra
12......Tango x 2
14......Stars of the Bolshoi and Krov Ballets
15......Newark Boys Chrous and American Boychoir v.
16......Newark Boys Chrous and American Boychoir (matinee) v.
African-American Women Dance Pioneers
21......Urban Bush Women v.
23......All-State Orchestra and Chorus
23......Urban Bush Women v.
29......Umabatha - The Zulu Macbeth
 
December
 
2.......Nutcracker on Ice
3.......Nutcracker on Ice
12......Boston Symphony Orchestra
14......Gould & Stearns/Simple Gifts v.
19......Harlem Nutcracker
20......Kwanzaa Festival v.
Harlem Nutcracker (matinee)
Harlem Nutcracker
21......Harlem Nutcracker
23......American Ballet Theater/Cinderella
26......ABT/Cinderella
27......ABT/Cinderella (matinee)
ABT/Cinderella
28......ABT/Cinderella (matinee)
ABT/Cinderella
 
V = Victoria Hall. 9pg. 11)
 
Map of Newark, New Jersey highlighting New Jersey Performing Arts Center. (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CB (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (NEWARK) CHUBB CORP (51%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (59%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (NEWARK) AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (59%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BALLET (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); THEATER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DANCE (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); FESTIVALS (74%); CHILDREN (71%); KWANZAA (71%); GOVERNORS (69%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); 

PERSON: KANDELL, LESLIE JAMES R GIBBS (63%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); DONALD M PAYNE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



416 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 14; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: ATLANTIC CITY;
Why Dinner Is Still Being Served

BYLINE: By BILL KENT

 BODY:
IN the same month that saw the Masters champion golfer Tiger Woods open the Trump Taj Mahal casino's branch of the All-Star Cafe, Mack Latz quietly decided not to unlock his landmark Knife and Fork Inn for the summer season.
Mr. Latz, 79, reached at his Margate home, said: "Business has been bad for six years. My son isn't interested in taking on the restaurant and I'm too old to be going on there every day, keeping track of things. I have a sailboat and I'd rather go sailing." 
 Atlantic City has lost more than 200 restaurants since legal casinos opened on the Boardwalk, serving gamblers free or discounted meals in their own restaurants. But Mr. Latz declined to blame the competition.
"We were always the place for special occasions," he said. "We got them once or twice a year for the anniversaries, birthdays and the farewell dinners, but they stayed away in between."
The Knife & Fork Inn opened in 1912 in a cottage at the corner of Atlantic and Pacific avenues. By the time it was purchased by Mr. Latz's father, Milton, in 1927, the restaurant was the Jersey shore's most famous celebrity dining room. Susan Sarandon and Burt Lancaster had their celebratory lunch there in Louis Malle's 1979 film, "Atlantic City."
Mr. Latz described the recession of 1991 "as the beginning of the end," adding, "I even got rid of the dress code, but that didn't help."
About 10 blocks away from the Knife & Fork, Angelo Mancuso, owner of Angelo's Fairmount Tavern, said he "would buy that place in a minute and call it Angelo's Two, if I had any money in the bank, but all my money is right here."
Mr. Mancuso's restaurant is among a handful in Atlantic City that have thrived in the casino era. "If I had a choice of opening a restaurant anywhere in the country, it would be in Atlantic City," he said. "This place is the pot of gold."
Situated opposite a shuttered, low-income housing project, Mr. Mancuso's restaurant is among the busiest in the city, serving low-priced Italian food in an informal setting.
"Anybody that asks, I tell them straight out, if you want to be a success in Atlantic City, you can't serve turkey," Mr. Mancuso said. "Casinos can serve a turkey dinner for $2.95 because they don't need to make a profit on the food. Anybody in business for himself can't compete with that. So you have to work with them. You have to be what they're not. What I do, they don't. As good as the casinos are at food, they can never be what I am, which is a home away from home for those guys who grew up with a home-cooked Italian meal. Even the guys that didn't have home-cooked Italian meals when they were growing up -- they come here, too."
Mr. Mancuso was 3 years old in 1935 when his Sicilian-born father, Angelo, opened a small tap room on the corner of Mississippi and Fairmount Avenues. By the 1940's, it was one of 50 restaurants in Ducktown, the city's Italian neighborhood, including the Knife & Fork Inn.
"My father taught me to run this place just like the Latzes ran theirs: you had to be on top of it, all the time, seven days a week," Mr. Mancuso went on. "You had to greet your customers like they were your friends. You don't play politics. You don't make enemies. You had to make sure you served nothing that you wouldn't eat yourself. Every meal, even if it was spaghetti and meatballs, was a performance, and whatever money you made went back into the business, so you can have something to give to your children. The real reason so many places have closed up in Atlantic City isn't the casinos. It's that the kids, some of them, they see how hard their parents had to work, they don't want it."
Mr. Mancuso's son and four daughters all work in his restaurant. "This is a family operation. We all vote. I have the last word, but we all vote, and majority rules."
Mr. Mancuso's father, whose picture hangs over the restaurant's espresso maker, did have the last word: he took no reservations (seating was first come, first served) and accepted no checks or credit cards.
The restaurant still doesn't take reservations, but a vote forced Mr. Mancuso to take credit cards.
"The day I took my first card, I went to his father's grave and asked for forgiveness," Mr. Mancuso said with a sigh. "You have to change with the times."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Angelo Mancuso in "the club house," one of his favorite dining rooms in his restaurant, Angelo's Fairmount Tavern. (Allen Oliver for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TRUMP TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available RESTAURANTS (91%); GOLF (90%); THEME RESTAURANTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SAILING (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (60%); 

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



417 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
Office and Retail Activity Drives Route 110 Corridor

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

DATELINE: MELVILLE

 BODY:
THE corridor formed by Route 110 along the six-mile stretch extending from the Northern State Parkway to the Southern State has become Long Island's most active office and retail market.
In Melville, in the Town of Huntington, the corridor is attracting a growing roster of major companies, several of which have made it their headquarters. 
 And in East Farmingdale in the Town of Babylon south of Huntington, new retail development includes an Office Depot superstore, which opened last December.
Soon to come in East Farmingdale is a 600,000-square-foot shopping center, Airport Plaza, to be built by the Fairchild Corporation of Chantilly, Va., on a 91-acre site where Fairchild Republic once built warplanes. Groundbreaking is scheduled for May 8.
"Route 110 has now been recognized as the premier office-business district on Long Island," said Paul F. Amoruso, managing partner of Oxford & Simpson, commercial brokers in Jericho.
Ten years ago, he said, it was viewed as being too far to the east. "Today, with companies like Computer Associates and Symbol Technology being farther out in Suffolk, 110 has become the downtown Long Island area," Mr. Amoruso added.
Office vacancies in Melville are among the lowest on Long Island, falling from 15.3 percent just two years ago to 10.3 percent as of March 31, according to the Melville office of the Cushman & Wakefield brokerage concern. In the same period, annual asking rents have risen from $24.08 to $26.08 a square foot.
One of the few opportunities left in the Melville area to lease a large block of space is at 401 Broadhollow Road, where 70,000 square feet recently have become available in a building that will be completed by the end of the month. Purchased in 1995 by Sbarro, the restaurant chain, for refurbishing as its headquarters, the 125,000-square-foot, five-floor building, redesigned by the Spector Group of North Hills, was almost totally gutted and given a new facade. Sbarro will occupy the top floor. floor. Annual rent for the remaining 75,000 square feet is $26 a square foot.
Theodore J. Stratigos, a managing director of Cushman & Wakefield, which is handling the leasing, said interest in the remaining space had been brisk, with two major stock brokerage firms and a major accounting firm looking seriously at the building.
The new direction in construction, said Mr. Amoruso of Oxford & Simpson, is for a company to design and build its own office structure.
After searching in vain for suitable space, the five partners of the Lazer, Aptheker, Feldman, Rosella & Yedid law firm decided to build their own. The 15,000-square-foot building at 225 Old Country Road, called the Melville Law Center, opened in January. Lazer, Aptheker is occupying half the space; the rest is almost fully leased, "and we didn't even advertise," said Denise Ferrer, the firm's administrator.
Major new construction, however, is another story.
The Tilles Investment Company of Woodbury owns 52 acres at the corner of the Long Island Expressway and Old Walt Whitman Road on which it has approvals to build 500,000 square feet.
Reckson Associates Realty Corporation of Melville owns a 35-acre parcel at Round Swamp Road and Route 110 on which it can also build 500,000 square feet.
But both developers say these buildings would have to be substantially preleased and rents would have to be higher before new construction could start.
Instead, developers are upgrading and refurbishing existing office buildings, and are searching out well-located industrial buildings to turn them into offices.
The Blumenfeld Development Group (known as BDG) of Syosset for one has purchased 350,000 square feet of office and industrial space in five buildings in the Route 110 corridor since 1994.
"In the late 80's and early 90's, Route 110 was in bad shape, but since late 1995 it has undergone a remarkable turnaround," said Edward R. Blumenfeld, BDG's chairman. Among the company's acquisitions were two former Chemical Bank buildings at 115-121 Broadhollow Road, which it purchased in September.
BDG is spending $4 million on the renovations, not including work for individual tenants. It has already leased the entire 30,000-square-foot 121 Broadhollow Road to Investor Associates, a stock brokerage firm.
Leasing at the 80,000-square-foot 115 Broadhollow Road is under way, with rents in the $24- to $25-a-square-foot range. A Chase Manhattan branch bank still occupies 6,500 square feet in the building.
Mr. Blumenfeld said he expected to start signing leases within 60 days for 65 percent of the remaining space, with national and international financial services companies expressing strong interest, he said.
Another of its projects is a recently acquired 100,000-square-foot industrial building at 965 Walt Whitman Road, which it intends to convert to office space at an estimated cost of $4 million, not including tenant work. The building, which has been vacant for three years, formerly housed a printing plant on its 7.7-acre site.
The company also redeveloped a 6.6-acre parcel at 21-10 Broadhollow Road in East Farmingdale as the 50,400-square-foot Office Depot, and intends to build a 7,500-square-foot Ruby Tuesday restaurant on the same site. Also planned is a 10-screen movie theater at Michaels Drive and Broadhollow.
Reckson Associates Realty, a publicly traded company with offices at 225 Broadhollow Road, has been aggressively buying existing buildings within the corridor, closing on its latest acquisition, the 120,000-square-foot 275 Broadhollow Road, on April 11. The building, which is the headquarters of the North Fork Bank, was purchased from the Manhattan office of the Union Bank of Switzerland for an undisclosed sum.
Reckson, which owns more than 1.2 million square feet of Class A office space in the corridor -- about half the total supply of 2.3 million square feet -- also is in contract to purchase the 177,000-square-foot 538 Broadhollow Road, owned by a subsidiary of the New York Life Insurance Company. "And we're looking for more buildings, because we think this is the best market on Long Island," said Mitchell D. Rechler, Reckson's executive vice president.
The Fairchild Corporation's Airport Plaza shopping center -- at the corner of Route 110 and Conklin Street and bounded on the south by Republic Airport -- will contain a mix of stores, sports and entertainment complexes. A 3,800-seat, 14-screen movie theater, run by National Amusements of Boston, has already opened.
THE $100 million project is being developed for Fairchild by Levcom Shopping Centers of West Paterson, N.J.
Airport Plaza will have elements in its design that will remind visitors of the site's historic past, said Peter L. Levine, president of Levcom. At the same time, "obsolete manufacturing facilities will be replaced by a state-of-the-art diverse retailing and entertainment complex right in the heart of Long Island," Mr. Levine said.
Among the major attractions will be Sports Expo, a 400,000-square-foot recreational complex that is being developed by Hy Carlinsky, managing partner of Armstrong Management Corporation of Garden City in a joint venture with Jobco of Great Neck and RD Management of Manhattan..
The three-story complex, with 300,000 square feet indoors and 100,000 square feet outdoors on its roof, will have three hockey rinks --two of them indoor rinks -- an indoor soccer field, basketball courts, tennis, a 25-meter pool and a 60-foot-high rock-climbing wall, among other features.
Route 110's new prosperity, which includes residential construction, is bringing with it traffic problems.
"It's gridlock out there," said Sheldon Sackstein, chairman of Action Long Island, a large business and civic group that is pushing state and local officials to address transportation problems.

GRAPHIC: Photos: New retail development on the Route 110 corridor includes 50,400-square-foot Office Depot superstore, left and below, which opened last December. (Photographs by Michael Shavel for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Melville , L.I.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (70%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (54%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (54%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE DEPOT INC FAIRCHILD CORP (70%); CA INC (55%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (54%); SPECTOR GROUP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE DEPOT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); HUNTINGTON (NY); BABYLON (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); TRENDS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA ARLEN SPECTER (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



418 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITY;
For a Good Cause, at the Right Price, All You Can Eat . . .

BYLINE: By SUSAN JO KELLER 

 BODY:
IT'S 1:30 P.M., nearly 90 minutes after the first plates were filled at the New Egypt fire company's fried oyster and chicken salad dinner. Bart Amburgey is at the microphone in the front of the firehouse, getting ready to seat the people holding tickets No. 370, 371 and 372.
Meanwhile, back by the door, Hap Eastburn and his wife, Betty Lou, have just bought Nos. 531 and 532. It will be at least an hour before their numbers are called. And they have no doubt the wait will be worth it. "We love oysters," Mr. Eastburn said, adding that they've been to three oyster dinners in the last month. 
 What was going here in Ocean County, where about 1,400 people ate their fill on April 6, is duplicated regularly all over the state. On any given weekend, in any given county, somebody is prepared to fry fish, cook spaghetti or flip pancakes for you, to raise money for a fire department, a high school honor society, a church.
What keeps the meals going is a combination of tradition and economics.
"When you reach Year 90, it's like how can you stop now?" said Lea Miller, a chairwoman of the governing body at Hope Family Church in Lakewood, which has had a fall harvest-home dinner for 96 years. This year, the church decided to add a spring dinner as well.
Customers come back because the food is plentiful and the price is right. (Children under 5 eat free at some events, like the Good Will Ladies Auxiliary roast-beef dinner in Belvidere and the North Warren Democratic Club's spaghetti dinner.)
Though the meals' organizers take pride in keeping their prices low, they also aim to make a profit. Gary Stramandino, administrator of Moose Lodge 1971 in Lodi, says his lodge members cook for at least 10 pancake breakfasts a year, to raise money for themselves and other causes like the ambulance corps and the P.T.A. scholarship fund, which was the beneficiary of an April 13 breakfast at Lodi High School.
Making money is a powerful incentive when faced with the formidable tasks of preparing food and doing the dishes for dozens of people.
This was Elissa Graga's shopping list for the April 5 pancake breakfast at West Farms United Methodist Church in Howell Township in Monmouth County: 18 dozen eggs; five 10-pound bags of pancake mix; four one-gallon containers of syrup; 320 slices of bacon; 300 pieces of sausage; 6 pounds of butter; 50 envelopes of hot chocolate; 4 gallons of orange juice; 20 gallons of apple juice; 5 gallons of milk; an unquantified amount of coffee and tea, and "one bag of chocolate chips for kids who like chocolate-chip pancakes."
Firehouse dinners present special challenges, including relocating the firefighting equipment for the monthly pancake breakfast at the Mountain Lake Fire Company in Warren County and the New Egypt oyster dinner. Backup cooks need to stand by in case the firefighters get called out, as they did soon after the New Egypt dinner started.
That's the kind of thing Chief Aaron Heller and Marty Mains, the New Egypt fire company's president, plan for when they assign people to cook and cut up 1,400 pounds of chicken, clean 120 gallons of oysters and and peel 1,200 pounds of potatoes, a task sped up considerably by the use of a potato peeler once used at Fort Dix that can handle 400 pounds an hour. Neither Mr. Heller nor Mr. Mains is sure when the dinner started or how the menu was devised. The combination of fried oysters and chicken salad is "a South Jersey thing," Mr. Mains said, popular enough to draw a crowd of around 1,400 to the spring dinner and nearly 2,000 to the fall meal.
No matter what's on the menu, the organizers work hard to keep prices down. Blanche Kelly starts watching for sales local grocery stores a few months before the North Warren Democratic Club's annual spaghetti dinner. She needed 31 pounds of spaghetti this year, and it makes a difference whether the price is three, four or five pounds for $1.
As for the cost of the dinner, she said: "We were $4 for many many years. This may be the third year at $4.50. Some go as high as $6 or $7, and that's too darn high for spaghetti."
In the end, it doesn't matter how low the price is or the good the cause is. The food has to be good, according to Peter and Karen Kolln. They should know. He's the president of the Mountain Lake Fire Company; she's the head of the auxiliary, and together the groups run monthly pancake breakfasts, a fish and chip dinner, a chicken and steak dinner, and a "designer omelet" breakfast when trout season opens.
"They may like the fire company but you'll only get away with poor food for so long," Mr. Kolln said. "You might get away for it a couple of times, but that's it. But if the food is good, they'll keep coming back."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The fried oyster and chicken salad dinner to raise money for the New Egypt fire company. The combination is "a South Jersey thing," which drew 1,400 people this month. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Specialties of the House"
 
SPONSOR: New Egypt Fire Company, Plumsted Township, Ocean County
EVENT Fried oyster and chicken salad dinner, twice a year
MENU Fried oysters, chicken salad, mashed potatoes, green beans, homemade cole slaw, dessert, beverages
PRICE Adults, $15; children 5-12, $6.50; takeout, $16
AVERAGE CROWD 1,400 for spring dinner; 2,000 in fall
BENEFICIARY Volunteer fire company.
 
SPONSOR: North Warren Democratic Club
 
EVENT Spaghetti supper, once a year
MENU Spaghetti and meatballs, bread, salad, dessert, tea, coffee or soda.
PRICE Adults, 4.50; children 5-12, $2.50; under 5, free
AVERAGE CROWD 130 with takeouts
BENEFICIARY Democratic candidates and a variety of local charities.
 
SPONSOR: Mountain Lake Fire Company, Liberty Township, Warren County
 
EVENT Pancake breakfasts, once a month
MENU Pancakes, eggs, sausage, pork roll, home fries, beverages.
PRICE Adults $4; senior citizens, $3; children, $2
AVERAGE CROWD 150 to 200
BENEFICIARY Volunteer fire department
 
SPONSOR: Hope Family Church, Ocean Countyd
 
EVENT Ham dinner in spring, a first in 1997; harvest home dinner in fall, 1 96-year-tradition
MENU Spring: baked ham with pineapple glaze, scalloped potatoes, fresh string beans, Harvard beets, rolls, rice pudding, carrot cake
Fall: Turkey, cranberry sauce, potatoes and gravy, cole slaw, sliced tomatoes, vegetable, homemade desserts.
PRICE Ham dinner, adults $8.50; children under 12, $4.50; harvest home dinner, adults $8.
AVERAGE CROWD About 250 for harvest-home; about 60 for ham dinner.
BENEFICIARY General fund and building fund of church.
 
SPONSORS: GOOD WILL LADIES AUXILIARY, FIRE COMPANY No. 1, Belvidere, Warren County
 
EVENT Roast-beef dinner, once a year
MENU Roast beef, mashed potatoes and gravy, green beans, cole slaw, choice of pie, rolls, coffee or tea.
PRICE Adults $8; children 5-12, $4, under five free.
AVERAGE CROWD 250 to 300
BENEFICIARY Volunteer fire department.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW EGYPT (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; FIRES AND FIREMEN FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (88%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); CHILDREN (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (67%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (67%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: KELLER, SUSAN JO

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



419 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MORRISANIA;
'Anchor' for Neglected Area

BYLINE: By ANDREA K. WALKER 

 BODY:
For 20 years, the abandoned Morrisania Hospital building was a symbol of everything that had gone wrong in the Bronx. Vagabonds and drug addicts shared the dank, dark space with rats. The windows were broken and missing, the floors and walls had been stripped bare. Forgotten and empty, it towered over its equally overlooked neighborhood, the poorest Congressional district in the nation.
Now, after 14 months of reconstruction, the hospital, whose opening in the 1920's was seen as a sign of the borough's rising prosperity, has been reborn. The sprawling block-long building will soon become home to more than 100 low-income families as well as a training center for child-care and catering industry jobs. 
 The story of Morrisania Hospital's rebirth is about more than just renovating a gutted shell. It is also about erasing a major remaining sign of urban decline and giving an impoverished neighborhood a core for economic development. "It means all sorts of wonderful things," said Margarita Hunt, district manager for Community Board 4. "We now have much-needed new homes and an anchor to the community that will spur economic development."
The transformation of Morrisania was the first big job of the Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation, in collaboration with other groups. The huge neo-Renaissance building had been all but ignored since the hospital closed in 1976. But securing the right to use it for apartments tested the political savvy and determination of the fledgling group. Among the difficulties were rallying political support and gathering the needed $23 million in state, Federal and private money.
Of 132 new apartments, 48 have been set aside for the homeless. Tenants are to begin moving in next month. A day-care center for 72 children has been created, as well as a clinic and a state-of-the art kitchen for local residents to learn professional cooking and catering. A small building, once the ambulance garage, has been turned into a community gym. A public school will eventually occupy an adjacent building.
"Lots of times people see new residents coming into their neighborhood and getting services," said Nancy Biberman, president of the development organization, "and they feel as if they've lived here and gotten nothing. This is for the community."
Hurdles remain, including funding to run the day-care center and cooking and catering classes. But last week Ms. Biberman was delighted to learn that Brooke Astor had donated $1 million to the building's reserve fund. ANDREA K. WALKER

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Morrisania Hospital building, abandoned for 20 years, will soon house 100 low-income families. The renovation project was spearheaded by a development corporation headed by Nancy Biberman (right). (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WOMEN'S HOUSING & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP; MORRISANIA HOSPITAL (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S HOUSING & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP; MORRISANIA HOSPITAL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (90%); CATERING SERVICES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); CHILD CARE (88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); FAMILY (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); CHILDREN (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); 

PERSON: WALKER, ANDREA K

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



420 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 5; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UPPER EAST SIDE/HARLEM;
Different Site, Same Struggle With Landlord

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII 

 BODY:
Ever since Charles Sigety, a real estate developer, began buying up properties in the 90's on the Upper East Side 30 years ago, he has feuded with his tenants.
Over the years, the tenants and community housing advocates have accused him of using underhanded tactics to drive them out so he could demolish the buildings and develop the land into nursing homes. Now, the tenants are fighting a proposal by members of the Sigety family for a zoning change to allow them to build 550 units of housing on two vacant lots and a parking lot on Lexington Avenue between 96th and 98th Streets. 
 The family says the project will set aside 20 percent of the housing for low-income families, and that 25 percent of the construction jobs would be reserved for neighborhood residents. Current zoning would permit only about 350 units.
But the tenants and community advocates assert that if the family receives the zoning change, it will sell the land at great profit to other developers who have no interest in the neighborhood. They would like the current zoning to be maintained, which they believe would protect them against speculating developers.
Jesse Maysr, a lawyer for the Sigety family, said it is not economically feasible to do so. He insists that the Sigety family is committed to the project. But opponents don't believe it. They say the family's lack of a track record as housing developers does not bode well for the project.
"The Sigety family is a real estate owner, not a developer," said Ann Brett, a tenant in one of the family's buildings, at 129 East 97th Street. "This project will not bring any job into East Harlem."
In the mid-1980's, the Sigety family put up the Florence Nightingale Nursing Home on the north side of 96th Street between Second and Third Avenues, where the family had knocked down buildings, and left a number of vacant lots on Lexington Avenue between 96th and 98th Streets.
In 1988, after state health officials found that the nursing home had failed to meet health standards, Mr. Sigety tore down the building and sold the lot to another developer, who subsequently built the Monterey, a rental complex, and another nursing home, also called Florence Nightingale, on Third Avenue between 97th and 98th Streets.
Despite the opposition, the plan has received enthusiastic endorsements from local politicians and many members of Community Board 11. Supporters urged the residents to consider the jobs it would bring to the community, and the big picture of economic revival of East Harlem.
"I think we should look at this project for what its worth," said Councilman Adam Clayton Powell 4th. "This seeks to build housing in an area where we have nothing." JANE H. LII

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EAST SIDE JERSEY DAIRY INC (92%); EAST SIDE MARKET PLACE INC (92%); EAST SIDE FINANCIAL INC (92%); EAST SIDE BEVERAGE CO (92%); EAST SIDE LUMBERYARD SUPPLY CO (92%); EAST SIDE PLATING INC (92%); EAST SIDE BUILDING MATERIALS CO (92%); EAST SIDE AUDIO & VIDEO CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ZONING ZONING (91%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FAMILY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); LAND SUBDIVISION (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); NURSING HOMES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (54%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: LII, JANE H; SIGETY, CHARLES

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



421 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: The Past Is Not a 'Process'

BYLINE: By Sean Wilentz; Sean Wilentz, a professor of history at Princeton University, is co-author of "The Kingdom of Matthias: A Story of Sex and Salvation in 19th-Century America."

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J.

 BODY:
Must history be taught as a basic subject in American schools? To an alarming degree, public educators around the country are saying "no."
Instead, they would require students to learn updated versions of the old mishmash known as "social studies," with curriculums that feature little historical content. These educators, including some state superintendents of public education, like to pose as courageous progressives dedicated to liberating schoolchildren from the tyranny of rote instruction and the misbegotten worship of dead heroes. But if they have their way, the widely lamented historical illiteracy of today's students will only worsen in the generations to come. 
 Although the news media have been slow to report them, heated battles about history and social studies have been raging at the state and local levels over the past few years. These are not to be confused with the highly publicized fights that began in 1994 over the National History Standards.
In that debate historians, teachers and administrators clashed over the types of history that should be taught. Some scholars feared that the main lines of world and American history were being obscured by the standards' emphasis on minority groups and on Western civilization's more ignoble exploits. Defenders of the standards worried that the critics were out to force teachers to impart an expurgated, uniformly rosy picture of the past, especially of the American past.
Fortunately, a revised set of rigorous National History Standards appeared in 1996, winning endorsements even from many harsh critics of the earlier proposal. But national standards are really just suggestions; Washington can't force states to live up to them. So since then the action has shifted to the state level, where boards of regents and education departments are calling for exacting standards in all areas of primary and secondary instruction. And here the terms of debate have shifted as well, from what types of historical subjects should be taught to whether much actual history should be taught at all.
As soon as efforts to establish state history standards with substantial historical content began, proponents of social studies -- including the National Council for the Social Studies -- took the offensive. Some complained that the proposed reforms are Eurocentric -- a curious charge in view of the alleged multicultural biases in the National History Standards, from which many state efforts take inspiration. Others claimed that the various reforms demand too much of students and (more tellingly) of the large numbers of social studies teachers who are inadequately prepared in history.
In some states, notably Wisconsin, proposed tougher standards met with stiff resistance from state education officials, who said that such plans threatened the approved social studies approach and threatened local control of school curriculums. Above all, the supporters of social studies asserted that the reforms would unfairly elevate the discipline of history -- what one officer of the National Council for the Social Studies has derided as "pastology" -- in a disguised attempt to turn back the clock to an America of white-bread complacency and memorized fact.
Such criticisms might be valid if the study of history were the same today as it was 80 years ago, when the social studies movement got under way. Back then, the teaching of history was indeed a narrow enterprise, dedicated to drumming names and dates into schoolchildren's heads and limited to the chief political and diplomatic episodes of the past. Progressive-era reformers, including practitioners of the "new" histories of social and economic development, created the field of social studies to embrace broader themes about the present as well as the past, and to encourage students to evaluate trends as well as to memorize facts.
Since then, however, the field of history has changed remarkably. Formerly neglected aspects of the past, including the history of women and of minority groups, now occupy a central place in historical research and teaching. Emphasis now falls not simply on the recitation of facts but also on the interpretation of facts and primary documents.
Social studies, meanwhile, has mutated into a catchall field, blending bits and pieces of the different social sciences, with an emphasis on "process" and practical skills rather than on knowledge. Or, in the words of one of its advocates, James L. Barth of Purdue University, "social studies is the interdisciplinary integration of social science and humanities concepts for the purpose of practicing problem solving and decision making for developing citizenship skills on critical social issues."
Beneath such boilerplate lurks a fundamental disregard for history and its contents. To be sure, social studies programs may instruct students in historical events, like the Protestant Reformation or the American Revolution, but those events assume importance only to the extent that they have relevance to our own world. The pastness of the past is lost -- and with it the humanizing lesson that people in history, although every bit as intelligent as ourselves, thought and lived in ways very different from our own.
 Areas of history that cannot be easily connected to current priorities inevitably get neglected. Diverse ideas and cultures are reduced to one-dimensional subjects or "factors," divorced from their sources and their historical lineage. And the teaching of crucial facts, such as when the Civil War began, is demoted in favor of teaching abstract concepts. Thus students may learn nothing about the Presidency of Abraham Lincoln except as it pertains to the persistence of American racism.
Today's history-minded reformers, led by the National Council for History Education, do not deny the importance of teaching students how to evaluate issues that confront us today. But this goal is best reached by teaching the discipline of history, not by relentlessly turning the past into a mere prologue of the present.
Interdisciplinary efforts have merit, but only after students have mastered the various disciplines in question. That means instructing students in world and American history as well as geography and government (or civics). To combine that instruction from the start with a hodgepodge of anthropology, sociology, psychology and economics -- that is, to sustain social studies as we know it -- is to deprive students of the building blocks they need in order eventually to study those fields. It is also to lull students and parents into the belief that the schools are teaching advanced social sciences effectively.
Recently, advocates of more demanding history standards have gained ground. In 1995, Virginia's Board of Education, supported by Gov. George Allen and the American Federation of Teachers, adopted strenuous learning standards in history, geography and economics from kindergarten through high school, making history the core of the proposed curriculum. An equally impressive curriculum in history and the social sciences has been proposed for Massachusetts, and similar reforms are pending in California, Connecticut, New Jersey and other states.
Still, approval of those standards is far from certain. Predictably, the social studies lobby has impugned the reformers' political motives, attacking the curriculums as tools for reactionary fact-grubbers and mindless patriots.
The real issue, however, is not one of right and left. It is whether history ought to be a key element of American schooling. However noble its origins, social studies has outlived its usefulness -- with the sad result that a majority of today's American high school students are ignorant of the most basic information about the past.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ross MacDonald)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL COUNCIL ON COMPENSATION INSURANCE INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HISTORY STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); HISTORY (90%); CURRICULA (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (73%); 

PERSON: WILENTZ, SEAN

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



422 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: DOWNTOWN BROOKLYN;
Tunnel Vision for B.Q.E. Would Be a Billion Dollar View

BYLINE: By JANICE FIORAVANTE 

 BODY:
Montague Street, one of Brooklyn Heights' loveliest thoroughfares, ends at the promenade. Directly underneath this intersection are the sounds and smell of cars and trucks whizzing along the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway.
But if Allen Swerdlowe has his way, the highway traffic noise and the odors of exhaust fumes will be replaced with a whiff of ocean air. 
 Mr. Swerdlowe, an architect who teaches at Pratt Institute, has not only dreamed of a Brooklyn waterfront without the B.Q.E., he has designed it. His model would replace a 2.5-mile stretch of the elevated highway with a tunnel. It would begin at Park Avenue in Williamsburg and continue beneath the Manhattan and Brooklyn Bridges and Brooklyn Heights before rejoining the expressway at Atlantic Avenue.
Mr. Swerdlowe unveiled his plan at an April 8 forum on tunnel design sponsored by the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit group that advises local governments. "This would free 25 to 35 acres of usable land for passenger and vehicular connections to the waterfront," Mr. Swerdlowe said.
He is not the first designer to propose underground highways for Brooklyn. Last year the association put forth a design to replace a portion of the crumbling Gowanus Expressway with a tunnel. A State Department of Transportation project to rebuild the Gowanus between 95th Street in Bay Ridge and the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel has given momentum to the tunnel schemes.
The Regional Plan Association received a $75,000 grant from the city to study the feasibility of such a design. But the Transportation Department, while intrigued by the idea, questions its expense.
"The plan separates traffic from communities, clearing views and contributing to the economic growth and livability of these neighborhoods," said Richard Maitino, regional director of the State Department of Transportation. "We are still skeptical of the costs."
Mr. Maitino said the Regional Plan Association puts the cost of a Gowanus replacement tunnel at between $1.5 billion and $3 billion. The Gowanus refurbishment is expected to cost the state about $700 million.
Still, the agency has asked the consulting engineers for the Gowanus highway project, Parsons Brinkerhoff & Bechtel, to include the tunnel option in its environmental impact study. JANICE FIORAVANTE

GRAPHIC: Photo: Allen Swerdlowe, an architect at Pratt Institute, has proposed a tunnel to link Williamsburg to Brooklyn Heights. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)
 
Map of Brooklyn showing the location of the proposed tunnel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN BECHTEL GROUP INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: BROOKLYN-QUEENS EXPRESSWAY (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); ENGINEERING (68%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: SWERDLOWE, ALLEN; FIORAVANTE, JANICE

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



423 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Mission From Moscow: Find the Money

BYLINE: By DAN COLARUSSO 

 BODY:
ALEKSANDR VOKHMIN, chief financial officer of Perm Uralsviazinform, a regional phone company in Russia, pulled a shimmering blue card from his wallet. Through a translator, Mr. Vokhmin told Scott Sadler, an American money manager, that it was a Ural Express card, that it could be used as a debit or credit card and that it was among his company's most promising new offerings.
Mr. Vokhmin then returned the card to his wallet and gave the conversation, which took place last week, a personal twist. "My wife," he said, "loves this card!" 
 A typical business conversation -- except that in the past it would have taken place in Russia, if at all. But Mr. Vokhmin and Mr. Sadler, a co-manager of the Biltmore Emerging Markets fund, were chatting over mineral water in New York, at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel. And in the two days before this one-on-one meeting, executives and representatives of eight other Russian companies -- from the Red October Chocolate Candy Factory to Petmol Dairy to Nizhny Tagil Steel -- made their case to American investors in meetings at the hotel, at the Harvard Club and at a dinner featuring Aleksandr Y. Livshits, Russia's former Finance Minister.
Indeed, Russian executives have become adept participants at this central capitalist ritual, the investor meeting. This particular group, sponsored by Brunswick Securities, a Russian brokerage firm that opened a New York office last year, came equipped with Red October candy bars, graphs on consumer demand and fever charts on stock-price growth -- all to help answer the questions of the nearly 50 American money managers in attendance.
True, the Russians' English is halting, so they rely on translators in these roadshows, the Wall Street name for company presentations to investors. Sometimes the language hurdles make for odd phrases: when Mr. Vokhmin spoke of his company's widespread reputation for probity, the translation described the telephone venture as "Russia's least scandalous company."
But the Russians' grasp of Western finance is rapidly increasing and, like all true capitalists, they show little reluctance to publicly bash their Government and taxes.
"They are a lot more polished, more professional," said John Pinto, president of Sintra Capital. Mr. Pinto jumped into the embryonic Russian market in 1993 and has watched its companies evolve.
The new sophistication comes just in time. While Russia has been an outpost for hedge funds and other adventurous foreign investors for a few years, mainstream investors like mutual funds and pension funds are now getting much more interested -- even if they can't pronounce the company names as well as some of the old Russia hands.
Indeed, in the last 18 months, an open-end mutual fund specializing in Russia, Lexington Troika Dialog Russia, was started, along with two closed-end funds, Templeton Russia and Morgan Stanley Russia and New Europe. There are new regional funds with large stakes in Russia, too, like Vontobel Eastern European Equity, which started last year.
So far this year, mainstream investors account for 80 percent of the investment dollars that Brunswick has brought to Russian companies, said Par Mellstrom, head of research at the firm.
"I'm amazed," Mr. Pinto said, "that there are major emerging markets funds that aren't there yet."
Part of the popularity stems from the calming of the political waters since Boris N. Yeltsin's re-election as President last year. But investors have also been greatly emboldened by the returns of the Russian stock market in 1996 and 1997. In the first quarter of this year, for instance, shares in the Lexington Troika Dialog Russia fund gained 46 percent.
Mr. Sadler has invested 2.5 percent of his fund's $160 million in Russia since January. As an acknowledged rookie in the Russian market, he said he relied on meetings like the one at the Ritz-Carlton to get a better grip on a company.
"The financial information often is not credible in any emerging market, so looking someone in the eye has a lot to do with this business," he said. "I've got to balance management capabilities and my trust in the managers' motivations."
That, presumably, is what Mr. Sadler was doing as Mr. Vokhmin of Perm Uralsviazinform outlined his company's far-flung businesses: its telephone operations in the Urals region, which straddles the European and Asian parts of Russia; its radio and TV stations; its Ural Express credit/debit card operation, and its 80 percent interest in a bank.
In dealing with these Russian executives, Mr. Sadler and other investors are getting more candid answers as well as more polished ones.
Steve Marquardt, an investment banker for Merrill Lynch in London, did not attend the Ritz-Carlton meetings. But he has attended many Russian roadshows, and he said he remembered how difficult it was, as recently as 1995, to determine the assets, revenues and other particulars of Russian companies. And he was on the inside of those deals.
"They had two answers to every question: 'No, you can't have that information,' and 'It's a state secret,' " Mr. Marquardt said. But now, he said, "They know what information you need and why you need it."
Rostelecom, for instance, Russia's long-distance phone company, has an Internet home page to accommodate the many investor inquiries it receives. And Pyotr Debryansky, Rostelecom's director of planning and finance, said that his superiors were often so busy dealing with investors and prospective investors that he had difficulty getting appointments with them.
BUT Mr. Debryansky's superiors, like their counterparts in the other Russian companies making presentations last week, are eager for investors' cash. This summer, Perm Uralsviazinform plans to enter the United States stock market by issuing American depository receipts -- certificates representing foreign shares. Other enterprises are seeking private placements or will soon issue Eurobonds.
Grand plans are propelling these capital-raising efforts. Lukoil, a huge oil company whose in-house slogan is "Growth, growth and growth again," wants money to develop reserves in Kazakstan and elsewhere outside Russia. Red October, which makes expensive candies, needs cash to buy equipment to make cheaper sweets as well, and to defray cocoa-bean tariffs, which have risen 5 percent in the last year.
But ambitions and Americans' growing familiarity with some Russian ventures -- "We've become a fairly household name," Mr. Debryansky said -- do not guarantee that gaining converts will be easy.
The investors at the Ritz-Carlton were cordial, but they had concerns. They asked about the risks posed to these businesses by the nonpayment of bills that is common in Russian society, and about the companies' own bill-paying habits. They asked about the tax burdens the companies face and the rules of corporate governance they follow. Given that many of the companies are big, the American investors also asked about Russia's antitrust policy.
They wondered about potential labor problems, too, and asked Rostelecom whether its managers received performance-based incentives. (They do, to a degree, it said.)
The Russian executives tried to respond reassuringly. They often mentioned that they had been audited by accounting heavyweights like Coopers & Lybrand and KPMG Peat Marwick. And at various points they implied that, while business in Russia is culturally different, its features are not necessarily fatal.
"Nonpayments are like flies," Mr. Debryansky said. 'You learn to live with them."
So, was it thumbs up or thumbs down on Russia? Conclusions varied.
Thomas Niedermeyer, a private investor and former money manager at Morgan Stanley, said the presentations suggested to him that some of the traditionally favorite Russian plays, like telecommunications, had less opportunity, while sectors formerly in the shadows had more. "I'm going to be looking at some of the companies that are less sexy," he said, "like steel and auto makers."
Mr. Sadler said that he was comfortable for now with his 2.5 percent position, but that he expected to increase it by about 1 percent. The presenting companies were "a mixed bag -- but better than expected," he said.
If the Russian stock market continues to soar, of course, more Americans will be rummaging in that bag, mixed or not.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aleksandr Vokhmin, second from right, is one of several Russian executives who visited New York last week to meet American investors. With him are Scott Sadler, left, of the Biltmore Emerging Markets fund, and Martin Diggle and Tanya Khotin, of Brunswick Securities, host of the gatherings. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); Red October wants capital to buy equipment that will allow it to make less-expensive candies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (56%); CJSC TROIKA DIALOG (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BOTTLED WATER (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); BONDS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); TRENDS (64%); 

PERSON: COLARUSSO, DAN

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



424 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
When a 32% Fall Means Nothing

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
In economics books, you can read that the stock market is a rational place, where an efficient market allows every stock to trade at a price that incorporates all publicly available information.
Sure it is. 
 Consider the case of the Castle Convertible fund, a small closed-end fund that is traded on the American Stock Exchange. Volume is normally low, and it trades with all the excitement and volatility you'd expect from a diversified portfolio of convertible stocks and bonds.
But for 22 wild minutes last Tuesday, things were far from normal. A wave of sell orders swept into the Amex on its automatic order entry system, most of them from one discount brokerage firm. The price of the fund, which was $24.625 at 12:46 P.M., when the first sell order came in, plunged to $20.25 by 12:58, when the specialist called in an Amex floor official to discuss what to do.
The fund was called, and asked if it had any news to report, but it was not until 1:08 that trading was halted. By then, the wave of sell orders had pushed the price down to $16.75, or 32 percent below where it was before the selling started.
After the fund said it had no news, trading reopened at 2:39, at $21.50, and the price moved back to $23 by the close. All told, 104,400 shares traded that day -- more than had changed hands in any month during the last decade. That included 31,600 that were sold during the plunge.
What happened? It appears that someone heard that there was a scandal at a fund called CVF, which is the ticker symbol for the Castle fund, and the way traders refer to it. There is such a scandal. But it involves an offshore fund, the Czech Value Fund, which invested money in a fraudulent operation. Its problems had been reported the previous Friday in The Financial Times of London, using CVF as an abbreviation. Somebody then told investors to bail out of the wrong CVF, and the sell orders came in.
The Amex specialist trading the stock, Paul Oscher of Crooks, Oscher & Company, says he acted responsibly. But David Alger, the Castle fund's manager, is not impressed and says he has asked the Amex to change specialists because this one did not meet its obligation to maintain an orderly market. "I thought a seven-point drop was excessive, given that this was not a semiconductor company that reported bad earnings," he said.
Thomas Ryan, the president of the Amex, says the specialist did his duty. But, Mr. Ryan conceded on Friday, "in retrospect, we probably should have stopped trading earlier than we did."
That admission of error, amazingly enough, is being backed up with a money-back offer. Those who sold shares during the plunge are being offered the opportunity to reprice the trades at $21.50. Assuming they accept, that will cost the Amex about $48,000. It will also neutralize what otherwise would be a very embarrassing episode.
The real issue here is the illustration of how irrational markets can be. Sometimes a flood of orders -- buy or sell -- indicates something has really changed. And sometimes it indicates something else.
That is true for an obscure fund like Castle, and it can be true for the entire market. A week ago, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 217 points in four days. Last week it rose 311 points.
Why? First the sellers, and then perhaps the buyers, got carried away. The market may be rational in the long run, but the short-term story can be very different.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Never Mind" shows the price of Castle Convertible fund, minute by minute, last for Tuesday April 15, 1997.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CASTLE CONVERTIBLE FUND INC; CZECH VALUE FUND FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (64%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (58%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CASTLE CONVERTIBLE FUND INC; CZECH VALUE FUND AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (58%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BONDS (78%); ELECTRONICS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (54%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD THOMAS M RYAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



425 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3437 words

HEADLINE: The Velvet Fist of Fannie Mae

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IN a city whose currency is connections, James A. Johnson is truly wired.
Mr. Johnson is chairman of both the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and the Brookings Institution, the research organization. A former top aide to Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Mr. Johnson has close ties to many prominent Democrats -- and quite a few Republicans, too. 
 Mr. Johnson's real power these days, though, comes from his role as chairman and chief executive of Fannie Mae, the little-understood company that dominates the nation's housing finance industry.
Long known as the Federal National Mortgage Association but now just by its former nickname, Fannie Mae helps make sure that financing is available to home buyers at the lowest possible rate, serving as a bridge between the vast pools of capital on Wall Street and the demand for loans on Main Street. And it does so by relying not only on its own canny financial management but also on Government-conferred benefits, arising out of its roots as a Federal agency, that some analysts value at billions of dollars a year.
It is a tricky role, running a company that is Government-created but shareholder-owned, a public trust and a private fountain of wealth that melds the policy of promoting the American dream of home ownership with the nation's faith in the workings of the marketplace.
Balancing those public and private missions has been Mr. Johnson's toughest task since joining the company in 1990 and taking over the top job a year later. Mr. Johnson has won widespread admiration from advocacy groups for working to expand home ownership among low-income people and others left out of the housing market. Wall Street applauds him for generating consistently strong returns for investors. And Washington insiders respect him as the most skilled political operator in corporate America, protecting Fannie Mae's franchise with an influential network that extends from the highest reaches of the Clinton Administration to the ranks of conservative Republicans on Capitol Hill.
But for all his success -- or maybe because of it -- Mr. Johnson, 53, faces some unsettling questions from critics: Is Fannie Mae's Government sponsorship still needed in a deregulated financial world that has changed so much from the Depression era when Fannie Mae was created? Could companies with no ties to Washington perform Fannie Mae's role just as well -- or even better? Do the company, its shareholders and its management team profit unduly from that support?
The same questions dog Fannie Mae's smaller compatriot and competitor, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, which also operates in the gray area between the public and private sectors.
Some analysts believe the Government has created in Fannie Mae a beast that has so inextricably linked itself to the popular cause of home ownership that it would be politically impossible to slay it even if a consensus emerged that it was economically desirable to do so. As the Congressional Budget Office put it last year in a study examining the merits and demerits of cutting Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's Government ties: "Once one agrees to share a canoe with a bear, it is hard to get him out without obtaining his agreement or getting wet."
Fannie Mae's fearsome reputation has created the impression in Washington that Mr. Johnson can squelch any meaningful debate over the company's relationship with its Government benefactor.
That debate encompasses a regulatory review of whether Fannie Mae should put aside more capital to protect taxpayers against the risk that a ruinous economic spell or mismanagement could lead to a Federal bailout. And the company faces an increasingly heated battle over whether it should be permitted to continue expanding into related businesses to maintain its rapid growth.
"All financial institutions face differing kinds of risk, such as credit risk, interest rate risk and country risk," said Representative Jim Leach, Republican of Iowa, who is chairman of the House Banking Committee. But the prime risk to Fannie Mae, he said, is a political risk that Washington will withdraw its privileges.
"Accordingly," Mr. Leach said, "no institution in America has as sophisticated tentacles into the legislature and the executive branch as Fannie Mae."
In an interview, Mr. Johnson scoffed at the suggestion that connections or political maneuvering allow the company to suppress debate over its relationship with the Government.
"The reason Fannie Mae has broad political support is that we do our job," Mr. Johnson said. "We effectively promote more homeownership for more people at a lower price."

The Unwritten Guarantee
Fannie Mae was established as a Government agency in 1938 as a New Deal effort to help avert credit crunches in the housing industry. Spun off to shareholders in 1968, but retaining important implicit and explicit ties to the Government, it is now the largest of the so-called Government-sponsored enterprises. Beyond Freddie Mac, they also include the Federal Home Loan Banks, the Farm Credit System and the Student Loan Marketing Association, or Sallie Mae.
The most important, if the vaguest, tie is what most investors perceive as a Government guarantee of Fannie Mae's debt. Although the guarantee has never been tested and is nowhere written down -- indeed, it is explicitly contradicted by language in the prospectus for any debt the company issues -- it is nonetheless widely accepted in global financial markets. That provides Fannie Mae with a thin but vital advantage over traditional financial institutions.
Other, more concrete advantages include Fannie Mae's exemption from state and local income taxes, saving it perhaps $300 million in taxes to the District of Columbia, and from the registration requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The flip side of Fannie Mae's relationship with the Government is that it continues to operate under a Congressional charter that requires it to help home buyers by promoting liquidity, stability and low interest rates in the secondary market for mortgages benefits that it says have filtered down to millions of homeowners over the years.
Fannie Mae links global financial markets to individual home buyers, providing local lenders access to nearly limitless funds. It buys mortgages issued to home buyers with no big credit problems, mostly for single-family homes with mortgages up to $214,600 -- the so-called conforming mortgage market. It either holds them in its own portfolio or, for a fee, bundles them into mortgage-backed securities, carrying a repayment guarantee, which can be freely bought and sold by investors in the open market. Doing so enables the banks and savings institutions that originate loans to generate more mortgages with less risk.
Fannie Mae has built itself into a corporate powerhouse. Its assets of more than $351 billion make it the largest in the country, exceeding Chase Manhattan, the nation's biggest bank, by nearly $15 billion. The assets are $80 billion greater than those of General Electric. And Fannie Mae's $25 billion in revenues put it 29th on the 1997 Fortune 500 list, while its profits of $2.7 billion rank it with oil companies like Chevron and Amoco.
As evidence of its benefit to home buyers, Fannie Mae points to the lower rates for conforming mortgages, where it brings its financial muscle to bear, compared with "jumbo" mortgages, for larger amounts, where it has no direct involvement. Earlier this month, the difference was about three-tenths of a percentage point.
But competitors and critics of Fannie Mae have long argued that much of its Government-conferred advantage flows not to home buyers but to the company's shareholders and executives. They point to the big pay days enjoyed by Fannie Mae's top management: Mr. Johnson earned $6 million last year and other executives earned multimillion-dollar salaries as well. Mr. Johnson defended his compensation as commensurate with the company's performance and the pay for other financial industry executives.
 
Drawing Scrutiny and Ire
As part of legislation passed in 1992 setting up a new Federal regulator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Congress required four Government agencies to report last year on whether subsidies to the two companies served public policy goals efficiently. The most provocative of the studies came from the Congressional Budget Office, which concluded that the implied debt guarantee had saved Fannie Mae $3.9 billion in 1995, of which the company passed along to homeowners $2.5 billion in the form of lower mortgage rates. The remaining $1.4 billion was retained by the company in the form of profits, the study said.
The study also concluded that the housing finance markets would continue to function efficiently if they were left to companies with no special Government benefits. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac harshly criticized the study's methodology and its conclusions.
The issue of whether Government-sponsored enterprises deserve these benefits was raised anew earlier this month when Mr. Leach called for an investigation by the General Accounting Office into Freddie Mac's investment practices. Mr. Leach acted after Freddie Mac sold $125 million of bonds at its subsidized rate, and then used the proceeds to acquire the same amount of higher-yielding bonds issued by the Philip Morris Companies -- a transaction with no direct tie to Freddie Mac's housing mission.
Freddie Mac defended its investment practices, but said late Thursday that it had sold its holdings in Philip Morris.
Moreover, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are stirring ire among companies in the housing finance business that see them as increasingly direct competitors. This is particularly true as they develop new products and technologies that encroach on related businesses, like computerizing the mortgage application and underwriting process, a business traditionally handled by banks, savings institutions and mortgage bankers.
"They've grown so large that they cannot put all their capital to work and expand their base without reaching out into other parts of the market," said Robert P. Cochran, the chief executive of Financial Security Assurance, a New York company that sees Fannie Mae creeping into its business of securitizing mortgages to borrowers with credit problems. "Because they are this odd mix of private sector equity and public guarantee, they have an insatiable desire to grow their franchise."

Keeping in Touch
For all the political popularity of his mission, Mr. Johnson has had to fend off efforts by a relative handful of members of Congress to scale back the company's compact with the Government. And with conservative, free-market-minded Republicans now in power on Capitol Hill,, the political threat to Fannie Mae has grown in intensity. But when a subcommittee of the House Banking Committee held hearings last year on stripping Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of their Federal ties, it failed to make a dent in their formidable defenses.
"When it comes to the nexus of politics and business, these guys are the standard by which others are measured," said Charles A. Gabriel Jr., a political analyst in Washington for Prudential Securities. "They are very aggressive."
In a glossy written report, Mr. Johnson details for all members of Congress how the company's efforts help home buyers in their districts. He hires lobbyists from both sides of the political aisle -- last year the company had 36 registered lobbyists making its case in the hallways and hearing rooms of Congress. In 1995-96, employees of his company gave $112,886 directly to Congressional and Presidential candidates and the political parties, while Fannie Mae itself contributed $198,150 in unregulated "soft" money directly to political parties. And Mr. Johnson has made Fannie Mae both a launching pad and a landing strip for officials moving in and out of politics and Government in Washington.
On the Republican side, Fannie Mae's executive vice president for housing and law, who oversees the company's government relations, is Robert B. Zoellick, who served as a right-hand man to James A. Baker 3d in the State and Treasury Departments and at the White House in the Bush and Reagan Administrations. John Buckley, the company's senior vice president for communications, took a leave of absence to serve as the communications director for Bob Dole's Presidential campaign and was an aide to Jack Kemp.
Within the Clinton Administration, Franklin D. Raines, who was Fannie Mae's vice chairman until last year, is now the White House budget chief. The new Commerce Secretary, William M. Daley, is a former Fannie Mae board member. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin is a close friend of Mr. Johnson's. All three Administration officials say they have taken steps to avoid any conflict of interest.
But critics of the company have raised questions about whether the Administration can be truly unbiased when setting policy that might affect Fannie Mae.
During last year's House banking subcommittee hearings, Representative Richard H. Baker, Republican of Louisiana, pointed to what he said were discrepancies between a draft Treasury Department report on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the final version. He said the report might have been rewritten to tone down a finding that the mortgage markets could function perfectly well without any Government sponsorship.
"I am convinced that, for whatever reason, this report has been rewritten, reaches no conclusions, ignores the changes in the marketplace that have occurred and gives little direction to this subcommittee," Mr. Baker thundered at Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, who defended the Administration's report.
In what some describe as a telling illustration of how Fannie Mae has cultivated favor with the Administration, the company hired Walter Hubbell, a son of Webster L. Hubbell, the former Associate Attorney General who is at the heart of the Whitewater affair. Fannie Mae employed the younger Mr. Hubbell in 1994, after Mr. Johnson and other executives received calls from Administration officials -- including Mickey Kantor, who was then the United States trade representative -- urging them to do so. At the time, the White House had undertaken an effort to help the Hubbell family financially after the senior Mr. Hubbell's resignation from the Justice Department.
Mr. Johnson said Walter Hubbell, who joined Fannie Mae's marketing department, was hired on merit and that he was an "outstanding' employee.

An Imposing Foe
 In protecting its interests, people who follow the company say, Fannie Mae can play hardball.
For example, officials of low-income housing groups, which often rely heavily on the company and its charitable foundation for financing, privately tell stories of grants rescinded or scaled back after they criticized Fannie Mae publicly or pushed too aggressively for changes in policy.
Even Mr. Leach found out just how tough Mr. Johnson can be after he proposed last year that the Government-sponsored enterprises, including Fannie Mae, should pay a portion of the costs of the savings-and-loan bailout. Mr. Leach was hit with a political steamroller as Fannie Mae mobilized much of the nation's housing-finance and real estate industries to attack the proposal as a tax on homeownership. The idea was buried quickly.
"They put their power to use protecting their vested interest," the bruised Mr. Leach said with a mixture of wariness and admiration, "and it so happens that their vested interest in large, but not complete, measure is the public interest."
While Mr. Leach has a certain ambivalence about Fannie Mae, he is wholly admiring of Mr. Johnson. He even agreed to write the introduction to Mr. Johnson's recent book, "Showing America a New Way Home" (Jossey-Bass, 1996).
"They have first-class leadership, symbolized by Jim Johnson, whom I consider one of the most able people in finance in America and in politics in America," Mr. Leach said.

Broadening the Mission
On a gray April morning in Phoenix, Mr. Johnson was standing in a community center in a rundown neighborhood adjacent to the city's newly booming downtown, promoting the initiative that will no doubt be his legacy at Fannie Mae.
He calls it the "trillion dollar commitment," a promise to do for lower-income and minority groups, the elderly, new immigrants and residents of inner cities what Fannie Mae has long done for the broad suburban middle class: make homeownership more accessible. The idea is to bring Fannie Mae's financial muscle to bear, creating partnerships with housing advocacy groups, community development organizations, lenders, home builders and real estate agents.
In Phoenix, like the 28 other cities around the country where similar programs are under way, Fannie Mae intends to promote products like mortgages requiring as little as 2 percent down and rehabilitation loans for homes in blighted neighborhoods. The goal in Phoenix is home ownership for 43,000 families who would otherwise not get the chance.
By the end of the decade, Mr. Johnson wants to commit to purchasing $1 trillion in loans made under the program, enabling it to help 10 million families nationwide. So far, Fannie Mae says, it has helped finance $311 billion, representing loans to 4.2 million disadvantaged buyers.
"Fannie Mae today is far superior in its commitment to what it was before," said John Taylor, the president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition in Washington, the umbrella organization for low-income-housing advocacy groups.
The initiative partly reflects Mr. Johnson's idealistic view of Fannie Mae as an engine for social improvement and his long history of civil rights activism. But it is also rooted in his belief that good business makes for good politics and vice versa.
Since its own growth depends to a great extent on growth in the overall housing market, Fannie Mae needs to increase the nation's homeownership rate if it wants to fulfill Mr. Johnson's pledge to sustain double-digit earnings growth. The homeownership rate is currently just under 66 percent; through the trillion dollar commitment and other initiatives, Fannie Mae hopes to raise that to 75 percent.
"We still have an enormous way to go," Mr. Johnson says.
By giving Fannie Mae a greatly expanded goal and by putting a headline-grabbing number on it, Mr. Johnson is not so subtly making the case to all of Fannie Mae's constituencies that it still has a public mission and a justification for preserving its Government-provided benefits.
It seemed to work in Phoenix. Three members of Congress from the area, one Democrat and two Republicans, were in the front row. With the television cameras running, Mr. Johnson thanked them all for their support.
And supportive they were. "We often debate broad philosophical differences," Representative J. D. Hayworth, a conservative republican, who was vice chairman of the subcommittee that held hearings on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac last year, told the crowd. "But in many cases, like here, there is broad unanimity in wishing to empower people to achieve the American dream."
Asked later how he squared his ideological push for a smaller government and more reliance on free markets with continued Federal involvement with Fannie Mae, Mr. Hayworth replied, "Pragmatic support born out of results."

Finding a Pulpit
From his early years, Mr. Johnson seemed destined for a stellar political career. His father was a member of the Minnesota Legislature, and when the younger Mr. Johnson came to Washington after finishing graduate school at Princeton University in the late 1960's, he quickly found a place among the bright young aides who do much of the work of the Government and of political campaigns.
Indeed, David Maraniss's biography of Bill Clinton, "First in His Class" (Simon & Schuster, 1995), quotes a political insider who as far back as 1970 envisioned a Democratic Presidential primary battle one day between two men: Bill Clinton and Jim Johnson.
But these days, Mr. Johnson seems satisfied that he is not just doing well for himself but able to accomplish far more from his perch than nearly any elected official.
"I have about as intimate a familiarity as anyone with the process of running for office and serving in office, and I have no misconceptions about what's involved," he said. "Fannie Mae is an instrument for improving the opportunities for Americans that is almost unrivaled."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The $6 million man: James A. Johnson, chairman and chief executive of Fannie Mae. (Erik Freeland/Matrix for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Fannie Mae" lists financial indicators of the nation's largest financial services company.
 
Graphs: "Report Card" shows the percentage of American households that owned their own home, since 1920; "Stock Price" shows the percentage change since 1990 of Fannie Mae and S.& P. 500. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Datastream; U.S. Census)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (93%); FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN (FNMA) FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN (FNMA) JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MORTGAGES RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; JOHNSON, JAMES A HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



426 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

MONDAY
At an Employment Policy Foundation conference in Washington, the Federal Reserve's vice chairman, Alice M. Rivlin, speaks on "Giving America's Workers a Raise."
Earnings reports are expected from Allstate, AT&T, BellSouth, Exxon, Union Carbide and Wells Fargo.
 
TUESDAY
Earnings reports are expected from American Brands, Consolidated Edison, 3M, Northwest Airlines, Pennzoil, RJR Nabisco, Shell Oil, UAL and Xerox.
 
WEDNESDAY
Earnings reports are expected from Chevron, Conoco, Du Pont, Mobil, Netscape, Nynex, Times Mirror and US Airways.
 
THURSDAY
The Labor Department reports on initial claims for unemployment insurance.
Earnings reports are expected from Allied Signal, Delta Airlines, Dow Chemical, MCI Communications, Procter & Gamble and Quaker Oats.
 
FRIDAY
The National Association of Realtors reports on home resales for March.
Earnings reports are expected from Kellogg, Rockwell International and US West.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); ED (NYSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); ALL (NYSE) (58%); DOW (SWX) (57%); DOW (NYSE) (57%); DOW (LSE) (57%); 4850 (TSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (57%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (58%); ALLSTATE CORP (58%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (57%); KRAFT NABISCO (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); SHELL OIL CO (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); FOOD INDUSTRY (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); EXISTING HOME SALES (65%); 

PERSON: WELLS FARGO & CO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



427 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Converting the Dollar into a Bludgeon

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Afew weeks ago, President Clinton decided not to punish Mexico for losing its war on drugs, partly out of concern that the punishment -- economic sanctions -- would have hurt Mexico's economy and America's too. This month Mr. Clinton said he'd moderate his sanctions on Cuba to avert a trade fight with the European Union that could, in turn, backfire on businesses at home. The President also seems reluctant to impose tough sanctions on Myanmar for abusing human rights because a few American companies might lose out on business.
With all the Administration's hand-wringing over economic sanctions -- one of the most potent punishments a country can mete out -- you might think they are losing their place in the United States' arsenal of diplomatic weaponry. 
 That's not exactly true, though.
At a time when military force looks less and less palatable, the United States has in fact turned to sanctions more and more to punish everything that's deemed un-American, from harboring terrorists and trafficking in drugs to failing to protect sea turtles.
A study released last month by the National Association of Manufacturers, using the broadest definition of sanctions, found that the President or Congress had imposed sanctions or passed laws authorizing him to use them 60 times against 35 countries over the last four years. According to another study, that is roughly the same number of sanctions imposed in the first four decades after World War II.
In 1996 alone, there were 22 new cases, by the association's count. There were laws threatening sanctions against African nations that do nothing to end the custom of female genital mutilation and against Balkan nations that fail to cooperate with the war crimes tribunal at The Hague -- both issues, not coincidentally, that received considerable public attention.
And that's not all. Last year, Congress expanded the longstanding sanctions against Cuba, Libya and Iran. And in the case of Cuba, it even went beyond the American embargo. There were sanctions passed to try to stop foreign companies, including those from Canada, Mexico and some close European allies, from making money off property expropriated from Cuba.
This flurry of sanctions continues despite the complaints of the President's economic advisers and many leaders of business and industry, who insist that most sanctions don't work and hurt the economy.
 
Irresistible and Risk-Free
 So why are sanctions so popular? Because they are an irresistible, relatively risk-free and inexpensive way of assuaging America's sense of outrage. (Mr. Clinton signed the expanded sanctions against Cuba, known as the Helms Burton Act, amid the public clamor for American action after Cuban fighter jets shot down two unarmed civilian planes last year. And then he delayed them, when things cooled down.)
"There's a slew of people in Congress and in the Government looking around for ways to make a statement on a variety of subjects," said Barry E. Carter, a law professor at Georgetown University who did the research for the National Association of Manufacturers.
The use of sanctions is not new. The United States has wielded them from the earliest days of the Republic. And its sanctions against North Korea and Cuba have lasted for decades.
There are certainly cases where sanctions have been effective, especially when the United States has joined up with other countries or the United Nations. Two examples are the sanctions against South Africa in the 1980's designed to undercut apartheid, and the sanctions against Iraq, designed to isolate Saddam Hussein after his invasion of Kuwait in 1990.
But the rising tide of sanctions has started to rattle American businesses, whose leaders argue that sanctions -- in particular, unilateral one -- do not work and deny American companies access to the world's markets. The National Association of Manufacturers' study was but the first shot in an organized campaign to call attention to the problem. Just last week, a coalition called USA Engage announced on Capitol Hill that it would rally business and agricultural companies against sanctions, which, it said, cost the United States $15 billion a year in exports.
"If it's a moral message we're sending, it's an expensive and highly ineffective one," said Marino P. Marcich, the director for international investment at the manufacturers' association.
The White House seems to be getting the point. No one in the Administration seriously argues, for example, that the United States should -- or could -- cut off trade to China to protest Beijing's repression of human and political rights. And the President's aides headed off unilateral sanctions against Myanmar while still leaving Mr. Clinton the option to impose them.
The President's aides defend their use of sanctions as pragmatic. They say imposing sanctions -- or merely the threat of them -- is one of the only diplomatic tools that can be used to cajole a country into behaving better. They may be wrong for China, but they can be the right way to fight terrorism in Iran or drugs in Colombia.
 
Pragmatism or Hypocrisy
 But what is pragmatism to some is hypocrisy to others. The Administration's reluctance to impose some sanctions has sparked criticism that it backs off when big American business is at stake.
In fact, there appears to be a groundswell for still more sanctions. An array of human rights and conservative groups say they will fight to deny China's "most favored nation" trade status when it comes up for review in June. And there are new proposals for sanctions against Indonesia and countries that persecute people for their religious beliefs.
"You don't want to be isolationist, but on the other hand you don't want to make the gross national product the be-all and end-all of American foreign policy and trade relationships," said Gary L. Bauer, the president of the Family Research Council, the conservative group leading the charge for sanctions on China. "There are other American values which are higher."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "A Salvo Of Sanctions"
The United States has grown increasingly fond of using economic sanctions to promote its foreign-policy goals and chasten recalcitrant countries. According to a recent report by the National Association of Manufacturers, an industry group based in Washington, President Clinton and Congress imposed sanctions or passed legislation that threatened to do so 60 times against 35 countries from 1993 to 1996. Some nations were sanctioned more than once. Iran (with 11 sactions), Cuba (9), Sudan (7) and China (6) topped the list). Map shows countries U.S. imposed sanctions on between 1993 and 1996. (Source: National Association of Manufacturers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); SUDAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (57%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (53%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); SUDAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (57%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); WAR CRIMES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (67%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); TERRORISM (52%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



428 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: The Black History Exhibit;
Museums That Tell What to Think

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN 

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
THERE are some chilling objects on display at the Museum of African-American History in Detroit, which opened in a new $38.4 million building last week and is now clearly the nation's biggest and most important black history museum. There are rusted shackles used to hold slaves on a plantation in Virginia, a tin case in which a freed black man kept the document proving he was nobody's property, a diagram showing how to tightly pack African slaves on a British ship.
But despite these objects and historical accounts of blood and struggle, the main exhibit, titled "Of The People: The African American Experience," does not offer a typical, museum-style collection of relics for contemplation. 
 It tries to tell the story of black American slavery and struggle, beginning with a prologue that includes a life-size model of a slave ship on which are inscribed the painfully innocent-sounding names of the scores of ships that carried African slaves: Illustrious, God's Love, Blessed Journey. The conclusion is a hortatory series of photos and panels listing ambitions for the black community, including "expressing our creativity," "creating new images of ourselves" and "linking the diaspora" on the Internet.
This might seem an oddly prescriptive end to a museum exhibit, but it is no accident. The exhibit reflects a new notion of museum design that has gained wide acceptance over the last decade. Today's exhibitions are a marked departure from the detached museum presentations of the last two centuries. The museum has become a forum, not a temple. And messages are to be expected.
 
Leading the Witness
 An important contributor to the shift in perspective is the designer of the Detroit exhibit, Ralph Appelbaum, whose museum-design firm planned the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, the new Dinosaur Halls at the American Museum of Natural History in New York and the Newseum in Arlington, Va., a museum exploring the freedom of the press, which opened last week. New museums, he has argued, are less important for housing collections than for being "a trigger for moral discourse" and a "service to the community."
But who is to tell the story? There has been no hotter subject in museum design; a few years ago, the Smithsonian Institution even published an anthology of papers on the subject: "Exhibiting Cultures: the Poetics and Politics of Museum Display." The debates may now be arriving at a consensus: each culture should tell its own story, rather than submit to the judgment of outsiders.
 
A Question of Voice

The Detroit curators clearly adopted this notion.
"We were very concerned about getting the voice right," Mr. Appelbaum said in an interview. "Language became the biggest challenge." He and his colleagues were "constantly vetting" the "subjective voice" of the exhibition.
The museum's panel of consultants ranged from scholars like Dr. Molefi Kete Asante of Temple University, a prominent academic Afrocentrist, to cultural figures like the playwright Karen Jones Meadows. The result is a voice that not only tells the story, but determines to whom it is addressed. The explanatory labels typically refer to "our people," "our ancestors," and "our African past."
That first-person voice also has a particular political perspective. There is, for example, a large panel arguing that the Mercator map projection -- the most familiar rectangular display of the globe -- minimizes Africa's size and diversity while "the Northern continents and countries are disproportionately enlarged." Other displays use African objects as illustrations of qualities "relevant to our own lives": a mask illustrates Diversity; a knife, Resistance; a statue, Aspiration.
The exhibition says that the struggle for black civil rights was won in courtroom battles by "our lawyers" who "outdid the best minds that white America could offer." The Detroit riots of 1967 are called an "urban revolt" that led to "a new sense of community." There are some extraordinarily powerful and disturbing facts in this exhibition, but the main intention seems to be to create a mythology in which overall effect is more important than individual detail.
Advocates for the new museum ideology might argue that similarly tendentious ideas and inspirational motivations are present in all museum work: the Louvre and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, it is argued, speak to their own elite audiences, legitimizing modern society by showing its origins in classical civilizations. One scholar has suggested that the stuffed animals in the American Museum of Natural History have their origins in the Victorian ideology of eugenics. In the newer exhibits, the points of the narrative are deliberately more obvious. Sometimes they can be unremarkable: Mr. Appelbaum's new Dinosaur Halls, for example, is based on Darwinian evolution. But there have been so many museum controversies in recent years partly because no exhibition is seen as innocent; objectivity is derided as a goal and dismissed when claimed.
A planned 1995 Library of Congress exhibition about a Southern plantation was thwarted by black employees of the library simply because the photographs of slaves offended them. An exhibition on the history of the Irish in New York at the Museum of the City of New York last year prompted protests that the Irish did not have enough of a role in telling their own story. Just before that, war veterans and conservative politicians objected to the critical political perspective of a Smithsonian exhibition about the bombing of Hiroshima. In 1995 a Library of Congress exhibition about Freud was postponed because critics said it was too supportive of his theories. Once the exhibit is portrayed as an argument, arguments can be freely made about the exhibit.
 
Who Interprets?
 The Detroit exhibition may not raise any similar objections, partly because it is not in Washington or New York but in a city that is trying to climb out of a deep economic and social crevice. It also deals with scar tissue that is still raw, and for that reason is perhaps viewed as best left undisturbed by historical nitpicking.
The new approach to museum design, though, is likely to remain dominant. The question is what distinguishes a contentious exhibit from a stimulating one. For every museum really is, in part, an interpretation and a celebration; each museum selects from the past and creates a context in the present.
The crucial difference between the old and the new concepts of museums is how much leeway is left for the viewer, how much freedom is given to interpret what is presented, how flexible a narrative is being created.
In a traditional museum, a universe of messages can grow out of experiences of rich detail. The risk in a new museum, the Detroit example suggests, is that rich detail might be sacrificed for the sake of a single message.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leading witnesses to history: life-size slave replicas in Detroit. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN HISTORY (DETROIT)

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN HISTORY (DETROIT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; MUSEUMS; HISTORY HISTORY (94%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (92%); SLAVERY (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WITNESSES (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (50%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD; APPELBAUM, RALPH

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



429 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: New Dealers Reflect on Roosevelt, and Flesh-and-Blood Liberalism

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19

 BODY:
Mary A. Bain, the last of the original New Dealers still in Government, sparkled with amusement at the very idea of her President, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, ever resorting to the focus-group testing devices of modern politicians before approaching the nation with a fresh idea.
"No, heavens no," she gently laughed. "No: He led us. We didn't lead him." 
 With that, the 85-year-old chief of staff for Representative Sidney R. Yates, Democrat of Illinois, rested her case for why the Roosevelt Administration, so many decades faded into the past, might merit some of the attention it is about to get with the opening May 2 of the seven-acre, $52 million FDR Memorial here that will affix the 32d President in the rarefied company of Washington, Lincoln and Jefferson.
"I don't need the memorial because he'll always be with me," said Ms. Bain, who ran the United States Employment Service in Rooseveltian hard times. She can recount the freshest memories of that President's commanding glance and of his endless demands for excellence. "But," she said, "the country needs the memorial."
The splendid pastoral memorial bordering the Tidal Basin will invite visitors' ruminations as they wander four outdoor tableaux summoning the time of the four Roosevelt elections, from Depression breadline to wartime rubble.
Ms. Bain and the few other New Deal pioneers who will attend the dedication ceremony already are in that rumination mode, savoring their President and inevitably trying to imagine him in the present, in the current political wickets of Washington. For them, liberalism, good times and real Democrats are being memorialized as much as Roosevelt.
"Mr. Roosevelt would take no guff from these political people," Ms. Bain said in her Capitol office of a President considered a master politician and bold incumbent who did not shrink from controversy. "He would not have had a Dick Morris around him."
A memorial of sorts, as stunning to Ms. Bain and the other New Dealers as any of the new bas-reliefs and waterfall turnings on the Tidal Basin, was the dismantling by one of Roosevelt's Democratic successors, President Clinton, of one of President Roosevelt's pillars of liberalism, the welfare subsidy program for the nation's poorest children.
"I think he caved in on it," said Robert Hopkins, a retired movie executive who is the 75-year-old son of Harry Hopkins, the legendary Roosevelt factotum through the Depression and war. "If Roosevelt had a program that didn't work, he killed it and tried something new," he said, making a distinction between Mr. Clinton's careful centrist compromise on the welfare issue and Roosevelt's heady willingness to try something risky, time after time, in the search for solutions that worked.
"Not only to be daring," recalled David Ginsburg, an 85-year-old lawyer who was a Roosevelt speech writer. "But to accept the responsibility to dare." By Mr. Ginsburg's recollection, the Roosevelt powers of personal communication were harnessed not to cautious centrism but to determined pedagoguery as Roosevelt worked to shift people behind him on complex issues. "I see Clinton as possibly the most intelligent and sensitive President we've had since Roosevelt, but I don't think he has assumed the responsibilities that go with the Presidency," Mr. Ginsburg said with some regret.
As hard as they can be on Mr. Clinton for jettisoning liberalism and blurring party traditions, the surviving New Dealers are the best witnesses to an important piece of history: Roosevelt first campaigned as a conservative, plumping for a balanced budget, but once in office became a liberal by dint of trial-and-error exigencies and national crises.
"What seems to be happening now is the contrary," said Mr. Yates, 87, who was first elected in 1948 as a war veteran steeped in Roosevelt liberalism. "Bill Clinton started as a liberal and moved the other way. I don't know where he's really going."
But the need to adapt to changing conditions is precisely the point made by President Clinton in defending his acceptance of the Republican Congress's welfare bill and in his pursuit of uncontroversial bipartisan initiatives. In fairness, Mr. Hopkins notes Mr. Clinton does not have the grand, if harrowing, challenges of the Roosevelt era to dramatically rise to. "No war, the economy's fine, and so it's harder for him to define the issues," he said. "But the problem is he gets caught up in a lot of less important things."
The New Dealers feel the present political culture of scandal-hunting bears no comparison to the urgent years of "dollar-a-year men" who volunteered as executives in the recovery and war efforts. "Tremendous sense of integrity then," Mr. Hopkins said. "Public service was a public responsibility."
One implicit subtext of the New Dealer recollections is that it may take war, famine or some other crisis to bring forth a President on the scale of Roosevelt. To the contrary, they deny that the politician must be secondary to events.
"I came to Washington at the age of 25, two months after Roosevelt was inaugurated and my very first impression of him was how flexible he could be," said Robert Nathan, an economist plunged into the national bank crisis. He recalls Roosevelt risking innovations that violated conservative wisdom and left him wide open to Republican criticism. "He recognized very quickly this was a god-awful mess and quickly became liberal attempting to turn the economy. It took a lot of guts."
The Roosevelt veterans have survived into a political age that has exchanged the techniques of back-room arm-twisting for those of spin-control image-concocting. They celebrate that, except for the media's compliance in not showing him wheelchair-bound, the surviving images of their man are from uncontrived opportunities. "There was gaiety, laughter, fun, and it wasn't assumed," Mr. Ginsburg said. "Nowadays the White House would be debating whether to show the President with his cigarette holder," he said, referring to the jaunty photograph of Roosevelt that survives as definitively as any memorial.
Having come here from Illinois at the age of 25, Mary Bain is finally retiring from Government work next year with her own indelible images of Roosevelt, particularly of his art, so often deplored among modern politicians, of making people believe in Government. "With the way people feel about Government today, the memorial is a beacon, a challenge to be more responsive to the needs of poor people, of young people," she said, satisfied that it might present a challenge worthy of the man.
She admits to bittersweet anticipation of the memorial. "A mixture of sadness and glory," Ms. Bain said, "And joy making me nostalgic, but grateful that I had that experience," she said of the long-gone New Deal. "I'm a liberal," she added as a kind of epitaph. "Born one; die one."

GRAPHIC: Photo: For New Deal pioneers like Mary A. Bain, the opening of the FDR Memorial offers a chance to imagine their President in today's Washington. "Mr. Roosevelt would take no guff from these political people," she said. (Chuck Kennedy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES EMPLOYMENT SERVICE (56%); UNITED STATES EMPLOYMENT SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES EMPLOYMENT SERVICE (56%); UNITED STATES EMPLOYMENT SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (67%); 

PERSON: ROOSEVELT, FRANKLIN DELANO (1882-1945); CLINES, FRANCIS X; BAINS, MARY A BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



430 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is a Self-Effacing Figure At Meeting on His Leadership

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., April 18

 BODY:
His honorary doctorate from Hofstra University in hand, former President George Bush ticked off the monumental events that occurred during his single term with more jokes than commentary.
"Unlike Churchill, I have no plans to shape history," Mr. Bush said tonight at the convocation of a weekend conference analyzing his Presidency. Keeping to a blue-blood tone of modesty in a speech barely longer than his introductions, he added, "As the historians know, Socrates gave advice and they poisoned him." 
 The historians joined students and former members of the Bush Administration, a total of several hundred, in a standing ovation, but if Mr. Bush hoped that the conference would begin to put a bright historical glow on his four years in the White House he probably left disappointed.
Many of the historians who gathered here concurred with much of the conventional wisdom expressed by the pundits who watched Mr. Bush's popularity steadily plunge in the months after the Persian Gulf war as he appeared unable to lift the country out of the 1991-92 recession.
The general opinion of many of the historians was summed up by John W. Sloan, a University of Houston professor, who presented a paper that said, "Bush's skill and decisiveness in foreign policy, rather than compensating for his weakness in domestic policy, accentuated his inadequacy and waffling when handling domestic issues."
Several of the historians took Mr. Bush to task for running a negative campaign in 1988 that stressed racially charged comments over issues. "Bush's handlers virtually nominated Willie Horton as Michael Dukakis's running mate," said Jean-Philippe Faletta, a political scientist at Wayne State University in Detroit. "The method in which George Bush won the White House in 1988 negatively affected his ability to govern, and wage his bid for re-election in 1992."
Bush Administration officials like former Secretary of State James Baker and the former national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, in one session, painted a portrait of Mr. Bush as a decent, loyal man who had his hands firmly on the rudder at a time of revolutionary change.
But even as the aides praised his handling of the Panama invasion, the crumbling of the Soviet bloc, and the launching of the humanitarian mission in Somalia, they tended to agree with the historians that Mr. Bush had fallen short in communicating with the public, especially in contrast to his predecessor, Ronald Reagan.
"Was he a man of vision?" Mr. Scowcroft, who is writing a book with Mr. Bush, asked. "You bet he had vision, but he did not articulate it."
New facts came to light in the conference, among them that, on a tour of the White House, President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia tested the mattress in the Lincoln Bedroom, but he did not sleep there.
There were also more than a few touching moments.
People in wheelchairs gave Mr. Bush a stirring ovation during a discussion devoted to the Americans With Disabilities Act, legislation that Mr. Bush signed that was designed to end job discrimination for the disabled. Justin Dart Jr., chairman of the National Council on Disability, compared Mr. Bush to Abraham Lincoln and said he would be long remembered by the disabled.
For his part, Mr. Bush credited Republican and Democrats in Congress for enacting the legislation, one of several acts of bipartisanship that characterized his appearance.
Mr. Bush appeared relaxed, ebullient and tanned, and he was as self-mocking as he was self-effacing. At the convocation, he recalled that Barbara Bush told him after his recent parachute jump, "It's the first you've been in free-fall since 1992."
When Mrs. Bush received her own honorary doctorate tonight, she beamed, "I feel a little like the scarecrow in 'The Wizard of Oz' who discovered he had a brain all along."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOMALIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (91%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (91%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SOMALIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES HISTORY (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); DESERT STORM (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (63%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BUSH, GEORGE GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



431 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: With Jail Costs Rising, Arizona Wants to Build Private Prison in Mexico

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: PHOENIX

 BODY:
Arizona prison officials have watched the population of Mexican inmates skyrocket, from 58 in 1980 to 2,373 today.
At the same time, they have watched American factory owners move south of the border to take advantage of Mexico's low wages. 
So it seemed natural to Gov. Fife Symington, a Republican, to propose a twist to the North American Free Trade Agreement: a plan to build a private 1,600-inmate prison in Mexico to house the bulk of Arizona's Mexican prisoners.
"It would mean big dollars to the operator and to the Mexican economy," said Terry L. Stewart, State Corrections Director. On April 10, Mr. Stewart received two responses to a request for feasibility studies, one from a prison company based in Florida and the other from a group in Mexico.
The Governor's chief of staff, Jay Heiler, has joined the sales pitch. "We have a lot of rural communities around Arizona that compete for prison projects," Mr. Heiler said. "So it is not as if we are trying to send some kind of ugly industry south of the border."
This year, the cost of incarcerating the Mexicans is expected to hit $40 million, a bill that is largely paid by the three and a half million residents of the state.
A private prison in Mexico could halve that cost, estimated Michael Garretson, chief operating officer of the Correctional Services Corporation of Sarasota, Fla., the company that submitted a proposal. Labor accounts for 70 percent of the cost of running a prison in the United States, he said.
"It's a great idea, a great concept," said Mr. Garretson, whose company runs a 400-bed prison here and is building another, with 600 beds, in Florence.
To push the idea, Correctional Services, the Mexican group and Arizona officials have held talks with officials from the state of Sonora, which borders Arizona.
Although some state officials in Mexico are open to the idea, it faces a formidable obstacle: it would require a treaty between the United States and Mexico.
From Washington, a spokesman for the State Department cautioned that states could not conduct their own foreign policies.
"Any kind of international agreement of that kind would have to be between two national governments," the spokesman, a Latin America specialist, said on the condition of anonymity. "I don't know how two states could effect that legally."
The Mexican Consul General here, Luis Cabrera, said that without a treaty, there would be jurisdictional problems. "Prisons in Mexico cannot be managed by foreign authorities," Mr. Cabrera said.
A spokeswoman for the Foreign Ministry in Mexico City limited herself in a telephone interview to saying: "There have not been any serious discussions. Nothing has been decided."
Mr. Garretson said state officials were blunter when talking with him in Sonora. "We got a lot of discussion of sovereignty, local control, even the word imperialism," he said.
In contrast, Axel C. F. Holm, an American member of the Mexican group that is studying the proposal, said of his contacts with Sonoran officials: "They seem to be very open to the idea. We haven't met any real resistance."
"The Mexicans are interested in repatriation of their citizens," said Mr. Holm, whose group, based in Sonora, is called la Comision Para Estudio de Prision Particular, or the Committee for the Study of a Private Prison. "Our group formed in Mexico because the prison is going to be located in Mexico."
Although the idea might have sounded outlandish 15 years ago, its currency today stems from the growing population of foreigners in American jails. Foreigners account for 27 percent of the 109,000 prisoners in Federal prisons, according to the Bureau of Prisons. Of the total, Mexicans account for 10 percent, or 11,000.
On the state level, Mexicans account for 9.5 percent of the 145,000 inmates in California and 10.5 percent of the 22,697 inmates in Arizona. Over the last five years, the number of Mexicans jailed in Arizona has jumped 72 percent, double the 36 percent rate of increase for the state's prison population as a whole.
New York and Florida, two other states with large populations of foreign prisoners, have responded by speeding deportations. Early release is conditioned on a prisoner's promising never to return to the United States.
"Our interest is getting foreign nationals, especially nonviolent offenders, out of our system," said James B. Flateau, a spokesman for the New York State Department of Correctional Services. "We would not be interested in operating a state prison outside the borders of New York."
But California and Arizona, states that border Mexico, have been reluctant to deport prisoners before their sentences are up. Instead, prison authorities in both states have asked for Federal help.
"We have been hammering away at the Federal Government to give us the money to house them," a spokesman for the California Corrections Department, Tip Kindel, said of the 14,000 Mexicans in state prisons there. "Or better yet, take them off our hands and house them in Federal prisons."
For two decades, the United States and Mexico have had an agreement for the voluntary repatriation of prisoners.
"Unfortunately, the Mexicans haven't been raising their hands to go," said Mr. Heiler, the Governor's aide. With an Arizona prison in Mexico, he said, "it wouldn't be a matter of their desire anymore."
In trying to sell the idea to the Mexican authorities, Arizona officials paint the plan as a humanitarian gesture. There would be no international border to block family visits. The prison language would be Spanish. The food would be Mexican.
Arizona's "request for information," mailed in February to 100 companies, talks of providing a "more culturally compatible environment."
To skeptics, that conjures up images of Mexican prisons as places where extortion, bribery, drug dealing and prostitution are rampant. Amnesty International says guards in Mexico sometimes control prisoners with beatings and electric shocks.
"People immediately jump to that view," Mr. Stewart said. "What they forget is that it would operate according to American standards, just the way major American corporations operate in Mexico."
The Arizona Republic, the state's largest newspaper, has cautiously editorialized about the proposal, calling it "an interesting idea."
Many defense lawyers are hostile.
"It just smacks of opportunism," said Donna Leone Hamm, director of Middle Prison Reform, a group in Tempe. "It's pretty frightening to think of the United States Government wanting to send people to prison in another country just to save money. Where does that stop?"
Michael L. Piccarreta, a lawyer in Tucson and president of the State Bar of Arizona, dismissed the proposal as "a lousy idea."
"They should be revisiting the failed drug policies that end up incarcerating large numbers of Mexicans for drug violations because we are a border state," Mr. Piccarreta said from his office 40 miles north of the border. "There is a country full of people, who, for $100, are willing to take a backpack full of marijuana into our country."
Lawyers questioned how Mexicans transferred to an Arizona jail in Mexico would have access to American lawyers, American law books and American courts for appeals or lawsuits.
"What if inmates want to challenge conditions?" asked Andy Silverman, a professor at the University of Arizona College of Law who specializes in immigration law. "What if an inmate falls and breaks a leg? How does he sue?"
To handle this problem, Mr. Holm proposes that Mexico agree to transfer back to Arizona Mexican prisoners who wish to pursue appeals or suits through the American legal system.
State officials are optimistic that legal hurdles can be surmounted.
"We would still be liable for the lawsuits," said Mr. Stewart, who is preparing to start a formal request for proposals from contractors. "It's so simple and common-sensical that I don't know why anyone hasn't thought of this before."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Questions of jurisdiction surround a proposal in Arizona to house Mexican inmates at a private prison in Mexico, but Terry L. Stewart, State Corrections Director, argues that it would help the Mexican economy. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GEO (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561210 FACILITIES SUPPORT SERVICES (82%); SIC8744 FACILITIES SUPPORT MANAGEMENT SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORRECTIONAL SERVICES CORP GEO GROUP INC (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORRECTIONAL SERVICES CORP NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; TREATIES PRISONS (94%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (90%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (53%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; SYMINGTON, FIFE (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



432 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: Criticized Over Iran, U.S. Struggles to Alter Gulf Policy

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19

 BODY:
At a time when Iran is building up its military presence in the Persian Gulf and again stands accused of sponsoring terrorism, the United States is struggling to develop a strategy for the region.
Such a strategy is particularly crucial after a ruling last week in a German court that implicated Iran's leadership in the assassination of opponents. There has also been fragmentary evidence linking Iran to a major suspect in the bombing in Saudi Arabia last June that killed 19 Americans. 
 Some military planners, American diplomats in the region and experts outside of government are increasingly concerned that as Saudi Arabia and Turkey, the United States' closest friends in the region, have become more politically vulnerable and potentially less reliable, the Clinton Administration has not come up with a long-term Persian Gulf policy.
Just this week, in a sign of the Administration's uncertainty, the State Department decided not to issue an unclassified "white paper" on Iran's use of terrorism because it might unnecessarily antagonize European allies who have tried to change Iran's behavior through engagement rather than isolation, senior Administration officials said.
In recent days, Washington caused confusion among the allies about its Iran policy and felt obliged to send a clarification to European embassies in Washington.
In a blunt critique of the Clinton Administration in the new issue of Foreign Affairs, Zbigniew Brzezinski and Brent Scowcroft, two former national security advisers, write, "U.S. Persian Gulf policy is at an impasse."
Iran has not developed into the expansionist regional threat that successive administrations predicted it would become. Since the end of the Iran-Iraq war nine years ago, Iran's effort to rebuild its military and develop a nuclear weapon has been uneven. According to American intelligence estimates, Iran probably spends less than $1 billion a year on its military -- less than half of what it announced in 1992 that it would spend.
But according to American intelligence officials, Iran's most visible and worrisome conventional military buildup has been the expansion of its navy, which has greatly expanded its ability in the last decade.
"The navy has received priority across the board," said one senior Pentagon official. "The build-up has been deliberate, not haphazard. Someone's figured out how to fill the gaps."
That build-up has coincided with the deployment of an extraordinary American military presence, including a carrier task force and a total of about three dozen vessels in and around the gulf. Their mission: to enforce economic sanctions against Iraq, to protect the dozens of American and European planes patrolling a no-flight zone over southern Iraq every day and to keep open the sea lanes that allow much of the world's oil to be shipped.
Iran makes no secret of the fact that it considers itself the predominant force in the Persian Gulf and the United States an unwelcome invader. Its navy has the ability to threaten or even briefly stop shipping of oil out of the gulf. Its Scud missiles are capable of hitting the administrative headquarters of the Fifth Fleet in Bahrain, which has tightened security in light of recent intelligence reports of a terrorist plan to attack American forces there.
In October, the cruiser Gettysburg was supporting a routine exercise in the Persian Gulf when suddenly the Byandor, an Iranian patrol boat, made an unexpected turn and hit it. No Americans were injured; the damage to the American cruiser was minor, and the Iranian crew quickly pulled away.
But the incident was only one of several close encounters in the last few months. It gave a reminder of the potential for conflict when two rival navies with vastly different military missions and governments that do not talk to each other are crowded into such a small, highly strategic body of water.
"So far the confrontations have stayed small and contained," one senior military planner said. "But as Iran's Navy builds up, as their exercises get bigger, as we enforce things like sanctions, there's more potential for collisions and we're bound to find the spaces are too small."
During 10 days of land, sea and air war games in the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman in November, Iran for the first time successfully test-fired a Chinese-made antiship missile with a range of 60 miles from one of its Chinese patrol boats.
The missiles, C-802's, give Iran a "360-degree threat which can come at you from basically anywhere at sea in the gulf or out in the Gulf of Oman," Adm. Scott Redd, the former commander of the United States Fifth Fleet, said last year.
Iran has also begun to acquire the land-based version of C-802 missiles and is believed to be developing two sites between Bushehr and Bandar Abbas to store these and other missiles, Pentagon officials said.
In addition, American intelligence officials say, they believe that Iran has acquired a small number of rocket-propelled deep-water mines that can surface quickly. This development is worrisome, as the mines make any area in the Persian Gulf a potential Iranian target.
Iran also has three Russian nuclear-powered submarines. They have suffered from a series of maintenance difficulties, particularly problems with the batteries, which were designed for Arctic waters. But they give Iran a psychological edge, as the combined navies of the other Persian Gulf countries are not as large as its own.
As the Administration struggles with its policy, it has yet to decide whether to try a new initiative with its allies after the ruling against Iran in Germany, senior Administration officials said this week.
"We are obviously looking at the Mykonos verdict and what we want to do with the Europeans," a senior White House official said, referring to the restaurant in Berlin where the assassination of the Iranian opposition figures took place. "We are in the midst of formulating what we want to do. What we need to see from the Europeans is some tangible actions and not just diplomatic folderol."
On April 11, as part of a compromise with the European allies over a trade dispute with Cuba, the Administration agreed to seek to shelter European companies on a case-by-case basis from the provisions of a law that penalizes foreign investors in the oil industries of Iran and Libya. The United States said it was "taking into account" recent measures against Iran by the Europeans, including the European Union's ending of "critical dialogue" with Teheran.
But after a number of European governments and key American lawmakers interpreted the American statement as a softening of policy toward Iran, the Administration sent a clarification to European embassies in Washington, stating that Europe's antiterrorism measures to date were "not currently sufficient" to warrant exemption from the penalties.
As for possible Iranian involvement in the Saudi Arabia bombing, some American intelligence officials and military planners express doubt that there will ever be clear-cut proof. But if such proof was found, there would be extraordinary pressure on President Clinton to retaliate militarily, a senior White House official said.
There is little appetite among military commanders for a symbolic strike that would have little real military impact on Iran. Such a strike occurred in 1987 when the United States destroyed an oil platform in the Persian Gulf and sank an Iranian frigate after Iran was discovered laying mines to block shipping during the war with Iraq.
 "We certainly could do something like that militarily," one senior Pentagon official said. "I'm not sure what it would accomplish. Iran would almost certainly respond and it could start a cycle of violence."
In their Foreign Affairs article, Mr. Scowcroft and Mr. Brzezinski charge that the Administration's "strident" campaign to isolate Iran is driving it and Russia together and the United States and its allies apart. Iran's dominant role in the region and its determination to build a nuclear weapon mean that it must be dealt with, not isolated, they said.
Their advice was a more flexible approach: establish commercial dealings with Iran on a case-by-case basis; explore incentives as well as penalties to discourage Iran from seeking nuclear weapons, and work with Europe, Japan and allies on a joint gulf strategy.
"The policy of unilateral U.S. sanctions against Iran has been ineffectual," they said, "and the attempt to coerce others into following America's lead has been a mistake."
American military commanders and Administration officials who deal with the region are not so openly critical as either Mr. Scowcroft or Mr. Brzezinski. But they say several factors have resulted in the absence of a regional strategy: the Administration's preoccupation with the Arab-Israeli peace process; the sluggish Senate confirmation process of Thomas R. Pickering, the nominee for Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, a man known for diplomatic creativity, and Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright's unfamiliarity with the region except for Iraq.
Ms. Albright's only substantive speech on the region dealt with what one senior military commander called "the easy case where no new hard decisions have to be made" -- Iraq under President Saddam Hussein. Iran was mentioned only once.

GRAPHIC: Map of the Persian Gulf: The potential for conflict is worrisome in the Persian Gulf, a highly strategic waterway where rival navies frequently come face to face.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); GULF STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; IRAN; PERSIAN GULF; SAUDI ARABIA; TURKEY; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); GULF STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); GERMANY (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NAVIES TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); NAVIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



433 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns;
A Standoff In a City Often in Crisis

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES 

DATELINE: SALAMANCA, N.Y.

 BODY:
THERE are times Rosalyn Hoag wants to throw up her hands. Here she is, mayor of a town small enough to run itself, and yet it is one splitting headache after another.
"Salamanca," she said, the morning after a particularly hairy 13-hour day, "never should have happened -- why the Federal Government let it happen, I don't know." 
 At first, Salamanca (population 6,500) doesn't seem much different from other upstate towns left to fend for themselves after the railroads died. Beyond the Dudley Hotel, downtown is three bleak blocks with a few bright spots: a rug store, a jeweler, a cafe-newsstand-grocery, a theater for the performing arts.
But Salamanca, built almost entirely on the Seneca Nation Allegany Reservation, is unique. How does one run a city within a sovereign nation that has a long, justified mistrust of the United States? To say it's not easy is an understatement.
These days, the city is out of gas. The Senecas, like the Mohawks, are at an impasse with New York over the state's insistence that American Indian nations collect sales tax on cigarettes and gasoline sold to non-Indians. For more than two weeks, the state has blocked gas wholesalers from making deliveries, closing gas stations and putting people out of work.
 WHAT few businesses we have tell me they're down 30 to 50 percent," Ms. Hoag said. "We're already an economic disaster! I had a couple of merchants last night tell me they don't think they're going to make it."
But the city's problems go far beyond the latest crisis. "We are always in a mess and we are always in turmoil and we have no control over it," Ms. Hoag said. "The fight is always between the Seneca Nation and the Federal Government, or the Seneca Nation and the state government, or the Seneca Nation and the Seneca Nation, or people fighting the nation."
In a lot of ways, Salamanca is a textbook example of the messy relationship between the United States and its indigenous nations. In the mid-1800's, the Government began leasing land from the Indians in Salamanca. In 1991, a 99-year lease that parceled land to non-Indians for as little as $1 a year expired, and a new lease was legislated by Congress. The lease increased the rents by a few hundred dollars, as expected, but it also gave the Indians the right to claim not only ownership of the land but the improvements -- or houses -- on it.
Of the approximately 2,700 lessees, 16 refuse to sign the new lease. They are now in eviction negotiations with Federal officials.
The lease situation has made Salamanca the biggest bargain in Cattaraugus County. Leaseholders who want to transfer their leases -- meaning sell their houses -- expect to get about $35,000, when a similar house in a neighboring town would fetch $75,000. From the staggering number of "for sale" signs in the city, it appears many are willing to make the sacrifice.
Ms. Hoag, a non-Indian whose husband, Robert, was president of the Seneca Nation until his death in 1989, said that both Senecas and non-Senecas had seen problems coming long ago. "For 20 years, every politician that ran for office was going to solve this lease problem," she said. Yet "many, many people in Salamanca feel that they had no input in it, that it was unfair."
 BECAUSE members of the Seneca Nation are immune from property taxes, each time a member buys a house or business it comes off the tax rolls. Even with taxes for non-Indians going up, Ms. Hoag said, the city's tax base has eroded to the point at which the city may not be able to pay its bills.
Meanwhile, the city has stopped paying county taxes. Last year, the State Supreme Court ruled that under the new lease agreement, the county does not have the authority to tax residents of Salamanca. The city has since filed a class action suit for $5 million in back county taxes dating to 1991.
Ms. Hoag said the suit was a cry for help. "No one loves Salamanca more than I do. I was born here. I live here. But from where I sit right now, I see no future for Salamanca."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALAMANCA (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; SENECA NATION OF INDIANS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (84%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (84%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); GASOLINE (72%); GAS STATIONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (69%); SALES TAX (66%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (65%); 

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



434 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1754 words

HEADLINE: Surge in Teen-Age Smoking Left an Industry Vulnerable

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
David Bernt, a 17-year-old high school junior in the affluent Chicago suburb of Oak Park, remembers being one of the few who smoked in junior high school. "But now if you go by there it seems to be everywhere," he said.
Not everywhere, perhaps, but researchers calculate that teen-age smoking rates, after declining in the 1970's and leveling off in the 1980's, have climbed sharply over the last five years. Although everything from why the trend began to what might stop it is disputed, it adds up to a huge health problem for the country and a public relations disaster for the tobacco industry. Indeed, the trend has played a crucial role in driving the once intractable industry into negotiations for a global settlement with regulators and its legal adversaries. The negotiations are expected to resume today. 
 Teen-age smoking rates are still lower than in the 1970's. But last year, the percentage of 12th graders who smoked daily was up 20 percent from 1991, to 22 percent, according to the most recent edition of the University of Michigan's Monitoring the Future Survey, an annual study widely followed by tobacco researchers. The rate among 10th graders jumped 45 percent, to 18.3 percent, and the rate for 8th graders was up 44 percent, to 10.4 percent.
Five million people now younger than 18 will eventually die of tobacco-related illnesses, at current smoking rates, according to the most recent projections from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. If youth smoking rates had not climbed but instead continued downward to the lowest levels achieved by any segment of the teen-age population in recent years -- those for black teen-agers in the early 1990's -- fewer than one million of today's youth would be likely to die prematurely of tobacco-related illness, said Terry Pechacek, an epidemiologist in the Office on Smoking and Health at the disease-control agency.
Rising youth smoking rates have been cited by the Food and Drug Administration and President Clinton as evidence that the industry is marketing its products to youths and should be restricted by the F.D.A. The rates are also fueling demands in many states and nationally for higher taxes on tobacco, based on research showing that price increases typically discourage teen-age smokers more than adults. And lawyers in private class actions on behalf of adult smokers and in many of the 23 state lawsuits seeking compensation for Medicaid spending on tobacco-related illnesses have demanded restrictions aimed at reducing youth smoking as well as money.
"A lot of this wouldn't be happening if youth smoking rates had been declining," said William Novelli, director of the National Center for Tobacco-Free Kids in Washington.
The National Center itself is a sign of the times, having emerged in the last year as the command station in Washington for much of the activity in the anti-tobacco movement, even though some tobacco critics say there is a danger in concentrating so much on children. Matthew Myers, the center's general counsel, has been the one representative of health groups involved in the settlement talks, which began early this month. In the talks, the nation's two largest tobacco companies, RJR Nabisco and Philip Morris, have demanded near-total immunity from lawsuits in return for concessions including new advertising curbs, more government regulation and payments to compensate states and individuals for tobacco's health costs.
Steve Berman, a plaintiffs' lawyer from Seattle who represents attorneys general from four states involved in the talks, said one proposal was to make the size of the cigarette producers' financial liabilities dependent on their contributions to lowering youth smoking rates through reducing advertising and marketing efforts and through other means.
Richard Blumenthal, the Connecticut Attorney General, said that the talks had involved what is being referred to as a "look back" provision that would kick in five to seven years after any settlement was approved, depending on smoking rates. Such a look-back might call for expanded Federal regulation of the industry if youth smoking rates were not cut. And states that failed to enforce Federal regulations governing marketing and advertising of cigarettes to young smokers might be denied some payments from the compensation fund. "We are looking at reducing the numbers of all smokers but particularly teen-age smokers," Mr. Blumenthal said.
Just what has caused the teen-age smoking rate to rise so sharply is hotly debated. The tobacco industry says the increase is due to a broad range of social forces. Industry officials note that other kinds of risk-taking among teen-agers, especially the use of marijuana and other drugs, have risen more sharply than tobacco use. The industry also cites teen-agers' naturally rebellious reaction to the increasing efforts to stop them from smoking.
Critics of the tobacco industry agree that rebelliousness and other forces are at work. But they say the industry itself is the most important factor. The industry's spending on domestic advertising and promotions soared to $4.83 billion in 1994, or 250 percent after adjusting for inflation, from $361 million in 1970, according to the latest data published by the Federal Trade Commission.
Just how that huge pie has been divided is a secret closely guarded not only from critics but even among companies in the industry. Much of the money goes into promotions to encourage retailers to run sales or to display particular brands and signs more prominently. Tobacco companies say they have adopted practices to focus their messages on adults, like requiring that all models be -- and look -- older than 25.
But critics like John Pierce, head of the Cancer Prevention Center at the University of California at San Diego, say it is most telling that spending rose most rapidly in the 1980's, when the decline in youth smoking was halted. They also point to research showing that children have been strongly attracted to some of the biggest marketing campaigns, notably R. J. Reynolds Tobacco's use of the ever-hip Joe Camel and Philip Morris's use of the rugged Marlboro man and the Marlboro Adventure Team, a merchandise promotion.
The surge in teen-age smoking in the 1990's coincided with a sharp expansion by both Reynolds and Philip Morris in giveaways of items like T-shirts in return for coupons accumulated by buying their cigarettes. Research showed that the companies had limited success in preventing distribution of the merchandise to children -- 30 percent of teen-age smokers have it -- and that the items are just as appealing to teen-agers as to adults.
Tobacco companies say critics grossly exaggerate the effects of their marketing. They point out that teen-age smoking is also rising in countries where most forms of advertising have been banned.
The latest indicator of the distance between the two sides is Philip Morris's creation of a record company -- Woman Thing Music -- to promote its Virginia Slims brand. The company will be selling bargain-priced compact disks by its female artists along with its cigarettes. Its first artist, Martha Byrne, a nonsmoking actress from the soap opera "As the World Turns," is on a concert tour, appearing, the tobacco company said, in venues where only those older than 21 are allowed.
Nevertheless, anti-tobacco groups have been organizing demonstrations, saying in part that the music promotion is directed at making the Virginia Slims brand more popular with female teen-agers.
Making matters worse, some critics say, is that Hollywood's long love affair with smoking seems to be heating up. Cigars are being widely used to symbolize success in movies like "The Associate," with Whoopi Goldberg. And even though today's stars are not inseparable from their cigarettes the way Humphrey Bogart, Bette Davis and James Dean were, actors who show up puffing on cigarettes include John Travolta and Uma Thurman, as anti-heroes in "Pulp Fiction," and Winona Ryder, as a Generation X drifter in "Reality Bites." Leonardo DiCaprio went so far as to light up as Romeo in last year's updated "Romeo and Juliet."
Whether smoking in films contributes to the teen-age trend or simply picks up on it is one of many questions. Teen-agers say that movie and music stars do shape their sense of what is "cool" and that a desire to be cool is often a reason the youngest smokers first try cigarettes. But many researchers doubt that an effect can be reliably measured.
Moreover, high school students who smoke regularly say it is so common that no one thinks of it as cool. Some concede that they enjoy doing something forbidden, but more often they cite a desire to relieve stress or to stay thin, the taste, or simply the need to fill time as reasons they kept smoking to the point of becoming addicted. Many, like David Bernt of Oak Park, agree with the industry's contention that its marketing had nothing to do with the decision to smoke but influences brand choice.
"If I buy anything but Camel, it feels like I wasted money because I collect Camel cash," he said, referring to the coupons that can be redeemed for Camel merchandise.
Ultimately, the debate about what is driving up teen-age smoking rates is also a debate about what should be done to try to halt it. Mr. Novelli has in mind higher taxes on tobacco products, strict enforcement of laws against selling tobacco to minors, more public education about the risks of tobacco, more anti-tobacco advertising and broader restrictions on where smokers can light up to reduce nonsmokers' exposure to secondhand smoke. He also wants full enforcement of the F.D.A.'s new marketing curbs, which the industry is challenging in a Federal court in North Carolina.
The increased smoking rates since 1991 are expected to translate into tens of thousands of additional early deaths because one out of threeteen-age smokers is expected to develop fatal tobacco-related illnesses. About 46,000 more eighth graders are smoking at least half a pack a day than would have been smoking had the rate remained at its 1991 level, and 250,000 more have smoked within the last 30 days than would have at the 1991 rate, judging from the application of census data to results from the Monitoring the Future surveys. And because of the rising smoking rate since 1991, an extra 110,000 10th graders are half-a-pack-a-day smokers, and nearly 366,000 more of them have smoked in the last 30 days.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Teen-Age Smoking Makes a Comeback" tracks the number of 12th graders who have ever smoked a cigarette, who have smoked a cigarette in the last 30 days, and who smoke half a pack or more a day, 1975-95; "Half a Pack At an Early Age" tracks the percentages of 12th, 10th, and 8th graders who smoke half a pack of cigarettes a day, 1991-96. (Source: University of Michigan)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION NATIONAL CENTER GROUP DIV (62%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; CHILDREN AND YOUTH SMOKING (91%); ADOLESCENTS (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); TRENDS (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (87%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (85%); SMOKING BANS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (76%); MEDICAID (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); LITIGATION (73%); CLASS ACTIONS (73%); LAWYERS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J BILL CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



435 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
After Spending His Life Inside the Game, Robinson Finds Himself Out of It

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Wanted: Job in Major League Baseball, front office (in area of responsibility, title unimportant) or field (manager, bench coach, hitting coach, third base coach).
Experience: 21 years as player, 9 1/2 as manager, 6 as coach, 5 as assistant general manager. 
 "No," Frank Robinson said. "I'm not doing anything in baseball. Nothing."
Why not, his caller asked.
"You have to ask other people that," he replied. "I can't say why. I'm not the one who makes the decisions."
So while one Robinson is honored, another Robinson can't even get a job. At the time baseball celebrates the 50th anniversary of its integration by Jackie Robinson, Frank Robinson sits at home in Bel Air, Calif., unable to find employment in the game that has been his life.
He has not worked in baseball since he was jettisoned by the Baltimore Orioles as assistant general manager at the end of 1995. The last 16 months have been the only time he has not worked in baseball since he began playing in 1953. At 61, he remains robust and eager to help some organization with his knowledge and experience.
"I have something to offer baseball," Robinson said. "It's not like I'm looking to be given anything. I have something to offer. That's the tough part. People are told: 'You don't have experience. You haven't put in time.' They can't say that about me."
Several years ago, Robinson and Doug Melvin, also an assistant general manager, were in line to succeed Roland Hemond as the Orioles' general manager. But the sale of the club ended that possibility. Melvin became the Texas Rangers' general manager after the 1994 season, and Robinson remained another year before Peter Angelos, the new owner, brought in Pat Gillick as general manager.
Since then, Robinson said, he has pursued positions with the Angels, the Padres, the Mets, the Red Sox and the two expansion teams, Arizona and Tampa Bay.
"I've talked to clubs where I thought there might be a fit," he said. "There's no sense for me to call every club. There wouldn't be a fit with some."
Some clubs told Robinson they had nothing for someone of his stature. "That's their opinion," he said. "I've never told them that." In other words, he has not rejected a position because he feels it would be beneath him.
"What I'd like," he said, "is something where I'd be involved in the day-to-day operation of a ball club, in an area of responsibility. A title is not important to me. I've told them that."
Some clubs have had such positions, Robinson added, but they have gone to others.
"I would consider managing again," said the former manager of the Cleveland Indians, the San Francisco Giants and the Orioles. "I would consider bench coach, hitting coach, maybe even third-base coach under the right circumstances. I'd want it to be under someone I thought was secure in his job and would not be intimidated by me being on his staff, someone who wouldn't think I was stepping on his toes."
No box number is needed. Prospective employers know how to contact him.
 
 
Cubs Need Some Optimism
 The Chicago Cubs' new experience -- losing their first 13 games -- is an old one for Frank Robinson.
"I know what they're going through," said Robinson, who managed the last 15 losses of the Orioles' major league-record 21-game losing streak at the start of the 1988 season. "But they don't seem to be having fun.
"People say, 'How can they have fun?' I don't mean to go out and have fun. You have to approach each game with an upbeat attitude."
That, he said, is how the Orioles handled their streak. "Each game I felt we were going to win that game," Robinson said. "We were in most of the games. We could've broken it any day. That's how we approached it. It's tough, but if you take that approach, it makes it easier."
 
 
Sierra's Struggles
 Ruben Sierra, at 31, should be in the prime of his career. Given the production of his earlier years and the offensive inflation in baseball since then, Sierra should be hitting 35 home runs and driving in 130 runs a season. But in the last two seasons Sierra totaled 31 home runs and 158 runs batted in. This season, his first with Cincinnati, he has no home runs and two r.b.i.
Asked if he had an explanation for Sierra's stunning decline, Ray Knight, his manager with the Reds, said: "From what I've gathered from people who know him and like him, he was hurt, not physically but mentally. He was really troubled by d.h.-ing and his role changing. He took it personally. He's a very sensitive man."
Sierra's ties to his native Puerto Rico and the No. 21 that his hero, Roberto Clemente, wore have also played a part, Knight suggested. Deion Sanders wears No. 21 for the Reds. "It's really important for him to recognize Puerto Rico," Knight said. "When Deion had 21, Ruben wanted that number badly because he always had worn it. I could tell in his eyes when I spoke to him one day about it, after he was told that Deion already had the number, that it hurt him. He's one of these guys where little things bother him."
Little things mean a lot. In Sierra's case, they have apparently meant an irreversible downward spiral in his career.
 
 
Yanks Threw Away Their Edge
 The Yankees have plenty of time to begin imitating the World Series champions they are, but initial indications are that they have made the biggest blunder of George Steinbrenner's 25-year ownership.
The Yankees, in the words of one general manager, "basically broke up their strength" when they let John Wetteland leave as a free agent and anointed Mariano Rivera as their closer.
When the season was only 16 days old, Wetteland had four saves for his new team, the Texas Rangers, and Rivera had squandered three save situations for the Yankees, one fewer than Wetteland did all of last season in 47 chances.
Rivera's failure to become a suitable successor to Wetteland and the inability of other relievers to replace Rivera as the setup man have largely been behind the poor start. Wetteland, on the other hand, has helped the Rangers overcome a low-scoring lineup that has been riddled by injuries.
"I never thought a closer was worth more than $3 million and I had to eat my words," said Doug Melvin, the now appreciative Rangers' general manager, who signed Wetteland for $5.75 million a year.
Wetteland was available as a free agent because the Yankees opted not to retain him. They said they preferred spending their money on a starting pitcher because they were not re-signing Jimmy Key, another questionable decision.
Melvin said he had made offers to Mike Stanton, Mike Jackson and Eric Plunk, thinking he would use one of them as the closer. But Plunk re-signed with Cleveland, the Yankees gave Stanton the third year the Rangers wouldn't and Jackson signed with the Indians. Then Melvin swallowed hard and spoke with Wetteland.
"In analyzing the situation," he said, "we had a lot of starting pitchers who could be free agents next year. When you recruit starting pitchers, they ask who's the closer on your club. That was one question Roger Clemens had about our ball club. Who was our closer at the time?
"If I have to go out in the next four years and sign a starting pitcher, it might help to have a closer like John Wetteland. For a pitcher, it's got to mean a few extra wins a year."
Melvin also knew that legitimate closers were not readily available.
"It takes a different personality to be a closer," he said. "You have to be tough inside. If you get hit, you have to get mad and say I'll get him the next time. You have to have a certain arrogance. Some guys can't handle it."
The first time Wetteland pitched in a Texas uniform, he loaded the bases in the ninth inning, and faced the batter who represented the tying run, before ending the game with a 30-pitch inning. But in his four saves, earned in his four most recent appeances, Wetteland allowed a total of two base runners and averaged 12 pitches an inning.
Rivera, meanwhile, gave up the game-tying run in the ninth inning twice against Anaheim and, three days later, against Oakland. Both games became losses for the Yankees. The Angels won another game by scoring two runs against Rivera in the ninth.
A year ago, Wetteland's first 6 appearances in save situations were spread out over the Yankees' first 24 games. Rivera was summoned in save situations 6 times in the team's first 13 games.
Obviously, Rivera was not ready for such intense pressure in his first weeks as the closer. The Yankees asked too much of him after expecting too much of him by letting Wetteland go and making him the closer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Robinson, Baltimore's manager in 1989, has looked for a job for 16 months. (Allsport)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (71%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE ORIOLES BEL AIR MARKETS (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (83%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (83%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (71%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BASEBALL (94%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; ROBINSON, FRANK FRANK ROBINSON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



436 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Digging as Deep As It Gets In Manhattan;
New Building Will Use A Geothermal Energy System

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
On 64th Street just east of Central Park, limestone and marble mansions owned by Edgar Bronfman Jr., Ivana Trump, Gianni Versace and other notables line a block busy with black Rolls-Royces and stretch limousines.
Now the block is also home to the two deepest holes in the city, each deeper than the World Trade Center is tall. 
 The holes were drilled 1,500 feet into bedrock this month to tap the stored energy in the rock for an $8 million building being constructed by Theodore W. Kheel, the labor lawyer, philanthropist and now environmental showman. Until now, the deepest holes in the city's bedrock were water tunnels, some of which pierce the earth 900 feet under the surface.
The building will rise this year on a 3,500-square-foot lot sold to Mr. Kheel by David Geffen, the record and movie producer.
It will house half a dozen nonprofit foundations but is also meant to illustrate how energy-saving technology and environmentally sensitive construction methods can pay for themselves, Mr. Kheel said.
Water pumped into and out of the holes beneath 9 East 64th Street will flow through pipes in the building, Mr. Kheel said, cooling or heating each room to its ideal temperature year-round. This geothermal heat pump will also generate hot water for bathrooms, all with no boiler, no rooftop clutter of fans and cooling towers, almost no air pollution and only a small monthly electric bill.
Installing the geothermal energy system will cost slightly more than a conventional heating and air-conditioning system, but reduced fuel, electricity and maintenance costs should make up the difference in a few years, Mr. Kheel said.
"We're not going to change the world with one little building," he said. "But we can set an example. Geothermal will be our best expression of what can be accomplished. It's beneficial for the environment and will save tremendously on electricity."
Although this is the first geothermal heat pump in Manhattan, the technology has already been used by businesses and homeowners in other parts of the city and around the country.
The holes on 64th Street were drilled, at a cost of about $100,000, by a well digger from Bayside, Queens, John Barnes, who made his first geothermal system at his office four years ago after reading about the technology in a magazine.
"Everyone thought I was nuts," Mr. Barnes said. But the energy savings were enormous. Last year, he installed more than a dozen smaller systems at homes and businesses in Queens and on Long Island, and geothermal plants have now supplanted well drilling as his main line of work.
Even the company selling electricity in the city, Consolidated Edison, is happy with Mr. Kheel's project, mainly because the geothermal system will allow the building to be cooled on the hottest days without adding to the demand for power from conventional air-conditioners.
Con Ed paid the fees of several energy consultants who helped design the system, said Frank Napoli, an engineer and efficiency expert for the utility. "Their analysis showed this is the best possible solution for the building," he said. "The ground has a stable temperature throughout the year, so you can pick up heat during winter and dump it back into the ground during the summer. What could be better than that?"
The project has also made geologists happy. After scientists from the United States Geological Survey heard about the drilling, they were invited to spend two days probing Manhattan's underpinnings. Video cameras and gamma-ray sensors were sent most of the way down the six-inch-diameter holes one week ago, providing the team with the deepest view yet of the 400-million-year-old mica schist foundation of Manhattan Island.
"We've never really had a picture of this before," said Frederick Stumm, a hydrogeologist for the survey. "It's not economically feasible to drill a hole that deep just for science's sake." He said he was just beginning to sift through the gathered data, which can help show where cracks allow water to percolate through the otherwise solid rock and where faults lie that might interfere with future drilling projects for water tunnels.
But the main goal is not so much science as exploiting a cheap, nonpolluting source of energy, said Leslie Hoffman, the executive coordinator for Foundation House, as Mr. Kheel's building will be called.
The system employed at Foundation House -- like more than a hundred thousand similar designs around North America -- draws its energy from warmth accumulated from the sun. From about 6 feet down to 1,000 feet or more, rock acts like a long-term storage battery for solar energy, remaining at a temperature about 56 degrees -- roughly halfway between the hottest and coldest temperatures experienced on the surface, said Carl Orio, the president of Water and Energy Systems Corporation, in Atkinson, N.H., and the designer of the unit.
A geothermal heat pump can heat a room or water to more than 56 degrees or cool a room using the same heat-exchanging process that chills a refrigerator, Mr. Orio said. Inside the coils of a heat exchanger in each room, the water from the well holes gives its heat to a compressed gas, which grows progressively hotter. Fans blow room air over coils containing the heated gas, warming the room.
For cooling, the hot air in a room is blown through a similar heat exchanger, lowering the temperature of the room. The unwanted heat is then carried back into the earth.
The systems vary depending on local conditions, with some consisting of a shallow subterranean loop of piping in which fluid circulates to collect or dump heat. For businesses or homes with plenty of land, one option is to dig many relatively shallow wells. For example, Stockton State College, near Atlantic City, installed a $5-million geothermal heating and cooling system in 1993 using 400 425-foot-deep wells.
But in places where square footage is at a premium, like Manhattan, the only option is to go straight down. The depth of the wells was determined by the amount of heating and cooling that the heat pumps must provide, Mr. Orio said.
For the first 50 feet, the holes are lined with steel pipe, but below that, the walls are the bedrock itself.
The plan calls for workers to insert section after section of four-inch plastic pipe into each hole tomorrow until they reach bottom, Mr. Barnes said. The pipes will act like quarter-mile-long straws, he said, allowing pumps in the building to draw water warmed by the surrounding rock. Water returning from the building flows down the outside of each hole, recycling heat back into the rock.
The building is scheduled to be finished in the summer of 1998.
Adrian Tuluca, an architect and energy specialist in Norwalk, Conn., who is running computer models of the project's costs and benefits, said some advantages are particularly suited to the neighborhood.
Because the block lies in a historic district, no rooftop equipment -- like conventional air-conditioning towers and fans -- can be visible. But there is none of that with geothermal systems. "It preserves the visual environment just as much as the ecological environment," Mr. Tuluca said.
And unlike any other system, the heat pumps throughout the building can adjust each room to the best setting, he said. "You can have cooling on the south side while you have heating on the north. One pump gets heat from the loop while another dumps it into the loop."
There are limits to the technology. Skyscrapers are simply too large for any reasonable number of wells to provide adequate heating and cooling, Mr. Orio said. And it would be very difficult to install a well beneath an existing structure.
But the untapped potential of underground heat -- both around New York City and the country -- is enormous, according to the Federal Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency.
From a Holiday Inn in Albany to the Galt House hotel complex in Louisville, Ky., geothermal heat pumps are proliferating. The eastern wing of the Galt House, with heat pumps, has energy costs that are $25,000 a month lower than those in an almost identical older wing with conventional heating and cooling, Mr. Orio said.
More than $100 million will be spent over the next five years by a consortium financed by the Department of Energy and the energy industry to increase the number of new geothermal systems from 40,000 a year to 400,000 a year, Mr. Orio said.
"Foundation House may be the first in Manhattan," Mr. Kheel said. "But it certainly won't be the last."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Barnes, a well digger from Bayside, Queens, made his first geothermal system four years ago after reading about it in a magazine. He is now installing the first system in Manhattan, at the site where a building will rise on East 64th Street. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. 33)
 
Diagram: "Tapping the Earth For Heating And Cooling"
Holes drilled into the bedrock beneath the future site of Foundation House on East 64th Street will tap stored energy in the rock to keep the building at an ideal temperature year-round.
 
HOW IT WORKS
 
In Winter
The geothermal system pumps water to a depth of 1,500 feet, where it warms to about 56 degrees. Pumped back to the surface, the water is compressed to make it hotter, then distrubuted through the building for heat. The system also provides hot water.
 
In Summer
With a flick of a switch, the same system pulls heat from the building and transfers it back to the earth, making a separate air-conditioning system unnecessary.
 
1,500 feet -- One World Trade Center is 1,368 feet tall.
 
The constant year-round temperature of the earth at this depth cools hot water in the summer and warms cold water in the winter.
 
Diagram illustrates the heating and cooling processes.
(Source: Foundation House)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HEATING; GEOTHERMAL POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AIR CONDITIONING GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); UTILITY RATES (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); GREEN BUILDING (75%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); CHARITIES (75%); HVAC SYSTEMS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (70%); AIR POLLUTION (64%); LAWYERS (55%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C; KHEEL, THEODORE W DAVID GEFFEN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



437 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: N.F.L. 1997 DRAFT;
New Coach, Old Favorite: Parcells Takes Linebacker

BYLINE: By GERALD ESKENAZI 

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, L.I., April 19

 BODY:
Strapped for players and hampered by the salary cap, Bill Parcells began a new Jets era today by moving down in the draft again as a first step toward moving up in the standing.
Having given up the No. 1 pick in the draft in a trade with the St. Louis Rams on Thursday, Parcells moved down two more spots -- from No. 6 to No. 8 -- when it came time to make the Jets' first-round pick today. And with it he chose the first linebacker of the draft, James Farrior of Virginia, a 6-foot-2-inch, 234-pound player whom Parcells immediately pegged for the spot now tentatively held by Marvin Jones. 
 Jones, the Jets' top draft pick in 1993 and something of a disappointment because of his many injuries, has been slated to move out of the middle to the weakside. Mo Lewis is to go from weakside to strongside, and Pepper Johnson, one of Parcells's old Giants, is to take over in the middle. But now Farrior, whom a scouting service described as "decisive" and "relentless in pursuit" and whom Parcells called "smart," has been added to the mix.
So has Rick Terry, a 6-3, 309-pound defensive tackle from North Carolina, whom Parcells took with the Jets' second-round pick today. Terry, considered outstanding at shedding blocks, now joins Ronnie Dixon -- just acquired from Philadelphia -- as the team's only two players at the position.
Farrior came with a bonus attached -- a fourth-round pick that the Tampa Bay Buccaneers gave to the Jets in exchange for swapping the No. 6 and No. 8 picks in the first round. And in the third round today, Parcells made still one more move, trading down 21 spots -- 67 to 88 -- with Denver and picking up the Broncos' sixth and seventh-round picks this year and a sixth-rounder next year. The player the Jets then picked in the third round was Dedric Ward, of Northern Iowa, a 5-8 wide receiver who is seen as a potential kick returner.
In his Thursday trade with the Rams, Parcells had come away with picks in the first, third, fourth and seventh rounds, so in the end, in three moves, he acquired six more picks than he started out with a week ago. One of them -- a seventh-rounder -- was given away Friday in order to land Dixon.
Meanwhile, Parcells turned down a trade with Seattle today that would have dropped the Jets into the 12th spot in the first round. Parcells said he "didn't want to take a gamble" that Farrior or two other players he wanted, presumably linebacker Dwayne Rudd of Alabama and defensive tackle Reinard Wilson of Florida State, would be available at No. 12.
Farrior's nickname among teammates was "Potsy," after the goofy "Happy Days" television character. But Parcells was in a serious mood in his first Jets draft. He all but admitted that the Jets have little choice except to find players in the draft, or undrafted collegians, to replace performers on a 1-15 team. Collegians cost less than established players, an important factor for a team that spent a fortune on veterans last year and now has little maneuverability under the salary cap.
"We need volume," Parcells said several times today. "With the economic constraints we have, it will be prohibitive to replenish the team with the free-agent market this year and next. Had we just stayed pat we would have gotten a couple of real good players, but we would have been moving too slow for my health and welfare."
Thus, a hoarding of draft picks, and none of them so high in the first round that a contract would become too difficult to arrange.
"We don't have options," Parcells said. "We have to create opportunities to change our team."
The selection of Farrior could not be considered surprising. Parcells was noted for his linebacker corps when he coached the Giants to two Super Bowl titles. And in New England, the second player he drafted when he took over in 1993 was linebacker Chris Slade, followed a year later by the first-round pick of linebacker Willie McGinest, both key performers in helping the Patriots get to the Super Bowl last season.
Unlike the Giants, who used a 3-4 defense, the Jets, like the Patriots, will be a 4-3 team. That means three starting linebackers. Will one of them be Jones, or Farrior? A television report already had the Jets shopping Jones, but Parcells said today that it was "news to me."
"Whenever you draft a player you're always going to have a question about the incumbent," Parcells said. "But he's still got to come in and earn his job. It wouldn't have mattered who I drafted. We're trying to collect good players. . . . Let Jones fight it out in camp."
"This isn't Carl Banks or Gary Reasons," Parcells added when asked whether he was trying to build the Jets the way he did the Giants. "That was a 3-4 team. Farrior is what I want on my team."
Perhaps he is not handing Farrior a spot -- that is not the Parcells style -- but the coach said: "We can integrate him in our front seven. We won't have to take him off the field. He plays every down."
Farrior had this reaction moments after being chosen: "It's a great feeling to be his first draft choice. He's almost legendary in his own time."
He seemed to be familiar with Parcells's linebacker history, too: "He's been through a lot of great ones," said Farrior, a psychology major. "I feel I can come in as quick as I can and do the best I can."
If Farrior was on the Jets' mind throughout the week, they didn't let on. "The only time I talked to them," Farrior said, "was right before they picked me."
 
EXTRA POINTS
This was the fourth time the Jets made a linebacker their top pick. In addition to JAMES FARRIOR and MARVIN JONES, there was JEFF LAGEMAN (1989) and BOB CRABLE (1982).

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Farrior has been pegged for the Jets' weakside linebacker spot. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); FLORIDA, USA (68%); WASHINGTON, USA (65%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (54%); COLORADO, USA (53%); IOWA, USA (52%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (68%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (65%); DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); ST LOUIS RAMS (58%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); ST LOUIS RAMS (58%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); FLORIDA, USA (68%); WASHINGTON, USA (65%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (54%); COLORADO, USA (53%); IOWA, USA (52%); TAMPA, FL, USA (68%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (65%); DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (SPORTS) ATHLETES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (77%); SPORTS (77%); 

PERSON: ESKENAZI, GERALD; PARCELLS, BILL; FARRIOR, JAMES; TERRY, RICK

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



438 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: Rent Control Shouldn't Protect the Wealthy;
It Keeps Prices Down

 BODY:

To the Editor:
So Louis Winnick's daughter bought a co-op in a building with many rent-controlled apartments and now feels "mugged" ("Neighbor vs. Neighbor," Op-Ed, April 16). She shouldn't. The price for which she purchased her co-op was low precisely because of the rent-controlled apartments in her building. 
 One can certainly understand her desire to get rid of the protected tenants now that she has profited from their presence. But one cannot see why she should be permitted to do so.
 
MOSHE ADLER
Newark, April 17, 1997
 
The writer is an associate professor of economics at Rutgers University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (65%); NEW YORK, USA (64%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (65%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (65%); NEW JERSEY, USA (65%); NEW YORK, USA (64%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (65%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION RENT CONTROL (93%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); WRITERS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (82%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: ADLER, MOSHE (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



439 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Zaire's U.N. Envoy Quietly Awaits News of Home

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY 

DATELINE: NORTH CALDWELL, N.J., April 18

 BODY:
A soap opera flickered soundlessly on the television in the living room of the small suburban house.
Outside, early shoots were poking up in a freshly tilled garden. Only the letters DPL on the diplomat plates on the Volvo and the Ford in the driveway indicated that this house was different from the others on the block, a mile from the Willowbrook Mall. 
 For the last five years, this rented house has been the permanent Zairian mission to the United Nations, and has also doubled as home for Zaire's Representative to the United Nations, Khabouji N'Zaji Lukabu, his wife, Veronique, and their seven children.
His neighbors scratch their heads when asked if they are following news of the collapse of Zaire, Mr. Lukabu's country in central Africa where the Government is besieged by rebels. In this neighborhood, the biggest disturbances these days are lawn mowers and grass blowers.
Wearing a crisply pressed suit and tie, sitting stiffly as two of his teen-age children tapped at a computer in the dining room, Mr. Lukabu, 53, waved contemptuously at the mute television screen, as if challenging it to account for its utter lack of interest in the violence, economic devastation and political chaos of Zaire. Zaire's President, Mobutu Sese Seko, clings to office as rebel forces led by Laurent Kabila advance on the capital and diplomats try to broker a peaceful transition.
Soon, Mr. Lukabu said, the usual scenes of wretchedness will fill the television. "CNN will be there, with pictures, and for a few days America will be very interested -- 'Ah, this is Zaire, where people are dying!' " But, he predicted, the attention will be fleeting. "They will declare a humanitarian emergency. They will send some some rice, some bread, and then forget."
With diplomatic caution, Mr. Lukabu suggested that one of his concerns was what sort of leader would replace Mr. Mobutu. He was not certain who would be calling with new instructions from Kinshasa, or even whether he will obey.
"I am looking to the interests of Zaire," Mr. Lukabu said. "If my new instructions are against the interests of Zaire, I will say, 'No, I am not going to do this.' "
Mr. Lukabu has been Zaire's representative to the United Nations for 10 years, during a time when Mr. Mobutu's dictatorship and the end of the cold war eroded the support his country had in the United States and among other Western countries.
"I show no emotion," Mr. Lukabu said. "I am a civil servant. Now I am looking to the interests of Zaire." He said his greatest concern was that Zaire hold free elections, which Mr. Mobutu has promised in recent years as international criticism of his Government grew.
"I worked very hard with the U.N. to put in place the electoral processes in Zaire. We were expecting that this year there would be an election in Zaire. Now, I'm not sure the election will take place this year."
Is he prepared to receive new orders from Mr. Kabila?
Mr. Kabila, he said, "still has no charge of the Government." He added: "I have to receive my instructions and stay in touch with the people who are in charge. Maybe, if tomorrow they change -- if tomorrow it's Kabila -- I will reply to the instructions from Mr. Kabila." He added, "I don't have the phone number of Mr. Kabila. He does not have my phone number."
Mr. Lukabu, the son of a teacher from Kinshasa, struggles to maintain personal and diplomatic dignity representing a Government that is widely denounced as a "kleptocracy" under which Mr. Mobutu and his top aides have looted billions of dollars from the national treasury.
"I am very insulted when I hear this. Zaire is in a very bad situation right now," said Mr. Lukabu, rapping his index finger on the coffee table. "But it is not correct to say this was done by only one person only. Mobutu has advisers, he has ministers. Sometimes those people don't have the courage to tell the President, 'This is wrong.' They lie."
He added, "The people who advised President Mobutu to put aside some money to buy villas, some houses abroad, they are not Zairian. Those people are Americans, Europeans." He declined to be more specific.
Maintaining his aplomb has not been easy, and not only because of the international reprobation over the looting of Zaire. He said many diplomats from third-world countries just scrape by in the New York area, sometimes depending on spouses to supplement their salaries. Mr. Lukabu drives his own car to work. He said his wife, afraid for her safety, left a job teaching French at a public school and was taking courses to become a nurse. He said he has been receiving his normal salary from Kinshasa, and the government paid the rent at the house, which neighbors estimated would be about $1,000 a month.
But he does think a diplomat is entitled to some privileges. He opposed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's efforts to limit diplomats' ability to park freely in New York City. In a widely reported speech, Mr. Lukabu said that considering "all the incidents that take place daily in the subways and the buses, I myself would not take the risk" of using public transportation.
Counting the two cars with diplomatic plates in his driveway, Zaire has a total of seven vehicles registered to the United Nations. It is not among the major scofflaws. Last year, vehicles registered to Zaire received 57 parking tickets in New York. In contrast, Russia's diplomats received 31,388.
Last Sunday, when a New York Times reporter knocked on Mr. Lukabu's door, he ordered the reporter to leave, then summoned him back to the house and forcibly took his tape recorder. That night, the North Caldwell police charged Mr. Lukabu with "robbery by using force," a felony. The Essex County prosecutor's office recommended reducing the charge to a disorderly person's offense, a misdemeanor.
Mr. Lukabu later returned the recorder to the police, and several days later, he telephoned the reporter and invited him to the house for an interview, which lasted longer than an hour. He said the chief reason he was angry on Sunday had been the lack of an appointment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zaire's envoy, Khabouji N'Zaji Lukabu, outside his home in North Caldwell, N.J. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZAIRE; CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); POLITICS (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE; LUKABU, KHABOUJI N'ZAJI; MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES) ANN LIVERMORE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997



440 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Memorials
HUDSON, JOHN

 BODY:
HUDSON-John. Family and friends mourn John's passing on April 12, 1997, in Portland, Oregon. John was a labor union and human rights activist his entire life. Born February 26, 1949, in Danville, Illinois, he completed undergraduate studies in economics at the University of Illiniois, Urbana in 1971, and graduate studies in community and social psychology at Goddard College. He then lived and worked in New York City for over 20 years. His abstract oil paintings were included in a number of gallery exhibits in New York. He married Patricia Westwater in New York, in November 1995. They moved to Portland in January 1996. His parents, John and Helen, and his brother Joseph and his family live in Seattle. Disposition was by cremation. John requested that in lieu of flowers, contributions go to the Leukemia Society of America, 600 3rd Ave, New York, 10016. A memorial service will be held on May 10, at 1:00PM, Lafayette Avenue Presbyterian Church, 85 South Oxford Street, Brooklyn.
HUDSON-John. The officers, staff and members of UNITE mourn the untimely passing of an heroic labor leader and human rights activist on April 12, 1997 in Portland, Oregon. John served as a leader of ACTWU and UNITE for 20 years. He worked extensively with South African unions and the anti apartheid movement and recently served as a consultant to American and South African unions. He was also an accomplished visual artist. John was ceaseless in his determination to live life to its fullest and to create a better life for others. He inspired all those whose lives he touched. Our condolences go out to his wife, Patricia Westwater, to his parents, John and Helen, and to his brother Joseph and family. UNITE Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEUKEMIA SOCIETY OF AMERICA (56%); LEUKEMIA SOCIETY OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEUKEMIA SOCIETY OF AMERICA (56%); LEUKEMIA SOCIETY OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); PAINTING (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); VISUAL ARTS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (56%); 

PERSON: HUDSON, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



441 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Be Creative When Seeking College Leadership

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your April 14 news articles on the presidency of Trinity College's Evan S. Dobelle and the search for a new chancellor of the State University of New York pointedly indicate why one institution has succeeded where the other is moving into a long-term interim appointment. 
 Looking for pedigree and the other obvious signs of academic status, and following the "usual routes to elicit nominations," search committees will fail to locate and hire candidates with truly original approaches to the myriad problems of higher education today.
Mr. Dobelle's urban renewal initiatives for the Hartford neighborhood surrounding Trinity are testimony to the willingness of the college's trustees to find and support an individual who moved beyond the tried but rarely successful efforts by other schools located in vulnerable urban neighborhoods. His success in that arena is a clear sign of a "new" vision that is sorely absent from contemporary academic thinking.
Such innovation, moreover, should scarcely be limited to the type of problems encountered by Trinity: rather, Mr. Dobelle serves as an example of what can be achieved for higher education when a creative and disciplined mind is allowed space and support.
Search committees and governing boards owe it to their institutions to follow the imaginative and innovative path of Trinity College. But they will first have to transcend their traditional mandates and the "pretty conventional search" that marred SUNY's efforts.
 
LOUISE K. HOROWITZ
Camden, N.J., April 15, 1997
 
The writer is chairwoman, department of French, Rutgers University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TRINITY COLLEGE (HARTFORD); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

ORGANIZATION: TRINITY COLLEGE (HARTFORD); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: HOROWITZ, LOUISE K; DOBELLE, EVAN S

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



442 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Braces for Likely Delay Of 'Titanic'

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, April 20

 BODY:
The likelihood that "Titanic," the costliest film ever made, will delay its opening, previously set for the July 4 weekend, is sending ripples across Hollywood and turning the summer season into turmoil.
Hollywood is on a binge of producing big-budget movies: at least 15 films whose costs, with marketing, reach more than $100 million each will be released over 10 weeks this summer. So the anticipated decision to postpone the opening of "Titanic," largely because of complicated computer-generated effects, has set off, essentially, a chain reaction across Hollywood. 
 Whenever the $180 million "Titanic" eventually opens -- it could be later in July or at Thanksgiving -- the move will alter the release dates of other mega-budget movies and leave studio executives scrambling in what has emerged as the most expensive summer ever.
At stake is not just the success or failure of a film or two, but the jobs of some top movie executives if some big films flop. "The concern is pure economics," said Peter Chernin, president of the News Corporation, which owns 20th Century Fox. "Too many movies are opening in a short period of time. There's never been a marketplace in the history of the movie business to support all these big movies. Every studio is terrified."
Larry Gerbrandt, a senior analyst with Paul Kagan Associates, a research and consulting concern, put it more bluntly. "There's going to be blood on the floor," he said.
The decision to delay "Titanic" by Paramount and 20th Century Fox, which are jointly financing the James Cameron movie, will probably be made over the next few days. Paramount will release the film, about the ill-fated luxury liner, in the United States, and Fox will distribute it abroad. Privately, executives at both studios said the movie would be delayed.
Robert G. Friedman, vice chairman of the Paramount Motion Picture Group, said today: "I'm in discussions with Jim on his postproduction schedule. Once we have determined when he can deliver the film, we will confirm our release date."
Rumors had been proliferating for more than a week about the problems facing "Titanic," which had been set to open on July 2, the start of one of the biggest moviegoing weekends of the year. Daily Variety began running a "Titanic Watch." At issue was the completion of the special effects for the film, for which a five-story copy of the ill-fated luxury liner had been built and as many as 1,000 extras and a crew of more than 800 -- which is probably a record number -- had been working virtually around the clock.
Another project bearing the name "Titanic," a $10 million Broadway musical set to open on Wednesday at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater, also had some early technical problems, though not serious enough to delay its opening. Difficulties with a hydraulic lift, which tilts a portion of the stage to a 45-degree angle during the ship's sinking, delayed the start of previews and led to the cancellation of one matinee performance.
Mr. Cameron, a 43-year-old Canadian, has a reputation as a brilliant and difficult film maker. He has directed such successes as "The Terminator," "Terminator 2: Judgment Day" and "Aliens." He was less successful with "The Abyss." His latest film, "True Lies," with Arnold Schwarzenegger, grossed $146 million.
Initially budgeted at $110 million, the cost of "Titanic" has soared to at least $180 million, and possibly $200 million. Costs are reportedly still rising. Marketing will add $25 million to the bill. To recoup its investment, the film will have to rival some of of the biggest moneymakers of all time, like "Jurassic Park," which grossed $360 million in the United States.
Compounding the problems facing the studios is that there is no merchandising for the movie, in contrast to most of the other "event" movies of the summer, and that it is essentially a love story with Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet, set against the backdrop of the vessel's hitting the iceberg. Nonetheless, studio executives who have seen portions of the movie said its special effects are dazzling.
Whatever decision is made about delaying "Titanic," executives at every large studio were weighing their next moves this weekend about the release of their summer films. A move by "Titanic" -- any move -- would set off a number of dominoes. "It will rearrange the schedule," said William Mechanic, president of Fox Filmed Entertainment.
Distributors generally seek to open expensive summer films by early August to take maximum advantage of the summer vacation period. By mid-August, many college students are returning to campuses, and high schools are opening in some Southern states. Moreover, the opening weekend of a film is considered absolutely crucial to its success or failure -- and a film like "Titanic" must open with a first weekend of at least $25 to $30 million to guarantee success.
("Waterworld," probably the most expensive film before "Titanic," costing about $150 million with marketing, opened at $21.1 million. It grossed only $88 million in the United States but was successful abroad.)
Moving "Titanic" to the weekends of July 18 or July 25 could result in substantial shifts to the summer schedule. Several studio executives said that one of two costly films opening on July 25 would be compelled to move to avoid facing "Titanic." One of the films is "The Conspiracy Theory," a thriller with Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts, produced by Warner Brothers. The other is Sony and Disney's "Air Force One," in which Harrison Ford plays a United States President taken hostage by terrorists. In all likelihood, one of these films would move into the fall.
Should "Titanic" move into the first weekend in August, it would compete with six films opening that weekend, leaving numerous studios scrambling to find other dates.
Moreover, once "Titanic" moves from its July 2 berth, it would leave that big weekend almost entirely to "Men in Black," Sony's science-fiction comedy adventure with Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith. Paramount may move in with its own action film, John Woo's "Face/Off," with John Travolta and Nicolas Cage, now set to open on June 27.
Paramount executives, who point out repeatedly that their stake in "Titanic" is limited to about $65 million, with Fox picking up the rest of the huge bill, insisted that efforts would be made to open "Titanic" in the summer. Delaying the movie until Thanksgiving or Christmas, which remains a strong possibility, would increase production and interest costs even further.
And the Thanksgiving season is filling with other big competitors, including Sony's "Starship Troopers," directed by Paul Verhoeven, and Disney's "Flubber," with Robin Williams, a remake of "The Absent-Minded Professor."
The jockeying for opening dates -- and where "Titanic" finally docks -- leaves most top producers dismayed. "It's for the big boys, not me," said Scott Rudin, who generally produces moderately budgeted films. "It's great if you have 'Batman' or 'Jurassic Park' or 'Titanic.' I'm happy to be out of there."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TITANIC (MOVIE)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (92%); NEWS CORP (82%); PAUL KAGAN ASSOCIATES INC (54%); MOTION PICTURE GROUP INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (78%); POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); THANKSGIVING (72%); CRUISES (67%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%); MUSICAL THEATER (50%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD JAMES CAMERON (58%); PETER CHERNIN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



443 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Treasury to Sell Notes and Bills

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week comprises today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills and auctions of two- and five-year notes tomorrow and Wednesday, respectively.
By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 5.14 percent and a six-month bill was 5.38 percent. In when-issued trading, the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 6.42 percent, and the five-year note, 6.72 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Barrick Gold Corp., $500 million of notes due in 2007, A3/A/---. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Dime Capital Trust, a unit of Dime Bancorp, $150 million of capital preferred securities due in 2027, Ba3/ BB-/---/. Merrill Lynch & Co.
SK Telecom Ltd., $230 million of notes due in 2007, ---/ ---/---. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Tenneco, $300 million of debt securities in two parts: $100 million of notes due in 2007 and $200 million of debentures due in 2027, Baa1/BBB+/---. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Transocean Offshore Inc., $300 million of debt securities in two parts, Baa1/A-/---. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.

TAX EXEMPT
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Chicago School Reform Board of Trustees, $500 million of unlimited tax general obligation bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
The Curators of the University of Missouri System Facilities, $53.1 million of revenue refunding bonds. A. G. Edwards & Sons Inc.
Kentucky Housing Corp., $60 million of single-family revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch & Co.
King County, Wash., $150 million of limited tax general obligation bonds. Smith Barney Inc.
Michigan Hospital for Mercy, $130 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley & Co.
Municipal Assistance Corp., $543 million of revenue bonds for the City of New York. J. P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Pomona Valley Medical Center, Calif., $85.5 million of revenue bonds. Paine Webber Inc.
Virginia Public Building Authority Public Facilities, $153.7 million of revenue bonds. Craigie Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (95%); MS (NYSE) (84%); ABX (TSX) (70%); ABX (NYSE) (70%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); SKMD (LSE) (55%); SKM (NYSE) (55%); 017670 (KSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (95%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (95%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (70%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (70%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (95%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (95%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); BARRICK GOLD CORP (70%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); TRANSOCEAN OFFSHORE INC (66%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (64%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); CRAIGIE INC (61%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); SK TELECOM CO LTD (55%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEBT FINANCING (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); TAX LAW (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); HEALTH CARE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



444 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Chirac Is Expected to Call Parliamentary Elections One Year Early

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, April 20

 BODY:
President Jacques Chirac, who had long resisted calling early elections, is now widely expected to reverse himself in a speech Monday night and announce a dissolution of the French Parliament, a year before the expiration of its five-year term.
Throughout the four decades of the Fifth Republic, French presidents usually have taken such action only to resolve a grave political crisis. Mr. Chirac, silent about his intentions all weekend, apparently wants to forestall one, by avoiding an election campaign next year that could become a referendum on deeply unpopular economic austerity moves taken to further European union. 
 Nevertheless, he would be taking considerable risk if he goes ahead with an election this spring.
"If the political powers that be had any confidence in their political situation, they would wait a year," Lionel Jospin, a Socialist who could become Prime Minister if the opposition won, said tonight. "It looks likely that there will be a dissolution."
Parliamentary elections would not normally be held here until March 1998, and with Mr. Chirac's hand-picked Prime Minister, Alain Juppe, comfortably supported by a huge conservative majority of 477 out of the 577 parliamentary seats, there was no obvious necessity for a new election now.
A decision by Mr. Chirac to go for a new election, despite odds that the majority would lose scores of seats even in the best foreseeable outcome, would be a gamble on several levels.
He is safe in the Presidency until his term expires in 2002. But like Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany, he has staked his reputation on a common European currency intended to rival the United States dollar on world financial markets and to drag France, Germany and the rest of Europe out of the doldrums of double-digit unemployment. France's jobless rate stands at 12.8 percent, the highest level since recovery from World War II.
But getting there, under deficit-reduction rules the Germans insisted on, will take huge cuts in Government spending and the generous health care, retirement and other entitlements that both the French and the Germans have enjoyed since the end of World War II.
In France, Mr. Chirac and Mr. Juppe started trying to cut back at the end of 1995, bringing on a national public transportation strike that paralyzed the French economy until the Government backed away from cuts in early retirement benefits for railroad workers.
Control over pension and health care expenditures were necessary, both explained then, to bring the Government deficit down to the level necessary to get France into the common European currency -- 3 percent of gross national product by the end of this year.
With the French deficit still running at about 4 percent at the end of last year, according to European Union estimates, it will take more Government austerity and spending cuts to reduce it by the deadline.
Both the President and the Prime Minister have been deeply unpopular since the cutbacks and spending freezes began, their appeal eroded by currents of deep French unhappiness with life in the modern global economy that have been running strong for most of this past winter.
Hospital interns, for instance, have just finished a five-week strike against plans for Government health insurance caps on doctors' prescriptions.
Pilots and ground crews have been striking against merger plans and pay cuts at Air Inter, which is Government-owned and part of Air France, and the movement has spread to the privately held lines TAT and Air Liberte.
Truck and bus drivers, who clogged roads at the end of last year, threaten to do so again because promises of retirement at age 55 that they won then have not been kept.
The latest public opinion poll, published today in the Journal du Dimanche, shows 56 percent of the voting-age population dissatisfied with Mr. Chirac and 61 percent unhappy with Mr. Juppe.
Only 31 percent were pleased with Mr. Chirac and 27 percent with the Prime Minister, with the rest undecided, a picture that has not changed broadly in more than a year.
With the public already in such a sullen mood, aides say, Mr. Chirac feared things could get even worse next winter and turn an election campaign next spring into a referendum against not only him and his Prime Minister, but also against closer European union -- just at the moment when European leaders would be meeting to decide which countries would join the common currency.
He could simply appoint a new Prime Minister without the loyal Mr. Juppe's reputation for abrasive haughtiness. But from now until next spring, according to the Government's scenario, the conservative majority in Parliament could well lose ground steadily anyway. Mr. Chirac could then find himself squared off against a Socialist Prime Minister in Parliament, Mr. Jospin, who has been sharply critical of French social sacrifices in the name of European monetary union.
So Mr. Juppe, apparently backed by some of Mr. Chirac's top aides, began urging him to call an election at this time to cut the majority's losses now, before a new round of Government spending cuts or freezes this summer or fall.
Their advice was buttressed, if French newspaper reports are to be believed, by private polls taken for the Interior Ministry last month that showed that the conservatives could hold onto a majority of 361 of the 577 parliamentary seats if the election were held now.
Those soundings, according to the daily Liberation, which published them last week, predicted considerable gains for the Socialists, Communists and other parties now in the opposition, but not enough to form a Government.
Nobody gave Mr. Jospin a chance of winning the 1995 Presidential election against Mr. Chirac, either, but Mr. Jospin outpolled him in the first round, with several other candidates in the running, and the French stock markets tumbled Friday in anticipation of uncertainty.
Fear of gains by the extreme-right National Front in electoral districts where there is tension between French voters and foreign immigrant populations could also strengthen leftist candidates in the second round of the legislative elections, which French newspaper reports say would be held on May 25 and June 1, or June 1 and June 8. It takes a majority in each constituency to win, with a second-round runoff if no candidate wins one in the first round.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; EUROPE; FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); CURRENCIES (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (85%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); STRIKES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); US DOLLAR (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); EARLY RETIREMENT (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (66%); TRENDS (63%); WORLD WAR II (62%); PERSONAL FINANCE (61%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (60%); 

PERSON: CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); WHITNEY, CRAIG R JACQUES CHIRAC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



445 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Defector Says North Korea Seems Intent on a War

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, April 20

 BODY:
A high-level North Korean defector arrived here today, saying that people in the North have already "lost hope" and that he wants to prevent a war that the desperate Communist Government seems intent on waging.
The defector, Hwang Jang Yop, and an aide who defected with him, Kim Dok Hong, flung their arms into the air three times in a cheer immediately after stepping out of the airplane that brought them from the Philippines. They arrived 67 days after they sought asylum at South Korea's consulate in Beijing. 
 In a statement he read shortly after his arrival at a military airport outside Seoul, Mr. Hwang, once his country's top ideologue, said North Korea was facing "economic paralysis" as a result of misguided mix of socialism, feudalism and militarism.
"North Korea boasted it has constructed a socialist paradise, but it has been reduced to a beggar country," he said in an emotional voice. He added, "North Korea now seems to believe that the only way out is to use its formidable armed forces, which it has built up for decades."
Mr. Hwang's arrival comes as relations between North and South Korea are at a possible turning point. Officials from the two Koreas and the United States are meeting in New York. They are discussing whether their countries, as well as China, will enter negotiations for a formal end to the Korean War, which was stopped by an armistice.
The second day of the meeting, at which North Korea might give its response, is scheduled for Monday, after having been postponed twice by North Korean delegates, who said they were waiting for instructions from their capital, Pyongyang.
It is possible that Mr. Hwang's arrival here and his remarks could anger the North Korean Government into rejecting the peace talks. South Korean officials said, however, that they are not worried because the defection so far has not derailed progress toward the talks.
China and South Korea had reached an understanding as a condition for letting Mr. Hwang leave Beijing that his defection would not be used to antagonize North Korea. Partly for that reason, after today, Mr. Hwang is expected to stay out of the public view for at least a month and perhaps much longer, South Korean officials said.
Mr. Hwang's statement today was screened in advance by the South Korean Government and did not differ markedly from the first one Mr. Hwang wrote in Beijing after he sought asylum.
The two North Koreans were takento a secret location, where they will be debriefed by South Korean intelligence officers.
Mr. Hwang, a former professor and university president, was the philosopher behind North Korea's ideology of juche, or self-reliance, which was used to justify its repressive Stalinist rule and the cult-like leader worship. He was a close aide to Kim Il Sung, the late dictator, and was a teacher of Mr. Kim's son, Kim Jong Il, the current leader.
Mr. Hwang, who is believed to be 74, is expected to provide valuable information about the secretive Pyongyang Government and also advice about how to deal with it.
It was not clear whether American intelligence will be able to question the defectors directly. A senior South Korean official said the Government had offered to share information with the United States, suggesting that it would not necessarily have direct access to Mr. Hwang. But another South Korean official said the United States would have access.
In Washington today, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" that on his recent trip to South Korea, officials had agreed that "the United States will have access to this defector."
Perhaps the most explosive information Mr. Hwang is rumored to have is a list of North Korean spies in the South. Some South Korean politicians are worried that his statements could be used as the basis for an anti-Communist witch hunt.
"There is a threat the Government will use him for domestic political purposes," said Yang Sung Chul, a member of the National Assembly from the National Congress for New Politics, the opposition party led by the former dissident Kim Dae Jung.
With a presidential election coming in December, he said, information provided by Mr. Hwang might be leaked to stir up anti-Communist fervor -- which could work to the benefit of the governing New Korea Party, or to discredit a candidate by saying Mr. Hwang had identified him as an agent.
Mr. Hwang's defection was greeted here as a tremendous coup against a longtime enemy, and his arrival was covered live on the three national television broadcasters. The South Korean Government, which provides a stipend for defectors based on their status and the amount of information they provide, will pay Mr. Hwang an unusually high 200 million won, or about $220,000, according to news reports here.
Some South Koreans said, though, that Mr. Hwang should not be hailed as a hero since he spent his life in the service of a leadership that started the Korean War. Kim Jong Pil, the leader of the United Liberal Democrats, an opposition party, called on Friday for Mr. Hwang to apologize to the South Koreans.
No doubt mindful of this sentiment, Mr. Hwang did express remorse today for his support of the actions of North Korea. "I hope that I will be able to atone for my sins by exerting all my might, to the last minute, to prevent a war and achieve peaceful reunification of our country," he said.
Mr. Hwang defected in Beijing on Feb. 12 on his way back from a conference in Japan, where he had failed to obtain food aid for his country, which has been suffering a famine. He and his fellow defector, Mr. Kim, who headed a North Korean trading company in China, entered the consular section of the South Korean Embassy after saying they were going out shopping.
The defection caused a diplomatic quandary for China, which is trying to deepen its relatively new friendship with South Korea while not forsaking its old Communist ally, North Korea.
China allowed Mr. Hwang to leave on March 18. To soften the blow to North Korea, he was not allowed to go directly to Seoul, but went to the Philippines, where he was required to stay at least a month, according to the senior South Korean official
The chartered Air Philippines Boeing 737 that brought Mr. Hwang and the 59-year-old Mr. Kim to Seoul touched down at 11:38 A.M. today. The defectors were met by South Korean intelligence officials rather than by Cabinet members. The North Koreans were ushered into the airport building, where they were greeted by some former residents of North Korea -- including defectors and others who had gone to the same high school as Mr. Hwang. After Mr. Hwang and Mr. Kim made remarks, Mr. Hwang answered four questions from a small group of reporters.
In a news conference today, South Korean Foreign Ministry officials said Mr. Hwang had spent much of his time in Beijing and the Philippines reading and writing, the Yonhap news service reported.
One of Mr. Hwang's routines, mentioned by the Foreign Ministry officials, perhaps explains how he could have spent so much of his life glorifying the North Korean authorities: At bedtime, he likes to read fairy tales.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The North Korean defector Hwang Jang Yop, right, was greeted by an unidentified South Korean official at the airport outside Seoul yesterday. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); CHINA (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); CHINA (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); CULTS & SECTS (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



446 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

A More Reassuring Tone From the Fed Chairman
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, unnerved many investors last December with an ominous rhetorical question, asking whether "irrational exuberance has unduly escalated stock prices." 
 Four months later, Mr. Greenspan is gradually providing his own answer: the speculative frenzy that could bring a prolonged market decline is not here yet. Corporate profits are expected to continue growing sufficiently to justify the boom in the stock market to date, he has indicated. News analysis. [Page A1.]
 
Fed Appointment Is Seen
President Clinton has decided to name Roger Ferguson, a consultant at McKinsey & Company, to the last vacancy at the Fed, a White House official said. [D4.]
 
Strike by Doormen Averted
Staving off a strike in nearly 3,000 New York City apartment buildings, the union representing more than 30,000 residential building workers agreed to a tentative three-year contract that includes a lower wage for new employees and an 8.3 percent pay increase for current workers. [A1.]
 
Workers Strike at Goodyear Plants
More than 12,000 union workers at Goodyear Tire and Rubber went on strike at nine plants after failing to reach an agreement on job security and wage and benefit issues. [D9.]
 
Children's Ad Standards for Web
Responding to concerns about familiar cartoon characters prancing around Web sites and inviting children to enter contests, buy products or provide information about themselves, an ad industry group has developed voluntary guidelines for marketing to children on the Net. [D5.]
 
The Nation Seeks Donations
The Nation magazine, the self-described lonely bastion of liberal thinking, has mailed out a sleek fund-raising brochure that details the options for helping out the magazine, a chronic money loser, through one's estate. [D6.]
 
An Information Giant's Growth
The International Data Group, a publishing, research and trade-show company, sees itself as the Procter & Gamble of the technology media marketplace. Its position seems so strong that I.D.G.'s founder is considering public stock offerings in the company's businesses. Yet it still faces some serious challenges. [D2.]
 
Turning Point in Tobacco Battle
A trip by President Clinton to the tobacco state of South Carolina last December was a pivotal moment in the complex dance that led to the groundbreaking talks this month between tobacco companies, regulators and anti-smoking forces. [A1.]
 
Who's Using the Web?
The Web has been hailed as the king of all interactive media, where publishers can learn all about their audiences because surfers vote with every mouse click. But it is remarkable how little is still known about who is using the Web and how. On the Net. [D5.]
 
Shuffles at Talent Agencies
The talent agency business, for years one of the most stable in the unstable world of Hollywood, has been roiled with executive shuffles at Creative Artists and at William Morris. Entertainment. [D9.]
 
The Evolution Of the Remote
The remote control, a fixture of the American coffee table, has come a long way from the primitive models of the 1950's and 60's to the futuristic designs of the 90's. Remote controls can now operate VCR's, laser disk players and stereos, as well as things like digital video disk devices. But, if one can figure them out, they can still be used to change channels. [D9.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 6,703.55 Up 311.86
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.05% Down 0.11
The Dollar -- 125.88 yen Down 0.15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GT (SWX) (83%); GT (NASDAQ) (83%); GT (BRU) (83%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (83%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (83%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (83%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (83%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (83%); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (89%); STRIKES (88%); TALENT AGENTS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (76%); YOUTH MARKET (76%); TOBACCO FARMING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); PUBLISHING (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); TIRES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); FUNDRAISING (66%); LIBERALISM (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); SMOKING (60%); TRADE SHOWS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (78%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



447 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2016 words

HEADLINE: When Work Is Not Enough;
Religion and Welfare Shape Economics for the Hasidim

SERIES: WELFARE NEIGHBORHOOD -- Fourth in a series.

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
The job interviews take place with practical, unspoken calculation in Southside's dozens of Hasidic schools. The schoolteacher is desperate for work; the school administrator, short of funds, can offer only the most minimal of wages.
But the offers, at perhaps $150 a week for 30 hours of teaching, are made and almost always accepted for one central reason: welfare. The teacher knows welfare payments will supplement a meager income; the school knows employees who also receive welfare will be able to survive on low salaries. 
 "It's a mutual understanding, I suppose," said the director of a Bedford Avenue yeshiva in the Southside section of Williamsburg, Brooklyn. "I know the price they will go for, and that's what I pay."
Rabbi Leib Glanz, whose United Talmudic Academy employs about 700 teachers in Southside, said: "If they can't take what I can pay, I get someone else. I do not count on welfare when I hire. But clearly welfare has been beneficial to the yeshivas."
From household incomes to school budgets, public assistance has penetrated the world of Southside's Hasidim. The Hasidim's ability to make the welfare system work for them has provoked both admiration and suspicion among welfare agency officials and many people who live alongside the Hasidim in Southside. The deep roots of welfare show how benefits subsidize industry, but they also call attention to an unsettling question that lies behind the debate about welfare reform: what if work is not enough?
Where the worlds of welfare and work overlap, welfare reform promises a future without government benefits. Those benefits have been the foundation of a low-wage economy. For other welfare- dependent populations, the policy prescription has been work; for a group where work is already a given, the answers do not come as quickly.
At least one-third of the estimated 7,000 Hasidic families in Williamsburg receive public assistance, according to neighborhood leaders.
The benefits, including welfare payments, food stamps and subsidized housing, sustain the families with as many as 10 or 12 children; they fill the cash registers of the kosher supermarkets on Lee Avenue and help underwrite much of the work done by the Hasidim, whether in schools, retail stores or factories.
 
The People
Religion Shapes Lives and Families
The Hasidim, carrying on the traditions of a Jewish movement founded in the 18th century, live in an insular, highly ordered world of prayer and study, their customs governing everything from their clothing to the lines of separation between men and women, boys and girls. They gather for prayer twice a day and strictly honor the Sabbath, requirements that often restrict what jobs they can take, what hours they can work.
They have their own newspapers as well as their own judicial system for resolving internal disputes. While they live largely apart from the secular world, they nonetheless have an appetite for politics.
And they have large families: the average household has eight children, neighborhood leaders say. Hasidic parents commonly say that large families are the most satisfying realization of their religion, which tells them to be fruitful and multiply.
But their religious emphasis has created economic dead ends for many of the Hasidim of Southside. The focus on religious studies results in children ending secular education at age 13, curtailing job skills. Other factors also limit opportunity: discrimination in the mainstream workplace exists; the neighborhood's once-dominant industries, like the jewelry and garment trades, have dwindled; some have difficulty with English, their second language, and the neighborhood's substantial network of private charity, built around wealthy households and loan societies in every synagogue, is already overtaxed.
A 27-year-old Hasidic welfare recipient gave voice to confusion, fear and facts of cultural life that left him without great economic options. He and others interviewed did not want their full identities revealed, citing their privacy and a sense of embarrassment.
"I hope to get off, I am trying to get off," he said. A teacher who has four children, he conceded that he started his family knowing his restricted economic situation. "But we don't first have a business and then children. We do what we feel is right, and then try and do our best."
 
The System
Relying on Help Is Ingrained
One foundation of the Hasidim's economy is an organized, aggressive approach to winning welfare benefits. For example, the office of the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg, the Hasidim's main social services center in Southside, has a staff that fills out applications for aid and telephones city officials to contest adverse decisions. Advocates for Southside's Latino poor cite with envy the Hasidim's unified efforts at obtaining public assistance. Current and former city welfare officials regard the Hasidim's pattern of obtaining public assistance -- the widespread listing of nearly identical incomes that fall just within qualifying guidelines -- as circumstantial evidence of manipulation, or even fraud.
One Federal program intended to help make low-income work a more attractive alternative than welfare is the Earned Income Tax Credit, which pays up to $3,500 to a family with an income of $10,000. But among the Hasidim, it does not seem to be as well known as the state welfare program that aids low-income families and childless adults, Home Relief. The size of the credit adds only modestly to a large family's economic picture. Government officials said that they could not estimate how many of the Hasidim are taking advantage of the credit.
Welfare for the Hasidim, then, is both a lifesaver and a machine to be put to optimal use, something that keeps families safe and businesses running. Dependency is no less ingrained than in the city's more stereotypical welfare recipient -- the African-American or Latino single mother.
But the Hasidim's world of welfare is just as endangered. The new Federal welfare law limits cash benefits for any family to five years. New York State lawmakers are debating Gov. George E. Pataki's proposal to cut cash benefits. And Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is requiring beneficiaries to work cleaning streets or offices in order to continue receiving benefits.
The new Federal law also means that immigrants who are not citizens and children suffering from behavioral and learning disabilities, groups that are both represented among the Hasidim of Southside, are losing Federal Supplemental Security Income.
"The myth is that there are no poor Jews," said Rabbi Chaim Stauber, who runs a mental health clinic in Southside. "But Jews, like others, have plenty of people who meet all the criteria for welfare. The politicians only see the red and black ink of budget ledgers. They don't see human faces."
 
The Worries
Not Lack of Work, Lack of Income
The face of welfare in the Hasidim is typically the face of a working father, one who reports his income and is a partner in an intact family.
One 39-year-old kindergarten teacher, the father of four children, ages 5 through 12, earns $131.60 a week working part time. His welfare benefits include $217 each month from the state's Home Relief program, $420 a month in food stamps, and medical coverage.
Work -- the return to it or the initial embrace of it -- is the solution underlying both the philosophy and strategy of welfare reform. But work, for many Hasidic recipients, is not the central problem; income is.
Already the kindergarten teacher's household has tasted the changing welfare realities. Although the Hasidim do not bar women from working, the teacher's wife, like many worried about caring for their children, refused the city's mandatory work requirement and the family's Home Relief grant was reduced from $259 to $217.
As the world of welfare changes, and limits on benefits start to reduce family incomes, concerns are growing among the Hasidim.
"It is frightening to think of the chain reaction in our neighborhood," said Rabbi Yitzchok Schwartz, who oversees a handful of yeshivas. "A lot will have to be reorganized. Maybe they will give welfare another name -- close one door, open another."
Others worry more darkly. "If we are asked to start increasing salaries," Rabbi Glanz said of the neighborhood's schools, "we will not survive."
 
The Future
Changing the Kinds Of Jobs Available
The answer, according to government officials, is straightforward: find higher-paying work. "In many ways, this sort of population has a leg up," Brian Wing, the acting commissioner of the State Department of Social Services, said of the Hasidim. "The state is not going to walk away from employment training. Skills development will be the target."
But William Fish, who runs an employment office on Clymer Street in Southside, said that will be difficult. "They have 6, 10 children, no computer skills," he said of the applicants he encounters daily. "They don't want welfare to be a life style. But it is real. I don't know what the solution is."
While acknowledging that real poverty and need exist among the Hasidim, others are less wholly sympathetic. Neighborhood veterans of the fight for public housing in Southside, for instance, say their experiences have convinced them that some Hasidim abuse public assistance.
"It is not unnatural for people to get what they can for themselves," said Martin Needleman, executive director of Brooklyn Legal Services of Williamsburg, a nonprofit organization that sued the New York City Housing Authority saying that the city gives preferential treatment to the Hasidim. "But the Hasidim in Williamsburg have a unique, sophisticated and highly efficient capacity to generate documents that support eligibility for public assistance that do not always reflect reality."
City welfare officials publicly deny that fraud among the Hasidim is tolerated. But in interviews, a half-dozen current and former agency officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Hasidic manipulation of the system is a problem. Even sympathetic experts on Jewish poverty acknowledge the Hasidim "work the system."
Rabbi David Niederman, the executive director of the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg, said he did not believe significant welfare cheating went on. "You do not have to lie to be eligible for benefits," he said. "Is there somebody who might cheat? Yes. People cheat on their taxes, too."
A sophisticated, organized approach could help the Hasidim succeed where many other groups have failed -- moving people from welfare to self-sufficient working lives. Although such efforts have a poor track record, the Hasidim start with other factors in their favor: intact families and a basic, if narrowly defined, devotion to education.
Already, Hasidic leaders are responding to welfare reform by taking initial steps to expand secular education and high-tech job training, and their long-time attempts at economic development now are infused with a sense of crisis.
"The enemy is unemployment or inadequate employment and not welfare," said Rabbi Joseph Weber, a leader of one Hasidic congregation, the Pupa sect. "The only option is to face the enemy and act accordingly."
Rabbi Weber, who runs the Yeshiva Kehilath Yakov, has integrated more vocational training into the school's curriculum, and is raising money for night classes in computer technology. And Rabbi Niederman has a plan for creating a "back office" operation in Southside, where residents would do accounting and data entry work for financial firms and government agencies.
"The unconventional no longer will be out of the question," Rabbi Niederman said.

Welfare Neighborhood
The toughening of the rules governing Supplemental Security Income is expected to be felt strongly in many poor neighborhoods. This is the fourth in a series of articles describing how an array of changes in welfare policy is coming together in one Brooklyn neighborhood, Southside in the Williamsburg section.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A couple seek help at the office of the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg, the main social services center in Southside, where staff members help Hasidim make their way through the sometimes confusing applications for welfare. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); At least one third of the 7,000 Hasidic families in Williamsburg receive public assistance. Families who have enough money of their own donate food for the poor. At a center on Penn Street, a man bags some of the goods for distribution. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B1)
 
Chart: "FOR EXAMPLE: Welfare Reform: Is Work Enough?"
Intact families with a working parent can receive cash grants from a New York State welfare program, and Federally financed Medicaid coverage and food stamps. The cash benefits depend on the earned income of the family and the number of children. Chart provides three examples of the benefits that would be paid. Under the new federal welfare law, no family will be able to collect cash benefits for more than five years. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FOOD FOR THE POOR (59%); FOOD FOR THE POOR (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD FOR THE POOR (59%); FOOD FOR THE POOR (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTHSIDE (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); SURVEYS AND SERIES; JEWS; HASIDISM RELIGION (96%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); RETAILERS (60%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



448 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: For Some, Work May Not Mean Self-Sufficiency

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
When welfare benefits end, will recipients find work and will work bring self-sufficiency?
Working welfare recipients -- and many Hasidic Jews fall in that category -- are evidence that work alone may not lift families out of poverty. Welfare remains an attractive alternative for many reasons. Wages for low-skilled workers are declining; job-training programs have had poor results; low-wage work often does not cover the costs of health care, day care and transportation. 
 Sandra K. Danziger, an associate professor of social work at the University of Michigan, said the welfare to work programs are not a total failure. "But the story has been pretty consistent," she said. "Many people are financially worse off working than on welfare. Working, for them, has been a very insecure and unsafe place to be."
A study by the Brookings Institution tracked the experiences of welfare recipients who had gone to work and found that they started at very low wages and increased their salaries by just six cents an hour every year. When Michigan ended its state general assistance welfare program in 1992, studies found that about 20 percent of the people were employed full time after two years; the rest subsisted on food stamps, casual jobs, or aid from friends and relatives.
Now, with Federal legislation dictating that no recipient can get cash benefits for longer than five years, people's ability to find work, keep work and make enough money at those jobs to lift their families out of poverty will be tested like never before.
Rebecca Blank, a professor of economics at Northwestern University, said wages for under-skilled workers have been falling steadily for years. She said the gross income for a high school dropout working full time had tumbled by 20 percent over the last 15 years and by 10 percent for high school graduates. And inflation has eroded that even more.
"Put aside the question of whether jobs are available -- many recipients will find jobs of one kind or another," Ms. Blank said. "But jobs solve only one part of the problem. If you look at wages, it is harder now to end poverty through employment than it has been in the last 25 years. This piece of legislation is going to be tougher to implement now as a result."
The history of the working Hasidic welfare recipients of Southside appears to support that skepticism. Work has not been enough. Largely unskilled and undereducated, they have been surviving by combining income with welfare. That equation will not hold in the future, when five-year limits are reached.
The Federal Government has already adopted one change to make work more tenable, raising the minimum wage to $5.15 an hour in October, from $4.75 an hour. Another program provides a subsidy for poor working families. The earned income tax credit offers cash to working poor households to limit reliance on welfare. A two-child family earning $10,000 a year can get $3,500 a year from the Federal tax credit and about $500 from a similar state program.
It costs the Federal Government more than $20 billion in 1994, but many families, either from ignorance or fear of the complications of dealing with another government agency, do not take advantage of it. The relative importance of the tax credit varies from family to family. One four-child family with earnings of $7,200 might ultimately lose its $250 welfare cash benefit under welfare reform. Their tax credit would be $305 a month. A family with 10 children, earning $700 and receiving $800 in welfare monthly would be entitled to a tax credit of $355 a month.
Experts also note that some Republican lawmakers have raised questions about the value of the tax credit program, and whether it will exist in 2002 is unclear.
"Increasing wages by a bit for the people working now is not the answer," said Rabbi David Niederman, a leader of one congregation in Southside, the Satmar sect."New kinds of jobs altogether are the answer."
Gov. George E. Pataki, in his welfare reform proposal, has pledged to allow recipients to keep their Medicaid health insurance for a year after leaving they leave the rolls. He has, as well, promised additional job training funds and offered a plan to allow welfare beneficiaries to keep some cash benefits even as they join the workforce. And in New York City, subsidized child care has long been available for a year after a family stops receiving benefits, although experts say it has been grossly underused, in part because recipients are not made aware of the program.
Some experts, like Glenn C. Loury, a professor of economics at Boston University, say the track records of such job training efforts are not encouraging.
"There is nothing in the literature or experiences of job training programs to suggest that the low-wage worker today is going to be transformed into a $20-an-hour worker anytime soon," Mr. Loury said. "There is nothing that says that's possible."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); LANSING, MI, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); FAMILY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); RELIGION (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); INCOME TAX (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (63%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



449 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey State Workers Worry About Pension Plan

BYLINE: By MELODY PETERSEN 

DATELINE: HAMILTON TOWNSHIP, N.J., April 20

 BODY:
Few people in New Jersey may be more concerned about Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's proposal to borrow billions of dollars for the public employee pension system than the hundreds of state workers who live in this town just outside of Trenton.
As some of these employees ate bacon and eggs this morning at a local delicatessen, they grumbled about how Mrs. Whitman has once again turned to their pension fund to fill a hole in the state budget and worried about the outcome of a crucial vote scheduled for Monday in the State Senate. 
 "I don't like her messing around with my pension," said Ronald Exner, an accountant in the Department of Human Services, "because I have four years, six months and nine days until retirement."
For weeks, Governor Whitman has been negotiating with state labor leaders to win support for the borrowing plan, which is the cornerstone of her election year budget. She needs the unions' approval to gain the votes of two key Republican state senators who represent Trenton and nearby towns and who are counting on the thousands of public employees who live in their districts for their own re-election.
One of those senators, Richard J. La Rossa of West Trenton, said today that he would vote against the plan if it comes up for a vote on the Senate floor Monday. And without his vote and with two other Republican senators out of the state, Mr. LaRossa said he believed the bill would be held until another Senate session, since it would not yet have enough votes to pass.
The other key Republican, State Senator Peter A. Inverso, who represents Hamilton and other parts of Mercer and Middlesex Counties and has 10,000 state workers in his district, has also said he may not support the plan without the unions' approval.
Governor Whitman, however, said today that she remains confident her plan, which she maintains will save taxpayers billions of dollars over the next decades, will ultimately pass.
That does not seem certain, as 16 Democratic senators are staunchly opposed and at least 6 of 24 Republicans have expressed deep reservations. But the plan got a slight boost today when the state's top labor leader said that it had been "improved" by amendments added in the last few days. Charles Wowkanech, president of the New Jersey A.F.L.-C.I.O., added, however, that he could not yet endorse the proposal until he talked to more of his members.
"You still have to ask the basic question: should we be using the employee pension plan to balance the state budget?" Mr. Wowkanech said.
State employees have been frequent critics of the Whitman administration, which has reduced the number of state jobs by hiring private companies to provide medical care to prison inmates and to run services at the Department of Motor Vehicles. But Mrs. Whitman's current proposal to borrow $2.75 billion over 35 years to help close a deficit in the state pension system has generated more opposition than any other economic proposal she has presented since taking office in 1994. Most of the deficit was created in the last three years as Mrs. Whitman paid for her tax cuts mostly by reducing pension contributions.
At Fred & Pete's Deli, a neighborhood luncheonette, not one person of about 10 who paused to talk to a reporter today -- either state employees or workers employed privately -- thought the plan was sound.
"The whole thing is a house of cards," said Rachel Sieverts Henk, a manager at a pharmaceutical company. "I think the Governor is crossing her fingers, hoping that the illusion will hold on long enough for her to move on to national politics and leave the problem to someone else."
Mrs. Henk's mother-in-law, Mary Alice Henk, a special education teacher, nodded in agreement. "This is mortgaging our kids for the next two generations," she said.
Surprisingly, several of the state workers breakfasting at the delicatessen said that instead of borrowing money, Mrs. Whitman should keep shrinking the size of government.
"We could come up with 100 ways the state wastes money," said Judith Exner, a state social worker. "There are people checking on people checking on people."
But if Governor Whitman's plan fails, the more than $600 million in cuts necessary to balance the state budget may go far beyond ending government waste. And widespread layoffs and the elimination of state services is not what any politician in Trenton wants to undertake in an election year.
Mr. LaRossa said he now supports the plan's amended version, but wants time to convince the 14,000 to 18,000 union members in his district.
Under the amendments, the pension contributions from public employees would be lowered from 5 percent to 4.5 percent of their pay for the next two years. They would also be lowered in the future, whenever the administration uses the pension system's investment gains to offset its regularly scheduled contribution. The Whitman administration also agreed to guarantee that if benefits are reduced in the future, employees with five years or more on the job will not be affected.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some New Jersey state employees are concerned about the Governor's borrowing plan. Judith Exner, a social worker, and her husband, Ronald, a state accountant, discussed it yesterday at Fred & Pete's Deli in Hamilton Township, N.J. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); 

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



450 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Publisher Builds Strategy on Diversification

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN 

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 19

 BODY:
The International Data Group sees itself as the Procter & Gamble of the technology media marketplace.
With a wide range of brand-name publications like Computerworld, Infoworld and PC World, as well as IDG Books Worldwide, the privately held company has grabbed shelf space in a crowded marketplace to become the No. 2 producer of technology publications, after Ziff-Davis Publishing. 
 Moreover, when its widely quoted research division, the International Data Corporation, and its trade show business are included, I.D.G. is actually larger than rival Ziff-Davis, with $1.7 billion in revenue.
Indeed, its position seems at face value to be so strong that Patrick J. McGovern, the company's billionaire founder and chairman, is planning a series of public offerings of stock in I.D.G.'s businesses.
In an interview in his Boston office, Mr. McGovern said he was aiming for a fall sale of stock in IDG Books, which publishes the popular "For Dummies" series of how-to books. Computerworld, Infoworld or PC World publications could follow in 1998, he said.
Mr. McGovern's hope is that Wall Street will put a substantial price on I.D.G.'s fastest-growing parts, thus increasing the value of the entire company. The stock offerings are aimed at raising capital for new projects at the various business units, although Mr. McGovern offered no specifics.
Moreover, the offerings could provide an additional enticement to both current and potential I.D.G. employees by creating a market for the company's stock. Many of the company's 3,500 American employees have holdings valued at tens of thousands of dollars in I.D.G.'s employee stock ownership plan. A score of longtime employees have accounts with more than $1 million in them.
Yet I.D.G. faces some serious challenges. For one thing, growth in the company's largest business -- technology publishing -- has slowed as a result of a crush of new publications and competition from the Internet. Ziff-Davis, the publisher of PC Magazine and PC Computing, remains a formidible rival, as does CMP Publications Inc., the publisher of Information Week and Computer Reseller News. And several I.D.G. publications have actually lost advertising revenue over the last year.
In addition, there is no guarantee that Wall Street will be receptive to an I.D.G. stock offering by the fall, especially if the increasingly volatile stock market retreats sharply, pulling technology issues downward.
So far, the company has not chosen an underwriter or filed for a stock offering with the Securities and Exchange Commission, although Goldman, Sachs & Company has been hired as an adviser.
Mr. McGovern is undaunted by the potential obstacles. "We have in our family of business units companies that are visible, rapidly growing, very profitable and have great futures," he said. "We believe the sum of the parts would actually exceed the whole." Stock offerings in individual units would "enhance their visibility and ability to recruit top people," he added.
Based on his track record, the 59-year-old Mr. McGovern says he has good reason to expect continued success, even on Wall Street. After more than three decades in business, I.D.G. now boasts publications on all seven continents. Earlier this year, Mr. McGovern trekked to the South Pole to start Computerworld Antarctica, I.D.G.'s 280th publication.
Mr. McGovern asserts that his global philosophy is now paying off. I.D.G., which holds 25 percent of the world market for information technology advertising -- Ziff-Davis holds 12 percent and CMP 3 percent -- can offer "one-stop shopping" for its customers, Mr. McGovern said. He said sales from such global advertising packages now make up 8 percent of I.D.G.'s revenue.
Over all, Mr. McGovern asserts, I.D.G. has sustained annual growth rates of 20 percent to 30 percent for the last 20 years.
Mr. McGovern has been talking about an initial public offering for more than 15 years. But even as I.D.G.'s revenue passed the $1 billion mark in 1994 -- the figure Mr. McGovern had said in the early 1980's would be the catalyst for a stock offering -- he hesitated. With $250 million in the bank and no bank debt, he would say, the company did not need the pressure that quarterly earnings reports would bring. Those who know him also believed he was reluctant to cede control.
But times have changed. "Right now, the outside appraiser who evaluates I.D.G. gives us a conservative value of one times sales," Mr. McGovern said. "The public marketplace seems to be supporting valuations that are two to three times sales."
Some others share Mr. McGovern's belief in I.D.G.'s attractiveness as an investment.
"I.D.G. is a well-run company at the center of one of the fastest-growing parts of the economy, the technology sector," Bradley Johnson, technology editor for Advertising Age in Los Angeles, said. "If you look at the market caps of these little Internet start-ups, imagine what a real company like I.D.G. is worth."
Richard Shaffer, editor of Technologic Partners, a newsletter that tracks the stocks of technology-related companies, concurred. "They have a dominant position in a rapidly growing and important publishing market and they are very profitable," he said. "That ought to command a substantial multiple."
Still, I.D.G.'s core business -- technology publications -- has come under pressure. Though sales of advertising pages in technology publications had been growing by 10 percent to 13 percent a year for much of the decade, according to Adscope, a Eugene, Ore., research firm, that growth has slowed to a crawl.
Sales of ad pages for I.D.G.'s 14 domestic publications actually slipped by nearly 1 percent in 1996, Adscope said. Advertising pages for PC World, I.D.G.'s largest publication in terms of ad sales, for example, dropped 3.8 percent in 1996. Taken together, ad sales at the four leading consumer personal computer magazines, including PC World and Ziff-Davis's PC Magazine, fell more than 10 percent in 1996.
By contrast, Information Week magazine, CMP's direct rival to I.D.G.'s Computerworld, had 10 percent growth in ad pages in 1996. Computerworld, long the crown jewel of I.D.G.'s publishing empire, actually lost 7 percent in advertising pages.
And Ziff-Davis remains a determined competitor, perhaps stronger since it was sold by the Ziff family in 1994 to the investment firm Forstmann-Little. It was subsequently acquired by the Japanese software giant the Softbank Corporation for $2.1 billion. The company now publishes 35 magazines and licenses more than 50 other titles. Its ZDNet on-line technology information service has established itself as a highly popular Web site.
To compete with ZDNet, Kelly Conlin, I.D.G.'s president, said the company had made the Internet a primary focus. The company's 90 business units have created more than 140 Web sites, and I.D.G. is planning to start a new on-line search service in April that will enable users to customize the sites to their own individual needs.
Diversification has reduced I.D.G.'s dependence on magazine advertising sales. In 1996, for the first time, more than 50 percent of I.D.G.'s revenue came from sources other than advertising sales, like research subscriptions, books and trade shows, Mr. Conlin said.
IDG Books, for example, has been successful since it was started in 1991 with the publication of "DOS for Dummies" by Dan Gookin, which sold 2.5 million copies. The company has since published more than 450 "For Dummies" titles in the series, from technology subjects to "Sex for Dummies" by Dr. Ruth Westheimer.
In view of these trends, Mr. Shaffer of Technologic Partners questioned Mr. McGovern's desire to take the company public in pieces. "I'd be much more interested in owning I.D.G. over all," Mr. Shaffer said. "The good thing about I.D.G. is that it's diversified, so if the publishing side doesn't do well, the book division or trade show division will. I'm much less interested in individual units."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrick McGovern, head of the International Data Group, says that the varying units of the company will balance one another's cycles. (Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (72%); CMP PUBLICATIONS INC (63%); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); HUNGRY MINDS INC (58%); ZIFF-DAVIS PUBLISHING CO (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES PUBLISHING (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (75%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TRADE SHOWS (56%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, GLENN; MCGOVERN, PATRICK PATRICK J MCGOVERN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



451 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: 'Irrational Exuberance'

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, seemed to signal to many Americans with one unnerving rhetorical question last December that the boom in the stock market was coming to an end. Now four months later, Mr. Greenspan is gradually providing his own answer: the speculative frenzy that could bring a prolonged market decline is not here yet.
What he has done in recent speeches and Congressional testimony is offer an interpretation of what he meant when he asked whether "irrational exuberance has unduly escalated stock prices." His answer centers on future corporate profits. So far, in his emerging explanation, profits are expected to continue growing sufficiently to justify the boom in the stock market to date. But that could soon change. 
 The explanation is important because Mr. Greenspan's original question -- and his coining of the phrase "irrational exuberance" -- has played a role in unnerving investors, making the stock market rather volatile. After hitting a high in early March, the Dow Jones industrial average fell nearly 10 percent in just over a month, only to bounce back nearly 5 percent last week, its biggest weekly rise in four years.
It was a rare spectacle to have the Federal Reserve chairman publicly jawboning the stock market, particularly when the effort seemed unsuccessful. With last week's rise, the Dow is still up more than 250 points from where it was when Mr. Greenspan first spoke.
But that gain appears to be within the Greenspan ball park. Irrational exuberance only kicks in when tens of millions of Americans, new to stock ownership and never stung by a depressed market, continue to bid up stock prices even after profits are no longer projected to grow fast enough to support the rising share prices.
"The question, essentially, is whether profit margins will continue to increase," Mr. Greenspan said in a recent speech. Various forecasts available to Mr. Greenspan for his recent speeches and Congressional testimony suggest that future profit growth will support the current high level of stock prices. But those forecasts date from March, and new ones could show a slowing in the expected rate of profit growth.
Other Federal Reserve policy makers, although they speak often about what is happening to the economy, were reluctant to answer questions about the stock market. Most consider the subject too sensitive for public comment, but the hesitancy may also reflect differences of opinion within the central bank. The one policy maker who did talk for the record said that investor attitudes that stock prices could only go up may be changing.
"I am sure there is a lot of reassessing going on across the country," said Edward W. Kelley Jr., a Federal Reserve Board governor. "Markets are not a one-way bet, with everyone a winner, and they had come to look like that."
Future profit growth, then, is the key criterion, in the Greenspan view, for stepping over the line into irrational exuberance. Although Mr. Greenspan has not cited any projections that suggest a rate of profit growth insufficient to support stock prices at current levels, such a slowdown is feared by many economists. Some, like Robert Shiller at Yale, argue that earnings and stock prices are already out of sync. When that happens, then millions of Americans cross the line into irrational exuberance, if they continue to drive up stock prices, unmindful of the changed circumstances.
That sort of optimism cannot last; stocks that are too highly priced will inevitably fall, perhaps over a long period, as they did in the mid-1970's. Mr. Greenspan, who is 71, lived through that painful downturn as a top economic adviser in the Ford Administration.
This time, a falling stock market might have a broader impact. Many more Americans own stocks today than in the past, and a downturn could cut deeply into their sense of well-being. The result could be a severe cutback in spending, hurting the economy. For that reason, the stock market has become increasingly important in the deliberations of the Federal Reserve over interest rates -- whether to raise them to slow the economy or lower them to encourage spending and growth.
Until last Monday morning, the Dow Jones industrial average had fallen by nearly 10 percent from its record closing high of 7,085.16 on March 11. There was speculation that so steep a drop might have satisfied Mr. Greenspan's criteria for extinguishing irrational exuberance. But market retreats are not the main criteria. Different guidelines, in the Greenspan scheme, govern whether Americans have slipped over into irrational exuberance, or are still behaving sensibly, keeping stock prices in line with realistic expectations of what corporate America is likely to earn.
Interest rates play a role. There is no point in buying risky stocks that return only 6 percent or 7 percent, when much less risky bonds pay as great a return, as they do today. The key is the return on stocks beyond what bonds might earn, and that extra return is governed by the growth rate of earnings. If they grow sufficiently, then so can stock prices.
The measuring stick in this process is the so-called price-to-earnings ratio. If a corporation's net income is $100 and it has 50 shares of stock outstanding, then its earnings per share are $2. If the stock price is $30, then that price is 15 times the earnings. The actual price-to-earnings ratio of corporate stocks today is close to 20 on average, by some estimates, an unusually high level historically.
The Greenspan concern is that profit growth cannot maintain its pace. A strong economy, for example, could breed higher labor costs, which in turn would cut into profits, unless companies manage to raise prices to offset the higher labor costs or increase the output of each worker to pay for the higher wages. Neither seems likely to happen, so profits seem less likely to grow as much as they have in recent years. And the Fed raised interest rates last month, to slow the economy to discourage wage and price increases.
But a slowing economy can also mean slower profit growth. "We are only at the beginning of this process of turning down the financial exuberance," said Henry Kaufman, an economist and money manager.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997



452 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: The Cure for Growth

BYLINE: By Norbert Walter; Norbert Walter is chief economist of Deutsche Bank.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT

 BODY:
While most countries are striving hard these days to generate growth in their economies, the United States is fortunate enough to be pondering the opposite problem: how not to have too much of it. As a result, the stock market and indeed the entire nation hang on every word uttered by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. People worry about the effect of higher interest rates -- the Fed's strategy for slowing growth -- on their personal investments.
What is truly bewildering, at least to the eyes of an outsider, is how easy it would be for the United States to kill two birds with one stone. Classical textbook economics provides the perfect solution: Cool the economy a bit by making immediate and meaningful budget reductions. 
 The problem is that Republicans and Democrats, after joining forces in the last few years to make deficit reduction a chief priority, are now reluctant to make the cuts. The Democrats are keen to delay deep cuts in spending, while Republicans want to take advantage of the favorable economic climate to emphasize tax-cutting instead.
Yet not many Americans seem to want or expect any tax cuts right now. Furthermore, as virtually everybody agrees, at some point even the gloriously performing United States economy will encounter another recession -- perhaps within the next few years. Budget-cutting will surely be more painful at that point, as tax revenues slow along with the economy.
As finance ministers and budget officials all over the world know, the ideal time to administer pain in the economy is right after an election. This gives voters ample time to forget the hardships, because the economy will have sufficient time to bounce back before the next national campaign.
Using budget cuts rather than interest rates to tame growth is also sounder economic policy. Higher interest rates stifle business investment and make home mortgages more costly.
What's more, only budget-trimming, with its reduced Government borrowing, can bring down real interest rates permanently -- ideally, to where they were before the debt-ridden 1980's. (Real long-term interest rates are now at about 4 percent -- a full percentage point higher than they were in the 1960's, when the American economy was doing as well as it is now.)
From an international perspective, too, budget-cutting is better than interest rate increases.
These days, prospects for global growth are closely intertwined with how the United States manages its economy. In the hyperlinked financial markets, there is a danger that if interest rates soar in the United States, rates in other countries will also rise.
The emerging markets in Latin America and Asia are critical areas that could suffer as a result. To attract investors, nations in these regions would have to raise their own rates.
Most of the world -- with growing budget deficits and high unemployment in many places -- can only dream of having the problem faced by the United States: whether to sacrifice political expediency for reasons of economic timing. The big European countries face the much less appealing prospect of having to control their public-sector budgets at a time when growth is weak.
In Washington, all it would take is for the politicians to apply the time-tested principle of imposing limited pain as early in a new term as possible, preferably while the economic sun shines brightly. Then the United States can further extend its lead in the global race to create the most vibrant national economy.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (James Victore)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); TAX LAW (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



453 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: A Stage for All the World of Asian-Americans

BYLINE: By MEL GUSSOW 

 BODY:
When Tisa Chang's father, Ping-Hsun Chang, was a young man in China, he and Chou En-lai went to Nankai University in Tianjin and acted together in school plays. Often they did Ibsen, Ms. Chang said in an interview. Her father played male roles while the future Communist leader specialized in female roles. This favorite family story may have been the start of Ms. Chang's fascination with theater and with her campaign to end stereotypical casting.
As the founder and artistic director of the Pan Asian Repertory Theater in Manhattan, she has weathered many theatrical storms, but in the 20 years since she began the company she has not veered from her first principle: "to promote opportunities for Asian-American actors to be seen in context of who we really are and what we are capable of achieving as artists." 
 The key to Ms. Chang's goal is in the company's name, which, she said, is intended to be "inclusive of all Asia," and all Asians in America. In practice, this means she has presented works by a galaxy of hyphenates: Chinese-American, Japanese-Canadian, Filipino-American, Japanese-Cambodian. "I'm very interested in theater works that draw on indigenous forms of music, movement, oral history and puppetry," Ms. Chang said. "I'm less interested in writers writing in the Western fashion."
At the same time, she has enlarged her canvas by offering Asian perspectives on Shakespeare and other classics. "A Doll's House" was transplanted to Long Island: Nora Hwang slammed the door on her self-involved husband, the manager of a suburban bank.
Although the quality of the work has varied, the purpose has never been in doubt, and there have been many high points, including the dynamic "Shogun Macbeth" and R. A. Shiomi's shaggy private eye spoof, "Yellow Fever," a paradigm of how a Hollywood genre can be reinterpreted in Asian-American terms.
At first the focus was on domestic plays that dealt with "family angst." That was followed by works that confronted political questions, including the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II and the student uprising in Tiananmen Square.
In recent years there has been a turn toward the fanciful and away from the naturalistic. Beginning tomorrow, Ms. Chang will present "Shanghai Lil's," a musical by Lilah Kan and Louis Stewart set in a nightclub in San Francisco's Chinatown during World War II, at St. Clement's on West 46th Street.
Before there was a Pan Asian company, Asian-Americans had severely limited opportunities in the theater, usually, she said, to play "beautiful, exotic Oriental women or Asian houseboys." Mako's East West Players had opened doors in Los Angeles in the mid-1960's, but New York was still a difficult place for Asian-Americans to find roles.
Ms. Chang was born in Chongqing and grew up in New York, where her father was consul general for Nationalist China. She began her career as a dancer in the chorus of musicals and then acted on Broadway in "The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel." In its earliest form, the Pan Asian Repertory Theater was in residence at La Mama as the Chinese Theater Group. Using her own money, Ms. Chang expanded her company, and eventually moved it to St. Clement's.
Many of her actors have been with her since the beginning. "We were all in the same boat," she said. "They bought into my dream very readily." In typical Off Off Broadway fashion, actors split the box office income. "We would go into debt and have to take extreme measures," she said. "I can't tell you how many summers I would go on unemployment."
Gradually grants began to come in, beginning with $5,000 from the New York State Council on the Arts. "Yellow Fever" in 1982 was an artistic breakthrough, but when the company moved the play for an Off Broadway run, it lost money. Ms. Chang sold a diamond ring, a family heirloom, to keep the work going.
That play, however, gave the company certification. As other small theaters foundered, Pan Asian grew, offering center stage to actors like Donald Li, Lucy Alexis Liu, Ron Nakahara and Freda Foh Shen. Ms. Chang also welcomed such playwrights as Philip Kan Gotanda, Mr. Shiomi and Mr. Hwang, old friends who once played together in a rock band.
Just as she credits her father with awakening her interest in theater, she credits her mother with encouraging her interest in bookkeeping and problem solving. "Most artistic directors are not financial wizards, or even like the financial aspects of running a company," Ms. Chang said. "I'm Chinese, so I love math and numbers."
Pan Asian now has an annual budget of $500,000 but still operates with a small staff. In recent years the troupe has toured in Egypt and South Africa. Heartened by Ms. Chang's example, similar companies have meanwhile sprung up around the United States, including Mr. Shiomi's Theater Mu in Minneapolis.
The most discouraging period for her was in the early 1990's, when Ms. Chang broke up with her husband, Ernest Abuba, one of Pan Asian's stalwarts as actor, playwright and director. They have since divorced but are now amicable.
In 1992, Ms. Chang angrily protested the casting of non-Asians in Asian roles in the Broadway production of "Miss Saigon," accusing the producer, Cameron Mackintosh, of "insensitivity and arrogance." As a result, she said, "people in the commercial theater considered me self-serving or incendiary." But later several of her actors did appear in "Miss Saigon," notably Raul Aranas, who took over the leading role of the Engineer. Until recently Mr. Aranas was the standby to Lou Diamond Phillips in "The King and I."
Despite occasional setbacks, Ms. Chang is sanguine about her future. "There's been a tenacity and some would say a stubbornness on my part," she said. "I used to think that life was hills and valleys. Now I think of it as an ongoing spiral. The momentum is to forge forward and upward." With "Shanghai Lil's" she is on her "third spiral."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tisa Chang, artistic director of the Pan Asian Repertory Theater. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%); CANADA (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (78%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: PAN ASIAN REPERTORY THEATER PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN ASIAN REPERTORY THEATER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%); CANADA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; ASIAN-AMERICANS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ASIAN AMERICANS (93%); THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MEN (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); WRITERS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); HISTORY (65%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (65%); FILM GENRES (61%); WORLD WAR II (60%); 

PERSON: GUSSOW, MEL; CHANG, TISA

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



454 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 2; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1550 words

HEADLINE: When the Audience Joins the Cast;
Popularity of Interactive Theater Is Changing the Face of Off Broadway

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS 

 BODY:
The strains of "Volare" pierced the West Village catering hall festooned with garish statues and strings of blinking lights. "Someone just shook my hand just like my Uncle Phil does!" Toni Marie Vaccarino, a recent law school graduate from Wayne, N.J., said as she demonstrated the backhanded grasp. Then she pulled her chair closer to the banquet table to avoid the elbows of a klutzy wedding guest on the dance floor who was busy mangling the fox trot.
The band struck up the inevitable "Macarena." Soon, a man in a shiny suit organized a conga line. And after a buffet dinner of baked ziti on paper plates, an unsteady woman in a skintight strapless minidress approached Ms. Vaccarino's table. 
 "Come on!" she said, slurring her words. "Who's gonna dance with me?"
Ah, the theatah!
Once, all that was required of a playgoer was a willingness to watch. But these days, in more and more productions, audiences are being asked not just to sit through an act, but also to be part of it, as Ms. Vaccarino discovered during her night at "Tony 'n' Tina's Wedding," the hugely successful Off Broadway audience-participation show that recreates a church wedding and a reception and has just celebrated its own 10th anniversary.
That invisible "fourth wall" that actors and directors speak of is, in fact, coming down in Off Broadway theaters all over town. From Tony and Tina's tacky nuptials to the two-hour Jewish guilt trip of "Grandma Sylvia's Funeral," from the boot-camp religion class of "Late Nite Catechism" to the existential variety show of "Blue Man Group," spectators are eagerly rising from their seats to dance with Tina, eat bagels with Sylvia's mourners, take orders from a bossy nun or be made sport of by three men dyed teal.
Call it participatory, environmental or interactive: whatever the category, it's a style of theater so popular that it is changing the face of Off Broadway.
Nonprofit theater companies like the Manhattan Theater Club, the New York Shakespeare Festival, the Vineyard Theater and the New York Theater Workshop continue to be havens for work by serious playwrights. But increasingly, commercial Off Broadway theaters are turning away from straight plays and musicals and booking interactive shows and other forms of pop entertainment, from dance pieces like "Stomp" to conventional revues like "I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change."
This season, the Off Broadway offerings have included "Late Nite Catechism"; "Tap Dogs," a dance show from Australia; "The New Bozena," a post-modern clown show, and "The Tokyo Shock Boys," featuring a quartet of young Japanese performers doing their best to gross out the crowd.
 
A Reflection Of Broader Trends
From an economic standpoint, the phenomenon is a reflection of two trends: the decline of the straight play as a commercial venture, not only on Broadway but in the smaller houses off Broadway, and the desire of theater owners and producers to attract a new audience of young people, tourists and others who do not attend the theater regularly. (As a sign of how tough times are for traditional theater, only one Off Broadway play, "How I Learned to Drive," transferred from a nonprofit to a commercial theater this season.)
What this audience responds to, however, is still unpredictable. For example, "Late Nite Catechism," which opened in the basement of a Lutheran church on West 46th Street in the fall, has found an audience, but "The New Bozena," which opened a month later at the Cherry Lane Theater, disappeared swiftly. It may have been a question of content and quality of performance, but the fact is that the demise of "The New Bozena," in which the clowns mingled with the audience, was an exception. Most of these productions, and particularly the audience-participation shows, settle in for long runs.
"It seems the more people who see it, the bigger our audience gets," said Joe Corcoran, the producer of "Tony 'n' Tina's Wedding," the show that set off the everybody's-an-actor craze and now has spinoff productions running around the country. "Here, you get out of it what you put into it. We allow people to participate in having their own good time."
 
Theatergoers, Too, Wear Costumes
This new wave of interactive shows integrates theatergoers even more completely, allowing them to become virtual cast members. At shows like "Tony 'n' Tina's Wedding," in fact, ticket buyers actually line up in costume, pretending to be long-lost cousins of the groom or defrocked parish priests.
Audiences seem only too happy to be swept up in the fantasy, even if it means subjecting themselves to the whims of a capricious authority figure. At a recent performance of "Late Nite Catechism," for example, middle-aged men and women giggled like schoolchildren as the nun in charge, played by Maripat Donovan, demanded that they stand up and answer arcane questions about obscure saints. (In a poll initiated by Ms. Donovan, about half the audience members said they were graduates of Catholic schools.)
"O.K.," Ms. Donovan said, zeroing in on a woman who was chewing on candy during the mock catechism. "Give me those suckers."
The woman, convulsed in laughter, handed over the package. "Thank you, Sister," she said, as if she were 12 again.
Interactive theater really isn't new. Every play with a narrator, from Thornton Wilder's "Our Town" to Neil Simon's "Brighton Beach Memoirs," acknowledges the playgoer's presence to some degree. Improvisatory troupes ask spectators to provide the inspiration for sketches. And environmental theater in the 1960's brought actors into even closer physical contact with audiences.
Today, as any visitor to "Cats" can attest, actors roam theaters as freely as ushers. (Actually, this can have unanticipated consequences; a Manhattan woman recently sued the producers of "Cats," saying that an actor portraying a cat named Rum Tum Tugger jumped on her seat and gestured obscenely.)
Glenn Wein, a creator of and actor in "Grandma Sylvia's Funeral" (he's Gary, the sweaty, nebbishy grandson who worships Sylvia), said that in the age of cable and computers, audiences yearn for tangible connections. "People become very proprietary about interactive plays," he said after a recent performance at the Soho Playhouse, where the show -- a protracted memorial service by a dysfunctional family for its dead matriarch -- has been running since October 1994. "There's a whole lot of people out there craving intimacy."
 
Actors Find It Hard To Get Other Parts
Mr. Wein, who grew up in Miami and acted in "Tony 'n' Tina's Wedding" before striking out on his own in the world of catered theater (during intermission, the mortuary serves three kinds of cream cheese), believes that interactive plays have not received the respect they deserve. Mostly, he says, wider acceptance of the form has been thwarted by critics and purists in the theater industry, who desire nothing less than to be accosted in midplay by an actor playing a drunk mourner who can't find her way back to her seat.
Actors in his show (many of whom are not yet members of Equity, the actors' union) have a hard time getting other parts, Mr. Wein says, because casting directors don't take work in the show seriously.
"I've had actors tell me that casting people say, 'Call me when you're in a real play,' " Mr. Wein said. "This has hurt my company so deeply, all these people sitting around in their offices looking down their noses at my wonderful cast. The theatrical community has not embraced us at all."
No matter, really. Audiences have. Shows that ask spectators to become peripheral performers find a very willing audience in New York. At "Late Nite Catechism," Ms. Donovan said, she has absolutely no problem coaxing adults out of their seats and demanding that they rack their brains for details learned long ago about Opus Dei or the holy days of obligation.
"Only in New York have I had so many people want to be in the play," said Ms. Donovan, an actress who has also performed the piece in Chicago and Boston. "They're lively and loud; there's no holding back."
In watching spectators watch productions like Ms. Donovan's, and seeing how quickly people from all walks of life accept the artificial situations and play along, it becomes clear how much these shows have in common with karaoke bars. Success is not so much dependent upon the ability to tell a story as upon the actors' acumen in drawing audiences into the elaborate game.
In that sense, the shows' popularity derives from a rejection of traditional dramatic values. "There's no script," said Matthew McPhillips, a lawyer from Manalapan, N.J., who attended "Tony 'n' Tina" with Ms. Vaccarino. "Every night it's different. In other plays, it's the same thing every night."
Perhaps the highest achievement an interactive show can claim is making pretense and reality indistinguishable. Mr. Wein recalled that one evening a man in the audience had a heart attack during the show, and a team of emergency medical technicians had to be summoned. After he was resuscitated, the theater burst into applause. And then, one of Mr. Wein's actors overheard a young woman in the audience deliver the performance's coup de grace:
"That scene," she said to a friend, "went on too long."

GRAPHIC: Photos: TONY 'N' TINA'S WEDDING -- The festivities go on, above and left; LATE NITE -- Maripat Donovan's catechism class. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 
Chart/Photo: "A Zoo? Not Really. Some Rules of Engagement"
At "Blue Man Group," tie a strip of white crepe papers around your head, bandana style, and the message is, "I'm ready to join the cast." The streamers are given out once the audience is seated. But wannabes be warned. "Somebody can be wearing a dozen of these strips, around their wrists and neck too, and if the vibes aren't right, the Blue men won't approach them," said a spokeman for the show. Blue Men, he said, "as aliens from inner space," can be shy.
 At shows like "Late Nite Catechism" or "Tony 'n' Tina's Wedding," everybody can perform. In fact, said a representative of "Late Nite," would-be volunteers sometimes behave as if they were auditioning. But most actors, he noted, "can tell by body language those who want to get involved, as well as those who want to but shouldn't. It's a sixth sense, based on having done it a lot."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EMG (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

COMPANY: MAN GROUP PLC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (50%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); RELIGION (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (87%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); MUSICAL THEATER (76%); DANCE (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); FESTIVALS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (69%); DRAMA LITERATURE (64%); WRITERS (50%); 

PERSON: MARKS, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



455 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
The Big Cash Register

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER 

 BODY:
Is there anything left but money, the market, the bottom line and more money, plus money, money, money?
Not in New York, friend. In New York people are standing on street corners comparing their mutual funds. In restaurants they are sitting over third-rate meals at $60 a plate and gossiping about apartments renting for $10,000 a month. 
 Two-bedroom limousines deposit and collect people at Broadway theaters where ticket prices run up to $75 per seat.
Men walk the streets with mobile telephones pressed to their faces. They are talking to London, Zurich, Hong Kong, Wall Street, Tokyo about the latest price of gold, diamonds, industrials, durables, perishables, pork bellies, potato chips, francs, beans, mustard, chopped onions.
Alan Greenspan's finaglings with the cost of money are being passionately debated. Everyone says he will soon raise interest rates again to stop more people from getting jobs. This serves a double purpose. Bankers will feel more comfortable about money while welfare clients will enjoy an exhilarating challenge, now that they have to find jobs or do without money.
In a lighter, wittier, more insouciant age, an age less consumed by money, someone would write an amusing song about such unmoneyed oddballs:
"Yes, we have no more money,
"We have no more money today. . . ."
This song will not be written in New York, however, unless market surveys and focus-group studies show it will sell enough records to rake in dollars by the million.
Up at Elaine's, writers with $300,000 advances for unwritten books grouse that their publishers are threatening lawsuits to get their money back. Down at the Four Seasons, publishers say it doesn't make sense to fool with writers who can only do $20,000 books when by paying millions to best-seller producers they can make millions more.
In New York, books -- like films, music and paintings -- have become "product" with which some conglomerate's cost center is expected to fatten its bottom line.
Rubes from out of town stand in Rockefeller Center gaping at the thought of all that money it cost General Electric to buy NBC. Then they go over to Sixth Avenue and gape about all that money Westinghouse paid to buy CBS.
Visitors whose gapers are not exhausted move on to gape at ABC, which cost the Disney money octopus all that money.
People who are all gaped out lie on hotel beds stunned by thoughts of how much money, money, money it must have cost Rupert Murdoch to create the Fox network to adorn his worldwide conglomerated money-making machine.
Lying on those hotel beds, outof-towners surfing the TV cost centers of these four gigantic corporations are badgered to buy cars, beer, denture adhesives, heartburn nostrums, furniture, telephones, toe-fungus preventatives, frozen waffles, exercise machines, meal-in-a-can provender for health-conscious geezers, hearing aids, tennis shoes, Caribbean cruises . . .
In East Side wine shops East Siders with overflow money sticking out of pockets and ears are paying $140 a bottle for French wine. And buying it by the case. Some by the gross.
Down in Wall Street's fabled canyons young men in wide suspenders toss around hundreds of millions of other people's money, money, money and debate, between buys and sells, whether to upgrade the second car to a Porsche or a Ferrari.
Meanwhile, from all over the land communications pour in from C.E.O.'s inquiring whether any small countries with pleasant climates are for sale to buyers to whom price is no problem. With the money these birds pull down these days, the trophy house and trophy wife are no longer enough to satisfy their needs to thump themselves on the chest. They now need trophy countries.
Moving through so much money leaves a person marveling at how rich you can become in this place, especially if you have a good agent, good investment banker and good lawyer.
It makes you think of famous old-timers who sold too cheap. In New York you think of Judas selling out for 30 pieces of silver and want to weep. Poor guy didn't even ask for any stock options.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ZURICH (77%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (77%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ZURICH (77%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (87%); PUBLISHING (86%); NETWORK TELEVISION (86%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); TRENDS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (74%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); PORK (73%); FROZEN FOODS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); FOCUS GROUPS (65%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (57%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



456 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Iraqi Plan to Defy Flight Ban Sends Crude Oil Prices Higher

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Crude oil prices rose yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange after Iraq announced that in defiance of a United Nations ban, it would fly pilgrims home from the Muslim holy site of Mecca, Saudi Arabia.
On other commodity markets, wheat rose, while coffee retreated. 
 The Iraqi Government announced yesterday that it would use helicopters to ferry people who made the pilgrimage to Mecca back to Baghdad, the Iraqi capital. Earlier this month, Iraqi Airlines flew pilgrims to Mecca, prompting protests from the United States and speculation that the violation of the flight ban imposed after the Persian Gulf war would lead to American retaliation.
Any conflict is unlikely to seriously disrupt the flow of oil from the Persian Gulf, said Gerald E. Samuels, an analyst with ARB Oil Inc. But traders were taking no chances yesterday.
Crude oil for May delivery rose 47 cents, to $20.38 a barrel. May unleaded gasoline rose 1.31 cents, to 62.80 cents a gallon, and May heating oil rose eight-hundredths of a cent, to 55.48 cents a gallon. Natural gas fell 2.1 cents, to $2.06 for 1,000 cubic feet.
Wheat prices rose to an 11-month high on the Chicago Board of Trade on continued concern about the extent of frost damage to the hard red winter wheat crop.
Wheat futures initially rose sharply on concern that up to 300 million acres of winter wheat were lost to freezing temperatures two weekends ago in Kansas, Texas and Oklahoma, the nation's largest wheat-growing states. Winter wheat, which is used in making breads and pastas, supplies 70 percent of the nation's annual needs.
Prices retreated, however, after farmers said the extent of the damage might not be known until the harvest starts in late June. Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman said a tour of Kansas wheat fields showed wide variations in crop conditions.
Wheat for July delivery rose 2.75 cents, to $4.4725 a bushel, the highest since May 24, 1996.
Coffee futures finished lower after the end of a nationwide strike by port workers in Brazil offset the start of a strike by truckers in Colombia that halted shipments. The May coffee contract fell 1.65 cents, to $2.15 a pound, on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; UNITED NATIONS CME GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; MECCA (SAUDI ARABIA); SAUDI ARABIA; IRAQ (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ISLAM OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (92%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (92%); FUTURES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); WHEAT MARKETS (91%); RELIGION (91%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (91%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE (89%); WHEAT FARMING (89%); GASOLINE (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); HAJJ (78%); AIRLINES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); FERRIES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); HELICOPTERS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); WEATHER (65%); STRIKES (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



457 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Mark Firms Against Dollar Amid Concerns About Euro

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against most leading currencies yesterday as the mark strengthened on concern that European monetary union might not proceed as planned.
Concerns over monetary union grew after President Jacques Chirac of France announced the dissolution of Parliament and called an election for the end of May, a year early. Analysts said the move was an attempt to secure greater parliamentary support for unpopular budget-cutting measures aimed at qualifying France for the single currency. 
 But early elections could backfire, currency traders said, costing the ruling coalition seats and derailing Mr. Chirac's efforts to qualify the country for monetary union. A poll by the Sofres polling agency suggested that the ruling coalition's majority in Parliament would shrink after the election.
The European monetary union plan calls for, beginning in 1999, a single currency, the Euro. Signs that the union will not start on schedule typically lift the mark, which is Europe's dominant currency.
"If you throw E.M.U. question marks out there, people buy marks blindly," John Barlow, currency trader at Bayerische Landesbank Girozentrale, said.
Paul Farrell, a manager of foreign exchange sales at Chase Manhattan Bank, said: "The dollar has been a victim of mark strength. If you had been expecting E.M.U. to go forward on track or on schedule, you probably took a step back today."
The mark also rose against the French franc, Japanese yen, Italian lira and other currencies.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar settled at 1.6978 marks, down from 1.7119 on Friday. The dollar fell to 125.31 yen, from 125.88. The pound rose to $1.6353, from $1.6332.
 The dollar fell against the yen as traders grew concerned that finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven industrial nations, who will meet this weekend, would indicate the dollar was strong enough. "They may not call for an outright stop, but they could try to slow the extent of the dollar's appreciation," Robert Katz, a currency trader at MTB Bank, said.
The seven nations are the United States, Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Canada and Japan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN MONETARY UNION (EMU); EUROPEAN UNION BAYERISCHE LANDESBANK (55%); MTB BANK (52%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN MONETARY UNION (EMU); EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE; FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (97%); MONETARY UNIONS (96%); ELECTIONS (90%); EURO (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGETS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); BRITISH POUND (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); BUDGET CUTS (56%); 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



458 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Alan Gruber, 69, Retired Insurance Executive

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Alan R. Gruber, who took charge of the Equity Funding Corporation after it collapsed in the 1970's in a big financial scandal and rebuilt it into the Orion Capital Corporation, a thriving insurance holding company, died Friday, the company announced. He was 69.
Mr. Gruber, who was Orion's chairman and chief executive until he retired in January, felt ill last fall during a business meeting and soon learned that he had a brain tumor, according to John McCann, a friend of Mr. Gruber and a lawyer at Donovan & Leisure. The cause of death was complications after surgery, the company said. 
 Equity Funding was a hot insurance stock in 1973 until it was disclosed that much of the company's financial results were fraudulent and had been built on masses of bogus life insurance policies.
"When Equity Funding cratered, it was an enormously complicated bankruptcy," Mr. McCann recalled. "No one thought that they would get anything out of the company, but even the stockholders got some money back."
The rehabilitation of the company and its subsequent success was all the more surprising, Mr. McCann said, because Mr. Gruber "was not a professional turnaround guy, but an incredibly bright guy who approached everything on a basis of understanding the people on the other side."
Mr. Gruber was selected in a 1976 search to be the president of Equity Funding while it was still in bankruptcy proceedings.
He once wrote that "an early chore of some importance, to my mind, was the selection of a new name for the company."
"Sitting in Equity Funding's office, on Avenue of the Stars, at the corner of Constellation Boulevard, in Los Angeles' Century City development, the consideration of heavenly names seemed apt," he wrote. "Orion came to the fore and the description of Orion as 'a mighty hunter of great beauty and enormous strength' convinced me that the name was the right choice."
The court valued Orion at about $11 a share, but its stock traded at less than half that, prompting talk of takeovers, which Mr. Gruber rebuffed, saying that until someone put a price in writing he was not obligated to take an offer to the board.
Under his leadership the company grew toward $3.5 billion in assets. A dollar invested in Orion when it emerged from bankruptcy in 1976, with dividends reinvested, is worth more than $41 now, a 20 percent annual return, the company said. Orion Capital has earned more than a 15 percent return on average invested equity for each of the last nine years. Orion subsidiaries sell workers compensation, professional liability, specialty automobile and other insurance.
Mr. Gruber graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1945, when he was 17. He earned a master's degree the next year and in 1948, at Harvard University, a second master's degree.
He then worked as an executive for Xerox, Heublein, Triumph American and the International Basic Economy Corporation before taking charge of Orion.
He had homes in Scottsdale, Ariz., and North Salem, N.Y.
Mr. Gruber is survived by his wife Harriet; a daughter, Marian Gruber Montgomery of Irvington, N.Y.; two sons, James of Montreal and Steven of Scarsdale, N.Y.; his mother, Esther Gruber of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.; a sister, Althea Laundau of Alamosa, Colo., and 11 grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan R. Gruber (John Atashian)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: CCOW (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORION CAPITAL CORP (92%); ORION AS (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); EQUITY FINANCING (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (77%); LIFE INSURANCE (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); DIVIDENDS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%); CITY LIFE (66%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (56%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: GRUBER, ALAN R; JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY ALAN R GRUBER (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



459 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Lease Space Popular In Grand Central

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO 

 BODY:
The restoration of Grand Central Terminal is more than a year away from completion. But already, prospective stores and restaurants are lining up to secure the 180,000 square feet -- twice the space available before the make-over -- in the Beaux Arts landmark.
Peter Glazier, owner of the upscale Monkey Bar, has snagged one of the four prime restaurant locations along the terminal's balconies, while Jerome Kretchmer, owner of Gotham Bar & Grill, is close to signing another. 
 Other tenants that have signed leases or are negotiating include Banana Republic; Next, a high-end British clothier; Caviarteria, a champagne and caviar bar; Starbucks, a coffee shop; a Turkish restaurant; a watch store, and an optical shop. A market, where commuters can pick up produce, breads and cheeses, is also planned. In all, 120 leases are expected to be signed between now and the restoration's scheduled completion in late 1998.
"There's tremendous demand," said Alan B. Friedberg, a real estate investor and developer who is a member of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's board, which approves the tenants. "The economics is good because this is a captured audience. You've got the potential for 500,000 people coming through here a day. That's hard to beat."
The retail space, which will rent from $50 to $225 a square foot, depending on size and location, is being modeled on the enormously popular Union Station in Washington. A team of brokers and planners is hoping to capitalize on Grand Central's newly polished interior to attract both New Yorkers and foreign visitors alike. "It's going to be a major tourist attraction," Mr. Friedberg said.
 LISA W. FODERARO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL (NYC) RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (63%); 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



460 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Critics Rise Up Against Environmental Education

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21

 BODY:
A generation after the teach-ins of the first Earth Day, environmental education has come of age in the United States.
Today, 31 states require schools to incorporate environmental concepts into virtually every subject in all grade levels. Some even go so far as to require special training in environmentalism for all teachers. High schools are teaching such sophisticated courses in ecology that top students can receive college credit. 
 The maturing of environmental education thrills environmentalists, who see millions of allies growing up in the nation's schools. For unlike any other subject, environmental education not only gives students information, but also encourages them to turn precepts into action outside the schoolroom.
But this state of affairs -- particularly the call to action it promotes -- does not please everyone.
A backlash is developing among people who say the environmental education movement is based on flawed information, biased presentations and misguided objectives. At worst, they contend, impressionable children are being browbeaten into an irrational rejection of consumption, economic growth and free market capitalism.
"When you look at what is happening in environmental education, it sets any reasonable person reeling at the abuses," said Michael Sanera, a policy analyst at the Claremont Institute, a conservative research organization in California. "What the kids tend to get is the catastrophic, doomsday version of environmental problems."
In language equally bold, environmentalists argue that nothing short of the future of the planet is at stake.
"We won't forge a sustainable society until we have nurtured a generation that is imbued by a guiding environmental ethic," said Gaylord Nelson, a former United States Senator who organized the first Earth Day in 1970. Mr. Nelson is now a counselor at the Wilderness Society, a leading national environmental organization based in Washington.
At the heart of the debate is the kind of project under way at Kramer Middle School for Environmental Studies in southeast Washington, where children have built a boat to explore the Anacostia River -- one of the most polluted in the nation.
As Kramer develops its environmental studies program, it is getting help from the Environmental Protection Agency. An E.P.A. official for regional water quality issues has an office at the school, and the agency has given Kramer two grants for environmental studies.
Nancy Berry, the principal of the 250-student school, says she hopes the program will help students develop "an awareness, a consciousness of taking good care of our earth." But that does not imply a political agenda, she said.
"We are not jumping on one specific action, protesting and being adamant about it," Mrs. Berry said. "I'm not going down that activist road at all."
In its solicitations for grant applications, the E.P.A. stresses evenhandedness. "Environmental education does not advocate a particular viewpoint or course of action," E.P.A. guidelines say.
(In the last five years, the E.P.A., with Congressional authority to spend $13 million on environmental education, gave grants to about 1,200 such projects.)
But a report by a conservative research center in Washington, the George C. Marshall Institute, citing half a dozen experts in the field, noted that unlike most schooling from kindergarten through 12th grade, environmental education often expressly encourages students to change their own behavior and that of their society.
"Promoting good personal behavior as a civic responsibility is to be applauded, but promoting a particular kind of environmental activism is not," said the report.
Clearly, environmental groups have encouraged teachers to study the role of advocacy groups.
An example can be found in materials produced by the World Resources Institute, a nonprofit research and policy group in Washington, which has prepared an extensive curriculum package for high schools.
The guide's unit on citizen action tries to teach students about the role of nongovernmental organizations, like the well-known environmental advocacy groups.
"By organizing into groups, they cajole, demand and persuade governments into saving natural resources, building housing for the poor, and halting the logging of ancient forests," the guide says.
One case study shows how a coalition of students collected 100,000 signatures on a petition to Congress calling for steps to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, like carbon dioxide, which threaten to alter the earth's climate.
But nowhere are attacks on the quality of environmental education more forceful than in the denunciation of some of the most widely used teaching materials.
"With few exceptions, I found that textbook treatment of environmental issues is influenced by an ideological view that presents human beings as evil and blames the United States in particular and Western industrial societies in general for every environmental ill," Mr. Sanera wrote in a report on texts used in Wisconsin.
A political scientist who in 1995 led a successful campaign to overturn Arizona's environmental education law, Mr. Sanera is co-author of a new book titled "Facts Not Fear." He is part of a loose network of critics from more than a dozen groups who have been actively promoting their point of view.
Marianne Manilov, director of a pro-environmentalist California group called the Center for Commercial-Free Public Education, called the campaign "carefully masterminded ploys by industries with an anti-environmental agenda." The center has published a 73-page study tracing the activities of critics.
Mr. Sanera said the test of his ideas should be the scientific validity of the specific points the critics make.
Those, too, are ripe for debate.
For example, both "Facts Not Fear" and the Marshall Institute's study criticized textbooks for their treatment of acid rain.
They cite the work by the National Acid Precipitation Assessment Project, a 10-year study that was published in 1990 and says that the problem of acid rain was exaggerated when it first came to prominence. That study, they point out, is rarely mentioned in environmental textbooks describing how acidic air pollution affects the environment.
But other experts said that the critics themselves had presented a skewed picture of acid rain, which is not only widely recognized as a serious problem, but is also being corrected by new air pollution rules.
"Basically, this document is itself a distortion," Michael Oppenheimer, a climate specialist at the Environmental Defense Fund, said after reviewing the chapter on acid rain in Mr. Sanera's book. "If you used this document as an education tool, you would be doing children a disservice."
The North American Association for Environmental Education, after two years of discussions involving more than a thousand participants, has issued detailed guidelines for educators to use in assessing textbooks and other materials.
The first characteristic on the list is "fairness and accuracy."
This means that the materials "should reflect sound theories and well-documented facts," the guidelines say.
"Where there are differences of opinion or competing scientific explanations, the range of perspectives should be presented in a balanced way," the guidelines say.
And the most important indicator of fairness, the guidelines suggest, may be that a range of experts in appropriate fields reviewed the materials or helped to produce them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eighth graders from Kramer Middle School for Environmental Studies in Washington carried the boat they use to explore the Anacostia River. (Amy Thompson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ENVIRONMENT; STATES (US) ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (96%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EARTH DAY (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); ETHICS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); CONSERVATISM (66%); WATER QUALITY (50%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR GAYLORD ANTON NELSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



461 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

HEADLINE: Iranians Protest on a Day When the U.S. Gets Tougher

GRAPHIC: Photo: Washington said yesterday that it had decided to encourage its European allies to impose sanctions against Iran as a way to change that Government's behavior. An American mission is visiting Dutch, German, French and British officials to urge this tougher policy. The European reluctance to confront the Iranians is reported to have weakened since a Berlin court ruling this month linking Iran to a 1992 assassination. But in Teheran, a group of women demonstrated in front of the German Embassy to object to that Berlin decision. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN (59%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (59%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN (59%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (59%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; WOMEN; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ASSASSINATION (86%); HUMAN RIGHTS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



462 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1654 words

HEADLINE: The New Economics Of Higher Education;
Private Colleges Juggle Aid Formulas To Fill Seats With the Top Freshmen

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS

 BODY:
"I loved Tulane," recalled Hillery Martin, a freshman from Los Angeles, about her search for just the right school. "But if I hadn't gotten the scholarship, I probably would have gone to the College of William and Mary."
Those words are music to the ears of Richard Whiteside, Tulane's dean of admissions, whose decision last year to offer smaller merit scholarships to larger numbers of applicants sharply increased both enrollment and tuition income without lowering the academic quality of entering freshmen. "Just because this isn't a business, doesn't mean you shouldn't use good business principles" to meet the university's goals, he said. 
 Ms. Martin's choice also pleased Thomas Williams, a consultant to Tulane and president of the Denver-based National Center for Enrollment Management, a for-profit research firm. The young woman's $10,000 scholarship -- in any other business, it would be called a discount -- brought down the price of a year at Tulane to $18,700, roughly that of William and Mary, a competitor in the tier of schools just below the Ivies. Yet even the discounted tuition she is paying more than covers Tulane's cost of educating an extra freshman. "You need to charge what your market will bear, while keeping a vigilant eye on affordability," said Mr. Williams, whose company is one of a rapidly growing group advising colleges on how to get more bang from a scholarship buck.
Structuring scholarships in much the way airlines devise supersaver fares may seem out of place in the cloistered world of academia. But it is apparently the way of the future, as parents seek better value from their five- or six-figure investments in four-year colleges, and as all but the most selective colleges are forced to focus on the problem of attracting good students without losing revenue. There is nothing wrong with this reshuffle of the financial deck, proponents say. On the contrary, they insist, everybody gains. "Efficiency and equity are not necessarily in conflict," said James Scannell of the consulting firm of Scannell & Kurz in Pittsford, N.Y.
Before the 1960's, the modest store of scholarship aid available was mostly doled out by merit. But as the idea that every high school graduate deserved a shot at college became a fixture of American life, the focus shifted to need. Washington got into the act, creating guidelines for aid and supplying a good chunk of the money through grants, loans and work-study programs.
These days, the difference between the cost of college and what the typical student can afford certainly has not diminished. Nor has the amount of need-based aid flowing to low- and middle-income students. But in an era in which private education again seems a luxury, tuition discounting is increasingly seen by college administrators as a competitive tool for wooing high achievers -- or, in many cases, simply filling classrooms with high school graduates who pay more in tuition than they add to operating costs.
Tulane's scholarship policy illustrates the way the rudimentary science of financial-aid leverage -- what economists call price discrimination -- is altering college-enrollment practices. Tulane faces no immediate financial crisis. But by the early 1990's, administrators were uncomfortably aware that rapidly rising tuition costs were outstripping students' ability to pay.
The sticker price of a Tulane education rose 68 percent more than the cost of living from 1984 to 1994, while the average income of an American gained only 25 percent. To lure high-achieving students from low-income and even middle-class families, the university was forced to "spend" a disproportionate amount of its added revenue on scholarships. Across the decade, its total financial aid budget, excluding government sources, rose by 400 percent, to $44 million. And despite the increased aid, Tulane's competitive position apparently eroded: rather than admit less-qualified students, the school allowed its undergraduate population to fall to 4,830 in 1995 from 5,342 in 1991.
Mr. Williams, the consultant, recommended that the university use data from past years to analyze the admissions "yield" -- the percentage of accepted applicants who actually enrolled -- for each of Tulane's colleges (liberal arts, architecture and engineering) and for various categories like the students' academic standing in high school, the size of merit scholarships offered to them and their financial need.
The results from this simple exercise were striking. In 1995, Tulane's entire merit-based scholarship budget was spent on 111 full-tuition scholarships. And the yield from those scholarships was very high. But relatively few applicants who just missed the cut for these generous merit grants -- and thus received no aid offer at all -- came to Tulane. So last year, Dean Whiteside reduced the number of full-tuition scholarships from 111 to 50 and offered $10,000 discounts (a bit less than half of tuition) to 600 of the most qualified applicants from the pool of 6,400 high school seniors admitted.
More than half of the 600 enrolled. The loss of a handful of elite students who turned down the $10,000 offer but might have jumped at $20,000 was more than offset by the enrollment of larger numbers of still-excellent freshmen with combined S.A.T. scores above 1,350. And while merit-aid outlays went up, so did total tuition income because the class size swelled by 98 students.
That proved to be a worthwhile trade-off, since Tulane had class rooms and dorms to spare. "All we had to do was add a few class sections," Mr. Whiteside said.
Tulane's rejiggering of merit aid offended no one. The only losers, the 61 students who got $10,000 scholarships rather than a free ride, never knew who they were.
But more sophisticated forms of price discrimination are controversial. Many colleges are pumping up aid to students expressing interest in less-sought-after departments and decreasing help for those fighting to get into popular ones. Since Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh has few peers in the sciences, for example, it offers little merit-based aid to budding computer specialists. By contrast, high-achieving applicants in liberal arts are courted with hefty discounts.
Sandra Baum, an economist at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., notes that some colleges are now routinely using merit aid to adjust their male-female mix. Many more are using merit aid to increase the enrollment of blacks and Hispanic students. Vanderbilt University in Nashville, for example, sets aside full-tuition scholarships for the cream of its minority applicants.
As colleges delve more deeply into the art of calculating just the right level of financial aid to woo students, they are discovering that certain variables that have nothing to do with need or academic ability can make a big difference. The Wall Street Journal reported that Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, for example, found that less money was needed to entice applicants who had visited the campus. While Johns Hopkins apparently never acted on the evidence, there are plenty of other benchmarks that could prove useful in formulating aid policies that achieve enrollment goals at minimal revenue loss.
An easy one is geography. In-state applicants are widely assumed to be less sensitive to price than out-of-state applicants. That creates an incentive to offer bigger discounts to out-of-staters -- particularly those with access to high quality, low-tuition public schools like the University of Michigan or the University of California at Berkeley. "Such price discrimination is the next step," Mr. Williams suggested, "and it's almost inevitable."
But the aggressive use of price discrimination makes many educators uneasy. Few colleges, for example, have thus far followed Carnegie-Mellon's policy of encouraging applicants to shop for the best price. "If you received a financial-aid package from us that was not competitive with other offers, let us know," urged a letter from the admissions office to some applicants. And while Dean Whiteside at Tulane plainly glories in the rough and tumble of competing with recruiters at other colleges -- "I want them to say the sucker down in New Orleans ate my lunch," he said enthusiastically ---- he still worries that offering different aid packages to students of equal merit and need would undermine the egalitarian spirit of the Tulane campus.
The yet-thornier issue is whether the sophisticated use of financial leverage will reduce the amount of aid available to needy students.
Certainly the incentive is there. Even students with limited financial resources may be willing to scrimp and borrow to go to the school of their choice if the aid they are offered shrinks. Thus, figuring out students' threshold of pain allows colleges to squeeze a little extra money out of them.
If the incentive is there, so, too, is the moral rationale. "From an economist's point of view," wrote James Day, the president of Hardwick-Day, a Minnesota consulting firm, price discrimination produces the most value for the most people. Thus, "a market in which willingness to pay is the chief arbiter in enrollment decisions benefits society as the ultimate source of equity," he said.
The unanswered question is whether the imperative of the market will increase or decrease access to expensive private colleges for low- and middle-income students. Gordon Winston, an economist at Williams College in Williamstown., Mass., is pessimistic. While merit aid programs at Tulane and many other schools appear for now to have created win-win opportunities, he argues that grinding competition for high-achieving students from affluent families will eventually come at the expense of the needy ones.
"The more of our general subsidy that is targeted to high-income students," he said, "the less there will be for the needy kids."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hillery Martin decided to attend Tulane University after receiving a merit scholarship, a program Richard Whiteside, dean of admissions, right, created last year. (Photographs by Alex Brandon for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Spreading It Around"
Although the published price of a college education has risen sharply in the 1990's, more students are receiving more financial aid, which has helped offset the actual rise the price of attending college. Graph tracks percentage of freshmen receiving discounts and percentage of average tuition discounts, from 1990 through 1996. In addition, graph compares published and actual tuition rates. Data are given for small colleges with low tuition, small colleges with high tuition, and large colleges. (Source: National Assocaiton of College and University Business Officers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TULANE UNIVERSITY TULANE UNIVERSITY (94%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY TULANE UNIVERSITY (94%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; FINANCES; TUITION COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); AIRLINES (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; WHITESIDE, RICHARD (DEAN)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



463 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Off on Light Volume As Traders Await Note Sales

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Treasury prices ended lower yesterday, falling in extremely light trading volume, as securities dealers set up positions before two note auctions this week.
The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell 14/32, to 94 10/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 7.09 percent from 7.05 percent on Friday. 
 Govpx, a bond-pricing service, said $50 billion in securities were traded yesterday, well below normal. With few significant economic reports scheduled for this week, market participants focused on the Treasury's auctions. Securities firms typically sell debt before such auctions to raise yields, making new securities more attractive to buyers and insuring quick distribution of the securities they purchase at auction.
"Just the action of trying to get short for the auctions put pressure on the market," said Ted Ake, senior trader at Everen Securities in Chicago. "You're seeing a ridiculously low amount of volume."
The Treasury will sell $17 billion in two-year notes today and $12.5 billion in five-year notes tomorrow.
In when-issued trading yesterday, the two-year note was being offered at a price to yield 6.45 percent, and the five-year note was being offered at a price to yield 6.75 percent. The Treasury also sold $12.1 billion of three-month and six-month bills yesterday at its regular weekly auction.
The market popped briefly higher in the morning, but began a slow, steady drift downward after running into a technical ceiling.
"It's been a very quiet drift lower on almost no volume," said Patrick Dimick, treasury strategist and trader at UBS Securities.
Bonds ignored the only economic release on yesterday's calendar: a Treasury Department report that showed that the Government posted a budget deficit of $21.32 billion in March, compared with a $47.07 billion deficit in March of last year.
And analysts said the market paid little attention to remarks from Alice M. Rivlin, the No. 2 official of the Federal Reserve, who said in a speech to the Employment Policy Foundation that the Fed was worried about a possible overheating of the economy.
Ms. Rivlin cited evidence of high consumer demand and the beginning of wage increases, which she said would be passed along in consumer prices if the economy kept growing at its current pace.
Weakness in the dollar and a mid-session downturn in stocks also hurt Treasury prices yesterday.
"On top of the uneasiness over the supply tomorrow and Wednesday," said Anthony Karydakis, senior financial economist at First Chicago Capital Markets, "I think it was a combination of the continuing slide of the dollar and the nose dive that equities prices took at midday."
Following are the results of the Treasury's regular weekly auction of three-month and six month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 	 	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	 	Average Price	98.683	97.280	 	Discounted Rate	5.21%	5.38%	 	Coupon Yield	5.35%	5.61%	 	High Price	98.691	97.290	 	Discounted Rate	5.18%	5.36%	 	Coupon Yield	5.32%	5.59%	 	Low Price	98.683	97.280	 	Discounted Rate	5.21%	5.38%	 	Coupon Yield	5.35%	5.61%	 	Accepted at low price	38%	33%	 	Total applied for	$40,047,804	$36,176,808	 	Accepted	$6,094,918	$6,004,311	 	Noncompetitive	$1,333,029	$1,031,530	 	

Both issues are dated April 24, 1997. The three-month bills mature on July 24, 1997, and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 23, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since mid-December 1996. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IAP (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: ICAP PLC (57%); FIRST CHICAGO CAPITAL MARKETS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



464 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: Beer Market Slows in Germany

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: BONN, April 21

 BODY:
The economy is sluggish, unemployment is near a record. But Germans are not drowning their sorrows in beer.
Germans drank 3.26 percent less beer last year than in 1995. And German breweries produced less, remaining in third place behind the United States and China. 
 Michael Dietzsch, president of the brewers association, attributed the drop in beer production and consumption to the sluggish economy and an 11.7 percent unemployment rate, which keeps 4.5 million potential beer consumers out of work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HNG (FRA) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (90%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); 

COMPANY: ACTRIS AG (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; CHINA; GERMANY (95%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; PRODUCTION; BEER BREWERIES (91%); BEER & ALE (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); CONSUMPTION (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE MFG (88%); BEVERAGE MFG (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



465 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Dow Declines 43.34 Points In Dull Session

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks retreated yesterday in a meandering session, as interest rates edged up.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 43.34 points, to 6,660.21, after falling as much as 86 points in the afternoon. The Nasdaq composite index fell more sharply, pulled down by sliding computer shares. The Nasdaq tumbled 18.62 points, or 1.52 percent, to end the day at 1,203.95. 
 Losses were exacerbated by unusually light trading before the Passover holiday, with 394 million shares changing hands. The average for the the last three months has been 499 million shares.
"You've got a bored market that is backing away from rates and mixed earnings," said John Hammerschmidt, a money manager at Turner Investment Partners.
Leading the Dow's decline, United Technologies fell 2 3/8, to 71 5/8, I.B.M. dropped 2 3/8, to 137 3/8, and Philip Morris fell 1 3/4, to 42 5/8.
The Nasdaq was weighed down by sharp declines in computer networking companies.
The shares of 3Com and its planned acquisition, U.S. Robotics, fell after Intel cut prices on a competing networking product.
3Com shares fell 2 7/8, to 26 3/8, and U.S. Robotics lost 5 11/16, to 45 1/16.
Intel announced price cuts on its stackable hub products. Hubs, which are an older form of networking technology, still account for about 20 percent of 3Com's revenue, Chris Stix, an analyst at Cowen & Company, said. Intel gained 1 1/4, to 138 3/8.
3Com plans to buy U.S. Robotics for $6.6 billion in stock.
Among other technology issues, KLA Instruments fell 2 1/8, to 39 5/8, and America Online lost 1 7/8, to 43 1/4.
The prospects for technology stocks may improve, some analysts say.
In a morning conference call, two Morgan Stanley & Company strategists, Byron Wien and Barton Biggs, said they expected stocks to rally further, led by shares of technology companies and consumer multinationals included in Morgan Stanley's "new nifty fifty" list, which includes Gillette and Cisco Systems.
A month ago, Mr. Biggs told investors that technology shares would lag behind the market for the foreseeable future.
Among other issues, Exxon fell 1/8, to 53 3/8, even though the company reported earnings of 87 cents a share, 5 cents above the average forecast. Amoco rose 5/8, to 82, after meeting earnings forecasts of $1.36.
AT&T fell 5/8, to 33, after the company said first-quarter profit from operations fell 24 percent to $1.12 billion, or 69 cents a share. AT&T was expected to earn 70 cents a share, according to analysts surveyed by I.B.E.S. International Inc.
Eli Lilly rose 1/8, to 85 1/8, after the pharmaceutical company reported earnings from continuing operations of 82 cents a share, a penny ahead of expectations.
RJR Nabisco Holdings reported first-quarter earnings of 24 cents a share, beating analysts' forecasts by a penny. RJR Nabisco Holdings fell 1 5/8, to 32 3/8, declining with other tobacco shares.
Autoimmune shares dived 9 1/4, to 4 1/2. The company said its drug to treat multiple sclerosis, Myloral, performed no better than a placebo in final-stage clinical tests.

ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); COWN (NASDAQ) (82%); MS (NYSE) (65%); UTX (NYSE) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%); AOL (NYSE) (53%); LLY (SWX) (50%); LLY (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); INTEL CORP (84%); COWEN GROUP INC (82%); MORGAN STANLEY (65%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (64%); I/B/E/S INTERNATIONAL INC (60%); TURNER INVESTMENT PARTNERS INC (56%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%); AOL INC (53%); ELI LILLY & CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (61%); PASSOVER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



466 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: State Senate Deals Setback To Pension Borrowing Plan

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 21

 BODY:
In a setback for Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, the New Jersey Senate delayed a scheduled vote today on the Governor's proposal to borrow $2.75 billion for the state pension system after Republican legislative leaders said that they did not have the 21 votes needed to approve the plan.
The legislation is expected to come back up for a vote in the Senate next month. But the delay, occurring less than a month after the Assembly also postponed action on the plan, gives opponents more time to lobby for its defeat and Mrs. Whitman's Democratic challengers in this year's gubernatorial race more fodder to keep up their steady criticism. 
 Donald T. DiFrancesco, President of the Senate, had scheduled today's special voting session at the Governor's urging. But even before discussing the plan with fellow Republican lawmakers behind closed doors, Mr. DiFrancesco said, he knew that he did not have enough votes to insure passage today.
"I am not surprised," he said. "It is the first discussion we had. That does not mean that we cannot get the votes out of caucus."
Mr. DiFrancesco said that he believed that eventually there would be enough votes to win approval. The bill, he said, is "very much alive." A half dozen of the Senate's 24 Republican lawmakers have expressed opposition or skepticism about the plan. All 16 Democrats in the Senate oppose it.
Governor Whitman, at a groundbreaking ceremony in Jersey City for a light rail system, said she, too, remained confident that Republicans lawmakers would support her proposal once they studied it further. "At the end of the day, as people examine it more closely, they get more and more comfortable understanding what this is," she said.
All three candidates seeking the Democratic nomination to challenge Governor Whitman have been saying that the borrowing plan is the latest example of how the Governor has mortgaged the future to pay for keeping her promise in the 1993 campaign to cut taxes.
"The Governor has refused to make the difficult decisions on the budget because she found the easier way of borrowing against the future," said State Senator James E. McGreevey, one of the Democrats vying for the nomination on June 3. "Governor Whitman has created a new political category of 'borrow and spend Republican.' "
Senior Whitman administration officials had not anticipated the strong opposition from Republican lawmakers, who are also facing re-election this year, or groups like the League of Women Voters when they first outlined their plan in January.
But the proposal has stirred more debate than any other economic plan that Mrs. Whitman has presented since taking office. The borrowing would help Mrs. Whitman close a gap in her new state budget by reducing this year's state pension payment to $40 million from $687 million. This is the second time since taking office that Mrs. Whitman has lowered state pension payments to help balance the state budget.
Governor Whitman agreed to make changes to her proposal, including a slight decrease in the level of borrowing, and to give in to some demands by labor leaders to help the legislation clear the Senate's budget committee last week.
The administration struck a deal with the Communications Workers of America, the state's largest public employees union, that would slightly reduce pension contributions by state workers over the next two years and guarantee pension benefit levels for state workers with five years on the job even if future pension benefits are reduced.
But the Public Employees Council of the New Jersey A.F.L.-C.I.O., representing several other public employees unions, did not approve the agreement, arguing that it did not go far enough. Now that the Senate has delayed its vote, Charles Wowkanech, the president of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that the unions would seek to negotiate further with the Whitman administration to gain a stronger commitment to reduce layoffs and strengthen state workers' rights over the pension system.
Mrs. Whitman, in her remarks in Jersey City, called upon the lawmakers to act quickly to take advantage of interest rates in the long-term bond market. "If the bond rates go up, then it doesn't become worth doing," she said. "From the perspective of good policy, sound policy, the time to get it done is now, when the market is as strong as it is."
The Whitman administration is seeking to borrow $2.75 billion over 35 years by selling taxable bonds at an 8 percent interest rate with the hope that the state will earn higher interest rates on the pension system's assets once the borrowing is invested to help reduce the pension system's $4.2 billion deficit.
But senior Whitman officials worry that interest rates could climb in the coming month, making the borrowing plan more expensive and possibly not viable.
Mr. DiFrancesco said that he did not feel under any pressure to win quick passage of the proposal. "I am not worried about it because my focus can only be on one thing and that is the merits of this proposal and the ability to get it done," he said. "We are focused on getting this done before June 30."
When told that Whitman administration officials said that the plan might not be viable if not approved soon, Mr. DiFrancesco replied: "Tough. That's life."
He added that perhaps the Senate would begin examining alternate proposals to close the estimated $750 million to $1 billion gap in the state budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1., to make up for the $647 million that the Whitman administration is now relying on with the borrowing plan to reduce this year's pension payment.
"It is part of our budget process to look at alternatives and in this special instance we should start looking a little earlier," he said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS GOVERNORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TAX LAW (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



467 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Court Won't Reconsider Tax Ruling in Favor Of Texaco

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court yesterday left standing a lower court ruling that Texaco Inc. did not owe about $1 billion in taxes. As a result, the oil company said it expected to get a refund of $700 million from the Internal Revenue Service this year.
Texaco said that its first-quarter earnings would benefit by $488 million as a result of the Court's decision not to review the ruling. It will recognize the rest later. 
 Adam E. Sieminski, an oil analyst for NatWest Securities, estimated that Texaco would earn about $434 million in the first quarter before adding the $488 million. Texaco earned $386 million in the first quarter last year.
The oil company said that as it fought the case in the courts, it had made payments to the I.R.S. for potential tax claims and that the amount with interest had totaled $700 million.
Texaco shares rose by 75 cents yesterday, closing at $104.375.
The high court's position could also benefit the Exxon Corporation, which has been involved in a similar dispute with the I.R.S. and has a similar case pending in a lower court.
Exxon said yesterday that the position taken by the Supreme Court in the Texaco case was a "positive development."
The I.R.S. contended that the two companies together owed more than $5 billion in taxes and interest.
The tax dispute goes back to events that occurred from 1979 to 1981. Saudi Arabia decided to break with the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and sell crude oil at lower prices than set by the organization.
Texaco and Exxon were part of Aramco, a consortium of American oil companies that marketed Saudi oil.
The oil companies got what became known as the "Aramco advantage" because they could get Saudi crude cheaper than other companies could purchase it, then sell it to their foreign refining subsidiaries, which turned it into products like gasoline and heating oil.
At the time, prices for gasoline and other refined products were soaring because of the Iran-Iraq war. Prices of crude oil surged to $40 a barrel from $15 a barrel in 1979; as a result, the Aramco companies realized huge profits.
The I.R.S. contended that the companies had realized billions of dollars of extra profits because of a "commercial windfall." The other two big American oil companies in Aramco, Mobil and Chevron, settled with the I.R.S. When Mobil settled in 1995, it said the amount was considerably less than the $300 million that the I.R.S. contended it had owed.
Chevron settled the Aramco issue and all other remaining tax issues with the I.R.S. in 1994 for $550 million.
The I.R.S. maintained that Texaco should shift about $1.8 billion of income from foreign subsidiaries to the parent company; that money would then have been subject to United States corporate income taxes.
The companies argued that the profits resulted from demands by Saudi Arabia to sell the oil below market prices and that they did not seek to avoid United States taxes. They also said that the Government had urged Saudi Arabia to break rank and lower oil prices, and that it knew that this would result in higher profits for refiners.
In a friend-of-the-court brief, Exxon said that the "U.S. Government understood that the policy it urged inevitably would allow refiners to earn additional income as result of their access to lower priced Saudi crude oil."
The Federal Tax Court decided in favor of Texaco and Exxon. In New Orleans, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit upheld the decision, saying that it was the policy of Saudi Arabia that had caused profits to soar at the refining subsidiaries and that the companies did not try to evade taxes.
By refusing to hear the I.R.S.'s appeal yesterday the Supreme Court allowed the decsion of the appeals court to stand. A Justice Department lawyer argued that the decision by the Court of Appeals had provided "a blueprint for the evasion of U.S. taxes." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (93%); XOM (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXACO INC; SUPREME COURT (US); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE ; EXXON CORP; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) CHEVRON CORP (93%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (85%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXACO INC; SUPREME COURT (US); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE ; EXXON CORP; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); HEATING OIL (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: ;SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



468 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Clinton Approves Ban On Burmese Investment
President Clinton has approved a ban on new American investment in Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, because of human rights abuses there, a senior Administration official said. A1 

Chirac Calls Elections in France
President Jacques Chirac of France, left, dissolved the national legislature and called an election for May 25, a year early. Mr. Chirac appealed for support for the agenda that he and Prime Minister Alain Juppe have set for a common European currency, contending that Europe can remain a power only if its currency remains strong. Mr. Chirac's electoral gamble caught the left-leaning opposition parties off guard. A4
 
Continuity the Byword in India
Prime Minister I. K. Gujral took office at the head of India's fourth Government in 11 months, vowing to continue with free-market reforms that have begun to revitalize India's economy and to pursue improved relations with Pakistan. Mr. Gujral, who heads a Cabinet virtually identical to that of his predecessor, H. D. Deve Gowda, stressed continuity. But many Indian commentators predicted that Mr. Gujral would have a brief tenure. A4
 
Zairians Attack Refugees
Avenging what they said was the killing of at least six of their compatriots by Rwandan refugees, Zairian villagers near Kisangani attacked refugees and aid workers. The villagers went on to attack a train loaded with food and then looted an aid program's warehouse. A5 
 
Questions Over Irish Donations
The specter of political influence-peddling arose in Ireland when Ben Dunne, a businessman, told a Government tribunal that he had given nearly $2 million to former Prime Minister Charles J. Haughey. Mr. Haughey denied that he had received any money from Mr. Dunne, the part-owner of Dunnes, a department store. A6 
 
New Uniforms for Hong Kong
A vanguard of 40 officers and soldiers of the Chinese Army arrived in Hong Kong in advance of the switch to Chinese rule. Uniformed but unarmed, the troops gingerly navigated their convoy through the city's formidable traffic. The soldiers crossed into Hong Kong moments after a Royal Navy ship fired a 21-gun salute in Victoria Harbor to honor Queen Elizabeth's birthday; the British troops were later ordered to salute their eventual replacements. A8 
 
Iraq Defying Flight Ban
Iraq said it would defy a United Nations prohibition on international flights and would send helicopters to pick up pilgrims returning from Saudi Arabia. The United States urged Iraq to reconsider, but said it would not shoot down civilian helicopters. The U.N. did not rebuke Iraq for an earlier violation of the no-flight zone, when an Iraqi Airways jet flew pilgrims to Saudi Arabia. A4 
 
NATIONAL A10-16
 
Court Bars Some Suits Over Child Support
The Supreme Court ruled that mothers seeking support from their children's absent fathers were not entitled to sue states for failing to do an effective job of collecting child support. But in an opinion by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, the Court kept open the possibility of lawsuits against states for ignoring specific Federal requirements, like time limits for passing on to families the money collected from absent fathers, as opposed to complying with Federal law in general. A15
 
Use of Electric Chair Allowed
A judge paved the way for Florida to resume its method of execution, ruling that the electric chair does not amount to cruel and unusual punishment. Lawyers for a man who has been sentenced to death had cited a fiery execution last month in challenging electrocution as unconstitutional. A15
 
Barry Shifts on Death Penalty
Marion S. Barry, the Mayor of Washington, long an opponent of the death penalty, said he now favored executing killers of police officers. Mr. Barry said he would submit a bill to the City Council calling for the execution of defendants found guilty of the first-degree murder of on-duty law-enforcement officers. A16
 
Flooding Red River Crests
The Red River crested at about 54 feet in Grand Forks, N.D., nearly twice the flood stage, but it will be at least three weeks before residents can return. And when they do, many will face crushing losses; as much as 90 percent of the city has been inundated. Meanwhile, President Clinton announced plans to visit the area. A1
 
Jury Selection Progresses
The questioning of potential jurors in the Oklahoma City bombing trial ended. Prosecutors and lawyers for the defendant, Timothy J. McVeigh, will now begin winnowing down the 99 panelists until jurors and alternates are seated. A11
 
Aircraft Search Suspended
The military suspended recovery operations of aircraft wreckage in the mountains of Colorado, confident that a missing warplane had been found and that the pilot had not survived. The wreckage has been spotted at an altitude of more than 12,000 feet, up a narrow trough, but snow has been forecast, and it could be days before the Air Force can thoroughly explore the site. A10
 
Drill Sergeant's Defense Begins
Lawyers for an Army drill sergeant charged with rape and sexual harassment set out to demonstrate that his accusers are habitual liars who openly yearned to have intimate relations with him. In a case that has come to symbolize the Army's deep problems in integrating the sexes, defense lawyers for Staff Sgt. Delmar Simpson began their defense by calling witnesses who depicted him as a fine and caring leader. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
2 Teen-Agers Charged In Calculated Murder
Two small-town New Jersey teen-agers were arrested and charged with what officials called the brutal, senseless and calculated murders of two pizza deliverymen who were lured to an abandoned house in Franklin, N.J., a remote area of Sussex County, and shot to death when they drew up in a car. A1
 
Illegal Housing Turns Deadly
As the death toll in a fire that destroyed a house in Maspeth, Queens, climbed to four, city officials said the building had been illegally converted to provide cheap sleeping quarters to struggling immigrants. Firefighters found another body, in addition to the three victims initially discovered after the building erupted in flames. B1
 
Immigration Official Jailed
The former third-ranking Immigration and Naturalization Service official in the agency's Newark office was sent to jail for three and a half years for accepting cash and gifts in exchange for helping people enter the country illegally. B4
 
Vote Delayed on Whitman Plan
In a setback for Governor Whitman, the New Jersey Senate delayed a scheduled vote on her proposal to borrow $2.75 billion for the state pension system after Republican legislative leaders said that they did not have the 21 votes needed to approve the plan. The legislation is expected to come back up for a vote in the Senate next month. B6
 
SCIENCE TIMES C1-9
 
SPORTS B12-17
 
2 African Marathon Winners
In the Boston Marathon, Lameck Aguta of Kenya won the men's open race, becoming the seventh straight Kenyan to place first. And in the women's race, Fatuma Roba of Ethiopia became the first reigning Olympic champion -- male or female -- to win Boston in the next year. B13
 
ARTS C11-16
 
Endowment Chief to Leave
Sheldon Hackney, who has led the National Endowment for the Humanities during a period of reduced budgets, told the White House that he would not seek another term as chairman and would return to the University of Pennsylvania to teach history. C11
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-22
 
Texaco Expects Tax Refund
Texaco said that it expected to get a refund of $700 million from the I.R.S. because the Supreme Court left standing a ruling that the oil company did not owe about $1 billion in taxes that the I.R.S. had sought. D1
 
Poor Quarter for AT&T
AT&T reported disappointing financial results for the first quarter and warned that the next quarter would also fall short of expectations. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES B10
 
Andres Rodriguez
The leader of a coup in Paraguay in 1989 that ended more than three decades of dictatorship by Gen. Alfredo Stroessner, he was 72. B10
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Mr. Netanyahu survives, insider trading, reckless arms sales, diplomatic parking tickets.
 
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Russell Baker.
 
Chronicle B18
 
Chess C5
 
Crossword C16
 
Weather C9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (95%); FRANCE (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDIA (93%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); EUROPE (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); RWANDA (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (95%); FRANCE (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDIA (93%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); EUROPE (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); RWANDA (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ELECTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); APPEALS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); ARMIES (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); BRITISH MONARCHS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); NAVIES (67%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); AIRLINES (64%); HELICOPTERS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



469 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Loses 43.34 Points; Nasdaq Is Hit Harder
Stocks retreated in a meandering session, as interest rates edged up. The Dow Jones industrial average, partly recovering from an 86-point slide, closed down 43.34 points at 6,660.21.
The Nasdaq composite index fell sharply, losing 18.62 points, or 1.52 percent, to 1,203.95. It was weighed down by drops in several computer networking companies after Intel cut prices on a competing networking product. Intel, though, gained 1 1/4, to 138 1/2. [Page D10.]
 
Treasury prices fell in extremely light trading, as dealers set up positions before two note auctions this week. The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell 14/32, to 9410/32, pushing its yield up to 7.09 percent. [D20.] 

Gains Seen In Big Oil Earnings
Big oil companies are generally expected to report strong first- quarter earnings, because of strong refining profits. Indeed, Exxon reported a 15.4 percent gain for the quarter, to $2.18 billion, or 87 cents a share. Its shares rose, then retreated. But Amoco reported a 7.4 percent drop in earnings to $674 million, or $1.36 a share. Still, that was better than forecast, and its shares rose. With crude oil prices falling, analysts say that the industry will have a tough time keeping up a high level of profitability. Market Place. [D10.]
 
Cordiant Splits Into Two Companies
Cordiant P.L.C., the world's sixth-largest advertising agency holding company, announced a radical restructuring, splitting into two separate companies -- Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising Worldwide and Bates Worldwide. Its goal is to improve the business performance of both. Advertising. [D9.]
 
ITT Industries to Buy Goulds Pumps
ITT Industries agreed to buy Goulds Pumps for $815 million, or $37 a share, in cash, forming the largest maker of industrial pumps for chemicals, water and other fluids. In addition, ITT Industries will assume $119 million of Goulds's debt. [D4.]
 
Eli Lilly Profit Rises 11%
Eli Lilly & Company reported that its earnings rose 11 percent to $432.6 million, or 79 cents a share, slightly exceeding analysts' forecasts in the first quarter. New products helped offset the first-ever sales drop of the company's best-selling antidepressant Prozac. [D2.]
 
Ford to Build an Electric Car
Ford plans to build a prototype electric car that gets its power from a fuel cell rather than from batteries; it is expected to travel substantially more miles than electric cars that run on chemical batteries. Ford said the car could be ready for evaluation by 2000. The car would qualify as a zero-emission vehicle under California's clean-air rules. [D2.]
 
AST Research to Cut 1,000 Jobs
AST Research said that it would cut more than 1,000 jobs -- a quarter of the computer maker's worldwide work force -- because of first-quarter losses of $110 million, or $1.90 a share, far more than the loss of $1.15 a share that analysts had expected. [D10.]
 
Tobacco's Influence In Politics Wanes
Public sentiment has turned against the tobacco companies, and that change has emboldened political opposition to the industry, particularly at the state and local level. One evidence of the industry's new vulnerability, despite its money and influence, was last week's disclosure that tobacco executives are negotiating a settlement that could place the industry under tougher Federal regulation and cost it hundreds of billions of dollars. [A1.]
 
Dollar Falls Against Mark and Yen
The dollar generally fell, as the mark strengthened on concern that European monetary union might not proceed as planned. In late trading in New York the dollar settled at 1.6978 marks, down from 1.7119 on Friday, and at 125.31 yen, from 125.88. [D17.]
 
Crude Oil Futures Prices Rise
Crude oil futures rose, with the contract for May delivery up 47 cents, to $20.38 a barrel, after Iraq said that, defying a United Nations ban, it would fly pilgrims home from the holy site of Mecca, Saudi Arabia. [D17.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,660.21, down 43.34
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.09%, up 0.04
The Dollar -- 125.31 yen, down 0.57

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); ITT (NYSE) (82%); LLY (SWX) (81%); LLY (NYSE) (81%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (82%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); ITT CORP (82%); ELI LILLY & CO (81%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (66%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (66%); INTEL CORP (57%); BATES WORLDWIDE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (86%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (86%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); AUCTIONS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); EMISSIONS (68%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (67%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (64%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (64%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (64%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (63%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (60%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



470 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Corporate Consciences

BYLINE: BY DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
Toys 'R' Us, based in Paramus, N.J., initiated a code of conduct addressing child labor and wage issues. Cooperative Home Care Associates, of the Bronx, trained former welfare recipients to provide home-care services to elderly and disabled patients in the Bronx and Manhattan.
They are two of the nine companies to be awarded the 1997 Corporate Conscience Awards by the Council on Economic Priorities, a Manhattan nonprofit think tank that analyzes the social and environmental records of corporations. 
 The awards, to be announced today, are in their 11th year and carry no monetary prizes. But the Council hopes that the honor -- which can go to organizations in any country -- will encourage other corporations to mix business with community involvement, environmental stewardship, equal employment opportunity and international human rights.
Other winners include: Community Pride Food Stores, for serving the inner-city communities of Richmond, Va.; Kellogg Company, for investing $11 million in the last four years to foster opportunities for black men and their families; and Novo Nordisk A/S, of Denmark, the world's largest producer of insulin, for providing extensive environmental reporting.
 DAVID W. CHEN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: K (NYSE) (83%); NVO (NYSE) (69%); NOVO.B (CPH) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (83%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (83%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (69%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (59%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (59%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); DENMARK (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES KELLOGG CO (83%); NOVO NORDISK AS (69%); TOYS 'R' US INC (59%); COOPERATIVE HOME CARE ASSOCIATES INC (58%); COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES (83%); COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES (83%); COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); DENMARK (51%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (90%); CHILD LABOR (78%); FAMILY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); CITY LIFE (66%); EMPLOYMENT (53%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



471 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Don't Blame Social Studies for History's Demise;
Testing Stifles Students

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Facing a Fearful Test, Pencils in Hand, Butterflies in Stomach" (news article, April 18): It's terrible that we allow standardized testing to create dread and anxiety in children. Educators, of course, must assess children's progress, but they can rely more heavily on alternative assessments, such as samples of students' actual work. 
 A concern about children's feelings may seem a bit sentimental today. Our political and educational leaders constantly tell us that our task is to prepare children for a highly competitive economy. I believe this attitude is very unfair to children. As a developmental psychologist, moreover, I am convinced that we must focus on children's feelings if we want to promote intellectual development.
It is when children become deeply enthusiastic about tasks that they think fully and creatively and their minds expand. To the extent that standardized testing undermines children's enthusiasm for learning, we must develop alternatives.
 
WILLIAM CRAIN
New York, April 20, 1997
 
The writer is a professor of psychology at City College, CUNY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); HISTORY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (73%); 

PERSON: CRAIN, WILLIAM (PROF) MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



472 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: 2 Held in Thrill-Killings of Pizza Men

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
Two small-town New Jersey teen-agers were arrested yesterday and charged with what officials called the brutal, senseless and elaborately plotted murders of two pizza deliverymen, who were lured to an abandoned house in a remote area of Sussex County Saturday night and shot to death in their car.
The victims appeared to have been chosen randomly, their wallets and cash untouched. Officials said the slayers' motive -- if there was one -- may have been the thrill of killing. 
 "They just wanted to see what it would be like to kill somebody," said one law-enforcement official.
Sussex County investigators said the killers had called four pizza parlors before finding one willing to deliver to an isolated spot in Franklin, a hamlet in the northwest corner of New Jersey where domestic trouble and shoplifting are the usual police-blotter items. The gunmen were waiting in the dark when the deliverymen arrived at the ramshackle house sometime after 10:30 P.M.
Reconstructing the crime from shell casings, bullet holes, shattered glass and other evidence, investigators said that the passenger-side window was apparently rolled down so two cheese pizzas could be handed over, and the assailants opened fire with .45- and .22-caliber pistols.
The victims were both shot repeatedly in the head and upper body. Their car then rolled 30 yards down the road and veered into the edge of a marsh. There, officials said, the victims were both pulled from the blood-spattered car, laid face down on the ground and each shot again in the back of the head.
The Sussex County Prosecutor, Dennis O'Leary, called the murders chilling and unlike anything in his experience. "Any homicides I've been involved with, even as senseless as they appear, were rooted in some motive you could place some logic behind," he said. "This appears to be a particularly senseless act. There's nothing to indicate they cared much who the deliverymen were."
The final shots were like an execution, said William Geffken, the chief of detectives for the prosecutor's office, even though the victims may already have been dead. An hour after the shootings, a motorist saw the car nosed into the bog with its headlights on and called the police, who found the bodies of Georgio Gallara, 24, of Augusta, N.J., and Jeremy Giordano, 22, of Hardyston.
Investigators later traced calls made Saturday night to Tony's Pizza and Pasta Restaurant -- Mr. Gallara was the owner and Mr. Giordano his employee -- on Route 94 in Hamburg, just north of Franklin Borough, and to four other pizza shops in the area. All had come from a pay phone at a Dunkin' Donuts shop in Franklin. People who had been there Saturday night identified two youths who made calls from the pay phone.
At 2:30 A.M. yesterday, the police arrested Thomas J. Koskovich, 18, at his home in Franklin, and three hours later a 17-year-old was picked up at his home in nearby Vernon Township. His name was withheld by officials because he is a juvenile, but neighbors and acquaintances identified him as Jay Vreeland. Both were charged in the murders and with possession of .45- and .22-caliber handguns stolen in a recent burglary and found at Mr. Koskovich's home.
Mr. Koskovich was arraigned before Judge Lorraine C. Parker in Superior Court in Newton and ordered held at the Sussex County Jail in $1 million bail. His lawyer, David Nufrio, a public defender, entered a plea of not guilty but did not contest the bail. The 17-year-old appeared in a closed proceeding and was ordered held at a jail for juveniles.
Both suspects were described by acquaintances and the authorities as troubled youths: Mr. Koskovich, who brought guns to his vocational school before he dropped out two weeks ago and who has lived with grandparents since his parents divorced; Mr. Vreeland, who has a record of arrests, including one for shooting pellet guns at people recently, who broke up with a girlfriend not long ago and, though still in vocational school, seemed to be leading an aimless existence.
The murders and arrests stunned residents of Franklin, Hamburg, Vernon and other small communities in the rolling hills of largely rural Sussex County, where unemployment is high, opportunity limited and poverty present but largely hidden among the natural beauty of forests and lakes in northwest New Jersey.
In sharp contrast to the profiles of the suspects, friends and relatives of Jeremy Giordano and Georgio Gallara said that the victims were both unmarried, hard-working, friendly young men whose lives could not be measured by money, academic achievement or business accomplishments, but were made meaningful by countless little things that they did every day for their neighbors.
"Jeremy was always volunteering to help me, shoveling snow or chopping ice outside my store in winter," said Donna Rockafellow, the owner of Donna's Boutique, a few doors down from Tony's Pizza in a small strip mall called the Hardyston Mercantile on Route 94. She said she went into Tony's every day for lunch. She said of Mr. Gallara: "He walked with a bounce. He was a sweet man. He was always giving us extra treats, powdered pastries, appetizers, and never charged for them."
Just across the highway, Mr. Giordano lived with his father, Joseph; mother, Loretta, and two sisters. He graduated from Wallkill High School in 1994, and on the living room mantle was a plaque for wrestling. "He didn't do that well, but he tried like hell," said his father, eyes brimming with tears. "Somehow this whole thing has to impart a meaning, a lesson for people."
Friends of Mr. Gallara said he had graduated from High Point High School in Sussex County in 1990 and lived with his parents. "He was a wonderful person," said Cecelia Ciaccio, 25, a cousin and classmate. "He would do anything for anyone. He loved his family and had a million and one friends."
John Veltri, a wrecking company owner, said Mr. Gallara opened the pizzeria several years ago and, trying hard to build business, had been willing to deliver anytime, anywhere. That, apparently, was a factor in his death.
Investigators said Mr. Vreeland, a student at the Sussex County Vocational-Technical School, and Mr. Koskovich, who had dropped out of it, made a series of calls to pizzerias from the pay phone at the Dunkin' Donuts shop on Route 23 in Franklin between 10 and 10:30 P.M. Saturday.
Three shops said they did not deliver, and a fourth, the Inn-Pasta Family Restaurant, declined to deliver because the caller sounded suspicious. Tim Kiester, the manager, said the caller said he had just moved into his house and could not give a phone number, and was even vague about the address. But Mr. Gallara agreed to deliver two cheese pizzas to 196 Scott Road, on a lonely rural lane west of Franklin.
He and Mr. Giordano set out shortly before 10:30 P.M., driving south on Route 94 and east on Route 631, then turning onto Scott Road. A sign there says: "Road Closed. Bridge Under Repair." After passing a cluster of homes, the road winds through an unpopulated and dreary landscape: a company that makes holding tanks for septic systems, a tumbledown farmhouse, a cemetery.
A mile up the road, in a depression out of sight of the surrounding countryside, they found the place, a desolate old house with broken shingles on the roof and sides, shattered and boarded-up windows, a sagging porch and an untended overgrown yard: a mausoleum out of Poe. It had been empty for a decade, people down the road would recall.
"The location was thought out in advance," Mr. O'Leary, the Prosecutor, said, saying it had been chosen for its remoteness.
The assailants were waiting in the dark at the curb, investigators said, and when the passenger-side window was rolled down, apparently to pass pizzas through, the gunmen opened fire through the window, striking both victims repeatedly in the head and upper body. Most of the shell casings were found at the curbside.
The car, pointed north, rolled 30 yards beyond the house and veered off into a bog, officials said. The victims may have been dead, officials said, but they were pulled out anyway, laid face down on the ground and shot through the back of the head, execution style.
Mr. O'Leary said the victims still had their wallets and cash, and the pizzas were left uneaten. He called the killings "cold blooded," "senseless" and baffling. "Even the most heinous murders usually have some semblance of a motive, even if it's not a rational one," he said.
Eight shots were fired, seven from a .45 and one from a .22, all at close range, officials said. Weapons of those calibers were found at Mr. Koskovich's home. Both had been stolen in a burglary two weeks ago at a sporting goods shop in Franklin, they said.
After the arrests yesterday, Mr. O'Leary described the suspects as friends, but said he did not know how long they had known each other. He also said that Mr. Vreeland may have known Mr. Giordano, but he said that was a mere coincidence in a small community where most people know one another.
Buddy Duziak, 17, a junior at the vocational school, said Mr. Koskovich had quit school two weeks ago. "He would bring shotguns in all the time," Mr. Duziak said. "We all thought he was trying to be tough."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 1997, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Articles on Tuesday and in some editions yesterday about the killing of two men who were delivering pizzas in Franklin, N.J., misspelled the given name of one victim. He was Giorgio Gallara, not Georgio.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas J. Koskovich was led from court yesterday after being charged with luring pizza deliverers to their deaths. Valerie Giordano, left, was comforted by a friend, Kathy Prestia, at the site of her brother's killing. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. A1); A bouquet was left at the door of Tony's Pizza and Pasta Restaurant in Hamburg, N.J. The owner, Georgio Gallara, and an employee, Jeremy Giordano, below, in a 1994 high school photograph, were killed on Saturday. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Map of New Jersey Showing location of Franklin: A fatal ambush of pizza deliverers was in a remote area of Franklin. (pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (60%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (74%); 

COMPANY: TONY'S PIZZA AND PASTA RESTAURANT (NJ) DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: TONY'S PIZZA AND PASTA RESTAURANT (NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; SUSSEX COUNTY (NJ); FRANKLIN (NJ); ; HAMBURG (NJ); ; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (74%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SHOOTINGS (90%); MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); SHOPLIFTING (73%); 

PERSON: VREELAND, JAY; KOSKOVICH, THOMAS J; GALLARA, GEORGIO; GIORDANO, JEREMY; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997



473 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: America's Future Is Tied Closely to Hong Kong's

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The future of Hong Kong is, as you say in "Speak Up for Hong Kong" (editorial, April 18), a "compelling human drama." Having just returned from a fact-finding mission to that magnificent city, I can attest to that. 
 But there are far more practical reasons for the United States to monitor developments in Hong Kong carefully.
First, the United States has $15 billion to $20 billion worth of investments in Hong Kong. They could be placed in serious jeopardy if a crackdown on human rights resulted in political instability.
Second, China has made it clear that, after Hong Kong and Macao are reunited with the mainland, Taiwan would be next.
If China succeeds in restricting human rights and marginalizing pro-democracy forces in Hong Kong without a Western response, it may be encouraged to take a more aggressive approach to the reunification with Taiwan. This might involve the United States in a dangerous situation.
Finally, Washington is legally obligated by the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act to support democracy and human rights in Hong Kong.
Your editorial says, "It is not clear what America can or will do if China proves determined to crush Hong Kong's freedoms." But we have just witnessed how seriously China takes something as esoteric as a resolution before the United Nations Human Rights Commission.
That, coupled with modulated responses involving trade, high-level visits and international economic institutions, provides the United States with a variety of resources with which to try to help keep Hong Kong free.
 
WILLIAM F. SCHULZ
Executive Director
Amnesty International U.S.A.
New York, April 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); TAIWAN (92%); MACAO (79%); 

COMPANY: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL USA TELECOM (53%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (59%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (59%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (59%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (59%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; CHINA; HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); TAIWAN (92%); MACAO (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: SCHULZ, WILLIAM F

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



474 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Growth Offers Best Medicine for U.S. Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Norbert Walter's "The Cure for Growth" (Op-Ed, April 21) would cut Government spending to cool the economy and thus avoid a rise in interest rates. But is this cure necessary? My answer is no. 
 Mr. Walter ignores the well-known reality that changes in Government spending programs are too blunt an instrument to deal with short-run problems of excess demand.
But the biggest flaw in Mr. Walter's article is his failure to recognize that the United States economy is not overheating.
There are few signs of inflation, wage growth reflects productivity gains, and Government budget deficits are being cut by revenue inflows enlarged by accelerated economic growth. Government spending programs are already under restraint, so that revenue growth has reduced the Federal budget deficit to low levels, below even optimistic forecasts.
With his focus on cuts in spending programs, which involve legitimate issues of social policy, Mr. Walter has overlooked the most obvious conclusion one can draw from today's economic scene: Growth is the cure.
 
LEON KOROBOW
Great Neck, N.Y., April 22, 1997
 
The writer was an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); 

PERSON: KOROBOW, LEON; WALTER, NORBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



475 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Jumps Against Mark On German Growth Outlook

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar recovered sharply against the mark yesterday after an important group of German economists predicted that the dollar would rally in coming months.
The dollar also benefited from official Japanese comments suggesting that major central banks would not enter the markets to stop the dollar's rise against the Japanese yen. 
 "This market does like to test the toleration level of the central banks" on the dollar said Seth Garrett, a director of foreign exchange at Credit Suisse First Boston. "And we have yet to find that level."
A group of six leading German economic research institutes lowered their 1997 forecast for German economic growth by a quarter-point, to 2.25 percent. The report indicated to traders that the Bundesbank was unlikely to raise interest rates soon.
 "I don't see a strong economy in Germany and the fundamental picture is much better" in the United States, said James Powers, a vice president at Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale.
The German institute also predicted in its semiannual report that the dollar would trade at an average rate of 1.80 German marks in 1998.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar settled at 1.7163 marks, up from 1.6353 marks on Monday. The dollar also rose to 126.35 yen from 125.31 yen. The pound fell to $1.6343 from $1.6978.
The dollar was helped in early Asian trading when Finance Minister Hiroshi Mitsuzuka of Japan told Parliament not to expect aggressive support for the yen at a meeting of the Group of Seven industrial nations this weekend in Washington.
Mr. Mitsuzuka said the meeting would probably produce a statement similar to one at the February meeting in Berlin, which simply said the group would deal with excessive currency movements as appropriate.
"The market took that as a sign the United States and Germany don't care about the strong dollar as much as Japan does," Mr. Powers of Westdeutsche Landesbank said.
Yet investors refrained from making aggressive bets on the dollar ahead of the meeting.
Comments from a Swiss official helped accelerate the dollar's rise against European currencies, dealers said.
The vice chairman of the Swiss National Bank, Jean-Pierre Roth, said he saw no reason to expect Swiss interest rates to move in either direction in the near term. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SNBN (SWX) (63%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); WESTLB AG (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (95%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BRITISH POUND (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



476 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
Fresh Approach Rejuvenates Former Mobil Building on 42d Street

BYLINE: By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
In mid-1995, leasing efforts at 150 East 42d Street, the former Mobil building, had run out of gas. Despite a recent new tenant, more than 70 percent of the 42-story, 1.6 million-square-foot office building was vacant -- and it had stood largely unoccupied since the Mobil Oil Corporation left for Virginia in 1989. Vacancy rates in the Grand Central neighborhood, in comparison, were less than 20 percent.
The recession of the early 90's was partly to blame. But brokers were saying that the owner, the Hiro Real Estate Company, had not helped: It had not modernized the 40-year-old building, was not marketing it efficiently, took too long to approve deals and refused to cut rents. In addition, the lease on the ground under the building -- the land is owned by Goelet Realty -- was to expire in 2013. Hiro had not extended it, and companies were hesitant to consider a building whose future was indefinite. There was little or no interest in a building that had once housed a major corporate headquarters. 
 Things have changed. Last month, the Bayerische Vereinsbank, the fourth-largest bank in Germany, leased six floors, 136,684 square feet, bringing the occupancy rate to almost 89 percent. And two other leases out for signing will make the total nearly 93 percent. Bayerische Vereinsbank, which is based in Munich, followed several other major companies that had taken space in the building, among them Pfizer Inc., Gruner & Jahr and American Airlines.
Why the turnaround? The end of the recession and a renewal of interest in leasing on East 42d Street certainly helped. The renewal created a growing scarcity of huge blocks of contiguous space in the area, blocks that the former Mobil building, because of its enormous vacancies, could provide.
But there was much more to it than that.
"They took a building that was dated and made it current," said Stuart Eisenkraft of Williams Real Estate Inc., who with his colleague Troy Giammarco represented Bayerische Vereinsbank in its leasing deal. "They were very market oriented, very user friendly, very attuned to what a sophisticated tenant's hot buttons were. They allowed a flexibility, in terms of expansion options. They targeted triple-A tenants, the top level, and brought the building's systems up to snuff to attract them."
Mr. Eisenkraft was referring to Frank V. Ward, Hiro's chief operating officer, and Michael Laginestra and Scott Gottlieb of Insignia/ESG. Mr. Ward was hired in July 1995 to turn the building around, and Mr. Laginestra and Mr. Gottlieb are the brokers he brought in to help make the necessary changes and to market the building aggressively.
"The first thing that changed the perspective of the real estate community was the extension of the ground lease to 2028," Mr. Ward said. That extension showed Hiro's commitment to the building and positioned it for long-term tenancy, he said.
Hiro, the United States investment subsidiary of Takaragumi, a Japanese real estate company controlled by the Honzawa family, sent to New York two of the owner's sons, Masahiro and Yukihiro Honzawa. "Once the principals came here, we were able to make decisions in a few hours, and that gave us credibility," said Mr. Ward, who before moving to Hiro had been chief financial officer of HRO International Ltd., an owner, manager and developer of high-rise office buildings. Hiro also embarked on a $15 million renovation that included the mechanical systems, the elevators, a new lobby and a new concierge desk.
The brokers opened their data base, "found all the appropriate potential tenants looking for space, and re-presented the building to them," Mr. Laginestra said. The goal, and the result, he said, was "big-name tenants, triple-A rated bondable tenancies."
Pfizer, whose headquarters are down the block at 235 East 42d Street, began leasing space last June and has signed up for 388,523 square feet. Some of the space was for housing Pfizer employees during renovations of the company's headquarters, but Mr. Gottlieb said that the new space was also being used on a permanent basis for growth.
In October, Gruner & Jahr USA Publishing, which includes such magazines as Family Circle, McCall's and Parent, leased 173,073 square feet. The same month, American Airlines leased 42,918 square feet for its Sabre Group Inc. reservations system and other units. Heller Financial, a financial lending company, took 81,299 square feet.
Total office space leased in less than two years (not counting the leases still out): 822,497 square feet.
"And FCB is taking another floor," Mr. Laginestra said, referring to the FCB New York advertising agency, which had moved to the building several months before Mr. Ward and his team came on board.
"In the building's tower, we've achieved Park Avenue rents, in the mid-$40's a square foot annually," he said. "Which is appropriate, because the space and the views are commensurate with Park Avenue buildings." The tower space is largely occupied by Pfizer.
Annual rents in the rest of the building, he said, have averaged in the low $30's a square foot, above the Grand Central area's average of $28.
The building was built in 1954 and 1955 by Mobil, which used it as headquarters until its move. In 1987, Hiro -- which also owns 650 Madison Avenue, at 60th Street, and 100 Broadway, across from Trinity Church -- bought, for $240 million, the right to operate and lease out the building.
And now, Mr. Laginestra said, there is little left to lease. "There's 13,000 square feet on the fourth floor, 14,000 on the 25th floor, and two-and-a-half tower floors," he said. "And we have nine offers on the tower floors."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Laginestra, left, Frank V. Ward and Scott Gottlieb led a turnaround at 150 East 42d Street. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (66%); PFE (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (66%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (66%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (54%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HIRO REAL ESTATE CO MOBIL OIL CORP (72%); PFIZER INC (66%); GRUNER + JAHR AG & CO KG (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HIRO REAL ESTATE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (70%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING PROPERTY LEASES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



477 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Diosdado Macapagal, 86; Led the Philippines

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: MANILA, April 22

 BODY:
Diosdado P. Macapagal, the President who introduced the first tentative land reform law in the Philippines, died on Monday. He was 86.
Mr. Macapagal, the country's fifth President, was defeated in 1965 by Ferdinand E. Marcos, whose subsequent authoritarian rule lasted 20 years. 
 Mr. Macapagal first won election in 1949 to the House of Representatives from his home province, Pampanga, north of Manila. In 1957, he became vice president in the administration of Carlos P. Garcia, whom he defeated in 1961 for the presidency.
As chief executive, Mr. Macapagal yielded to pressure from the International Monetary Fund and liberalized foreign exchange and import controls.
He also devaluated the peso in an effort to stimulate the sagging economy by increasing sugar exports. But domestic manufacturers were hurt by the devaluation, and unemployment rose.
In 1963, his Government passed a land reform act finding that the occurrence of landless peasants was "contrary to public policy and shall be abolished." But inadequate appropriations and opposition from landlords resulted in little change.
During his term, Mr. Macapagal shifted the nation's independence day from July 4, the date of the country's independence from the United States in 1946, to June 12, when Filipino patriots in 1898 declared independence from nearly 400 years of Spanish rule.
That 1898 declaration of independence was never realized, because the United States took control of the Philippines after defeating Spain later that year, and used military force to defeat the swelling independence movement.
Mr. Macapagal graduated summa cum laude from the law school of the University of Santo Tomas in Manila. He also received doctorate degrees in law and economics.
Mr. Macapagal's daughter, Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, is a prominent senator who is seen as a possible candidate in next year's presidential election. Another daughter, Cielo Macapagal-Salgado, is vice governor of Pampanga. He is also survived by two sons, Arturo and Diosdado Jr.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); DEVALUATION (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FARM LABOR (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); 

PERSON: MACAPAGAL, DIOSDADO P GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



478 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Minnesota Mining's Earnings Up 13% on Strong U.S. Sales

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, April 22

 BODY:
The Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company said today that its earnings rose 13.3 percent in the first quarter, aided by economic strength in the United States.
Net income increased to $410 million, or 99 cents a share, from $362 million, or 87 cents a share, a year ago. On average, analysts had expected profit of 98 cents a share. 
 The company said the strong dollar, which reduces profits denominated in other currencies when they are converted into dollars, reduced per-share earnings by about 5 cents.
On the New York Stock Exchange, 3M shares jumped $4.125, to $87.375.
Quarterly sales were up 7.1 percent, to $3.71 billion, from $3.47 billion a year earlier.
"They had an extremely strong March," said Alex Henderson, a Prudential Securities analyst. "That's a function of the economic backdrop in the U.S., where gross domestic product is expected to have grown about 4.2 percent in the first quarter."
 The company's products include Post-It notes, Scotch brand adhesive tape, sandpaper, industrial adhesives and drugs.
United States sales rose 12 percent, with all the gain coming from increased unit volume. Internationally, unit sales gained 11 percent, but lower prices and the strong dollar resulted in a gain of only 3 percent.
Growth in unit sales was strongest in the United States, the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America.
The company also improved its productivity. It spun off many of its less profitable businesses last summer, including its operations that made computer floppy disks, X-ray film and photographic film.
 "We're off to a good start for the year," said L. D. DeSimone, the chairman and chief executive. "We continue to expect a solid operating performance for 1997 as a whole, despite further strengthening of the U.S. dollar and continued economic softness in much of Western Europe."

GRAPHIC: Table: "Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co. (MMM,N)"

Qtr. to Mar. 31	1997	1996	%Ch	Sales	3,714,000,000	3,468,000,000	+7.1	Net inc.	410,000,000	362,000,000	+13.3	Sh. earn	0.99	0.87	 	Sh. out.	416,600,000	418,500,000	 	
 
Results are for the first quarter.
 
Yesterday's closing price: $87.375
up $4.125 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (84%); MMM (NYSE) (84%); MMM (FRA) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (84%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (84%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (67%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO 3M CO (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (67%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS MFG (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



479 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Emerging Bond Markets Suffering Reversal

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Emerging bond markets in nations from Mexico and Brazil to Poland and Russia, which have provided nice returns for many risk-taking investors, are suffering their worst reversal in a year. And analysts say the downturn could get worse because they expect the Federal Reserve to push interest rates higher later this year.
But instead of arguing that investors should stick it out -- waiting for a rebound that many forecast is down the line -- some strategists are suggesting that investors take defensive positions by shifting into cash, floating-rate securities or even short-term money market securities that are denominated in local currencies. 
 Whether investors are doing this already is not clear. But there has been a net outflow from mutual funds specializing in fixed-income investing in emerging markets for the last six weeks, through April 16, according to AMG Data Services.
The 45 funds do not include some of the larger global funds that also invest in emerging markets but the string of weekly net withdrawals is the longest since the beginning of 1995 and has lead Marco Santamaria, vice president of fixed-income research at ING Barings, to conclude that investors are showing less appetite for risk.
This reversal of inflows comes after a surge in prices that took emerging market bonds up 8.1 percent in the first two months of the year, outstripping the junk bond market. Now they are up just 1.4 percent, according to the J. P. Morgan's Emerging Market Bond index.
"It is not the time to buy this market," said Lawrence J. Brainard, the global head of emerging market research at Chase Securities. "As far as interest rates are concerned there is bad news ahead."
Emerging markets are where more and more individual investors and money and mutual fund managers are going to seek bigger returns. The flow of private capital into these countries has jumped to $255 billion in 1996 from $57 billion in 1990, according to the Institute of International Finance, a Washington-based association of the world's major financial institutions.
But despite the strong showing over the last several years, emerging markets are subject to quick and very steep corrections, especially in bonds. There was a quick one last March and a quick and steep downturn after Mexico suddenly devalued the peso at the end of 1994.
In a report issued yesterday, the Institute of International Finance predicts that private capital investment in emerging markets will slow slightly this year. The institute's managing director, Charles Dallara, said that the flow could slow further because of uneven economic performance in developed countries, a slackening of financial reforms in emerging market countries and a lessening of the influence of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
In addition, the flows into bond markets seem to be slowing as more money moves into equity markets in those countries.
And some emerging market analysts, including Gary Evans of UBS Securities, are worried that a move by Japan and Germany to tighten their monetary policies along with the United States would undermine emerging markets even further by drying up a lot of the money that has been sloshing around the world looking for places to invest.
If anything, this correction is the work of Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. He may not have kept stocks in line but he may have taken some of the irrational exuberance he has worried about out of emerging markets.
The downswing in the market began on Feb. 26, the day that Mr. Greenspan gave his surest hint to date that the central bank would raise short-term interest rates soon, as the Fed did a month later.
But Mr. Greenspan, according to Mr. Evans, added extra downward impetus by suggesting that the recent rush into high-yielding securities suggested that investors were assuming there was an "unrealistically low risk."
Mr. Evans sees what he calls a "cyclical bear market in a long-term bull trend" and cautions investors.
Desmond Lachman, the global coordinator for emerging market research at Salomon Brothers, is also pessimistic for the near term. He said that another force driving prices down was sales by funds, like high-yield United States junk bonds, that dipped into emerging markets to improve their performance.
The loss of this buying, he said, has taken away a lot of the extra push that had emerging bond markets outperforming other high-yielding securities earlier in the year. But Mr. Lachman said he did not expect any of that buying to return until investors believe the Fed has finished raising short-term interest rates to slow the economy and restrain inflation. He is betting on two more rate increases of a quarter of a percentage point each, which means the outlook could remain unclear until summer or later.
However, Jose Luis Daza, the head of emerging markets research at J. P. Morgan, said investors should sit tight. He said he did not think emerging markets would turn around until the Fed finished raising rates. But he argues that getting out now may mean gains are missed later because "history shows that this market rallies very quickly."
 
Treasuries Gain
Treasury prices gained in light trading yesterday, helped by a solid Treasury auction, a strong dollar and speculation that a deal on the Federal budget would soon be struck.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 1 7/32, to 94 28/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 7.04 percent, from 7.09 percent on Monday.
The Treasury's $17 billion sale of two-year notes was met with stronger demand than expected. The notes were awarded at a high yield of 6.46 percent. The bid-to-cover ratio, which represents the number of bids compared with the amount of securities, was 2.43 to 1, higher than the average of 2.36 to 1 over the last year, said Greg Jones, an economist with Briefing.com, a market analysis firm in Menlo Park, Calif.
Today the Treasury plans to sell $12.5 billion of five-year notes and tomorrow $13.75 billion of one-year bills. In when-issued trading late yesterday, the five-year note was being offered at a price to yield 6.73 percent, down from 6.75 percent the previous day.
Following are the results of yesterday's two-year Treasury note auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price	99.843	High Yield	6.460%	Low Yield	6.400%	Median Yield	6.445%	Accepted at low price	49%	Total applied for	$41,366,413	Accepted	$17,009,148	Noncompetitive	$1,312,000	Interest set at	6 3/8	
 
The two-year notes mature on April 25, 1999.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM AMG DATA SERVICES (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; POLAND; MEXICO; BRAZIL; MEXICO (94%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); DEVALUATION (75%); CURRENCIES (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (65%); GARY C EVANS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



480 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Expansion Advised For Javits Center

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
To maintain its competitive edge, the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center of New York should double its exhibition space and triple its ballroom space, according to a new study by the consulting firm Coopers & Lybrand.
If not, then the center -- as well as the city's economy -- runs the risk of being hurt by the expansion and construction efforts now being undertaken by Chicago, Las Vegas, Orlando, Fla.; Atlanta, Philadelphia and other cities, the report said. 
 Such an expansion would require several years of construction and hundreds of millions of dollars of funds, said Mike Eisgrau, director of public affairs for the Javits Center, a nonprofit, state-supported organization. But the economic benefits could be huge, the report said: the creation of 13,000 new jobs and $87 million in annual tax revenues for the state and the city.
There are plenty of examples illustrating the current space squeeze. The New York International Gift Fair has grown so large that this year it had to rent one floor in the Coliseum in midtown Manhattan. And PC Expo, scheduled to run in June, may have to install tents in the Javits Center's parking lots to accommodate the overflow, said David Nussbaum, senior vice president of Miller Freeman, which is producing the PC Expo show.
 DAVID W. CHEN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (91%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (91%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: COOPERS & LYBRAND NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL COMMERCE GROUP INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPERS & LYBRAND

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC); CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); JOB CREATION (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



481 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Integration Has Had Its Day

BYLINE: By Glenn C. Loury; Glenn C. Loury, a professor of economics, is director of the Institute on Race and Social Division at Boston University.

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
The alarm has been sounded: Racial isolation in the public schools is on the rise.
The Harvard Project on School Desegregation reported earlier this month that segregation has increased steadily over the last 15 years, to a level greater than at any time since the 1971 Supreme Court decision in Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education, which authorized "forced busing" to achieve racial balance. 
 Moreover, the National Assessment of Educational Progress, a comprehensive effort to test the knowledge of a representative national sample of primary and secondary school students, has recently shown a widening gap between the educational achievements of white and black students.
But while great disparities do exist in the quality of public education -- black and Latino students in central cities are especially poorly served -- a renewed emphasis on racial integration is the wrong response. True equality of opportunity for the poorest public school students means smaller class sizes, longer school hours and greater support services in these schools.
In any event, both the Supreme Court and the people have shown little enthusiasm for open-ended judicial intervention aimed at securing racial balance. The Court's opinion in the 1995 case Missouri v. Jenkins, for example, reversed a lower court's order that Kansas City undertake an expensive plan to attract suburban whites to an increasingly black, inner-city district through specialized "magnet schools." Indeed, Federal courts around the country, especially in the South, have relaxed earlier decrees ordering school districts to promote integration, even though those districts have been moving toward resegregation.
Meanwhile, the flight of white middle-class families from urban districts subject to desegregation decrees has made it all but impossible to achieve anything beyond token integration in many places.
In 1972, before court-ordered busing began, 60 percent of Boston's public school students were white. Though the courts have been more flexible about integration efforts in recent years, only 18 percent of the students in this struggling school system now are white. Denver, Norfolk, Va., and Savannah, Ga., which were subject to mandatory busing, have also seen a decline in white enrollment.
Of course, no public school district should discriminate on the basis of race, or actively promote racial segregation. But in the many districts where most students are nonwhite, it has long made more sense to address those students' educational needs directly, rather than to spend scarce resources trying to get white families to send their children to the same schools as minorities.
Many nonwhite parents are more concerned about the quality of their children's schools than about racial balance for its own sake. All parents want basically the same things from public schools: safety, order and the teaching of solid academic skills. Regardless of racial composition, schools that deliver these things will be judged successful.
A compulsive focus on racial integration can involve condescension (no doubt unintended) toward nonwhite students and their families. As Justice Clarence Thomas put it in his concurring opinion in Missouri v. Jenkins, "It never ceases to amaze me that the courts are so willing to assume that anything that is predominantly black must be inferior."
The belief that "black students suffer an unspecified psychological harm from segregation that retards their mental and educational development," Justice Thomas said, rests on an assumption of black inferiority.
To presume that blacks must have a sufficient quota of whites in the classroom to learn is to presume that something is inherently wrong with blacks. But while black kids may not need to have whites sitting nearby in order to master arithmetic, the most disadvantaged children need schools with resources sufficient to compensate for the influences of poverty they bring to the classroom.
Integrationists assume that the presence of whites is the only sure way to draw attention to this need. But that was yesterday's struggle. Those of us who believe in equal educational opportunity but not forced racial mixing should demand that students isolated in hard-pressed, big-city school districts receive the attention they deserve.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Laurent Cilluffo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (88%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (88%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES PUBLIC SCHOOLS (92%); RACE & RACISM (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); APPEALS (77%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); CITY LIFE (69%); FAMILY (69%); 

PERSON: LOURY, GLENN C

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



482 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
An Executive Shuffle in Nomura's Scandal

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 22

 BODY:
The once-revered Nomura Securities Company, which has been tumbling from its heights because of a scandal linking it to Japanese gangsters, tried to halt its fall today by announcing that a group of top executives would step down from their current positions.
Nomura promoted Junichi Ujiie, a young American-educated executive, to take over as president, a move that some analysts hope will initiate a generational change in the managerial mind-set of the company. Analysts said the promotion and the mass resignation -- the scope of which was virtually unheard of at a publicly listed Japanese company -- would help stop the bleeding, but they added that any turnaround would take time. 
 Nomura's top 10 executives, including Masashi Suzuki, the current president, will relinquish their powers as voting members of the board, and five other directors will also step down. Several other executives, including the man whom Mr. Suzuki recently replaced as president, Hideo Sakamaki, had already resigned in the wake of the scandal.
Nomura, whose $12 billion in shareholders' equity makes it by one measure the world's largest securities company, has been plagued for two months by the scandal, in which it admitted it transferred profits to compensate losses of a client linked to Japan's underworld. Since then, the company has lost a number of big clients.
Nomura's share of the Japanese market in bond underwriting, for example, has fallen sharply, dropping to 2.4 percent so far this year from 14 percent in the last fiscal year.
Prominent clients, like the Tokyo Electric Power Company, have shied away from doing business with Nomura, fearing an investor backlash. And big American investors, like the California Public Employees' Retirement System, have also pulled out business.
"Nomura was like spoiled water; the water was black," said Hiroshi Masuda, deputy general manager for research at the Yamaichi Securities Company, another big Japanese broker. "Now they are trying to clean the water to make it clear again. But whether you will be able to drink the water again, I just don't know."
But one analyst said the moves today could help the company regain some of its lost business. "These resignations may be the final act in this whole drama," said James P. Fiorillo of ING Baring Securities Ltd. "Nomura has so much power here that in the final hour, a lot of business would have to come back."
Nomura suffered a previous scandal in 1991, in which it compensated favored clients for losses. This time it is said to have illegally funneled 38 million yen in profit from its proprietary trading account into the account of a property company linked to a former corporate extortionist.
These extortionists -- sokaiya in Japanese -- get money from companies by threatening to disrupt shareholder meetings, and paying them off is illegal. But the harsher reaction this time seems to reflect growing market discipline and scrutiny here. Japan has been moving to increase investor confidence in the integrity of its financial markets as it plans to deregulate the securities industry by 2001.
"Companies are starting to become highly conscious about stockholders," an executive at a small securities company said. "The Nomura incident involved sokaiya, which the public detests the most."
Nomura executives worry that the scandal will drive away talented employees, and midlevel managers have apparently voiced criticism. So today's management reshuffle seems as much aimed at appeasing employees as clients.
While the executives will step down from their posts, not all their ties to the company will be cut. As is customary in such situations in Japan, some will stay on the payroll as consultants. Still, the extent of the shake-up is unprecedented.
There is much at stake in Nomura's ability to maneuver itself out of the current storm, not only for the company but for Japan's securities industry as a whole, as the Government proceeds with its ambitious plan to deregulate the financial markets and impose a market discipline like that in New York or London.
Nomura's willingness to shed a traditional way of doing business could forge a new pattern for other companies to follow.
"Japanese securities houses have a murky aspect about them that makes it hard for customers to feel comfortable about leaving their money with the company," said Mitsuhiro Nakano, senior strategist at the Daiwa Research Institute. "Nomura is an industry leader. If they can shift their direction, then the industry will follow."
Mr. Ujiie, the man tapped to usher Nomura into a new era, is a 51-year-old graduate of Tokyo University, with a doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago. He has headed Nomura's American operations and is experienced in the company's global brokerage business.
"We will do all we can to build a new Nomura," he said today at a news conference.
Press reports in Japan said that the Finance Ministry was considering the shutting down of some of Nomura's business for three months as a penalty, though a ministry official said today that a decision had not been reached.
The stock market today rallied on the news of Nomura's mass resignation, lifting the company's share price by 70 yen, to 1,370, up from this year's lowest level of 1,100 yen a week ago.
But Nomura is expected to report losses -- analysts estimate about $2 billion -- on Thursday when it announces results for the fiscal year that ended on March 31, in part from huge losses at a subsidiary. Analysts predict losses for this fiscal year, as well, from the current backlash.
Nomura still has formidable influence in the industry, though: a top-notch research house, a global sales network with a diverse customer base and several hundred billion dollars in funds entrusted for management, according to Paul Heaton, an analyst at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell Capital Markets.
And Elizabeth L. Daniels of Morgan Stanley Japan said: "This scandal is not going to bring the house of Nomura down. It is currently a broken leg. To regain their clearly pre-eminent status relative to other Japanese brokers, they have to prove they're going to run their business more ethically. If they choose not to, then that broken leg may turn gangrenous." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NMR (NYSE) (92%); N33 (SGX) (92%); 8604 (TSE) (92%); 8616 (TSE) (84%); 9501 (TSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (82%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: NOMURA SECURITIES CO NOMURA HOLDINGS INC (92%); NOMURA SECURITIES CO LTD (91%); TOKAI TOKYO SECURITIES CO LTD (84%); TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NOMURA SECURITIES CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS ; ORGANIZED CRIME RESIGNATIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); EXTORTION (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); BONDS (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (63%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (63%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; UJIIE, JUNICHI; SUZUKI, MASASHI

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



483 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Strong Results at UAL Pace Profit Advance for Airlines

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The UAL Corporation yesterday posted strong results for the first quarter that far exceeded analysts' estimates. The company, the parent of United Airlines, said passenger traffic rose, spurred by the strong economy and falling ticket prices.
Another carrier, the Northwest Airlines Corporation, said earnings rose 21 percent in the quarter as strong demand in the United States offset higher fuel prices and a weaker yen. And the America West Holdings Corporation posted a gain of about 1.5 percent. 
 UAL recorded net income of $105 million, or 92 cents a share. In the quarter a year earlier, an extraordinary charge of $29 million for the early retirement of debt left the company with a loss of $23 million. Operating earnings rose more than 200 percent, to $194 million in the latest quarter from $62 million.
The carrier also reported results on a pro forma, fully distributed basis, which considers to be immediately outstanding all the shares from the employee stock ownership plan that will eventually be released. On that basis, which UAL said it considered to be the best measurement of its results, income was more than 100 percent higher at $215 million, or $1.61 a fully distributed share, compared with $105 million, or 72 cents a share, before the extraordinary charge a year earlier.
The results from a year ago were adjusted for a 4-for-1 stock split.
Analysts had expected the airline to earn $1.39 a share. On the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, UAL jumped $4.125, or 5.5 percent, to $78.875.
Revenue rose about 11 percent, to $4.1 billion from $3.7 billion.
United said it expected second-quarter earnings to "slightly exceed" last year's results. In the 1996 second quarter, United reported profit from operations of $337 million, or $2.52 a fully distributed share.
Fare wars have held down ticket prices, attracting more customers. United and several other airlines slashed prices in February after President Clinton halted a brief pilots' strike at American Airlines. Last week, United said it had cut fares again by as much as 40 percent for summer travel to most destinations in the United States and Canada.
Traffic increased 5.1 percent in March, to 10.4 billion revenue passenger miles. A revenue passenger mile represents one paying passenger flown one mile. In the first quarter, yield, or revenue per passenger flown one mile, rose 4.7 percent, to 12.8 cents.
United is also attracting more business travelers, who usually pay more for last-minute ticket purchases. About 40 percent of United's customers were business travelers in the first quarter, a slight increase from the fourth quarter, John Edwardson, president and chief operating officer, said.
At Northwest, net income increased to $64.6 million, or 58 cents a share, from $53.4 million, or 41 cents a share. Both per-share amounts reflected the payment of preferred stock dividends. Analysts had expected a per-share figure of 47 cents. Revenue rose about 5 percent, to $2.38 billion from $2.27 billion.
 Northwest's class A shares rose 87.5 cents, to $39.125, in Nasdaq trading.
America West's profit rose to $13.9 million, or 32 cents a share, from $13.7 million, or 28 cents a share. Sales grew about 12 percent, to $462.2 million from $413.2 million.
America West's stock rose 37.5 cents, to $15.375, on the New York Stock Exchange. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (95%); LCC (NYSE) (84%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (95%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; AMERICA WEST HOLDINGS INC UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (95%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (84%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; AMERICA WEST HOLDINGS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS AIRLINES (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); STRIKES (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); STOCK SPLITS (70%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (67%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDSON (58%); BILL CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



484 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Orcas Island Journal;
The Perfect Setting Isn't For Electric Car Boom

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: ORCAS ISLAND, Wash., April 20

 BODY:
Much earlier than most, islanders here have tasted the future of the car, and in some ways it is as sweet as the boosters of electric vehicles promised.
They are quiet, clean, cheap to run; they even project a certain 21st-century Jetsons panache when they zip mutely into a special spot marked "Electric Vehicle Recharge Space" at the main island supermarket for a plugged-in pick-me-up. What with mild winters, expensive gasoline and environmentally minded residents, this would seem to be the ideal setting for battery-powered cars. 
 But even here in the San Juan Islands -- which, local officials calculate, have the highest ratio of electric cars to traditional ones in the country -- the verdict is that such cars remain a thing of the future.
"There's a long way to go until we see a large number of cars like this coming down the road," said Doug Bechtel, general manager of the Orcas Power and Light Company, as its Solectria Force hummed along like an oversized sewing machine.
The slow pace of change is not for lack of trying. Orcas Power and Light volunteered in 1991 to become part of a Federal program to test electric cars in the field and spread information about them. It now calculates that San Juan County, with its 20 major islands and 11,000 people, has 1 electric vehicle for every 750 non-commercial vehicles powered by fossil fuels, a dozen in all.
In 1993, the utility also became the first in the country to set up permanent chargers in public spots for electric drivers, with five now in place and two more to come.
For all the efforts by the power company and local enthusiasts, the push for electric cars here has hit the same kind of wall encountered by proponents around the country. With the cars' range still short and prices still high -- double to triple the cost of similar gas-run cars -- the technology just is not quite there yet.
The General Motors Corporation began leasing its EV1 electric car last December with great hoopla, but only to hand-picked customers in Arizona and Southern California who said they were willing to work with limitations like its 90-mile range. And smog-conscious California, which had originally required that 2 percent of 1998 model cars produce zero emissions, has backed off, though it is still insisting on 10 percent zero emissions for the year 2003.
Researchers are exploring the promising use of fuel cells to power cars -- on Monday, the Ford Motor Company announced plans to build a prototype -- and many believe future cars will run on a hybrid system of electric power and some other fuel. But that will not come about for years.
On their own small scale, the San Juans, a cluster of exquisite emerald-and-rock peaks jutting between the Washington State mainland and Vancouver Island, mirror that broader picture.
The enthusiasm of pioneers like Ward Phillips, an energy consultant on San Juan Island who has an electric car, an electric boat, an electric truck and even a fiberglass electric horse used in parades, has not flagged. But that enthusiasm has yet to spread from a dozen believers to the skeptical masses.
The basic technology exists to give an electric car the range of a gasoline-driven one, Mr. Phillips said, but at such expense that he compared the car's current awkward state to early computers. "The early computer was a monster -- it cost a million dollars and filled a gym," he said. "We're at that same point."
The problem, say the islanders who have turned down the cars, is not the cars' performance but their economics, and the nagging anxiety about running out of electricity. As Mr. Bechtel figures it, gas on the island costs about $1.60 a gallon, or about 4 cents a mile. The electricity to run a car costs as little as a penny a mile, and the need for maintenance is greatly reduced -- except that the car's batteries need to be replaced every 5,000 to 7,000 miles, and cost $500 and $700, adding another 10 cents a mile. Not to mention the cost of the cars.
The power company has often lent its two electric cars to San Juan officials and residents in hopes of winning them over, Mr. Bechtel said. But after an initial glee at the peculiarities of zero-emission driving, the response is almost always this, he said: "We'll think about it."
That reluctance has been particularly discouraging, he said, because if the cars make sense anywhere, they do on the San Juans, where many residents have an "island" car for trips around home and a "mainland" car for longer journeys. The electric vehicles would seem like ideal island cars, Mr. Bechtel said, and there are many among the 3,000 people of Orcas Island who could afford them.
"Maybe when they come out with an Oldsmobile electric car instead of these little ones, it will help," he said.
Given the technical problems, even the biggest boosters of electric cars do not fault the holdouts here in the San Juans.
"Those who turned down the opportunity were probably smart to do so," said John Castagna, spokesman for the Edison Electric Institute in Washington, D.C.
Now, Mr. Castagna said, "there's really good stuff in the pipeline," including an electric Honda expected out next month, a Toyota expected this fall and a Nissan mini-van.
The technology is moving fast enough that chargers like those on Orcas are beginning to spring up elsewhere. Mr. Castagna said there were plans for 400 such charging stations in California and Arizona by the end of the year.
But in the history of the great transition from fossil fuels, the San Juan Islands will still have the distinction, in some ways, of being first.
"We were the very first to put in a place -- small, but still, in place -- an infrastructure to charge your cars on the islands," Mr. Phillips said. "We were the first county, through our great utility, to buy into this future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The high initial cost and low range of electric cars make most residents of Orcas Island shy away from them. Doug Bechtel, general manager of the Orcas Power and Light Company, recharged a car used by the utility. (Larry Davis for The New York Times)
 
Map of San Juan Islands showing location of Orcas Island: Electric cars have not caught on with Orcas Island residents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (88%); 

COMPANY: ORCAS POWER & LIGHT CO FORD MOTOR CO (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); ORCAS POWER & LIGHT COOP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORCAS POWER & LIGHT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JUAN ISLANDS (WASHINGTON STATE); WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (88%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES ELECTRIC VEHICLES (95%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); SMOG (70%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



485 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: Seeking New Approaches for Diversity

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
Bans on affirmative action in California and Texas are producing the most concerted efforts since the landmark Bakke ruling in 1978 to develop alternative approaches that will maintain diversity in higher education without using race as a factor.
In Texas, for example, the Legislature is considering two measures -- one that will admit the top 10 percent of graduates from all state high schools, another that will use a combination of rankings of high school seniors and consideration of economic disadvantage to maintain racial and ethnic diversity. 
 Because nearly all high schools in the state are dominated by a single race -- black, white, or Hispanic -- using a percentage of graduates of all high schools would allow the relative segregation to foster diversity in higher education. Some form of the legislation is considered likely to pass, and Dan Morales, the Texas Attorney General, said he considered the legislation constitutional and consistent with court directives banning the use of race in admissions.
Experts disagree heatedly on whether accounting for economic disadvantage or coming up with innovative admissions plans can substitute for race. But evidence is mounting that the bans on affirmative action in Texas and California, and under consideration elsewhere, will sharply cut the number of minority students at prestigious undergraduate and professional schools.
"Texas had two choices," said State Senator Royce West, a Democrat, about the aftermath of last year's ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Hopwood v. Texas, barring the use of race as a factor in admissions. "We could just follow Hopwood and say, 'To hell with diversity,' or we could be pro-active and creative in trying to zero out its effects, which is what we're doing. I don't believe affirmative action is dead in the U.S. But it is broken, and we're trying to fix it."
At the University of Texas Law School, where the Hopwood suit was filed in 1992 by four whites who had been denied admission, about 800 students, or 80 percent of the fall 1997 class, have been admitted so far. Of those 800 students, only 6 are black and 18 are Mexican-American. Last year 65 black students and 70 Mexican-Americans were admitted.
Undergraduate acceptances at the entire University of Texas fell to 314 black and 1,333 Hispanic applicants this year, from 421 black and 1,568 Hispanic applicants in 1996.
In California, although affirmative action in undergraduate admissions does not end until next year, white applicants to the University of California system, the state's most demanding, rose 10.4 percent this year. The number of Asian applicants rose 10.8 percent but applications fell 7.7 percent for blacks and 5.8 percent for Hispanics. In California medical schools, applications from black students have dropped by a quarter and by Hispanic students by a third over the last two years.
Some experts say it is too early to deduce long-term effects and that the declines in Texas and California could mean minority applicants are going elsewhere. But studies indicate that other bans on affirmative action would have a similar impact.
For instance, a national study of law school admissions by Linda F. Wightman, published in April's New York University Law Review, found that admissions based on just test scores and grades would return law schools to the overwhelmingly white classes not seen since the 1960's.
Ms. Wightman's study, for example, found that 26 percent of black law school applicants are currently admitted. Using just test scores and grades, 3 percent would be, she said. Now, 32 percent of Hispanic applicants are admitted, compared with Ms. Wightman's estimate of 9 percent in the future.
Similarly, a recent analysis of trends at the University of California by Jerome Karabel, a sociologist at the University of California at Berkeley, concludes: "Colorblind policies are likely to lead to a substantial resegregation of American higher education."
The main alternative being discussed is affirmative action based on class and criteria other than race.
"Using race per se is no longer sustainable from a moral, political or legal perspective, so we need to look to alternatives," said Richard Kahlenberg, a fellow at the Center for National Policy who wrote "The Remedy: Class, Race and Affirmative Action," (Basic Books, 1996).
"If you come up with a definition of class that is comprehensive and looks at a variety of factors, you can come up with a system that is fair and provides racial diversity."
But skeptics say class and economic disadvantage are already used in admissions and that the question is not whether you can include poverty or other factors, but whether you can use race as well.
And many experts say that even though blacks and Hispanics tend to be disproportionately poor, using class without race will do little to foster racial and ethnic diversity.
Thomas Kane, an economist at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, says that black and Hispanic students are three times as likely as whites to have family incomes below $20,000. But because they are a minority of the population and of students with high grades and high test scores, only one in six students who are likely to be admitted to a selective institution using a low-income preference will be black or Hispanic.
"If colleges think that class will keep the same racial diversity on campus, they are kidding themselves," he said.
The Texas House of Representatives has passed a plan that would admit all students in the top 10 percent of their high school class to the state university of their choice. Proponents say it would make the relatively segregated high schools an engine of integration in higher education, would reward merit, and would insure diversity not just in terms of race but between rural and urban areas throughout the state.
A more complicated plan, approved by the State Senate, would require that half of university admissions be based solely on a combination of test scores, grades and class rank: 40 percent on academic qualifications and broadly defined economic or social disadvantages and 10 percent on other factors, ranging from athletic to musical abilities.
"They're both steps in the right direction," Mr. Morales said. "I consider them race-neutral and believe they would withstand any constitutional challenge."
Both measures affect undergraduate admissions at state schools, not professional schools, where insuring diversity in small law or medical school classes is considered much more challenging.
Michael Sharlot, the dean of the University of Texas Law School, said one measure being contemplated would identify college seniors who had performed better in college than had been anticipated by their initial test scores. Those students would then be given a stipend to pay for an L.S.A.T. prep test, which can cost as much as $800. The students would be selected on a race-neutral basis. But one assumption behind the plan is that minority members often do not perform as well as white students on standardized tests.
No money has been set aside for any of the measures.
Using economic disadvantage in admissions, for instance, would put new burdens on universities to provide financial aid. And, as has already happened in California where competition for top state schools is far greater, they could run into political opposition if minority applicants take slots that traditionally go to white students, or the children of alumni. And Mr. Karabel said that in California, where schools are more diverse, the Texas plans would either have little effect or would likely benefit Asian students rather than blacks and Hispanics.
California universities have vowed to work to attract minority students but the Board of Regents, not the State Legislature, holds most of the power to shape university policies. The regents have been key opponents of affirmative action.
But even two attorneys who represented the plaintiffs in the Hopwood case, Steven W. Smith and Terry Pell, said the outlines of the plans before the Texas Legislature seemed appropriate and that the goal of insuring genuine diversity in higher education was a worthy one.
"I don't think the goal should be to sneakily get around Hopwood," said Mr. Pell, an attorney with the Center for Individual Rights. "But I think states should be trying a lot of different approaches, being pro-active and aggressive and not throwing up their hands and saying the only alternative is test scores or race."
But critics of the Hopwood decision say that although some of the alternatives are worthy, they cannot overcome the limitations of excluding race as a factor.
"These are good approaches," said Michael A. Olivas, a law professor at the University of Texas, "but they won't produce the kind of diversity you had before Hopwood. In the end, race is the only proxy for race."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (99%); TEXAS, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; BLACKS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); ADMISSIONS STANDARDS AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); LAWYERS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



486 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Surge As Dow Leaps 173.38 Points

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
The stock market soared yesterday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average to its second-largest point gain in history.
 Riding a wave of strong quarterly earnings and benefiting from signs of easing inflationary pressure, the Dow surged 173.38 points, or 2.6 percent, to close at 6,833.59. 
 Although the gain was much less significant in percentage terms, the Dow's point rise was the largest since Oct. 21, 1987, when the blue-chip average gained 186.84 points two days after the Dow plunged 508.
 The market's gains yesterday, however, were extremely narrow, resulting largely from a blue-chip buying spree that saw the Dow easily outperform all other major indexes.
 The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose 14.24 points, or 1.87 percent, to 774.61. And the Nasdaq composite index, which slumped early in the day, rallied to gain 8.79, closing at 1,212.74.
 Since losing 693 points from its March 11 high of 7,085.16, in what was its worst downturn since 1990, the Dow has been on a torrid pace, recovering 442 points, or about 7 percent, the last seven sessions.
 No major economic news was released yesterday, but several analysts said continued strong earnings coupled with a Government study that showed a sharp drop in the prices American companies were paying for imported goods -- a sign that inflationary pressure may be subsiding -- helped buoy stock prices.
 "There's evidence the economy is beginning to slow, and it's tough to make the case the economy is growing with a strong dollar and low oil prices," said Hugh Johnson, an investment strategist at the First Albany Corporation. "Investors see that, and they're buying stocks and bonds."
 But stocks are also benefiting from declining yields in the bond market, which make stocks more attractive relative to bonds. Further, corporate earnings reports are on pace to be the highest since the third quarter of 1995.
 "It's been one heck of an earnings season," said Charles Hill, director of research at First Call Inc. in Boston, which tracks earnings. "No matter how you slice it or dice it, it's a good quarter."
 First Call said earnings had come in above expectations for about two-thirds of the companies that had reported. And with figures in for about 52 percent of the companies in the S.& P. 500, profits are about 18 percent higher than a year earlier.
 Among the companies reporting strong quarterly earnings yesterday were UAL, parent of United Airlines; Bristol-Myers Squibb, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, a Dow component stock, and Texaco.
 Bristol-Myers rose 3 5/8, to 63 1/2, after the company said first-quarter earnings rose 12 percent. That helped lift shares of other drug companies. Indeed, the Amex Pharmaceutical index rose 2.6 percent yesterday, in line with the Dow. And for the year it is up 14 percent.
 Energy and transportation issues also got a lift from strong earnings. UAL rose 4 1/8, to 78 7/8, after the company said profits doubled in the first quarter. Texaco gained 1 1/4, to 105 5/8.
 Within the Dow, 26 of the 30 component stocks gained, led by Procter & Gamble, which rose 5 5/8, to 128 5/8. General Electric was up 4 1/8, to 108 1/2; 3M rose 4 3/4, to 87 1/2; United Technologies added 3 3/4, to 75 3/8, and Coca-Cola gained 3 1/4, to 61 7/8.
 With those gains, the Dow has risen 100 points or more on five sessions this year. And while the percentage gain yesterday does not rank in the top 100, the point gains seem impressive. Before this year, there were only five days with gains of 100 points or more.
 The Dow is up 6 percent on the year and only 252 points off its high. The decline of nearly 10 percent, which lasted from about March 11 to April 11, was partly a result of rising interest rates in the bond market.
 Still, several market analysts noted that the recent advances were very narrow, with much of the gain coming on low volume.
 "The top 50 stocks have accounted for most of the gains," said Robert Freedman, chief investment officer at John Hancock Funds in Boston.
In fact, until midday yesterday, the S.& P. 500 and the Nasdaq were flat or slightly lower. But they saw huge afternoon gains, after the Dow was bolstered by five large computer-aided buy programs. The biggest, which began at 12:55 P.M. and lasted 25 minutes, involved the purchase of 320 stocks, according to Birinyi Associates, a market research firm in Greenwich, Conn.
 As the Dow's advance approached the 100-point level, around 1:30 P.M., activity picked up. About 507.5 million shares were traded on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, up from 394.4 million on Monday.
 "You don't have the volume that suggests that huge buying power has been unleashed in the market," said Eric Miller, the chief investment officer at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "It's an impressive price rally but not as impressive in terms of breadth and volume."
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (65%); BMY (NYSE) (64%); MMM (SWX) (50%); MMM (NYSE) (50%); MMM (FRA) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (64%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GLEACHER & CO INC (65%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (64%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%); 3M CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



487 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Corruption Inquiry on Espy Leads to Indictment of Ex-Chief Aide

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
The onetime chief of staff to Mike Espy, the former Agriculture Secretary, was indicted today on charges that he had taken money from old friends seeking Government farm subsidies and then lied about it.
The indictment of Mr. Espy's former aide, Ronald H. Blackley, was returned by a Federal grand jury here and was the latest development in a continuing investigation of Mr. Espy himself, who resigned as President Clinton's Agriculture Secretary in 1994 amid accusations that he and people close to him had accepted improper favors from farming interests. 
 Mr. Blackley is charged with accepting about $22,000 in increments throughout 1993 from two longtime associates in Mississippi, Charles Fuller and Charles Cochran, who were seeking and eventually received about $340,000 in Government farm subsidies.
As a high-level Cabinet aide with power over Agriculture Department programs and policies, Mr. Blackley was required under the Ethics in Government Act to report all outside income and gifts. The three-count indictment charges him with making three false statements: failing to disclose his receipt of the $22,000, then lying about it on two occasions, once to the Agriculture Department's inspector general and later to the Agency for International Development, which he joined in mid-1995 after leaving the Agriculture post.
If convicted, Mr. Blackley faces up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine on each count.
His lawyer, Hiram Eastland of Jackson, Miss., said today that Mr. Blackley was "innocent, and he will plead innocent." Mr. Eastland said that Mr. Blackley had cooperated with the independent counsel in the Espy case, Donald C. Smaltz, and that Mr. Smaltz "has been wearing his bow tie too tight."
Mr. Smaltz's office said that Mr. Fuller had given Mr. Blackley $21,025 and had received Government subsidies totaling $63,000, and that Mr. Cochran had given Mr. Blackley $1,000 and had got subsidies totaling $284,000.
Neither Mr. Fuller nor Mr. Cochran was charged, and a spokesman for Mr. Smaltz declined to say whether either man had testified before the grand jury or would be called to testify at Mr. Blackley's trial.
In the early 1980's, Mr. Blackley was a rice broker for farmers in Mississippi. He was later an Agriculture Department program assistant and became a Congressional aide to Mr. Espy when the latter was elected to the House of Representatives from Mississippi. He became Mr. Espy's top Cabinet aide when President Clinton named Mr. Espy Agriculture Secretary in 1993.
Mr. Espy, who has denied any wrongdoing, resigned in October 1994 after being accused of accepting improper gifts and favors from Tyson Foods, the giant Arkansas chicken producer.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (50%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (50%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (50%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); 

CITY: JACKSON, MS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT TYSON FOODS INC (50%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES INDICTMENTS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); GRAND JURY (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (88%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LAWYERS (73%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CRIMINAL FINES (70%); 

PERSON: STOUT, DAVID; BLACKLEY, RONALD H; ESPY, MIKE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



488 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Conservative Senators Pressure G.O.P. Leaders in Budget Talks

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
A group of conservative Republican Senators issued a list of budget demands today, warning Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, that they would not support any deal that did not meet their conditions.
Among the conditions was a hold on domestic spending, "meaningful" tax relief and no adjustment to the Consumer Price Index. 
 "A budget deal that violates our fundamental principles is worse than no budget deal at all," the 10 Senators said in a letter to Mr. Lott. The Republicans have a 10-member majority in the Senate.
By going public with their demands and threatening to oppose any budget deal that falls short of them, the conservative Senators applied the same political pressure on their leadership as liberal Democrats put on the White House last week. Democrats on the Senate Budget Committee insisted that President Clinton make no further budget concessions to the Republicans and suggested that the Administration force the Republicans to produce and defend their own budget plan.
While the moves on both flanks could complicate the already strained budget talks between the Republican-controlled Congress and the White House, they also give their respective leaders some running room, allowing them to stand firm on some positions that they were not eager to negotiate in any case.
Speaker Newt Gingrich added another dynamic to the budget negotiations today when he told reporters in Atlanta that he had grown impatient over balanced budget talks and was ready to act now.
"We are going to move a balanced budget in the House and Senate," Mr. Gingrich said. "We would rather do it with the President." But he added: "We're not going to sit around and talk anymore. The time has come for us to move an agreement."
The Republicans in the Senate, led by Phil Gramm of Texas and Sam Brownback, a freshman from Kansas, set out five "thresholds" for any budget package: a cut in the capital gains tax and the inheritance tax, and a $500-per-child tax credit; steadily declining deficits until the Federal deficit is eliminated; a hold on discretionary spending to the 1997 level; budget analysis by the Congressional Budget Office only, and no legislative adjustment of the Consumer Price Index, a move that could free up billions of dollars by reducing the rate of inflation and the Government benefits linked to it.
"I'm concerned not just about the President, I'm concerned about our own negotiators," Senator Gramm said at a news conference this afternoon. "Spending money is popular; Republicans like to spend money, as Democrats do.
"If we're not willing to say no to some of these discretionary add-ons of President Clinton, there's no way we can say yes to a tax cut," the Senator continued. "We can't do it both ways unless we are going to politicize the Consumer Price Index, which I think is just totally unacceptable."
Republican and Democratic budget negotiators have yet to announce their plans for this week. But the Democratic budget negotiators on Capitol Hill are to meet at the White House on Wednesday afternoon with Mr. Clinton and Vice President Al Gore to discuss the status of the talks.
Republicans hold 55 seats in the Senate, and the Democrats 45; in a straight-party vote on the budget, the 10 conservative Republicans who spoke out today could control the outcome. But any budget deal that reaches the floor is likely to have been negotiated by Congressional Republicans and Democrats, and the White House would have enough bipartisan support to roll over such opposition.
Eight other Republican Senators joined Mr. Gramm and Mr. Brownback in signing the letter to Mr. Lott. They were John Ashcroft of Missouri, Larry E. Craig of Idaho, Lauch Faircloth and Jesse Helms, both of North Carolina, James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, Richard C. Shelby of Alabama and Robert C. Smith of New Hampshire.
Mr. Gramm said that given time, he could have lined up at least twice as many Senate Republicans to sign the letter to Mr. Lott, and that those who did sign were "10 very important Senators."
Under wide-ranging senatorial privileges, any member could slow the budget debate on the Senate floor. And a number of the conservative Republicans like Mr. Gramm who sent the letter to the majority leader head major committees that have a direct impact on the budget process.
The conservatives are most concerned over the President's proposed non-defense discretionary spending for 1998, which Senator Gramm said is $176 billion more then in the current budget.
The Senator said he became "alarmed" after Republican negotiators said they were looking at entitlement programs, like the Medicare health program, for savings and not the Administration's proposed discretionary spending.
"We seem to have looked everywhere for a solution except denying the President one of the largest increases in discretionary spending in American history," Mr. Gramm said. "If you want to get down to the bottom line, our problem is that the President has written a budget where he spends the tax cut in Washington. If we let him spend it, we can't give the American people the tax cut we want unless we are going to do something like politicize the Consumer Price Index. That's where the conflict is." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX ; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); COST OF LIVING BUDGETS (96%); POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); LIBERALISM (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ESTATE TAX (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; LOTT, TRENT (SEN); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); GRAMM, PHIL (SEN); BROWNBACK, SAM (SEN); ASHCROFT, JOHN (SEN); CRAIG, LARRY E (SEN); FAIRCLOTH, LAUCH (SEN) ; HELMS, JESSE (SEN); INHOFE, JAMES M (SEN); SANTORUM, RICK (SEN); SHELBY, RICHARD (SEN); SMITH, ROBERT C (SEN) TRENT LOTT (90%); PHIL GRAMM (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (58%); JIM INHOFE (58%); LARRY CRAIG (58%); RICHARD SHELBY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



489 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Top Officials Step Down At Nomura After Scandal
In a shake-up of unprecedented scope for a big Japanese company, 15 top executives and directors of Nomura Securities are stepping down from their current positions because of a scandal linking the company to gangsters. 
 Nomura promoted Junichi Ujiie, a young, American-educated executive, to president, a move that some analysts hope will initiate a generational change in the managerial mind-set of the brokerage firm. [Page D2.]
 
RJR Nabisco Sales Off, but Net Is Up
RJR Nabisco reported disappointing international tobacco volumes and a continuing erosion of its domestic cigarette business, causing sales for its first quarter to decline, but net income rose 7 percent. [D8.]
 
As cigarette makers and anti-smoking forces continue settlement talks, investors, even those tolerant of high risk, should brace for wild cards. Market Place. [D8.]
 
Bond Losses in Emerging Markets
Bond markets in emerging economies, which have provided nice returns for many risk-taking investors, are suffering their worst reversal in a year. Analysts say the downturn could get worse because they expect the Fed to push interest rates higher in the United States later this year. [D15.]
 
Treasury prices gained in light trading, with the 30-year bond yield falling to 7.04 percent from 7.09. [D15.]
 
Suzuki Takes On Consumers Union
Suzuki produced what it said was evidence that Consumers Union deliberately set out in 1988 to prove that the Suzuki Samurai was prone to tipping over in certain circumstances. Sales of the vehicle plunged, and Suzuki settled hundreds of injury suits, after the group gave the Samurai its "not acceptable" label. [A18.]
 
Shell and Texaco Results Gain
Continuing a strong quarter for oil companies, Shell Oil reported a 7 percent earnings gain, and Texaco's profit more than doubled. But almost half of Texaco's gain came from the company's victory in a tax dispute. [D15.]
 
Airlines' Earnings Increase
UAL, the parent of United Airlines, posted quarterly results that far exceeded analysts' estimates. Northwest Airlines and America West also reported rising profits. [D5.]
 
3 Drug Makers' Profits Rise
Bristol-Myers Squibb, American Home Products and SmithKline Beecham reported double-digit increases in earnings. But Warner-Lambert said its profits fell. [D4.]
 
Prince in Planet Hollywood Deal
Planet Hollywood has formed an alliance with Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia, who has taken a stake in it. The prince will develop 34 Planet Hollywood restaurants. [D8.]
 
Tentative Deal in Feud Over Dart
Herbert H. Haft, who has been feuding with members of his family over control of Dart Group, has tentatively agreed to accept a settlement that would pay him more than $41 million. In return, Mr. Haft would step down as chairman and chief executive and relinquish all control of the company. [D2.]
 
U.S. Sees Proof of China Scheme
A Federal criminal inquiry has uncovered new evidence suggesting that a state-owned Chinese company bought machine equipment from McDonnell Douglas in 1994 -- ostensibly for production of civilian jetliners -- with the intention of diverting some of it to a military plant that builds missiles and fighter aircraft, according to intelligence officials. [A1.]
 
Xerox Posts Surprising 14% Gain
Xerox earnings rose 14 percent, above analysts' expectations. The company cited increased revenue from its printing services and higher sales of its computer-compatible printers and copiers. [D5.]
 
3M Slightly Above Expectations
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing said that its earnings rose 13.3 percent in the first quarter, slightly beating expectations. [D7.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,833.59 up 173.38
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.04% down 0.05
The Dollar -- 126.35 yen up 1.04
 
Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NMR (NYSE) (92%); N33 (SGX) (92%); 8604 (TSE) (92%); PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%); BMY (NYSE) (52%); DAL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (57%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOMURA HOLDINGS INC (92%); KRAFT NABISCO (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); SHELL OIL CO (53%); PFIZER INC (52%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (52%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (52%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (52%); PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); BONDS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); AIRLINES (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); TOBACCO MFG (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); SMOKING (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (52%); 

PERSON: PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



490 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Officials Say China Illegally Sent U.S. Equipment to Military Plant

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
A Federal criminal inquiry has uncovered new evidence, including American satellite photos, suggesting that a state-owned Chinese company had all along intended to divert American machine equipment to a military plant that builds missiles and fighter aircraft, intelligence officials say.
The equipment, bought in 1994 by one of China's most powerful state-owned corporations, Catic, was supposed to be used solely for civilian purposes. 
 Now, as a year-old inquiry accumulates more evidence of a diversion, the Clinton Administration is faced with the question of how to proceed if it is proved that Catic knowingly misled American officials. Administration officials say the next step could be filing charges against the company.
The new evidence also raises questions about the Administration's approval of the sale in the first place, officials said.
The Administration preliminarily approved Catic's purchase of machine equipment from the McDonnell Douglas Corporation in late August 1994; the equipment was supposed to be used in Beijing to make civilian jetliners. The approval came about the time Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown left for China, where he helped persuade Chinese officials to keep their commitment to spend $1 billion on jetliners from McDonnell Douglas.
But Pentagon critics of the sale had earlier said they believed that the Chinese wanted the sensitive equipment, which included giant machine tools to shape and bend large aircraft parts, to improve their military capability, Administration officials said. At the time, the Chinese press had reported a Chinese Government plan to cut jetliner production in half, which would have reduced the civilian need for the American equipment.
In the end, some equipment sent from the United States wound up 800 miles from Beijing, at a military complex of the Nanchang Aircraft Company. The satellite photos recently uncovered show that a plant was being built in Nanchang to house a giant stretch press, a major piece of American equipment, even as Catic was telling American officials that the equipment would go to a civilian machining center in Beijing, intelligence officials said.
American officials said other documents in the case suggested that Nanchang had been the intended destination from the start. Nanchang officials, for instance, inspected some of the equipment at a McDonnell Douglas plant in Ohio 1993, before the deal was signed, and then packed up the equipment in late 1994 as it was being shipped to China, the officials said. The plan to build the Beijing machining center, the supposed destination for the equipment, was abandoned before the license was issued.
All that raises some diplomatically sensitive questions.
"We ought to send the Chinese the message that they can't divert our technology with impunity, and an indictment of Catic might even get the Chinese to talk to us seriously about proliferation," said Gary Milhollin, the director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, which has tracked the procurement activities of Catic in the United States.
Catic and its lawyers declined to answer any questions about the grand jury investigation, which, one witness said, is still in the early stages of taking testimony. Catic is based in Beijing, outside the reach of the grand jury, but records from its subsidiary in Southern California have been subpoenaed, Administration officials said.
A spokesman for McDonnell Douglas, Larry McCracken, said, "At this point, since these matters are being looked at by the United States Attorney's Office, we have no comment other than to say that McDonnell Douglas has not done anything illegal."
McDonnell Douglas, an aerospace company based in St. Louis that has agreed to merge with its longtime competitor, the Boeing Company, discovered the diversion in Nanchang in early 1995 and reported it promptly to Commerce Department officials. Commerce Department officials say the unusual conditions they attached at the last minute to the approval for the license enabled them to have the diverted equipment placed under under tighter supervision at a civilian location in China.
But that took almost a year. By then, the criminal inquiry by the United States Attorney's Office in Washington and the United States Customs Service had begun. In late spring of 1996, several weeks after the grand jury had subpoenaed records from McDonnell Douglas, a company official tried to obtain the sensitive satellite photos of the Nanchang military site, intelligence officials said.
The request was eventually denied, but the question of why the company official sought the photos has become part of the investigation, intelligence officials said.
The decision to approve the export of the machine equipment pitted national security concerns against economic interests and, in the end, the latter prevailed.
"For the Administration, this has been a difficult decision, weighing jobs against counterproliferation," said Adm. Bill Center, who represented the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1994 in deliberations within the Government about the proposed sale.
Admiral Center said, "The Joint Chiefs of Staff initially opposed the sale on national security grounds." But after considerable discussion, led by White House officials, "all of us concluded that if McDonnell Douglas didn't sell it, others would, and we wouldn't accomplish anything by saying no."
Secretary Brown, who died in a plane crash in Croatia last year, intended to raise the issue of economic and security trade-offs when he visited China in 1994. A draft of one of his speeches said, "Sales of sensitive technologies have been made despite public and political opposition."
Some sales to China may wind up being examined as part of the various inquiries into possible ties between the Chinese and the Clinton Administration.
The House Government Reform and Oversight Committee, the principal panel looking at campaign finances, has requested the use of Customs investigators who have specialized in export diversion cases, Congressional and Administration officials said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MD (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (83%); SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (69%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (57%); NAICS423860 TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (EXCEPT MOTOR VEHICLE) MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (57%); SIC5088 TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES, EXCEPT MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); JIANGXI, CHINA (90%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: CATIC (CO); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (83%); H BROWN LTD (69%); AVIC INTERNATIONAL HOLDING CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATIC (CO); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); JIANGXI, CHINA (90%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; MISSILES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES EVIDENCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); AIRLINES (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (68%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



491 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Unemployment Dips

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
New York's unemployment rate dipped slightly to 6.8 percent in March as all of the state's major industries enjoyed a boost, the State Labor Department announced yesterday.
The rate declined from February, when it was 6.9 percent, but was the same as the March 1996 figure. 
 The state's job count increased 64,200 from February to March, to about 7.9 million nonfarm jobs. That is about 10,000 more jobs than in March.
State officials credited the growth to an increase in the services industry, where jobs improved by 69,000 from March 1996 to 2,648,300, a record for the month of March. The construction industry also saw an increase, of 5 percent, or 11,000 jobs, to a total of 231,800, said a Labor Department analyst, Vincent DeSantis.
"Construction normally goes up, but this year's improvement was better than usual," he said.
Although New York City's unemployment rate remained high at 10.1 percent, the city was actually experiencing its strongest job growth in more than a decade, the state said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



492 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1847 words

HEADLINE: Should a Clearinghouse Be Its Broker's Keeper?;
Queries for Bear Stearns After a Firm Fails

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES and PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
When it comes to clearing, the arcane but crucial business of processing and guaranteeing the hundreds of billions of dollars worth of trades that occur on Wall Street each day, there are few firms that rival the Bear Stearns Companies.
 Clearing services are a cornerstone of Bear's business, and the brokerage company is not shy about its prowess. "We Clear Everything for Everybody," it boasted in recent full-page advertisements in the Securities Industry Association's yearbook. In another industry publication, Bear urges brokerage firms to "Throw Our Weight Around." 
 That is just what a small Manhattan brokerage firm named A. R. Baron may have done, according to some bruised customers of the firm, which collapsed last July under a deluge of regulatory investigations and customer complaints.
 In several pending arbitration cases, the customers contend that Bear's relationship with Baron went beyond the usual ties between a clearing broker and its client.
Specifically, they maintain that Bear extended credit and clearing services that kept Baron alive long after it otherwise would have closed, despite serious customer complaints lodged directly with Bear. They further maintain that Bear knew, or should have known, that Baron was manipulating stock prices, gouging customers and carrying out unauthorized trades on a huge scale -- charges that the Securities and Exchange Commission filed against Baron before its collapse.
As one customer arbitration case puts it, Bear kept the small firm alive "so that Baron could generate revenues and find investors to enable it to repay Bear Stearns the loans it had made to Baron."
Bear flatly denies these allegations and insists that it has no responsibility for customer losses at Baron. "The regulators were given the complaints that Bear Stearns received," said a spokeswoman for the company. "Bear Stearns does not and is not asked by" market regulators "to police or investigate the broker-dealers for whom it performs back-office functions."
The spokeswoman added that the clearing business at Bear Stearns "has never been found by any regulator to have acted in violation of any rules governing this business."
Still, Baron's abrupt collapse has become a continuing headache for Bear Stearns.
At the direction of the office of Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan District Attorney, a grand jury has been investigating the demise of Baron for more than six months, according to filings in bankruptcy court in Newark.
As part of its work, the grand jury is gathering information about the relationships that Baron's brash young principals, Andrew E. Bressman and Roman Okin, maintained with Richard Harriton, who heads Bear's clearing subsidiary -- and whose lawyer, Howard Wilson, has already been interviewed by Mr. Morgenthau's investigators.
Mr. Harriton, a senior executive at Bear and an influential member of its board of directors, has the booming voice and blunt vocabulary of Wall Street's rough-hewn back-office culture and the expensive wardrobe and imposing stature of a front-office power broker.
During his 16 years as head of the Bear Stearns Securities Corporation, Bear has become one of the largest of the 80-odd clearing brokers in the country, clearing for more than 2,000 other brokerage firms and professional investors.
Even on Wall Street, few understand how crucial clearing brokers are to the machinery of the stock market. "They are the gatekeepers of Wall Street," said one seasoned securities lawyer.
A clearing broker processes the paperwork and guarantees the trades entered into by customers of its client firms, which are called introducing brokers. If an introducing broker cannot immediately meet its obligations on behalf of its customers, its clearing firm must do so. For providing that service, the clearing broker collects modest fees and holds collateral to help protect it against losses caused by an introducing broker's default.
But the service does not usually entail catering to the information demands of a widening criminal investigation. And besides fielding subpoenas from Mr. Morgenthau, Bear and its lawyers have also received requests for information from Federal prosecutors in Manhattan and Brooklyn and from agents of Dennis Vacco, the New York State Attorney General.
In addition, James W. Giddens, the bankruptcy trustee for Baron, is wrangling with Bear concerning its seizure of more than $1 million in Baron accounts at Bear when the firm failed. "Our view is that Baron may have been insolvent for most of its existence," Mr. Giddens said. If so, the trustee may be able to recover payments the firm made in its desperate last months -- including, he hopes, the funds now held by Bear.
Meanwhile, Jerrold I. Langer, a lawyer who represents creditors who say they lost more than $40 million when Baron collapsed, is pressing Bear to fulfill earlier promises to turn over information about the relationship between the two firms.
"We're prepared to do whatever we need to do to get what we're entitled to," Mr. Langer said.
Bear said it "has cooperated with all legitimate requests for documents from creditors." On Monday, Bear asked the bankruptcy court in Newark to strike down most of the creditors' demands.
Without doubt, the most important focus of the widening Baron investigation is the Manhattan grand jury under the direction of Mr. Morgenthau's office. In addition to issuing any criminal indictments it deems appropriate, the panel is empowered to recommend changes in how the clearing brokerage industry operates, according to people familiar with its deliberations.
Courts have held that clearing brokers in most instances have no fiduciary duty to the customers of their client firms because the clearing broker lacks the power to control the actions of the introducing brokers. But industry arbitration panels, which are not bound by court precedent, have sometimes held clearing brokers liable for customer losses, usually in cases where their ties to the introducing broker seemed more elaborate than usual.
To be sure, any proposals to reform the clearing-broker business from the grand jury sitting on Wall Street's doorstep would not be binding on the courts, arbitrators or the market. But Mr. Morgenthau's stature would make it hard for the industry and its regulators to ignore such recommendations.
A. R. Baron, the little brokerage firm at the center of the investigations, opened for business in 1992. It was formed by three hard-driving young brokers from D. H. Blair & Company: Mr. Bressman, Mr. Okin and Jeffrey Weissman, who would leave the firm a year later. Their customers included George Iain Murray, the 10th Duke of Atholl, a Scottish aristocrat, and many other wealthy European and Canadian investors who wanted to dabble in hot new stock issues.
 The firm, which had high expenses, was frequently short of capital. Customers routinely complained about what they termed unauthorized trades and sales misrepresentations, according to filings by the S.E.C. and the National Association of Securities Dealers, civil lawsuits and arbitration claims filed as early as 1993.
 In 1995 Baron suffered a double blow. In the spring, its clearing firm, the Adler Coleman Clearing Corporation, failed. Another firm took Baron on, but quickly asked it to find a replacement. Meanwhile, the National Association of Securities Dealers accused Baron of manipulating the market for two hot new stock issues; the firm paid $1.5 million to settle those charges, without admitting or denying wrongdoing.
Amid this upheaval, Mr. Bressman approached Mr. Harriton at Bear, asking him to process Baron's business. On July 20, only three days after the N.A.S.D. settlement, Bear began doing just that, taking more than 3,000 Baron accounts onto its books.
But Baron's losses continued, and the firm regularly sought infusions of capital. Regulators found "evidence of an ongoing pattern and practice of fraudulent, unauthorized trading in the accounts of Baron customers," according to an affidavit by Elizabeth Meyer, an S.E.C. official, filed in bankruptcy court in Newark by Mr. Giddens, the trustee. The aggrieved clients included New York University, which had been unable to sell stock it had inherited that was held in a Baron account.
The S.E.C. filed charges against Baron last May, shortly before Mr. Morgenthau's office received its first complaint from a Baron customer. Then, on July 3, two days before a hearing on new S.E.C. charges that accused Baron of violating an earlier agreement to comply with securities laws, Baron, Mr. Bressman and Mr. Okin all filed for bankruptcy in Newark, because the partners were New Jersey residents.
That put Baron into the hands of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, the industry fund that insures insolvent brokers' client accounts. It also left individual creditors of the two men, including investors in Baron, holding an empty bag.
 But as this whole troubled tale unfolded, Bear stuck with Baron, clearing its trades despite mounting evidence of regulatory concern, deepening financial distress and spreading client outrage.
Why? "None of the regulators acted to stop Baron's business until the middle of 1996, nor did the regulators advise us of the information they had," the Bear spokeswoman said.
Baron's creditors and former customers offer a different explanation. In their arbitration actions, they contend that Bear went beyond the narrow duties of a clearing broker and in fact acted as a life support for Baron while the smaller firm plundered their accounts.
 Len and Gail Holubowich, a Canadian couple who say they lost more than $4 million in the Baron debacle, filed an arbitration case last week that contends Bear "knew or should have known" that Baron was exhausting its capital, from August 1995.
"Bear Stearns also knew that A. R. Baron was manipulating stocks, charging excessive markups, engaging in unauthorized trading and parking of securities and even issuing forged and fictitious Bear Stearns confirmations" of trades, they assert in their case. "Nevertheless, Bear Stearns continued to clear for, fund and extend credit" to A. R. Baron.
The fallout from such cases and the Baron investigations, many lawyers agree, could clarify the duties of clearing brokers like Bear and increase the riskiness of their basic housekeeping business. If that increased risk prompts clearing brokers to became more discriminating -- and more expensive -- smaller brokerage firms like Baron would find it more difficult to set up shop.
Mr. Giddens, the Baron trustee, said it might be good for Wall Street if start-up brokers had to "jump through few more hoops." But Mark Lehman, general counsel for Bear, sees the possible consequences differently.
"Well-capitalized clearing firms like Bear Stearns would be very reluctant, indeed probably unwilling, to enter into clearing arrangements with relatively low-capitalized introducing firms," he said. "That's the way the economics of the business work."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 1997, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday, about Bear Stearns Companies' relationship with a small brokerage firm that failed, omitted four words in a quotation from a Bear Stearns advertisement. As shown in the adjoining picture, the ad reads, "We clear just about everything for just about everybody."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerrold I. Langer represents creditors who say they lost more than $40 million when Baron collapsed. (Liana Miuccio for The New York Times) (pg. D5)
 
 
Chart/Photo: "Farming Out the Paperwork"
Questions about the relationship between A.R. Baron, a small brokerage firm that collapsed last July, and Bear Stearns, a Wall Street giant, spotlights the little-understood clearing business, which deals with the backroom nuts and bolts of trading. Clearing services make up such a significant portion of Bear Stearns' business that the brokerage company boasted about its prowess in a recent advertisement in the Seurities Industry Assoiation's yearbook, above right. Here is how the business works:
 
Customers
Open accounts with a small brokerage firm and place trades with that firm's brokers.
 
Introducing Broker
The smaller firm, like Baron, submits, or "introduces," its customers' account forms and individual transactions to a larger firm it has hired to handle trading paperwork. The smaller firm must pay fees and pledge collateral to the larger firm in exchange for this service.
 
Clearing Broker
Larger firms, like Bear Stearns, carries out the stock trades submitted by the introducing broker, settling up later with the smaller firm. They also maintain customer records, and send out confirmations of trades and monthly statements directly to the smaller firm's customers. (pg. D1)
 
 
Graphs: "Bear Stearns has a bigger share . . ." tracks shares cleared by Bear Stearns as a percentage of total traded on NYSE, from 1987 through 1996. Also tracked is the annual number of clients for which Bear Stearns has cleared, over the same period; ". . . of a rapidly growing market" tracks annual dollar volume of trades on the NYSE, again, over the same period. (Sources: The Bear Stearns Companies; The New York Stock Exchange) (pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS; BARON, A R, & CO; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) BEAR STEARNS COS INC (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEAR STEARNS COS; BARON, A R, & CO; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); SUITS AND LITIGATION ; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GRAND JURY (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); LITIGATION (73%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); EXECUTIVES (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; TRUELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997



493 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Political Doubts in Britain Weaken Pound Versus Dollar

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell slightly in most currency dealings yesterday but rose sharply against the British pound, which dropped on rumors of central-bank selling and a British newspaper's poll suggesting an indecisive election on May 1.
A poll published in The Guardian showed the opposition Labor Party leading the governing Conservatives by only five points, the slimmest margin in more than two years. 
 Although a poll published in The Daily Telegraph showed Labor with a 21-point lead, the possibility that neither party would win a clear victory created considerable uncertainty among traders.
The pound has been one of the most resilient currencies in recent months, rising on the prospect of higher interest rates in Britain regardless who is in power.
"Sterling was unnerved by that poll showing Labor's lead is narrowing," said Stephen Jury, foreign exchange manager at the Union Bank of Switzerland in New York. "People are nervous about a hung Parliament."
The pound's decline also reflected rumors that the Bank of England sold pounds and bought marks earlier in the day, said Hans Boman, vice president in charge of foreign-exchange at Swedbank in New York. He said the rumors, while not confirmed, were "just another reason to take profits on the pound ahead of the election."
Others attributed the pound's decline to a survey by the Confederation of British Industry that showed export orders declined the last four months, suggesting the pound's strength had started to make British goods too expensive overseas.
In New York, the pound settled at $1.6226, down from $1.6343 on Tuesday. It also retreated against most other currencies, which indirectly played a role in the dollar's relative weakness against the mark and yen.
The dollar fell to 1.7130 marks, from 1.7163 on Tuesday, and to 126.13 yen from 126.35.
There was little movement in the dollar ahead of the meeting tomorrow between Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan and President Clinton in Washington. Traders were also reluctant to move in the dollar ahead of Sunday's meeting of the Group of Seven industrial nations in Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (69%); UBS (NYSE) (69%); SWED.A (STO) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GUARDIAN (BRITISH NEWSPAPER) UBS AG (69%); SWEDBANK AB (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%); CONFEDERATION OF BRITISH INDUSTRY (54%); CONFEDERATION OF BRITISH INDUSTRY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUARDIAN (BRITISH NEWSPAPER) CONFEDERATION OF BRITISH INDUSTRY (54%); CONFEDERATION OF BRITISH INDUSTRY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION CURRENCIES (93%); BRITISH POUND (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



494 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Drafting Policy to Widen Trade With Africa

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

 BODY:
The Administration said today that it would support promoting more trade with African nations as part of a broader initiative to encourage free-market reforms among the continent's more promising economies.
The officials, preparing a policy for a meeting of the major industrial nations in Denver in June, said they would support legislation to expand a preferential trade program for African countries considered to have shown progress in modernizing their economies and stimulating growth. They said they would also support a package of other measures, including expanding Government guarantees for trade and investment by American companies and pressing international agencies to do more to integrate Africa into the world economy. 
 The plan involves little or no new spending, reflecting the lack of support in Congress for spending on international programs in general and for aid programs in particular.
"We're trying to be responsive to those African countries that are aggressively pursuing broad reform," said an Administration official, referring to about 20 countries, of 48 in Africa, considered to have had some success in stabilizing their economies. "The area we can help in is mobilizing our private sector," the official said.
One facet of the policy is to support a program at the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to forgive some of the international debt burdening the world's poorest nations. The bank and the fund today approved a plan that would reduce Uganda's debt by $338 million.
Clinton Administration officials said their program included encouraging the establishment of a $150 million pool of private funds, safeguarded by some Government guarantees through the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, for investment in African companies.
They said it would also include regular consultations between African leaders and their American counterparts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); 

COUNTRY: AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); UGANDA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (66%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); UGANDA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



495 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Boeing, Challenging Airbus, Seeks to Sell Planes to China

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 23

 BODY:
The Boeing Company, matching a proposal from its rival, Airbus Industrie, is seeking to sell China 100 aircraft valued at about $4 billion.
The Boeing bid, to be submitted this week at China's request, will be made as the American company and the European group fight to supply the world's fastest-growing market. Boeing estimated that Chinese airlines, including those in Hong Kong, which is about to revert to China, will order 1,890 jets in the next two decades with a value of $110 billion -- one-tenth of the world market. 
 "It's like the final of the World Cup," said Bruce Dennis, vice president of marketing at Boeing. "I'd like to see us win it all, but it probably won't happen."
Airbus had expected that contracts for at least 30 aircraft would be signed during a visit to Beijing next month by President Jacques Chirac of France. That visit is now in doubt following Mr. Chirac's decision to dissolve Parliament and call elections.
Jonathan Dong, Airbus's Beijing spokesman, said Airbus and Chinese officials were still preparing for the visit. But he added that regardless of whether Mr. Chirac did come, the European consortium had not yet reached an agreement on new sales.
Airbus submitted its plan to sell 100 aircraft at the start of April, Mr. Dong said. China has yet to sign orders for about 110 of the 240 aircraft it plans to buy in the period that began last year and runs to 2000, he added.
China has asked Boeing to submit prices for a range of plane models and order sizes.
Mr. Dennis noted that Boeing had its own political problems, with members of Congress debating the renewal of China's status as a most-favored nation. The renewal could be in jeopardy because of Chinese human rights abuses.
The Beijing Government could use the planned aircraft orders to underline the economic value of good relations with China.
Last month, during a visit to Beijing by Vice President Al Gore, Boeing signed contracts to sell China five 777 jetliners. Boeing's China sales in 1997 have already reached more than $1.3 billion.
The company, which has four factories in China, is seeking to bolster its manufacturing presence to increase sales, Mr. Dennis said.
Last year, Boeing lost out to Airbus to help China build a 100-seat jet. Separately, the company may inherit a program to build 20 McDonnell Douglas Corporation MD-90 airlines in China if its proposed takeover of McDonnell Douglas goes ahead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (96%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO; AIRBUS INDUSTRIE BOEING CO (98%); AIRBUS SAS (96%); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (80%); EUROPEAN GROUP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; AIRBUS INDUSTRIE

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AIRLINES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (73%); AL GORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



496 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 26; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Fear of Coming Data Weighs on Treasuries

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Fearing that forthcoming economic data will be strong, prompting the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates further, traders bid down prices of Treasury securities yesterday, despite decent demand at a note auction.
The 30-year bond fell 16/32, to a price of 94 12/32 to yield 7.08 percent, up from 7.04 percent on Tuesday. 
 The $12.5 billion sale of five-year notes was expected to be a much harder sell than the surprisingly better-than-expected two-year note auction the day before. Dealers generally push yields higher ahead of an auction to attract investors and thus insure that the Government securities are distributed to investors quickly. Dealers do not want to be holding large inventories of the new securities, which would leave them open to losses, if interest rates start moving higher.
The yield on the new five-year note came in just about where analysts thought it would, 6.745 percent, up from 6.660 percent last month and the highest yield since 6.815 percent on April 26, 1995.
Jack Regan, chief derivative strategist at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, said volume was on the light side, as the five-year auction went a bit better than expected, with a good bid-to-cover ratio of 2.58 to 1. That was very near what the long-term average had been. He said noncompetitive bidding totaled $667 million, up from $644 million last month.
"But with a lack of follow-through retail and institutional buying," Mr. Regan said, "the market quickly sold off. It appears there is a lack of investor interest in the five-year note below a yield of 6.75 percent, as well as a lack in the 30-year bond with the yield below 7.05 percent."
Mr. Regan said he saw the long-bond yield in a narrow trading band between 7.05 and 7.15 percent. "The market is also bracing for the twister effect of a large amount of economic data coming next week," he said. Also, he added, "the Treasury will be making its quarterly refunding announcement, which means more debt supply in the pipeline for the market to absorb." Today the Treasury plans to sell $13.75 billion of one-year bills.
Yields have now fallen 10 basis points in eight sessions, as some in the market have speculated that the economy may soon slow, which could keep the Fed from raising rates further. If next week's economic reports show the economy is slowing, a lot of cash could find its way back into the market. Among the reports due are first-quarter labor costs and economic growth and the April employment report.
The central bank last raised its target for overnight lending between banks, or the Federal funds rate, to 5.5 percent from 5.25 percent on March 25. Its next monetary policy meeting is May 20.
Jack Ablin, director of fixed income and senior fund manager for the Private Bank at the Bank of Boston, is concerned that inflation could be worse than the market expects, and that is consistent with the late stages of a business cycle.
"I suspect this could lead to one or two more tightening moves, and if the economy doesn't appear to be slowing after that, there could be even more tightening," he said. "Right now I'm still maintaining a 7.25 percent peak in interest rates, but it could go higher if the economy doesn't look as though it's turning downward."
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new five-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price . . . 99.498
High Yield . . . 6.745%
Low Yield . . . 6.690%
Median Yield . . . 6.729%
Accepted at low price . . . 81%
Total applied for . . . $32,296,610
Accepted . . . $12,505,504
Noncompetitive . . . $667,000
Interest set at . . . 6 5/8%
 
The five-year notes mature April 30, 2002.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since late-December 1996. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



497 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 26; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
* Branch Banking and Trust Co., Winston-Salem, N.C., is selling $200 million of floating-rate senior medium-term bank notes through Nationsbanc Capital Markets Inc. in two parts.
The first is $100 million of floating-rate senior medium-term bank notes due in 1999, with a rate equal to the Federal funds rate plus 21-hundredths of a percentage point and priced at par; the second is $100 million of floating-rate senior medium-term bank notes due in 2000 at a rate equal to the London interbank offered rate plus six-hundredths of a percentage point. 
 The issue is rated A1 by Moody's Investors Service and A by the Standard & Poor's Corp.
 
* Fannie Mae is selling $175 million of medium-term notes due in 2002 through J. P. Morgan Securities. The notes, which are noncallable, carry an interest rate of 6.82 percent and are priced at par.
 
* Federal Home Loan Bank is selling $100 million of bonds due in 1998 through Everen Securities. The bonds have a one-time call on Nov. 7, carry an interest rate of 6.21 percent payable at maturity and are priced at par.
 
* Northern Trust Corp., Chicago, is selling $120 million of capital securities through Salomon Brothers Inc. The securities are callable in 10 years at par and have a rate equal to the three-month Libor plus 59-hundredths of a percentage point. The issue is rated A2 by Moody's and A by S.& P.
 
* Student Loan Marketing Association, or Sallie Mae, is selling $25 million of notes due in 2000 through Morgan Keegan & Co. The notes have a one-time call on May 19, 1998, carry an interest rate of 6.76 percent and are priced at par.
 
* Sysco Corp., Houston, is selling $100 million of notes due in 2007 through Chase Securities. The notes are priced at 99.611 to yield 7.305 percent. The issue is rated A1 by Moody's and AA- by S.& P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%); SYY (NYSE) (65%); SLM (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (70%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (70%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (65%); NAICS424420 PACKAGED FROZEN FOOD MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (65%); NAICS424130 INDUSTRIAL & PERSONAL SERVICE PAPER MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (65%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BRANCH BANKING & TRUST CO (93%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (70%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (70%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (67%); MORGAN KEEGAN & CO INC (66%); SYSCO CORP (65%); SLM CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STUDENT LOANS (74%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (67%); CALLABLE SECURITIES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



498 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Monetary Fund Sees World Growth Up 4.4%

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

 BODY:
Worldwide economic growth will accelerate again this year to its highest level in nearly a decade, but most regions face risks and problems that could cloud their prospects, the International Monetary Fund reported today.
It estimated that world output would increase 4.4 percent this year, up from 4 percent last year and two-tenths of a percentage point higher than the fund's last projection, issued in October. Growth has not been so robust around the world since 1988, when it reached 4.7 percent. 
 In its twice-yearly World Economic Outlook, a report card on economic policy and performance, the fund said many nations were benefiting from a strong commitment to keeping inflation and budget deficits low and from deregulation, elimination of trade barriers and privatization of state-owned industries.
"The favorable global economic conditions are underscored by the continued robust growth performance with low inflation in the United States and the United Kingdom, the pickup in growth in Japan in 1996, and improved prospects for a strengthening of the recoveries in continental Europe and Canada," said the report, which was issued as international representatives to the fund and the World Bank convened here for their spring meeting. "In many of the dynamic emerging market countries, there was a desirable moderation of growth and inflation in 1996, which should allow their expansions to be sustained in the period ahead."
But the report addressed a variety of difficulties and uncertainties that could derail many economies. In the European Union, the report said, unemployment has risen to a postwar peak, and most countries have done little to address the fundamental problem of labor laws and costs that make creating jobs difficult.
In the United States and many other countries, stock prices have risen so high that any significant downturn could undermine economic confidence and hurt growth, the report said. And developing countries are vulnerable to a reversal of the strong inflow of capital that has supported their growth in recent years.
Noting that globalization is driving politics and policy in nearly every nation, the fund defended the integration of economies through increased trade, investment and information flows, saying that the trend should not be held responsible for the decline in manufacturing jobs in advanced economies or for growing income inequality.
Among the major industrial nations, the United States is projected by the fund to see growth this year of 3 percent, six-tenths of a point higher than the fund projected in October and up from last year's 2.4 percent growth rate. But the fund lowered its estimate of growth in Japan for this year to 2.2 percent from 2.7 percent, a sharp slowdown from its 3.6 percent growth rate last year, when it began recovering from a long downturn.
For the European Union, the fund estimated that output this year would grow 2.4 percent, just slightly below its previous forecast and up from 1.6 percent last year.
The report said that growth among developing countries this year would be 6.6 percent, up from 6.5 percent last year and half a percentage point higher than its previous forecast.
The report put a particular focus on the problems of Europe and Japan.
Efforts by European Union nations to address high rates of unemployment -- projected to be 11.3 percent this year, compared with 5.2 percent currently in the United States -- have so far been "piecemeal and inadequate in many cases," the report said. "Mounting evidence that labor market regulations and high benefit levels are major contributing factors to high and persistent unemployment, excessive tax burdens, chronic fiscal imbalances and a lack of economic dynamism is too often ignored."
The report chided Japan for lack of progress in many areas of economic policy, including overregulation of many industries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TRENDS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (54%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



499 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Russia-China Theme: Contain the West

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 23

 BODY:
President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia and President Jiang Zemin of China pledged today to work together to limit American power and influence in the world.
In a summit meeting at the start of a five-day state visit that was laden with political symbolism, the two leaders did not single out the United States by name. But their message, aimed in part at a Russian public that has been bombarded with alarmist reports about NATO expansion and the United States role as the sole remaining superpower, was clear. 
 "No country should seek hegemony, practice power politics or monopolize international affairs," said a Russian-Chinese statement on the need for a "multipolar world."
"It is meant to be a political statement that there is no master of the universe," a senior Western official said. "These countries are searching for ways to tie down American power. Their goal is to insure that America cannot act unilaterally."
Even without talk of NATO expansion, Russia and China have many reasons to cooperate, particularly over the short run, as the two countries are experiencing their warmest ties in years.
China has emerged as a lucrative market for Russian arms makers whose factories have received few orders from a shrinking Russian military. Indeed, trade between the two nations increased by 25 percent last year, much of it for arms.
The two nations also have a 4,000-mile frontier and a common interest in avoiding tensions there. They plan to sign an agreement on Thursday limiting the number of troops near the border and improving cooperation between them in the hope of preventing any incidents.
"We are simply doomed to develop strategic relations with China," Vladimir P. Lukin, head of the Parliament's foreign affairs committee, said in an interview. "We are close neighbors and would like to survive."
But it is also true that domestic politics makes the idea, if not the reality, of strategic cooperation appealing.
For Russian politicians, improving ties with China has emerged as a way to play to a weary public that is increasingly convinced that the end of the cold war left the West with the upper hand.
As NATO has proceeded with its plans to expand, Kremlin officials have held a series of highly publicized meetings with Iranian, Indian, Belarussian and Chinese officials. Each meeting has drawn in response articles about an emerging new alignment to counter the West's economic and military might.
For the Chinese, the Moscow meetings provide an opportunity for Jiang Zemin to take the world stage after the death of China's paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping.
In terms of foreign policy, China is also trying to play Moscow and Washington against each other, and evade the pressures to make political reforms or improve its human-rights situation at home.
Defense Minister Igor Rodionov of Russia promised during a visit to China this month that Russia would oppose attempts in the West "to use so-called problems of human rights, Tibet and Taiwan to put pressure on China."
Still, for all of the posturing, most Russians concede that it is premature to speak of a full-fledged alliance or strategic partnership between Moscow and Bejing.
"There are obvious limitations and divergences of interests," said Sergei Rogov, head of the USA-Canada Institute, a research group that studies relations with the West. "For China, Taiwan is the No. 1 priority. For Russia, it is not a priority at all.
"For Russia, participation in the European system is the primary issue," Mr. Rogov said. "But China is not involved in the post-cold-war European system."
Other analysts note that for all Russia and China's complaints against Washington, both nations look to the West for long-term infusions of technology and investment. Many of the current economic links between Russia and China reflect short-term Russian efforts to prop up ailing arms plants and generate trade.
"What Russia needs is massive technology and investment, and they are not going to get that from the Chinese," a Western official said. "Russia wants to exploit the option of close relations with China in negotiations with the West, whether it is the issue of NATO enlargement, or economic demands for more World Bank money or requests to be integrated into various global organizations, such as the World Trade Organization."
The meetings today were full of pomp and circumstance. The Chinese leader spoke to Russia's Communist-dominated Parliament. He also plans to visit the former estate of Tolstoy, 130 miles south of Moscow, before concluding his visit.
A June visit to China by Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin is planned.
In the meantime, Moscow and China keep to the refrain that international politics is now based on several major power centers and that the West is not calling all the shots, as if their populations may come to accept the point if it is repeated enough.
"Someone is longing for a single-polar world," Mr. Yeltsin said at a joint news conference, alluding to the West, as he stood next to the Chinese leader today. "He wants to decide things himself." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (79%); BELARUS (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; RUSSIA; EUROPE; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (79%); BELARUS (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ARMS TRADE (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (65%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; JIANG ZEMIN (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) JIANG ZEMIN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



500 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Hewlett in $1.15 Billion Deal For Maker of Credit Card Devices

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 23

 BODY:
Broadening its reach in electronic commerce, the Hewlett-Packard Company said today that it had agreed to acquire Verifone Inc., the leading maker of credit card authorization devices, in a stock swap valued at $1.15 billion.
Although the deal took analysts by surprise, executives of Hewlett-Packard said it was a natural addition in the company's strategy of seeking to use the Internet to spread an organization's reach beyond its own walls. Verifone is best known for the commonplace gray swipe boxes at the side of cash registers, but it has also made a significant commitment to software for secure commerce over the Internet. 
 "It really makes a lot of sense for H.P.," said Karen Epper, an analyst with Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass. "Payments are going to be everything in the world of on-line commerce, and Verifone is a real leader in the area of payments," she said. "For Verifone it gives them more money to work with to meet some very ambitious goals they have laid out."
News of the deal sent Verifone shares soaring 57 percent. The stock rose $17.125, to $47.25, while Hewlett-Packard shares fell $1.125, or 2 percent, to $49.375. Based on Hewlett-Packard's closing price, the deal has a value of $1.15 billion.
The acquisition, analysts said, will increase Hewlett-Packard's visibility in the world of electronic commerce, where it is already a big supplier of networking infrastructure and large computer systems for transaction processing. Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto, Calif., is also a player in the market for smart cards, a credit-card-size device with a chip that can store transactions and other data. It jointly developed the Imagine Card with the Informix Corporation.
"This acquisition is a very exciting one for Hewlett-Packard because it is both steak and sizzle," said Paul Deninger, president and chief executive of Broadview Associates, a merger and acquisition advisory firm in Fort Lee, N.J. "The steak is this company has 65 percent market share in point-of-sale terminals, which is a growing international market, and a hardware business H.P. can understand. The sizzle is the applications this company has in the emerging E-commerce business."
The decision by Hewlett-Packard to acquire Verifone grew out of its working with the company, said Richard E. Belluzzo, Hewlett-Packard's executive vice president and head of its computer organization. He said in a telephone interview that there was almost no overlap between the companies' product lines and that Verifone would continue to function as an independent unit with its current management.
"As we worked with Verifone this past couple of years, we were winning deals together, and we grew very close," Mr. Belluzzo said. "We could constantly find opportunities where together we could be much more effective than we were separately. We have complete strategic alignment."
Verifone pioneered hardware and software systems to automate credit card transactions, which it sells to financial institutions, which in turn provide them to merchants. The company now also offers technology for debit-credit and smart card payments at the merchant and over the Internet and is actively developing new consumer payment systems for the home. Verifone, based in Redwood City, Calif., had 1996 earnings of $39.3 million on revenues of $472.5 million.
"We've already made credit and debit card transactions fast, secure and easy," Hatim A. Tyabji, Verifone's chairman, president and chief executive, said in a statement. "Now we plan to make secure Internet transactions a reality. In addition, we see vast and exciting applications for smart cards that hold information ranging from bank balances and frequent-buyer reward programs to health records and cashless transactions," he said.
Mr. Tyabji will continue his role as president and chief executive of Verifone, reporting to Mr. Belluzzo. At Hewlett-Packard, Glenn Osaka, general manager of the enterprise systems business unit, has been named to lead efforts in electronic commerce and coordinate with Mr. Tyabji. The business unit has responsibility for electronic-commerce information technology solutions over the Internet.
Verifone estimated that of the more than $800 billion in electronic transactions in the United States last year, more than $520 billion were handled by Verifone systems. The company has remained neutral in the battle for control of the Internet, forming strategic partnerships with Netscape Communications Inc. and the Oracle Corporation, but also with the Microsoft Corporation.
Ms. Epper of Forrester said one risk in the deal was that it might weaken Verifone's ability to work with companies that compete directly with Hewlett-Packard, like I.B.M. and Sun Microsystems Inc. "Probably the only reservation I have about the deal is how will this affect the way hardware makers view Verifone," she said.
But Mr. Belluzzo said Hewlett-Packard was sensitive to this issue. "We will enable Verifone to win in the market broadly," he said. "If that means porting to other platforms, they can do that."
Hewlett-Packard, Mr. Belluzzo said, believes that businesses will use the Internet as an information utility to create links with customers, suppliers, partners, distributors and others, giving those who participate in electronic commerce an advantage. "Central to H.P.'s strategy to achieve this vision is the ability to move money securely from end to end over the Internet, an area Verifone has pioneered through products and strategic relationships," he said.
Mr. Deninger said the deal put Hewlett-Packard in good position to supply the devices needed for using smart cards at home. "H.P. has got to want to own those devices, the way it owns hand-held calculators and printers," he said. "No one knows what that business is going to look like, but it is going to have to involve a card swipe, and they just bought the No. 1 card swipe company in the world," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (94%); PAY (NYSE) (94%); IBMC (BRU) (83%); IBM (NYSE) (83%); IBM (LSE) (83%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (94%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); NEW JERSEY, USA (52%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: VERIFONE INC; HEWLETT-PACKARD CO HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (94%); VERIFONE SYSTEMS INC (94%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (83%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: VERIFONE INC; HEWLETT-PACKARD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); NEW JERSEY, USA (52%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPUTER PERIPHERAL MFG (89%); MERGERS (78%); SMART CARDS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); POINT OF SALE SYSTEMS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); HARDWARE STORES (63%); MARKET SHARE (52%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M ANN LIVERMORE (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



501 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
A diverse political group backs choice for auto insurance.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
WHAT do Rod Grams, the right-wing Senator from Minnesota who never graduated from college; Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican known for his fire-breathing partisanship; Slade Gorton, the pragmatic, tend-to-the-constituents conservative from the State of Washington; Joseph I. Lieberman, the new-fashioned Democrat from Connecticut, and Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the Senate's ranking liberal intellectual, have in common? They are co-sponsors of the Auto Choice Reform Act, a bill introduced this week that would allow motorists to give up their right to collect legal damages for "pain and suffering" in auto accidents.
Why would this diverse political pack -- not to mention Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, Ross Perot, former Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts, Steve Forbes and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani -- stick their necks out for a cause that lacks support from either Republican or Democratic leaders and draws fire from the trial bar and old bulls of the consumer movement? 
 One reason is efficiency. "Why should people in car crashes not be able to receive compensation without finding and paying a lawyer, and often suffering through years of litigation?" Senator Lieberman asked.
But mostly, it comes down to money. Not lobbyists' money, but the $45 billion that the Joint Economic Committee of Congress estimates motorists could save each year under the Auto Choice Reform Act if they agreed to waive their rights to sue for pain and suffering.
"This beats any middle-class tax cut," suggested Michael Horowitz, director of the Hudson Institute's Project for Civil Justice Reform, "and wouldn't raise the budget deficit by a nickel."
The average auto insurance premium ran to $757 in 1995, half again more than in 1987. But those who most need compensation rarely get it. A 1991 study by the Rand Corporation's Institute for Civil Justice found that auto accident victims with damages running from $25,000 to $100,000 on average got back about 50 cents of each dollar lost. Those with losses exceeding $100,000 received compensation of just 9 cents on the dollar.
For decades, the legal reformers' answer to this perverse combination of high insurance premiums and uncertain payoffs to the injured has been to short-circuit the judicial process. To that end they pressed states to pass "no fault" legislation, guaranteeing swift compensation from their own insurance companies and limiting access to court solely to those who were severely injured.
But with the major exception of Michigan, no-fault has not worked well because injury lawyers have managed to breach the barriers to court. Worse, the barriers have served as an incentive to pile up trips to cooperative orthopedists and chiropractors to show that injuries were indeed severe.
Most Americans wince and write big checks for car insurance every six months. But many others, notably low-income urban motorists, have responded by driving without insurance.
Efforts to tighten no-fault -- or more radically, to eliminate incentives to sue by barring all intangible claims to compensation for pain and suffering -- have been beaten back by a powerful coalition of injury lawyers and consumer advocates led by Ralph Nader. The injury lawyers' motive is obvious. The consumer groups see any step back from free access to court as a step toward unbridled corporate power.
That's where "auto choice" fits in. The idea of Mr. Horowitz and Jeffrey O'Connell of the University of Virginia Law School, it would give motorists the right to sue as usual, provided they are willing to pay. But those who chose to drop this option would simply buy no-fault protection against economic losses from their own carriers.
According to Allan Abrahamse and Stephen Carroll of Rand, the potential savings are stunning. In New York, for example, opting out of the suing game would save the average driver $417 on his $1,146 premium in 1997. Low-income New Yorkers, who disproportionately live in urban areas with high litigation rates, could cut their premiums by 54 percent.
Don't expect a vote on auto choice this year. While the bill is a model of federalism, leaving everything but the choice feature to state legislatures, it has not been championed by Trent Lott or Newt Gingrich. And while it would help lower- and middle-income families the most, the sometimes-populist Democrat in the White House has been silent on the subject.
But with its wonderfully mixed crew of Congressional sponsors and fellow travelers, along with grass-roots support from the conservative Americans for Tax Reform and Ross Perot's Reform Party, auto choice is likely to remain on Washington's radar screen for the indefinite future. And sooner or later -- much sooner if Senator Moynihan has his way -- the political charms of reducing the cost of insurance at the expense of litigators will become clear. "Courts have more important things to do," Senator Moynihan said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Niculae Asciu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (90%); DAMAGES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); PERSONAL INJURY (75%); ORTHOPEDICS (75%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (74%); LITIGATION (72%); CHIROPRACTIC (70%); BUDGETS (70%); US DOLLAR (70%); INSURANCE (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX LAW (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); MITCH MCCONNELL (73%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



502 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
In the Irabu Game, the Victory Goes to the Losers

BYLINE: By Claire Smith 

 BODY:
The Mets may be living life in relative obscurity these days, but there is no doubt which New York baseball team proved to be a winner yesterday, and not because they outdrew the Yankees by a cool 13,500 fans in another day of dueling interborough baseball games.
No, where the Mets came up really big is in a move they never made. They fell short in their effort to acquire the Japanese pitcher Hideki Irabu, out-big-marketed by the Yankees, who on Tuesday obtained the rights to Irabu from the San Diego Padres. 
 But from the comments and commitments emanating from the Yankee coup, it may well be the Mets who will wind up with the last laugh. For George Steinbrenner and Irabu turn out to be perfect matches for each other in terms of greed and chutzpah.
Steinbrenner, playing to perfection his role of one-man baseball committee/wrecking ball, took time between potshots at his bullpen and baseball people to send the Padres a cool $3 million and two prime prospects for the right to negotiate for baseball's most notorious unknown quantity.
Then there's Irabu, who may turn out to be the next Nolan Ryan, but the Yankees had better pray he doesn't become the next Brien Taylor.
Anyway, no sooner did Team Irabu hear that the only major league team the pitcher wanted to come to had finally wrangled a deal for him then it turned a cold, cold shoulder toward the Yankees.
Suddenly, incredulously, Irabu doesn't know if he wants to be a Yankee that badly. Suddenly, incredulously, that Chiba team in Japan, which Irabu defied all spring by refusing to honor its deal with the Padres, may present a more viable option. Or so said his agent, Don Nomura, just after major league baseball announced a deal between the Yankees and Padres on Tuesday.
With the pinstripes ready to be cut to size, Nomura said Irabu was stunned by the development. Yesterday Nomura said he believes Irabu will eventually pitch for the Yankees, but he doesn't know whether it will be next month or next year.
Underwhelming. Unbelievable. And absolutely predictable, even to those who still believe Irabu's original contention that it was a matter of principle that he be allowed to play for the team of his choosing.
"I've admired Irabu for the stance he took; that's my union background," the Yankees' David Cone said after his team stopped the Brewers, 10-5, at the Stadium yesterday. "He was standing up for his rights."
But Round 2? "There's going to be a lot of questions, a lot of negotiations; that's lawyering, that's the agent," Cone said, laughing.
And so the Yankees must either go to war with the pitcher they coveted, with victory coming at the cost of kinship, or have their noses bloodied and wallet lightened.
Do not doubt which scenario will play out. Steinbrenner has too much at stake now not to sign Irabu, even if it takes $5 million or so a year. And the owner is always willing to spend big on the unknown or those not galvanized by New York -- remember Ed Whitson and Kenny Rogers, the current free-agent work in progress who defeated the Brewers yesterday despite allowing five runs in six innings? It would all be quite amusing if it weren't for the fact that the Yankees still haven't figured how to reward the guys who have proved they can help them win.
The Yankees wouldn't spend to keep John Wetteland and Jimmy Key this past winter. And they won't spend even $2 million combined on Andy Pettitte, Derek Jeter and Mariano Rivera this season.
Steinbrenner couldn't have hoisted a world championship banner without those players, yet there was less of an effort to reward them than there has been to secure pitchers who have never toed a major league mound. (Remember, Steinbrenner fell short with his bid of $5.5 million for the Cuban pitcher Rolando Arrojo, who signed with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays for $7 million.)
The Yankees are lucky that their players understand the vagaries of baseball economics in which players coming up through systems are often low-balled while free agents are wined and dined. They are lucky their homegrown players are good sports.
"The average fan tends to see the player who never talks about his salary in a better light," said Bernie Williams, who tussled with the Yankees all spring before winning a $5.25 million deal. "If you do your job, keep putting up numbers, prove you're capable, sooner or later you're going to get your chance to hit the jackpot."
Or just maybe your luck turns because one man in the Bronx can't live without you, or pass on a chance to make a blockbuster deal, or even a blockheaded one. So Hideki Irabu, come on down. You're about to play the best odds in town -- the George Steinbrenner lottery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); JAPAN (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; SAN DIEGO PADRES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; SAN DIEGO PADRES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (88%); JAPAN (72%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (94%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE; IRABU, HIDEKI GEORGE STEINBRENNER (70%); LYNN NOLAN 'NOLAN' RYAN JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



503 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Agency to Vote on La Guardia Ferry Plan

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is expected to award a contract today to NY Waterway, the region's largest private ferryboat operator, for service to La Guardia Airport from several docks in Manhattan, beginning in 1998.
The contract, long awaited by environmentalists and transportation planners who advocate ferryboats as an alternative to highway traffic, is scheduled to come to a vote by the Port Authority board today. To accommodate the ferries, authority officials have budgeted $35 million for dredging in the waters north of the airport, and construction of a new ferry terminal at the airport. 
 The service would initially run every 30 minutes from docks near Wall Street, at East 34th Street and at East 62d Street, with ferryboats reaching La Guardia in no more than 30 minutes. According to NY Waterway's proposal, the service would cost $17.50 one way from from lower Manhattan, and slightly less from docks closer to the airport.
The Port Authority plan comes amid rapid growth of ferry service, with dozens of boats linking Manhattan to New Jersey, Brooklyn and Queens in the last 10 years. The La Guardia ferry would eventually stop at docks at Battery Park City, East 75th Street and East 90th Street,
But while ferryboat advocates say the La Guardia service is overdue, the Port Authority's widely anticipated selection of NY Waterway, formed 10 years ago by a New Jersey trucking company owner, Arthur Imperatore, has provoked complaints from smaller companies. They say they could provide the service more cheaply and have been rebuffed in a bidding process that was set up to favor Mr. Imperatore.
Port Authority board members have received recommendations from the agency's staff that the contract go to NY Waterway, according to a source familiar with the process. Mr. Imperatore has already received a congratulatory call from Lewis M. Eisenberg, the chairman of the Port Authority, according to an associate of Mr. Imperatore, who asked that his name not be used.
"The process has simply precluded competition," said Eric Breen, president of New York Hover Craft, a newly formed venture that told Port Authority officials it could provide airport service with boats that glide above the surface of the water, thereby eliminating the time and expense of dredging in the waters near La Guardia.
Mr. Breen's company is the second in recent weeks to complain that the bidding process was flawed. The other, Harbor Shuttle, which has operated the Delta Air Lines ferryboat from the East Side of Manhattan for years, said it is preparing to expand its service at La Guardia.
Harbor Shuttle, which now provides service only to an airport dock next to the Marine Air Terminal -- one of three La Guardia terminals and far from the busiest -- said it was teaming up with an operator of private shuttle buses to link its boats to all three of La Guardia's terminals.
Harbor Shuttle said its expansion would not require a public investment in dredging, because its approach to the Marine Air Terminal is more than deep enough for ferries. In the Port Authority plan, the approach to its new dock require ferries to travel a longer route through shallower water to the north of Rikers Island.
Executives at New York Hover Craft and Harbor Shuttle said they discussed their proposals with Port Authority officials before the deadline passed for formal bids in January, but decided not to submit such bids because officials insisted that the contract be awarded for both ferry service and shuttle buses serving the docks in Manhattan.
His competitors say the requirement for shuttle buses clearly favors Mr. Imperatore, whose company has built of a fleet of 60 Manhattan buses in the 10 years since it inaugurated extensive ferry service between Hoboken, Weehawken and Manhattan. The buses, which are authorized to use city bus stops, provide free service to the docks now used by NY Waterway, and would expand their routes to include the docks designated for La Guardia ferries, the company's proposal says.
Mark O. Hatfield Jr., the agency's director of communications, said yesterday that neither Harbor Shuttle nor New York Hover Craft had been discouraged from bidding on the La Guardia contract, and could have done so even without any intention of operating Manhattan shuttle buses on their own. He said they could have formed parterships with other companies who would have taken responsibility for the bus operations.
But in an interview, Charles A. Gargano, the vice chairman of the Port Authority and the senior economic aide to Gov. George E. Pataki, make it clear the experience Mr. Imperatore was able to demonstrate in operating Manhattan shuttle buses had given him a strong advantage.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An NY Waterway ferryboat near Battery Park docks. The company is expected to receive a contract today for service to La Guardia Airport. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)
 
Map showing route of the Port Authority plan for La Guardia Airport-Manhattan ferry route.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ; NY WATERWAY PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (93%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ; NY WATERWAY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FERRIES PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); FERRIES (92%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RIVERS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (78%); AIRLINES (77%); TRUCKING (72%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (57%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



504 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Theme Park On Woodstock Is Envisioned

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER 

DATELINE: LIBERTY, N.Y., April 23

 BODY:
A wealthy businessman has bought the site of the fabled 1969 Woodstock festival and plans to turn it into a theme park -- a major tourist attraction and shrine to the 1960's counterculture on the scale of Colonial Williamsburg, Va., though something short of Disneyland.
The businessman, Alan Gerry, who built a local television antenna business into what he said was the eighth largest cable television operation in America, undertook the project at the suggestion of his younger daughter, Robyn, who makes a pilgrimage to the onetime cow pasture in Bethel every summer. Her older sister, Annelise, like thousands of other teen-agers, stole away to the 1969 concert against the express wishes of her father and spent four days there camping out in mud and rain. 
 "They didn't create the milking machine or invent the automobile on that site, but it was a defining moment in the music world," the 68-year-old Mr. Gerry said of the Woodstock site.
"Some people say they were a bunch of pot smokers and wore bandanas and bell-bottoms, but it's part of American culture, whether we like it or not."
The entry of Mr. Gerry, listed by Fortune magazine as one of the 250 richest people in America, heartened local officials eager for development to revive Sullivan County, whose fortunes have prospered and ebbed with the Catskills resort hotels. The county is also pinning it hopes on approval of an Indian-run casino at Monticello Raceway.
Mr. Gerry, who sold his cable company to Time Warner last year for $2.7 billion, has never developed real estate for housing, offices or stores. But working furtively through an intermediary real estate company, he bought 37 acres of the original site for roughly $1 million and bought or in some cases leased the surrounding 1,000 acres for a sum he would not reveal.
The land is primarily zoned for agricultural and residential uses, but local officials indicated that zoning matters would not be an obstacle. They said they were eager to work with Mr. Gerry in creating a project that would stimulate the sagging economy.
A major concern is what kind of development would be acceptable to Woodstock purists, who revere the site as hallowed ground, particularly some of the 400,000 people who camped in muck so that they could hear virtually every legendary rock band of the 1960's.
Mr. Gerry (pronounced with a hard G like Gary) insisted today that he wanted no Ferris wheels or any other disruptive "honky-tonk." He said he would decide whether the development would include museums, train rides, concert amphitheaters, multiple movie screens and re-enactments of the Woodstock event after consulting with architects and entertainment experts.
"I want the site to exist in perpetuity so generations will be able to come there and stand and experience what earlier generations experienced without having to go into a honky-tonk situation," Mr. Gerry said in an interview in his elegant ballroom-size office in a modern office building on a rustic hillside.
"I want something that will appeal to everybody, not just the yuppies who were there when they were kids." He added that he had not yet decided whether to bring entertainment professionals like Disney or Time Warner into the venture.
"It's our hope to put enough events in this footprint of land that everyone in America will want to come see it at least once," he said.
In January, county officials said they were planning to buy the 37-acre field from the Brooklyn woman, June Gelish, who they believed owned it and to turn it into shrine that would include a museum and concert stage.
Their prime motive was to put an end to the random and chaotic visits to the field by tens of thousands of people who viewed Woodstock as a historic landmark, like Gettysburg.
But unknown to the county, Mr. Gerry had already bought the site, as well as 40 nearby properties, through a real estate company. Ms. Gelish, who had owned the centerpiece of what was once Max Yasgur's 1,000-acre farm, died last week.
Informed of the purchase today, Jonathan Drapkin, the county manager, said the county had always hoped that a private developer would acquire the site and save county officials the political strains of condemning property or winning passage of a bond issue.
"I'm extremely excited by this news," he said. "Mr. Gerry, who has a long history in Sullivan County and knowledge of its interest, is a wonderful proprietor for development of the site."
Almost as interesting as the purchase is the story of the purchaser.
Mr. Gerry was born in Ferndale, near here, and moved for a time to the Bronx, where he attended De Witt Clinton High School. He served as a marine in the late 1940's, then looked for something to do and, under the G.I. Bill, studied television repair.
He came back to Sullivan County in the early 1950's and began clambering atop 160-foot antenna towers and stringing wires down to rural homes so people could get decent reception on their new television sets.
Such enterprises became the foundation of the cable television business, and his company, Cablevision Industries came to own franchises in 18 states, serve 1.3 million cable subscribers, and take in half a billion a year in revenues.
Mr. Gerry's former company is not related to another major cable operator, Cablevision Systems, which is based on Long Island and owns Madison Square Garden and the Knicks.
In 1996, Mr. Gerry sold his privately held company to Time Warner and became the seventh largest stockholder in Time Warner, he said, owning 3 percent. "It doesn't sound like a lot, but in a company that size, it's a lot," he said.
Mr. Gerry, whose new company is called Granite Associates, said that at 68, he still wanted to pursue other ventures.
"I have an uncle who lived to 101, and my father died at 95," he said, "so I have a second career ahead of me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Gerry, a wealthy businessman, sits on a marker commemorating the Woodstock festival of 1969. Mr. Gerry has bought the site and hopes to develop a theme park that could include train rides and re-enactments. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 
Map of New Yrok showing location of the site of the Woodstock concert: Woodstock festival site plans have raised hopes in Sullivan County. (pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLONIAL WILLIAMSBURG FOUNDATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BETHEL (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS; WOODSTOCK MUSIC FESTIVALS REAL ESTATE (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TOURISM (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); MUSIC (74%); RESORTS (73%); DAIRY FARMING (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); APPROVALS (65%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH; GERRY, ALAN ALAN GERRY (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



505 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Industrials Slip, But Technology Stocks Rise
A day after posting its second-largest point gain in history, the Dow Jones industrial average receded a bit, closing down 20.87 points at 6,812.72.
But technology stocks, which had been mired in a slump since January, surged, lifting the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index 14.40 points, or 1.19 percent, to 1,227.14. Microsoft and Intel rose sharply. [Page D26.] 

Treasury prices fell, with the 30-year bond yield rising to 7.08 percent from 7.04. [D26.]
 
Disney Earnings Beat Forecasts
Disney said its earnings were stronger than expected, citing record attendance at its theme parks, such films as "The English Patient" and video sales of "Bambi." [D7.]
 
Bausch & Lomb to Cut 1,900 Jobs
Bausch & Lomb, which has seen profits erode in its core sunglass, contact lens and lens care businesses, said that it would eliminate 1,900 jobs, or about 14 percent of its work force. The company aims to cut its costs by $100 million a year by 1999. [D2.]
 
Big Quarter Lifts US Airways Stock
The shares of US Airways surged 18 percent after the company said it returned to profitability in the first quarter, easily beating Wall Street's earnings expectations. [D3.]
 
Boeing Bids for China Jet Order
Boeing is seeking to sell 100 aircraft to China, as a dogfight with its rival, Airbus, heats up over the world's fastest-growing commercial aircraft market. [D3.]
 
Mobil and Chevron Profits Rise
Mobil and Chevron continued the string of strong earnings reports by big oil companies. Du Pont's Conoco unit also had a strong quarter, but Phillips Petroleum's earnings fell short of expectations. [D3.]
 
Saks Shares Plummet 32.8%
The stock of Saks Fifth Avenue's parent lost nearly a third of its value, a day after the company said it expected its earnings to be well below analyst estimates and that it was participating in a bid for Barney's, the troubled luxury retailer. [D3.]
 
Global Growth Seen Speeding Up
Worldwide economic growth will accelerate again this year to its highest rate in nearly a decade, 4.4 percent, but most regions face risks that could cloud their prospects, the International Monetary Fund reported. [D4.]
 
Philips and Siemens Earnings Rise
Two big European electronics companies reported earnings gains. Philips Electronics of the Netherlands had a 22 percent increase, while Siemens of Germany posted a 3.7 percent rise. [D4.]
 
Another Strike Against G.M.
Workers went on strike at a General Motors plant in Pontiac, Mich., idling another factory as the spring selling season, which is generally among the busiest times of the year at auto dealerships, gets under way. [A22.]
 
A Thumbs-Down on Hand Signals
The Toronto Stock Exchange closed its trading floor and switched entirely to computers, hoping to lower costs, protect its share of the market and at least partly overcome the embarrassment it suffered last month when frenzied trading in a troubled stock, Bre-X, repeatedly shut down the exchange.
Market Place. [D8.]
 
Real Estate Companies to Combine
LaSalle Partners and Galbreath, two Midwestern real estate companies with significant operations in New York, plan to merge, with LaSalle the surviving name. [B6.]
 
More Efficient Refrigerators
Refrigerators sold in 2001 will have to use 30 percent less electricity than those on the market today, the Energy Department said, ordering a change meant to cut electric bills by more than $1 billion a year by 2010 and reduce air pollution from power plants. [A1.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,812.72, down 20.87
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.08%, up 0.04
The Dollar -- 126.13 yen, down 0.22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (82%); COP (NYSE) (81%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); PHIA (BIT) (51%); PHIA (AMS) (51%); PHG (NYSE) (51%); X (TSX) (50%); TXQ (FRA) (50%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (76%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (82%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (81%); SIEMENS AG (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); BAUSCH & LOMB INC (56%); AIRBUS SAS (54%); BOEING CO (54%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (53%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (51%); TMX GROUP LTD (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (76%); GERMANY (71%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (95%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (86%); ELECTRONICS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); MOVIE REVENUES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); STRIKES (68%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (63%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



506 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Sharp Earnings Drop For Reader's Digest

 BODY:
Reader's Digest Association yesterday reported a sharp drop in earnings for the latest quarter and set plans to spend up to $400 million to boost its business, but its stock sank as investors remained skeptical.
The publisher and marketer's fiscal third-quarter earnings fell 33 percent. Reader's Digest attributed the decline to poor responses to promotional mailings and economic weakness in Europe. 
 To address its problems, the company has created a four-year investment plan intended to increase its customer pool. The company warned that the effort would result in a fourth-quarter charge of up to $100 million and reduced profits for next year, fiscal 1998.
"This increase in marketing investment is solidly focused on fulfilling the multimedia needs of the consumer," said the company's chairman, James P. Schadt, "and will enable us to speed better products to the market."
Also, he said, the program will allow for more competitive pricing and a richer variety of promotions.
Reader's Digest Association Inc. publishes Reader's Digest magazine. It also offers books and home entertainment products through direct mail and other avenues, as well as various special interest magazines.
Initiatives included in the investment plan include research to identify the interests of customers and develop new products, efforts to generate new and younger customers and some price reductions.
The shares closed down $2.50 at $23.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Hotel Occupancy" lists hotel occupancy rate in Manhattan for the first quarter of 1996 an 1997. (Source: Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDA (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (64%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (64%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST ASSN INC READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (96%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: READER'S DIGEST ASSN INC

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (64%); NEW YORK, USA (64%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS NEWS BRIEFS (92%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



507 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Foundation To Announce New Structure And Grants

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

 BODY:
After a yearlong reorganization, the Ford Foundation, the nation's largest private grant-making institution, plans to announce $50 million in new grants today, including $20 million to fight poverty by supporting such community financial institutions as local credit unions.
A major component of the new $20 million initiative is a five-year program with a budget of $8.5 million, of which $3.5 million will be provided by Ford, to create some 2,000 demonstration savings accounts in 30 low-income communities nationwide. The accounts, in which people's deposits at banks, churches, or credit unions are to be matched by foundation and other funds, are intended to help poor people buy housing, start or expand a business, and pay for college or trade school. The foundation plans to evaluate these accounts, as well as others created or expanded abroad, to see whether access to savings changes the spending habits of people with low incomes. 
 "This program is the first significant experiment on the impact of savings on a person's behavior," said Susan V. Berresford, president of the foundation.
At a press conference today, Ms. Berresford plans to outline how Ford, with total assets of $8.2 billion, will spend the $50 million on new projects, the largest amount the foundation has ever announced at one time, and explain its new structure. Ms. Berresford consolidated the foundation's eight grant areas into three divisions that address its traditional areas of activism -- asset-building and community development; peace and social justice, and education, media, arts and culture. This year, Ford plans to give away more than $407 million, a 17 percent increase over last year, thanks in large part to a strong stock market.
In an interview this week, Ms. Berresford said the restructuring would not affect the process for the 30,000 applicants who file for grants each year. But she said she hoped it would help clarify the foundation's mission. Since 1936, the foundation has given away more than $8 billion to some 9,000 institutions and 100,000 individuals worldwide.
Ford, long dominant in philanthropy and public policy, has often been called bureaucratic. The Chronicle of Philanthropy said it was a "bureaucratic behemoth" in an assessment of its performance several years ago. Conservatives have accused the foundation of promoting bloated government, trendy causes and a welfare state. Liberals say it has abandoned the fight for liberal ideology and an activist government.
Beth Daley, vice president of the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy in Washington, said that by focusing on small, local projects, Ford and other big foundations were letting smaller, but increasingly well-funded conservative groups shape national policy.
"Helping 50 people at a social service center in Bedford-Stuyvesant may make you feel good," she said, "but it won't affect the larger scheme of things or stop the erosion of government programs to help the poor and disadvantaged."
According to a report the group plans to publish soon, 12 of the most active conservative foundations gave away a total of $210 million to conservative groups and causes last year, far less than Ford, but with far greater effect.
Ford's new policy emphasis and Ms. Berresford's stewardship of the foundation, however, has also won praise from traditional critics.
Waldemar A. Nielsen, a philanthropy expert who had previously criticized Ford, said the local-assets development programs seemed "creative and entrepreneurial," especially for such a large and multifaceted foundation. "It's unrealistic to expect a battleship to operate like a speedboat," Mr. Nielsen said.
Michael S. Joyce, the president of the Bradley Foundation, a conservative group, praised Ms. Berresford for taking Ford in new directions, which reflect that philanthropy "must think of new vehicles for helping the poor, apart from the state."
Ms. Berresford said she still believed that government, philanthropic groups, and the private sector must cooperate to achieve common goals, and that the latest programs were simply new approaches to Ford's traditional goals: to "strengthen democratic values, reduce poverty and injustice, and promote international cooperation and human achievement." She also said that Ford would maintain its 16 field offices abroad.
About $15 million of the $50 million in new grants is earmarked for efforts to strengthen foundations that help finance civic groups. Another $15 million will go to help revitalize university and college research in places -- or on languages and cultures -- that have not been adequately studied, doubling the foundation's current effort in real dollars.
The $20 million in community assets development grants is expected to be spent on studying methods that foster economic development for people with low incomes worldwide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD FOUNDATION FORD MOTOR CO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (92%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CHARITIES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CREDIT UNIONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EROSION (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



508 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Off on Their Horizon, North Dakota Farmers See Little but Disaster

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: FARGO, N.D., April 23

 BODY:
In a normal year, this is when most North Dakota farmers are planting the wheat, soybeans, potatoes and sugar beets that make agriculture by far the state's leading industry.
But this year has been anything but normal. For those tending the state's 31,000 farms -- raising cattle in the west or crops in the east -- the winter was the worst in memory. The snows that fell, and the floods they spawned, will cost farmers in the state tens of millions of dollars and drive some of them out of business. 
 "The industry will somehow come back," Scott Stofferahn, executive director of the United States Agriculture Department's State Farm Service Agency here in Fargo, said today. "But we're going to lose many of those people. And when you lose them, you lose a big chunk of the community, the very nature of a rural community. That's something you can't rebuild."
The unrelenting storms of recent months brought as much as 117 inches of snow to some areas of North Dakota, three times the average, and this week floods reached historic levels along the Red River Valley, which, with nearly 40 percent of the state's 641,000 residents, is its most populous region.
Terry Compson, a farmer who lives south of here in the town of Horace and raises crops on 4,000 acres at 25 sites throughout the southeastern corner of the state, looked out the other day across water stretching to the horizon in some directions, and said, "I hope I can get in by mid-May."
The weather has been acutely hard on cattle ranchers as well, many of whom watched helplessly as their herds, blinded by snowstorms, wandered off and froze to death. State officials said a blizzard that swept across North Dakota in early April, the last of more than a dozen winter storms this season, brought the number of cattle lost to as many as 155,000, about a tenth of all the state's livestock.
Kent Conrad, North Dakota's senior United States Senator, said experts had calculated the livestock loss at $70 million. The total of crop losses will not be known for months.
Now that much of the snow has melted, the costs -- economic and emotional -- are still mounting for crop farmers here in eastern North Dakota as they wait for flood water to recede and the ground to dry. The snow melt has caused the Red River, generally a non-threatening pipsqueak just 50 yards wide, to overflow by 40 miles in some places, forcing the evacuation of towns like Grand Forks and Drayton and creating beachfront-like property almost everywhere.
Nor has North Dakota, although the place hardest hit, been the only victim. Heavy snowfalls this winter also covered parts of Iowa, Minnesota, South Dakota and Nebraska, and the spring thaw has turned fields to quagmires throughout the agricultural belt of the Upper Midwest.
In a typical year, most corn farmers, for instance, have begun to plant by now. This year, a survey by the Agriculture Department found, no corn has been planted in Nebraska, Iowa, Minnesota or either of the Dakotas. In Missouri, only 17 percent of the crop is in the ground, compared with 40 percent by this time last year.
Dermott Hayes, an economist at Iowa State University, predicted that the wet spring could affect consumer prices as soon as midsummer. With commodity traders acting on the weather news, wheat prices on the Chicago Board of Trade, Mr. Hayes noted, have risen 25 percent in the last six weeks, to $4.60 a bushel this week from $3.70 in early March.
While Federal emergency programs will help many of the region's people rebuild homes and businesses, the crop farmers, with few protections against financial loss, face far more daunting challenges.
The prospects are especially grim here in North Dakota, because farming accounts for so large a share of the state's economy -- about a third of it, as much as $4 billion a year when severe weather has not interrupted the growing cycles. The farm industry has driven an economic boom in North Dakota over the last four years, state officials say, with agriculture accounting for almost 50 percent of all new wealth.
"These are tremendous losses for us," Cole Gustafson, interim chairman of the agriculture-economic department at North Dakota State University, said of the floods' effects. "It's not only losses now but the impact on productivity into the future."
The losses will be especially pronounced along the Red River Valley. The Agriculture Department determined last week that 865,350 acres -- 22 percent of the crop-producing acreage on the North Dakota side of the river -- were under water; that land is not expected to dry out for weeks. Many crop fields along the river's eastern edge, in Minnesota, are also saturated.
Like the people of Grand Forks and other towns north of here, many farmers have been forced to evacuate. And when they return, their problems will be manifold. The flood waters are not only pushing back a growing season that generally begins around now but also changing the nutrients of the soil, a circumstance that Mr. Gustafson said would have "long-term implications for agriculture as a whole."
Any delay in planting causes a lower yield. Farmers who raise corn, for example, can expect to lose two bushels an acre for every day planting is postponed. Mr. Compson, who raises wheat and soybeans, said he could lose $50,000 to $100,000 this year, depending on the speed with which the water recedes.
Beyond lost production is the likelihood that many farmers will face higher premiums for crop insurance, their last safety net now that crop subsidies are being phased out and farm disaster programs have been eliminated by Federal farm legislation enacted last year.
"It works just like car insurance," said Mr. Gustafson, of North Dakota State. "You have a number of accidents, your rates go up. In this region, I'm sure many farmers are going to have to pay a higher premium as a high risk. Or they'll be declined."
Mr. Compson, 51, a farmer for all his adult years, saved his home in Horace through lessons learned in the region's last major flood, in 1979, when water came within nine inches of the foundation. He built berms around the property after that flood, and this spring they have kept out the rising waters of the Red River, as well as the smaller Sheyenne and Wild Rice Rivers, which run nearby.
But his farmlands are another story. "I haven't even been able to look at all my fields," he said. "The roads to reach them are still under water."
Like many other farmers, Mr. Compson alternates his crops, planting wheat on acreage used the year before for soybeans, and vice versa. But now the flood has thrown his planned rotation into chaos: he has no idea when any of his fields will be suitable for seeding.
"So many times on a farm you come close and you work so hard, only to lose it," he said. "We've gotten through hail, floods, grasshoppers, droughts, but you still get that pit in your stomach, wondering how you're going to pay the bills."
Senator Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota said this week that the overall cost of recovering from the flood could exceed $1 billion, but state officials say they have no idea what the final tally will be. Livestock farmers, for instance, could be feeling the effects for years, through the loss of animals that were bred to reproduce.
And if smaller crop yields force farmers to put off buying new equipment, cities like Fargo and Bismarck that are centers for farm supply businesses will be affected.
Rod Backman, director of the North Dakota Office of Management and Budget, said a team of economic forecasters from Pennsylvania had been hired to begin assessing the financial damage. But the experts are not expected to arrive for several days, and it could take them weeks to complete their analysis.
At some point, Mr. Backman said, the flood will begin to produce some benefits for the state. Cities and towns will need to rebuild, and farmers will need new supplies.
"Some of the losses will be offset," he said, sounding like so many other North Dakotans these days, tired and weary. "But I don't know by how much. Right now it seems hard to imagine there could be a plus out of all this. But I know it won't be all negative."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Terry Compson, a farmer in the Red River Valley, looks out across water stretching into the distance, still hopeful he can plant by mid-May. (Dan Koeck for The New York Times)
 
Map of North Dakota highlighting Horace: Like farmland all along the river, fields around Horace are flooded.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FARGO, ND, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); FARGO, ND, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; FLOODS FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); WEATHER (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL KENT CONRAD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



509 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Dole Urges Approval Of Chemical Weapons Ban
Bob Dole urged the Senate to approve a treaty banning chemical weapons, which is to come to a vote today. Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, hinted that he was close to supporting the treaty. Their comments were expected to influence several wavering Republicans. A1
 
Peru Hostages Knew of Raid
President Alberto K. Fujimori of Peru disclosed details of the raid that led to the spectacular rescue of 71 hostages from the Japanese Ambassador's residence in Lima on Tuesday. Underground tunnels were used, and at least some hostages had advance warning of the raid, allowing them to help the Government soldiers get into the compound, he and some of the former hostages said. A1
 
Many Japanese expressed admiration for the Peruvian raid, but wondered whether Japan, with its postwar tradition of pacifism, would have been able to do it itself. A13
 
Russia and China Make Pledge
Presidents Jiang Zemin of China and Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia pledged to collaborate to limit American power and influence in the world. Their statement argued for a multipolar world and against any country's seeking hegemony. A3
 
Clinton Drops In on Dalai Lama
President Clinton met informally with the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan leader, and told him he would urge China to open a dialogue with him. The Dalai Lama, whom Beijing accuses of seeking to lead an independence movement, said Tibetans seek self-rule only. A3
 
Indictment Protested in Israel
In a packed stadium in Jerusalem, thousands of supporters cheered Aryeh Deri, a longtime power broker facing indictment in an influence-peddling scandal. Members of the Orthodox Shas movement of Sephardic, or non-European, Jews, which Mr. Deri heads, said he was the scapegoat of a secular establishment of Jews of European descent. President Ezer Weizman cautioned Shas members not to aggravate ethnic tensions. A7
 
Albania Reports Gun Smuggling
Albania's Justice Minister said many of the hundreds of thousands of assault rifles and other weapons looted from Government storehouses during riots last month had been smuggled into nearby Macedonia, a former Yugoslav republic with a large Albanian minority. The Macedonian authorities and United Nations officials there said that they had seen no smuggling but that it could easily be going on without their knowledge. It was not known if the rifles were staying in Macedonia or being shipped on from there. A8
 
Caught by the DNA of a Cat
DNA drawn from cat hairs helped convict a Canadian man of murdering his estranged girlfriend, the science journal Nature reported. It is believed to be the first time that animal DNA has been introduced as evidence in a court case. A5
 
NATIONAL A14-27, B7-8
 
A 63-Year-Old Woman Gives Birth, With Help
Doctors reported that a 63-year-old Southern California woman had given birth to a girl using a younger woman's donated egg. She is believed to be the oldest woman ever to have given birth. A1
 
Energy Goal for Refrigerators
The Government ordered that all refrigerators sold in 2001 use 30 percent less electricity than those on the market today. The order ended a bitter battle over how strict new rules on refrigerators should be and when they should take effect. The rule will add $80 to the average refrigerator's price but will lower its annual operating cost by about $20. A1
 
Reed Quits Christian Coalition
Ralph Reed announced his resignation as executive director of the Christian Coalition. He said he wanted to become involved in politics more directly than its nonprofit status allowed. He will start a campaign consulting firm; his departure is expected to be a blow to the coalition. B8
 
Wreckage of A-10 Confirmed
Wreckage found in Colorado is from the Air Force A-10 attack jet that vanished on a training mission over Arizona three weeks ago, the military confirmed. Pieces of the wreckage were recovered by a searcher hanging from a helicopter. There was no sign of the pilot, Capt. Craig Button. A14
 
New Bill on Children's Health
Two Senators, a Republican and a Democrat, said they would introduce legislation to expand Medicaid to cover five million uninsured children. The Senators, John H. Chafee and John D. Rockefeller 4th, did not say how they would pay for it. B8
 
Court to Rule on Line-Item Veto
The Supreme Court granted an accelerated hearing on the line-item veto law, which a Federal judge struck down two weeks ago. It will hear arguments May 27 and should rule by early summer. B7
 
Clash Over 'Multiracial' Label
Federal experts clashed over the wisdom of changing the way the Government categorizes people by race. Some said adding a new category for "multiracial" would be more accurate; others worried over its cost and its effect on bias laws. A27
 
Eavesdropping Pair Charged
A minor criminal charge was filed against a Florida couple who said they had intercepted and recorded a conference call last December among Speaker Newt Gingrich and other Republican leaders. A26
 
4 Accused in Bombing Plot
Four people were charged with plotting to bomb a natural gas plant in Texas and kill law-enforcement officials to divert attention from armored-car robberies they also planned, the F.B.I. said. A22
 
Wheelchair Sought for F.D.R.
The Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial in Washington should show Roosevelt in his wheelchair, President Clinton said. As of now, it does not. B8

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Youths in Pizza Killings Are Depicted as Wanton
Acquaintances of the New Jersey teen-agers charged with killing two pizza deliverymen described them as heedless of the law and delighting in derring-do. Thomas Koskovich, the youth accused of instigating the crime, frequently spoke about an uncle who has spent most of his life behind bars, they said. Mr. Koskovich's grandmother said he must have been on drugs. A1
 
The Sussex County Prosecutor said he would seek to have the other suspect, Jay Vreeland, who is 17, tried as an adult in the killings. B4
 
Six Flags Over Yasgur's Farm?
A wealthy businessman bought the site of the fabled 1969 Woodstock concert to turn it into a theme park and shrine to the 1960's counterculture. Officials in economically depressed Sullivan County, N.Y., welcomed the proposal. Whether the 400,000 people who camped in the mud there would agree was unclear. B1
 
Scholarship Program Swamped
Parents of more than 17,250 public-school children applied for 1,300 scholarships to private and parochial schools that a group of Wall Street executives is offering. Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew said the parents' dissatisfaction with New York City's public schools had come through loud and clear. B3
 
Car Insurance Cost Protested
More than 500 angry drivers waving homemade signs and wearing buttons rallied at the New Jersey State House to demand that Governor Whitman and lawmakers do something to lower the highest auto insurance rates in the nation. B5 
 
HOME C1-11
 
SPORTS B9-20
 
Zoeller Pulls Out of Tournament
Fuzzy Zoeller pulled out of the Greater Greensboro Classic golf tournament and said he wanted to "make things right" with Tiger Woods. Zoeller said he had not talked to Woods about the racial comments he made in a television interview. His remarks led Kmart to drop Zoeller as its golf spokesman. B9
 
ARTS C13-20
 
Now in Manhattan: $9 Movies
Ticket prices hit the $9 mark at one Manhattan movie theater complex, the Sony Lincoln Square multiplex on the Upper West Side. Sony raised the prices at its other 10 Manhattan houses to $8.75 from $8.50. Its rival, Cineplex Odeon, said it was in the midst of its semiannual study of ticket prices. C13
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-28
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES D29
 
Jean Louis
The Academy Award-winning designer who created some of the most memorable costumes and fashions worn by Hollywood stars of the 1940's, 50's and 60's was 89. Born Jean Louis Berthault, he was responsible for the glittering "beads and skin" dress worn by Marilyn Monroe for her breathless rendition of "Happy Birthday" to President John F. Kennedy in Madison Square Garden in 1962. D29
 
Henry A. Mucci
A charismatic Army colonel, he became an instant and enduring American war hero in 1945 when he led the raid that rescued 500 survivors of Corregidor and the Bataan Death March from a Japanese prison camp in the Philippines. He was 88. D29
 
EDITORIAL A28-29
Editorials: A justifiable rescue, no ordinary disaster, protecting infant nutrition, Connecticut's war on drugs.
Columns: Frank Rich, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Chronicle D30
 
Bridge C18
 
Crossword C18
 
Weather C11

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); 

COUNTRY: PERU (94%); CHINA (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); ALBANIA (93%); TIBET (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (71%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN POWER CONNECTION (55%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (94%); CHINA (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); ALBANIA (93%); TIBET (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (71%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (86%); INDICTMENTS (86%); DNA (83%); FIREARMS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CATS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (63%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (63%); RIOTS (61%); 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (73%); BILL CLINTON (72%); DALAI LAMA (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



510 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2073 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Donors Planned to Buy A Bank in U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; The following article is based on reporting by Jeff Gerth, David E. Sanger and Sheryl WuDunn and was written by Mr. Sanger.

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 20

 BODY:
The Riady family of Indonesia, longtime supporters of Bill Clinton, were trying to buy a multibillion-dollar bank in California last year but backed off when they became embroiled in the investigation of foreign contributions to the Democratic Party, their business associates here said.
The Riadys decided to delay their move for fear that their strong ties to China and a history of regulatory problems with other banks they owned in the United States would enmesh the acquisition in the inquiry into whether Asian political donors were trying to buy influence in Washington. 
 Even in the normal course of events, the Riadys might have run into difficulties because the acquisition would have required approval from Federal regulators who have repeatedly criticized the family's banking practices over the past 10 years.
The Riady family and their former American representative, John Huang, have been at the center of the campaign-finance inquiries since it was disclosed that the Riadys helped place Mr. Huang in a job at the Commerce Department.
But it has never been clear exactly why the Riadys would want influence in Washington, beyond their general interest in bettering American relations with China and Indonesia and in presenting themselves back home as having solid Washington connections. The disclosure that the family intended to invest hundreds of millions of dollars in a California bank offers the first significant indication that the Riady family had a specific business interest that would have required help from a range of Government agencies and regulators, though the Commerce Department would not have been involved.
Since the deal did not go forward, there is no evidence that the Riadys sought to use their ties to Mr. Clinton to further the business plans.
James Riady and President Clinton, who are longtime friends, have met several times since Mr. Clinton became President. During those meetings, Mr. Clinton and his aides have said, discussions ranged from trade with China and diplomacy with Indonesia to social chat and, in one 1995 meeting, Mr. Huang's desire to move from the Commerce Department to the Democratic National Committee.
Lanny Davis, the White House special counsel, said that "we did not have the ability today" to answer the question of whether Mr. Clinton or Hillary Rodham Clinton were aware of the Riadys' effort to buy a bank.
There is no evidence that the Riady family, which contributed to Mr. Clinton's previous political campaigns, donated money to his 1996 effort, which would have been illegal. The Congressional and Federal investigations have instead focused on Mr. Huang, who left the Riady empire in 1994 to take a mid-level trade job at the Commerce Department and then shifted 18 months later to the Democratic National Committee.
Here in Hong Kong, the architect of the bank acquisition effort, John Muncy, acknowledged that the ordinary regulatory hurdles would have been further complicated by the campaign finance inquiries.
"We would have had a tough time getting this through in the U.S.," said Mr. Muncy, executive vice president of the Hong Kong Chinese Bank, which is jointly owned by the Riadys and one of China's largest state-owned trading companies, China Resources.
Mr. Muncy was shaping the acquisition from his offices in the Lippo Tower here, which also houses most of the other pieces of the Riady empire outside of Indonesia. But he said that under the plan the Chinese Government "would not be an initial investor" in the California bank and that the Riadys' Chinese partners would not play a role in managing it.
In fact, that initial investor was to have been the Riadys' primary real-estate corporation in Hong Kong, which also holds significant investments and alliances in China. That company, Hong Kong China Ltd., also paid Webster L. Hubbell, a longtime friend of President Clinton, $100,000 to help the Riady family in the United States soon after Mr. Hubbell resigned as Associate Attorney General in 1994, according to Riady associates. It is not known what Mr. Hubbell did for the Riadys.
The associates say the plan to buy a new bank in California, where James Riady already owns a tiny Los Angeles bank, reached the point where several California banks discussed a possible transaction with representatives of the Riady family in the United States and some entered into confidentiality agreements. But the Riadys, who run one of the largest of the ethnic-Chinese business groups that dominate economic life in Southeast Asia, never made a formal offer to a specific bank.
In interviews throughout Asia and the United States, associates of the Riady family described a long-term business plan to turn the Lippo Group, the family's corporate umbrella, into one of the most powerful trading and finance enterprises that span the Pacific.
"They have been looking for some time to expand their California operation, to strengthen their position in the Pacific Rim, which is the key channel of trade for overseas Chinese families," said one Riady associate in Asia. A Hong Kong business executive who knows the Riady family well said: "This was the last big piece of the puzzle, and they nearly had it in place. This was the dream. And then everything fell apart."
But it may not have fallen apart for long. The Riadys have built their $12 billion business empire in Asia through a remarkable array of alliances and political connections that span from Beijing to Little Rock, Ark. An admiring Harvard Business School case study of the Lippo Group, written last year just before the campaign scandals broke, concluded that "clearly the Riady family and the Lippo Group are masters of the principles of global networking" who have learned to become " 'dual citizens' of both nation and network."
That dual citizenship is more important than ever, and associates of the Riady family say the effort to acquire a West Coast bank to anchor the Lippo Group's operations in the United States will probably begin anew when the current investigations die down.
The Riadys themselves have declined repeated requests to discuss their business plans or issues related to their relationship with Mr. Huang, President Clinton or the 1996 campaign. James Riady, who now runs the family's operations in Indonesia, deflected such questions again last week in Jakarta, where he was appearing at a panel discussion about local corporate takeovers, saying it was still an inappropriate time to discuss the issue.
Not long ago, Mochtar Riady, the patriarch of the family and son of Chinese immigrants, explained in the Harvard case study why he wanted a trans-Pacific presence. It was, he said, "to be the bridge to help firms go to the United States, China or elsewhere."
"Without a network," he went on, "we can do nothing. The target is to make a foothold where the giants are."
Twice in the last 15 years the elder Riady, has tried to gain a banking foothold in America, with little success.
The first attempt was in Little Rock, where the Riady family teamed up with the powerful Stephens Inc. investment bank. In the early 1980's, they bought a controlling interest in Worthen Bank.
James Riady, Mochtar's son, took a top position with the bank in Little Rock, where he quickly got to know the Governor of Arkansas, Bill Clinton, and just as quickly ran afoul of Federal bank regulators.
In 1986, the regulators found that large loans to Riady-related entities in Indonesia, violated Federal banking laws that limit lending and bar preferential loan rates to "insiders." The bank's legal work was handled by the Rose Law Firm of Little Rock, where Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Hubbell were once partners. The Riadys sold their investment in Worthen at a loss in the late 1980's.
James Riady moved to Los Angeles, where he had bought a small bank using his own funds. He renamed it Lippobank and concentrated on an Asian-American clientele. But once again, Mr. Riady's bank got in trouble with regulators. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has found repeated banking violations at Lippobank since 1990, issuing three separate cease and desist orders against the bank, most recently last month.
"It's unusual for one bank to have three cease-and-desist orders," said Robert Garsson, a spokesman for the regulating agency.
Last week Mr. Riady agreed to put another $6 million into the $100 million Lippobank. The bank's problem loans, which amount to about seven times the average for other banks of its size, will be reduced by selling off some of the loans.
But Lippo executives have clearly concluded that they need a larger, more established banking presence in the United States to become a major player in the cut-throat and highly political business of trade finance.
They already have that here in Hong Kong, where the Riadys control the Hong Kong Chinese Bank, over which Mochtar Riady presides as chairman. Fifty percent of the bank is owned by China Resources, one of China's largest and most successful state-owned enterprises, controlled by China's trade and economics ministry. Recently the group opened a bank in Shenzen, in the heart of China's booming industrial belt just north of Hong Kong, in partnership with another state-owned Chinese firm.
In the United States, Lippo has a banking alliance with First Union Corporation, a banking giant based in North Carolina. But their joint operations are small: with Lippo Bank in Los Angeles and in a deposit-taking company here that provides trade finance services. Associates of the Riadys say the family feels it needs control of a bank of their own, one easily accessible to the West Coast customers they want to entice to do business with them in China, Indonesia and elsewhere.
So last year, American representatives of the Riady family approached a number of California banks, some of which opened exploratory discussions -- until the Riadys found themselves in headlines across the United States, linked to Mr. Huang and the investigations into his fund-raising.
"They couldn't believe this had happened to them," one competitor of the Riadys here said. "They were on the verge of putting this whole deal together. They knew it would be a tough sell in Washington, given their past problems. But this made it impossible."
Given the focus of the investigations on China, one question that would have arisen had an acquisition gone forward is whether the Riadys were using their own money to buy the American bank, or whether they were operating in tandem with or on behalf of Chinese Government-controlled entities.
The Riadys already have extensive alliances on state-run Chinese enterprises, and their relationship with China is clearly expanding.
For example, China Resources says it is considering a major expansion of its investment in the Riady family's huge real-estate operations in Indonesia, called Lippoland. That would free up considerable cash for the Riadys, though it would be politically difficult for them to take that money out of Indonesia.
The plans for buying a California bank were being directed through the Hong Kong Chinese Bank here. But Lippo executives say the Riadys would have acquired the bank through Hong Kong China Ltd., the Riadys' property arm here, which has been diversifying into financial services. The company has a considerable war chest of cash and it has been selling back to China significant interests in some of its development projects in Southern China's booming industrial heartland.
Some of the Riadys' associates say the family may also be worried about their adopted homeland, Indonesia.
The Riadys, their friends say, are concerned about the anti-Chinese edge to some of the recent rioting in Indonesia. While ethnic Chinese are a small part of the population, they control much of the country's wealth, which has bred long simmering resentments that occasionally break into the open. Until now, the Riadys have been largely immune from criticism, but that is changing.
When James Riady tried to buy a larger share in an Indonesian property firm recently , one of the owners of the company publicly questioned whether an ethnic Chinese family -- even one that had been in the country for seven decades -- should be permitted to become an investor.
"This must have rattled them," one business associate in Jakarta said. "It's a good reason to put your money in America."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (94%); CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ;COMMERCE DEPARTMENT DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); CALIFORNIA BANK & TRUST (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; INDONESIA; CALIFORNIA; ; CHINA; UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (94%); CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BANKS AND BANKING; FINANCES ; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ASIAN-AMERICANS; ETHICS INVESTIGATIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); ACQUISITIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ETHICS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; SANGER, DAVID E; WUDUNN, SHERYL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RIADY FAMILY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; HUANG, JOHN BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



511 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Visits Dalai Lama, Informally

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

 BODY:
Following the same diplomatic script he has used in the past, President Clinton dropped in on a White House meeting between Vice President Al Gore and the Dalai Lama and told the exiled Tibetan leader that he would urge China to open a dialogue with him.
The President's decision to see the Dalai Lama but not grant him a formal Presidential meeting was intended to demonstrate concern for Tibet without igniting new tensions with China. 
 Mr. Clinton sat in on the meeting for 20 minutes. Hillary Rodham Clinton, who two years ago made a forceful speech on human rights at a women's conference in Beijing, also met with the Dalai Lama, for about 45 minutes, in her residence.
The visit came at a sensitive time in Washington's relations with Beijing, which warned against such a meeting. Last week Mr. Clinton met with a prominent Hong Kong democratic politician, Martin Lee, and warned China to live up to its agreement to protect Hong Kong's economic, political and civil liberties after the British colony returns to Chinese sovereignty on July 1. China's Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen, is to visit Washington early next week and is expected to meet with Mr. Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright.
China insists that Tibet is part of China, and the Clinton Administration supports that view, although it has criticized China for violating human rights in Tibet. The White House said in a statement today that the United States "continues to urge high-level talks between the Chinese Government and the Dalai Lama or his representatives to resolve differences."
The White House also said President Clinton "expressed his continuing concern for the preservation of Tibetan religion and culture."
Beijing refuses to hold talks with the Dalai Lama, accusing him of seeking to lead an independence movement. Before meeting with Mr. Clinton, the Dalai Lama told reporters, "We tried to make very clear to the Chinese Government we are seeking self-rule, not independence."
In a preview of the debate likely later this year when the Administration seeks to renew favorable trade status for China, several members of Congress today criticized Mr. Clinton for not granting the Dalai Lama a formal meeting. "He's the kind of leader that we need to highlight at this time when religious persecution is at a very high level in China," said Senator John Ashcroft, a Missouri Republican.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton dropped in on a meeting yesterday at the White House between Al Gore and the Dalai Lama. Mr. Clinton told the exiled Tibetan leader that he would urge China to open a dialogue with him. (Pool Photograph by Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TIBET (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TIBET; CHINA; CHINA (99%); TIBET (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); WOMEN (70%); RELIGION (63%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); DALAI LAMA BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (90%); DALAI LAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



512 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani's Grip on Hispanic Voters Seen Loosening

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Discontent with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani among Hispanic voters -- a segment of the electorate that was critical to his slim victory in 1993 -- appears to be on the rise. That is creating a small but potentially significant crack in the Mayor's political foundation, one that he is trying to patch even as Democrats try to exploit it.
Interviews with politicians, scholars and voters suggest Mr. Giuliani is paying a price with Hispanic voters for Republican attacks on social programs and immigration, notwithstanding his efforts to distance himself from some of those initiatives. The Mayor has been damaged as well, according to several Hispanic political leaders, by his run-ins with influential Hispanic figures, among them Ramon C. Cortines, the former schools chancellor. 
 Most of all, though, Mr. Giuliani's position with Hispanic voters has been diminished by unhappiness with his handling of public schools, an issue repeatedly cited by many Hispanic parents concerned about their children's future economic security.
"Our community has been the hardest-hit with all these policies that we're seeing that he's very much identified with," said Angelo Falcon, president of the Institute for Puerto Rican Policy, a nonpartisan advocacy group. John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York's Graduate Center, said Mr. Giuliani is perceived as "somebody who's been against services that the Hispanic community relies on deeply."
In the latest New York Times poll, conducted from March 1 to March 6, Hispanic residents offered a decidedly bleak view on a variety of potentially formative issues in this year's election, ranging from their perception of the quality of life to the economy to the state of public schools. The percentage of Hispanic respondents who said they disapproved of the way Mr. Giuliani had handled his job increased from 33 percent in June of 1994 to 41 percent when the poll was conducted. And 63 percent of Hispanic residents said it was time for a new Mayor, a significant number that runs counter to the generally positive assessments of Mr. Giuliani among white and affluent voters.
These findings were echoed in conversations in recent days with Hispanic voters who supported Mr. Giuliani in 1993 -- partly out of unhappiness with David N. Dinkins, and partly in response to Mr. Giuliani's call to return social order to the city -- but are now unsure if they will again.
"I am not happy with Mayor Giuliani," said Minerva Gonzalez, the owner of a flower market in East Harlem who supported the Mayor in 1993. "We've been here in this country, my ancestors, almost 50 years. I think we deserve better. We are a hard-working people."
Even drops in the crime rate have not eased doubts of people like Anna Caballero, a 34-year-old theater usher. Ms. Cabellero, a Democrat who voted for Mr. Giuliani in 1993, said, "I don't like the situation with the Medicare and the Medicaid for senior citizens. And it's still hard to look for a job out there."
To be sure, these signs of disillusionment have emerged at the margins of Mr. Giuliani's electoral coalition, and they involve a relatively small pocket of voters. Hispanic voters made up 13 percent of the general electorate in 1993 and are expected to make up about 16 percent of the total vote this November.
But Mr. Giuliani won election last time by just 52,000 votes out of 1.75 million votes cast -- or 2.5 percentage points. That slim margin of victory made his strength with Hispanics in 1993 -- 38 percent of the Hispanic vote -- particularly valuable; the Hispanic population has traditionally voted Democratic, and indeed 60 percent supported Mr. Dinkins in 1993. But Mr. Giuliani's Hispanic support was significantly stronger than a Republican might ordinarily expect to attract. (A poll in 1996 by the Hispanic Foundation found that 51 percent of the city's Hispanics are registered to vote, and of those, 70 percent were Democratic and 15 percent were Republicans.)
"Hispanics will be a swing vote," said Luis A. Miranda Jr., president of the city's Hispanic Federation. He estimated that up to 70 percent of the Hispanic vote is "up for grabs."
Mr. Giuliani also had an advantage in 1993 that he almost certainly will not have this time: He ran against Mr. Dinkins, and given the traditional rivalry between blacks and Hispanics, Mr. Giuliani was able to draw support from many Hispanic voters unwilling to vote for a black candidate, though Mr. Dinkins got many more Hispanic votes than Mr. Giuliani did. This year, Mr. Giuliani is far more likely face a Hispanic opponent: One of the two leading contenders for the Democratic nomination is Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer, who is of Puerto Rican descent and who has framed his candidacy as a potentially historical moment for the city's Hispanic population.
"Look, I'm something of an amateur historian in this city," Mr. Ferrer said. "And from the time the Dutch were here, there was always a sense of people supporting candidates that reminded them of their ethnicity. Can someone please tell me what's different here?"
The potential Hispanic vote is smaller than, say, the black vote when Mr. Dinkins won the mayoralty in 1989. Still, Mr. Ferrer sees a parallel. "Let's cut to the chase here," he said, referring to City Hall. "The one they're worried about is me." In fact, it is not that simple. What politicians refer to in shorthand as the Hispanic community is by no means cohesive politically or ideologically, making it hard for academicians to measure and hard for politicians to count on.
The group Hispanic New Yorkers is made up mostly of Puerto Ricans, but it also includes people from many Latin American countries, particularly the Dominican Republic. Scholars and pollsters say most Hispanic voters are supportive of government programs that help lower- and middle-income people, and they are thus inclined to vote Democratic. But many, especially the recent immigrants, are more conservative -- hence Mr. Giuliani's relative success among Hispanic people
The importance of what Representative Jose E. Serrano of the Bronx called "a sleeping giant" -- the Hispanic vote -- is reflected in the day-to-day practical calculations of Mr. Giuliani, as well as the Democrats who would like to defeat him: both the Rev. Al Sharpton and Manhattan Borough President Ruth W. Messinger, most notably, have been campaigning in Hispanic neighborhoods and do not cede that vote to Mr. Ferrer. "Why would he have a better chance?" asked Jim Andrews, Ms. Messinger's political consultant. "They both speak Spanish.".
The Mayor regularly denounces Republican initiatives to restrict immigration, and he has backtracked on some of the earlier spending cuts he imposed on the city's school system. Adam Goodman, Mr. Giuliani's political consultant, said Hispanic New Yorkers will be "the real stars" in television advertisements devoted to Mr. Giuliani's first term in office.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 25, 1997, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A chart yesterday with an article about Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's support among Hispanic New Yorkers misstated the scope of a recent poll conducted by The Times about the mayoral election and misstated the margin of sampling error for the 323 Hispanic respondents. The chart reflected the feelings of all Hispanic respondents, not just likely voters; the margin was plus or minus 5 percentage points, not 3.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Minerva Gonzalez supported the Mayor in 1993 but is dissatisfied. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. B3)
 
Graphs: "The Wild Card in the Mayor's Race"
When Rudolph W. Giuliani was elected Mayor in 1993, he captured nearly 40 percent of the Hispanic vote. As he tries for re-election this fall, his chances for success may depend on his ability to maintain his support from this important group. Graphs show hispanic voters' share in the 1993 electorate, who Hispanic voters supported in the 1993 Mayoral election and how Hispanic voters rate Giuliani's job performance. (pg. B1)
 
"DEMOGRAPHICS: The City's Hispanic Voters"
Only a little more than half of New York City's Hispanic residents are registered to vote. Of those who are, most are registered as Democrats, and most are of Puerto Rican decent. Graphs show percent of Hispanic residents who are registered to vote, Hispanic voters' party affiliation and the background of Hispanic voters. (Source: Baruch College survey of 1002 Hispanic people in May 1996)(pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ELECTION ISSUES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS VOTERS & VOTING (94%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TRENDS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (75%); IMMIGRATION (75%); CHILDREN (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); CRIME RATES (72%); REFUGEES (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



513 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1890 words

HEADLINE: Tourists Respond To Lure Of Culture;
Word Spreads That Art Sells

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla.

 BODY:
Here in the kingdom of make believe, where 37 million visitors a year flock to Disney World, Universal Studios, Sea World and endless other kid-jammed theme parks, it is hard to imagine what else central Florida could do to extract even more dollars from tourists' pockets or lure stayaways turned off by cavorting dolphins or magic castles.
Yet a growing number of locals think they have found a way: getting the word out to parents tired of the same old routine that quality music, art and dance are abundant in this city, while trying to convince culture mavens, who would not ordinarily be caught dead here, that the phrase "Orlando arts" is not an oxymoron. 
 "I love seeing the surprise when people learn we have culture in Orlando," said Robert Swedberg, general director of the 38-year-old Orlando Opera Company, where superstars like Placido Domingo, Beverly Sills, Luciano Pavarotti and Jessye Norman have all performed.
Such disdain for lesser urban centers as cultural backwaters is receding these days, and not just in Orlando. From the former mining town of Bisbee, Ariz., which boasts 27 art galleries, three museums and its first arts festival scheduled for next month, to the seaport city of Norfolk, Va., which is hoping to stimulate tourism with a $1.9 million, 18-day international arts festival beginning today, hundreds of cities and towns across the country have recently discovered that there is money to be made by promoting the arts.
Even Roswell, N.M., which is expecting more than 100,000 visitors over the July 4 weekend to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the crash of what many believe was a U.F.O., is busily marketing its planetarium, museums, art center and the Roswell Symphony Orchestra.
In league with smaller cities like Santa Fe, N.M., and Saratoga Springs, N.Y., travel-related businesses long have recognized the profitable tie-in between tourism and culture. US Airways, for instance, has for years been the official airline of the Spoleto festival in Charleston, S.C., a 17-day arts cornucopia, now in its 21st year, that attracts upward of 35,000 visitors.
Hotel companies, too, are forging partnerships with cultural institutions. More than a dozen Boston-area hotels have tie-ins with Boston's Museum of Science for its current Leonardo da Vinci exhibit, which runs through Sept. 1. The Four Seasons Hotel in Philadelphia is offering two-day packages in June and July that include performances of the Philadelphia Orchestra and visits to the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Brandywine River Museum and Longwood Gardens. In Houston, the Ritz-Carlton has weekend packages that include tickets to the Alley Theater. But it has only been in the last few years that cultural tourism has spread to the far corners of the country as the word has gotten out that art sells.
Two catalysts accelerated the process. First, a series of economic-impact studies concluded that cultural activities in the New York metropolitan area generated $9.8 billion in 1992, about a quarter of that from tourists. Then, an exhibition last year of the artworks of the 19th-century French painter Paul Cezanne at the Philadelphia Museum of Art pulled in almost 550,000 visitors, the highest attendance for a single exhibit in the museum's 120-year history, and pumped $87 million into the city's economy, twice what had been expected. The museum said the average spending in Philadelphia by out-of-town visitors to the Cezanne show was $402, more than double the usual $168.
"Once we saw what Philadelphia did with the Cezanne exhibit, we asked ourselves: 'Why aren't we doing something similar? We have world-class cultural institutions,' " said Mary Becht, director of cultural affairs for Broward County, Fla., which includes Fort Lauderdale.
Spotting the trend, the annual White House Conference on Travel and Tourism included a daylong session on cultural tourism for the first time in 1995. Meanwhile, tourism officials in more than 34 states have attended regional meetings designed to forge partnerships between their tourism industries and the cultural communities.
"Cultural tourism is probably the fastest-growing kind of tourism in this country, because cities are discovering that it's an untapped source of revenue," said Robert Barrett, the former longtime director of the Fresno Art Museum in Fresno, Calif., and now the director of cultural tourism for Los Angeles.
No one knows the financial impact of cultural tourism nationally, but by all indications it is big with the potential to become huge. In 1996, for example, 54 million Americans took at least one trip of 100 miles or more from home that included a visit to a museum or a historic site, according to the Washington-based Travel Industry Association of America, and 33 million took a trip specifically to visit a cultural event or festival.
"While there was probably some overlap within those two groups, you're still talking about 27 percent of the American people, which means millions of people spending billions of dollars on cultural tourism," said Shawn I. Flaherty, an association spokeswoman.
Perhaps no community is trying harder to tie culture to tourism than Orlando, which has art museums, a science center, theaters, a symphony orchestra and a ballet troupe, most of them housed in new or refurbished buildings. And the Orlando Museum of Art recently pulled off a coup that is the envy of much larger cities: starting May 2, it will host a four-and-a-half-month exhibition of the Imperial Tombs of China, the biggest collection of tomb artifacts ever to leave mainland China.
For all its efforts, Orlando still has its job cut out publicizing its cultural side. Vasile Petrutiu, the ballet master who defected from then-Communist Romania in 1982, said that when he was invited to join the city's Southern Ballet Theater a couple of years ago: "I thought it was a joke. Everybody knew Orlando meant Disney, not dance."
In a recent marketing ploy, 13 Orlando art institutions, including the Morse Museum of Art, which houses the world's largest collection of Tiffany art, and the Enzian Theater, which shows independent and foreign films, joined forces with the Orlando Peabody Hotel to attract tourists. The effort was the brainchild of an Irish native, Maureen Brigid Gonzalez, a former official at the Irish Tourist Board who was named Peabody's public relations director last year.
"Orlando is known throughout the world as 'The Mouse House,' and thank God for Mickey," Ms. Gonzalez said. "But why not also as 'Die Fledermaus Haus'? My experience taught me that tourism must be fleshed out with a cross section of attractions, including the arts and culture. If corporate clients and others only associate Orlando with theme parks, it'll be a long time before they come back."
With the alliance in place only a few months, official statistics about increased attendance do not exist, but museum officials say the anecdotal evidence is compelling. "Last month we sent 47 members of a V.F.W. group to the Orlando Science Center," said Lin Bolly, an employee of Hopson World Travel in Ocala, Fla. "They came back raving about it."
Andrea S. Miller, the president of the Meeting In-Site Corporation, a firm in Hoboken, N.J. that arranges meetings for corporations, said, "It's exciting for corporate-meeting planners to have this whole other option -- especially since Orlando's the last place on earth you'd expect to have the Imperial Tombs of China."
No one here is predicting that culture will some day surpass kitsch as a magnet for tourism dollars. "And we'll probably never compete with New York and other big cities," conceded Alan Villaverde, the Brooklyn-born general manager of the Peabody Orlando. "But a lot of our guests are not from major cities, so they don't automatically have the cultural attractions available to them that we can make available."
Skeptics might scoff that Orlando has as much chance of becoming a cultural mecca as nearby Daytona Beach, famed for its car races and springtime partying by college students, or Fort Lauderdale, the epicenter of spring holiday revelry until 1985, when it decided to market itself to families and Europeans instead.
As it turns out, though, both those cities have joined the cultural bandwagon. Daytona Beach has two major events in the offing, a five-month exhibit of more than 50 Picasso ceramic works at the Museum of Arts and Sciences starting this month and seven performances this summer by the London Symphony Orchestra. "We have a lot to offer," boasted Dan Ryan, a spokesman for the Daytona Beach Convention and Visitors Bureau. "And now we're going after cultural tourism, not at the expense of the beach and the race track, but to attract people who stay longer and spend more." As a result, the seaside resort that used to advertise mainly on MTV is now running commercials on the History Channel.
Fort Lauderdale is also investing heavily in cultural tourism. This July, a half-dozen cultural organizations, including the city's Florida Philharmonic Orchestra, will be host to the first "Beethoven by the Beach," a two-week classical music festival that includes lectures, films and 12 Beethoven compositions.
Even San Jose, Calif., the Silicon Valley town that lies in San Francisco's cultural shadow, is marketing its artistic endowments to attract weekend tourists. The city recently helped design travel packages that combined special rates at participating hotels and tickets to local museums, repertory and musical theaters, the San Jose Symphony and the San Jose Cleveland Ballet, a troupe that divides its seasons between the two cities.
Some larger cities are also making their first major move into cultural tourism. Building on the momentum generated by last summer's Olympic Games, Atlanta recently decided on a three-year marketing campaign uniting more than 100 Atlanta-area arts and cultural organizations. "Our city is already known for business and sports," said John Cary, the chairman of the Atlanta Convention and Visitors Bureau, "but our culture and arts are the heart and soul of our city."
Or consider St. Louis. Eager to increase the trickle of visitors from abroad and from both American coasts, the St. Louis Convention and Visitors Commission forged an alliance two years ago with Memphis and New Orleans, two other Mississippi River cities. The result is "America's Music Corridor," a proposed journey along a 700-mile corridor that many consider the richest stretch of American musical heritage -- St. Louis, for blues and ragtime, Memphis for blues and rock 'n' roll and New Orleans for jazz.
Tour operators in Japan and the Netherlands have begun selling the fly-drive packages, and calls from New York and California to the corridor's toll-free number are up 70 percent from last August. In what should be a major boost for the program, Budget Rent a Car recently waived its drop-off fee, which will make it far cheaper to rent a car in one of the three cities and drop it off in another.
St. Louis is perfectly aware it is benefiting from the more glamorous reputation of New Orleans, but "that doesn't bother us a bit," said Nancy Milton, a spokeswoman for the city's tourist board. She added, "We're a little like the girl who stands near the prettiest girl at the party."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 1997, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about cities' efforts to develop cultural attractions to draw tourists referred incorrectly to a White House conference on travel and tourism. Only one such conference has been held, in 1995. It is not annual.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mickey Mouse congratulates the conductor Leopold Stokowski in a scene from the 1940 movie "Fantasia." Today, with its museums and symphony orchestra, Orlando, Fla., promotes itself as more than the home of the famous mouse. (Photographs by Photofest [above]; Joe Burgess [Roswell]; Joe Skipper for The New York Times [Orlando]; Peter Newcomb for The New York Times [St. Louis]); Brooke Winfrey, 7, of Ocoee, Fla., and Zachary Zouzovlas, 5, of Orlando, Fla., explore orange-picking exhibits at the Orlando Science Center. The exhibits are part of the city's effort to attract more tourists. (Joe Skipper for The New York Times) (pg. D4)
 
 
Chart: "New Attractions"
A growing number of places not known as cultural centers are promoting high-brow attractions in an attempt to lure more tourism.
 
ROSWELL, N.M. -- A town where many believe a U.F.O. crashed in 1947 is busily marketing its museums and art centers.
 
ORLANDO -- The home of Walt Disney World is ballyhooing the Imperial Tombs of China exhibit at its civic arts museum.
 
ST. LOUIS -- The "Gateway to the West" formed an alliance with Memphis and New Orleans to promote "America's Music Corridor." (pg. D1)
 
 
Graph: "On the Go"
Museums and cultural events rank among America's favorite tourists attractions, based on respondents who traveled 50 miles or more, one-way, away from home and/or stayed overnight in 1996. Graph ranks types of attractions. (Sources: Tourism Works For America Report; Travel Scope) (pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (99%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (99%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROSWELL (NM); ORLANDO (FLA); ST LOUIS (MO); MEMPHIS (TENN); NEW ORLEANS (LA); ; UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA, USA (99%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (99%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; MUSIC; ART; MUSEUMS ; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); TOURISM (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (73%); EXHIBITIONS (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); OPERA (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (63%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN BEVERLY SILLS (56%); LUCIANO PAVAROTTI (56%); PLACIDO DOMINGO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997



514 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: On Stage, and Off

BYLINE: By William Grimes 

 BODY:

You May Already Be a Winner
Awards, anyone? If this is April, it must be time to nominate somebody, anybody, for a theater award. The Pulitzer board started off the season of giving with a big no-confidence vote, but the Lucille Lortel Awards were announced on April 8. The Outer Critics Circle and the Drama League checked in this week with a list of nominations that included several shows that still haven't opened. They will be followed by the New York Drama Critics Circle, the Drama Desk, the Obies, the Drama League and, of course, the Tonys. 
 Will the honors make a dime's worth of difference at the box office? In most cases, no.
Most theater awards warm the hearts of the recipients and give the always-struggling Off-Broadway shows some badly needed free press, but that's about it.
Only the Pulitzer Prize and the Tonys have a direct economic impact on the fortunes of a show, people in the theater industry say. Some 75 percent of the industry's revenue comes from outside New York City, and out there the lesser awards have no name recognition whatever.
Neither a Pulitzer nor a Tony guarantees an economic lift. The Pulitzer Prize did not help "The Kentucky Cycle," and it is probably well down the list of reasons motivating theatergoers to see "The Young Man From Atlanta."
When "Rent" won the Pulitzer, however, its fortunes changed. "It validated us," said Jeffrey Seller, a producer of the show. "It made an edgy, downtown musical acceptable to an urban gold-coast, Upper East Side audience."
In recent years, April on Broadway has come to resemble the running of the bulls at Pamplona, as producers pin their hopes on a shower of Tony nominations and awards that will carry them triumphantly through the summer and into a lucrative fall.
This is odd. Historically, a show opening in the fall has as much chance of winning a Tony as one that opens in the spring. Even odder, a Tony nomination may be less important than a spot on the televised awards show. Audience surveys show that theatergoers, when asked why they chose to see a particular show, consistently mention seeing a production number on the Tony Awards broadcast as one of the top reasons, said George Wachtel, the president of Audience Research and Analysis. "This can go on for 9 or even 12 months after the broadcast," he said.
A knockout performance can put a show on the map. When Savion Glover tap-danced last year, television viewers across the country suddenly saw what "Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk" was all about. "Think about it," said Mr. Wachtel. "How much would that advertising cost?"
A Tony helps, but it does not guarantee success and can even be problematic. The ultimate prize is the award for best musical, and this year, especially, with a half-dozen new musicals grabbing for the brass ring, the Tonys may be not only desirable but necessary for survival. An award for best play, best revival of a play or best revival of a musical also carries weight. To a lesser extent, best-actor and best-actress awards make an impression on the public.
But a play that receives multiple nominations and comes up short on awards day can look like a loser. A prime example is "Les Liaisons Dangereuses," which received seven Tony nominations in 1987 and walked away empty-handed. Winning only the best-actor or actress award can be a Pyrrhic victory. The producers can promote the winner heavily, but what happens to the show when he or she leaves?
"With all this mad rush to open shows in April, you wonder, is the impact of a Tony really great enough to justify rushing into a crowded season?" asked David Stone, a producer.
The good news is that in the next six weeks, nearly everyone will have a prize. It may not be the Tony, but so what? "Victor/Victoria" got blanked by the Tonys last year, but you'd never know it from the advertising. "Winner! Best Musical," the sign reads in big letters outside the Marquis Theater. Then comes the fine print: "1996 Outer Critics Circle Award."
 
Drawn to Broadway
 Back in the days when Damon Runyon roamed Broadway, a curious figure mingled with the wise guys and the fast talkers up and down theater's main street. Fay King was a small woman with big eyes, a Louise Brooks bob and a fast pen. In the 20's and 30's, she covered Broadway, presenting shows in caricature form for The New York American and The Daily Mirror. About 50 of her cartoons, lost for decades, recently surfaced and were bought at auction by Sacks Fine Art, a private dealer on West 57th Street in Manhattan.
In one cartoon, a callow-looking Humphrey Bogart sits next to Shirley Booth on a sofa in "Hell's Bells." In King's version of Cole Porter's "You Never Know," Lupe Velez, Clifton Webb and Libby Holman mingle in party attire. "You interest me, Rat," says Teddie Gerard to a sullen Parisian apache. "You make me sick," answers Horace Braham, playing "the sheik of the White Coffin Cafe" in "The Rat."
Other cartoons include the likes of Lionel Barrymore, George Abbott, Sanford Meisner and Luther Adler. In a corner of every drawing, a small caricature of King looks on and, as her creator did, throws out a sly comment.
 
A Voice From the Rear

Participatory theater, an Off Broadway staple, seems to be making inroads on Broadway. The actors in "The Last Night of Ballyhoo" routinely get shouts of encouragement, warning and advice from the audience. When the buffoonish Peachy sat down with Lala Levy recently, a horrified voice shouted out, "He's not going to take her to the ball!" When Lala looked as if she were going to sit home and pine, a stern command broke the silence: "Get out of the house!" Last week, a heated argument broke out between two theatergoers over the proper translation of a Yiddish expression used by Paul Rudd.
"The play offers these little doors that people can enter," said Jessica Hecht, who plays Lala. "The audience just walks right through them, and they're in our house. It's bizarre."
 
Footlights
 *The American Theater Wing offers three seminars in its annual "Working in the Theater" program at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, April 29 to May 1. The first panel, devoted to performance, features Dana Ivey, Joel Grey, Willem Dafoe and other actors. Other seminars deal with unions, play production and the relationships among playwright, director and choreographer. Admission is free. Information: (212) 765-0606.
*"Gross Indecency: The Three Trials of Oscar Wilde" moves to the Minetta Lane Theater on May 20.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: A cartoon of the actor Harry Mestayer by Fay King, whose self-portrait is in the corner. (Fay King)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NAVARRE, SPAIN (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (53%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NAVARRE, SPAIN (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; CARTOONS AND CARTOONISTS; AUCTIONS; FINANCES; PULITZER PRIZES; TONY AWARDS (THEATER AWARDS) ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (96%); THEATER (95%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM; KING, FAY LUCILLE LORTEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



515 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Rates Dip In the Latest Week

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
Interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages slid to 8.08 percent this week but remained above 8 percent for a fourth consecutive week, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation said today.
After sinking to 7.56 percent in the week ended Feb. 20, the rate climbed to a seven-month high of 8.18 percent the week ended April 3, just after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates. It has remained above 8 percent and was 8.16 percent last week. 
 Fifteen-year mortgages, a popular option for those refinancing mortgages, averaged 7.62 percent this week, down from 7.71 percent a week earlier.
On one-year adjustable-rate mortgages, lenders were asking an average initial rate of 5.86 percent this week, down from 5.89 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INTEREST RATES; MORTGAGES INTEREST RATES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); MORTGAGE LOANS (93%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



516 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Bautzen Journal;
In Lyrical, Dilapidated Saxony, Castles for a Song

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: BAUTZEN, Germany

 BODY:
The Gaussig Castle has everything that an up-and-coming duke or count might want: a ballroom, a fully stocked library, a hunting room complete with hundreds of deer antlers mounted on the wall. It even comes with a Gothic chapel.
All this and more than 30 acres of land is now on sale for just one German mark, or about 58 cents. Offers from foreigners, including Americans, are most welcome. Offers from just about anybody would be welcome. 
 There is a catch, naturally. Gaussig, lying about 30 miles east northeast of Dresden in what used to be Communist East Germany, is a fixer-upper's nightmare. The roof has leaked so much rain and snow that the top floor has nearly collapsed. Many rooms, stripped down to brick and timber, look as if they were bombed. The kitchen hasn't been renovated in at least a half-century.
The only non-negotiable requirement by the castle's current owner, the eastern German state of Saxony, is that the new owners must properly restore the property, consistent with its historical architecture. The likely cost: at least $7 million.
Gaussig is not unique. Seven years after Communism collapsed, local governments in eastern Germany find themselves stuck with scores of empty castles in varying states of disrepair. Too expensive to keep up but too historic to tear down, the castles have problems ranging from flooded dungeons and crumbling turrets to buckling floors.
All of these castles, even those put to public use, were allowed to decay by East Germany's Communist Government, which had taken them over after World War II. When Germany was reunified, a special provision in the unification treaty kept the castles in government hands, unlike other expropriated property, with less historical value, which was supposed to be returned to its former owners.
Now officials in Saxony, which owns almost 100 castles and has already spent more than $300 million on renovations, has hit on the strategy of selling three big ones for one mark apiece. If the first three castles find new owners, state officials are ready to sell nine others for the same price.
And there are other bargain-basement opportunities. About 30 miles west of Dresden, state officials are looking for investors to take over Colditz Castle. Colditz, which needs at least $60 million in fix-up work, became immortalized in a best-selling book and several movies as the place where high-ranking British soldiers were kept prisoner during World War II and from which they made several spectacular escapes.
Buyers will have considerable freedom to use the castles as they wish. Government officials say that converting them to hotels, restaurants or private homes is perfectly fine, though they would probably draw the line at turning them into giant video-game parlors. The new owners are asked to provide at least some public access, but that could be through something as simple as holding one or two public concerts a year.
"The state has already spent an enormous amount of money restoring castles, and we have so many financial demands from all sides of the economy that we have to draw the line somewhere," said Vera Kretschmer, a spokeswoman for Saxony's Ministry of Finance. "We can't fix up all the castles, so we are trying to find private investors."
But the bargain-basement castles are generally not in areas that attract tourism. Bautzen, with about 600 residents, is in the middle of an old open-pit coal mining region that was relentlessly torn up under the old Government. Today, the region is greener and cleaner, but nearly 40 percent of the workers are unemployed or in make-work jobs. The situation is so grim, in fact, that Saxony's Ministry of Economics has pinned much of its hope for recovery on a new Indianapolis-style speedway in the neighboring town of Lausitz, which would be built mostly with Government money from Bonn.
For all the problems, the castles are awesome to behold. The Milkel Castle, just a few miles from Gaussig, boasts a yellow facade with stately round towers on the east and west wings. A mausoleum in the nearby woods holds the remains of Count Carl Theodor Ludwig von Hohenstein.
But part of the basement is flooded, many floors are badly warped and much of the living space looks like that of a school dormitory -- which was in fact the case during the cold war.
The property is not entirely vacant. Eleven families live in the two buildings that flank the castle, and all of them are understandably ambivalent about the property's future. "It would be a shame to see the castle come down," said Elsa Schmidt, a widow who has lived there for 30 years. But, she added, "We all hope that if someone buys it, they let us stay in it."
Though government officials emphasize that furniture and personal belongings are not part of the one-mark offer, there is room for negotiation.
At Gaussig Castle, the library was preserved under the old Government as a mini-museum and remains stocked with leather-bound books, handwritten ledgers, china and even a baby-size sled that were all owned by the family of Count Karl Schall-Riaucour.
In the ballroom, which was carefully renovated during the 1980's, are pillars carved into Roman figures that appear to support the ceiling. Paintings and ornate friezes adorn the walls, along with full-length mirrors. The hunting room contains not only hundreds of deer antlers but also silverware and china.
Miss Kretschmer, from the Ministry of Finance, said the state had received more than 25 expressions of interest in the Gaussig and Milkel Castles but no firm offers.
But castles-for-a-mark may be the start of a new trend.
Just a few weeks ago, the German federal agency in charge of privatization offered to sell two bankrupt east German shipyards for one mark apiece.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The State of Saxony in eastern Germany, with almost 100 castles on its hands, has decided to offer some of them for one mark apiece. But the buyer must promise to carry out costly renovations. This one is in Milkel. (Sven Sonntag/Picture Point, for The New York Times)
 
Map of Germany highlighting Bautzen: Some storybook castles around Bautzen are in serious disrepair.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: SACHSEN, GERMANY (95%); 

CITY: DRESDEN, GERMANY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; BAUTZEN (GERMANY); SAXONY (GERMANY); GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (95%); DRESDEN, GERMANY (54%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; PALACES AND CASTLES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; GAUSSIG CASTLE (GERMANY); MILKEL CASTLE (GERMANY) BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (88%); WORLD WAR II (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); BESTSELLERS (71%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



517 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rebounds on Fed Talk And Woes of Japanese Insurer

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar recovered from early losses yesterday on news that a big Japanese life insurer was in financial trouble, which weakened the yen.
Tame German inflation data and remarks by Laurence H. Meyer, a Federal Reserve governor, also bolstered the dollar. Mr. Meyer asserted in New York yesterday that the American economy was growing at an unsustainable pace, adding to expectations that the Fed would again raise interest rates next month. Higher rates make dollar instruments attractive. 
 The dollar largely erased losses earlier in the day on profit taking ahead of today's meeting between Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan and President Clinton and weekend talks in Washington of finance ministers of the Group of Seven industrial nations.
"The market continues to want to buy the dollar on dips," said Ralph Delzenero of First Chicago-NBD.
The dollar rebounded from an intraday low of 125.89 yen to settle yesterday at 126.13 yen in New York, unchanged from Wednesday. It rose to 1.7150 marks from 1.7130 marks. The British pound edged up to $1.6263 from $1.6226.
Traders said the main event of the day came late in New York, when the yen suddenly weakened on Japanese news reports that the Finance Ministry was preparing to shut down Nissan Mutual Life Insurance because of heavy debts. The reports reinforced fears about the fragility of Japan's financial system as the result of bad loans from the 1980's.
"The dollar was stuck in a tight range, with the market waiting for the G-7 meeting, and the Nissan news popped it right up," said Steve Warendorf, chief dealer at Giro Credit Bank in New York.
Others said the odd timing of the Nissan insurance news, coming overnight in Japan, caught the market off guard. Traders who had bet on further dollar weakness scrambled to buy instead.
Earlier in the day, the dollar strengthened against the mark on news that consumer prices in western Germany unexpectedly fell in the first half of April, suggesting that inflationary pressure remained benign and the central bank there had the flexibility to lower interest rates to stimulate growth. Both the dollar and the mark derived strength from an opinion poll suggesting that France's leftist opposition could win a majority in the coming election. The poll broadly weakened the franc. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO OF NEW YORK (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); GERMAN MARK (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); TRENDS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); BRITISH POUND (67%); 

PERSON: MEYER, LAURENCE H BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



518 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Costs Of the C.I.A.

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
What responsibility should Americans feel when our Government, for policy reasons, imposes on another country a regime that reduces it to misery?
The decline and anticipated fall of President Mobutu Sese Seko should make us reflect on that question. For we invented the Zairian dictator, supported his corrupt regime for decades and filled his pockets with dollars. 
 The Central Intelligence Agency made Colonel Mobutu its man after the Congo (as it was then called) became independent in 1960. It backed him when he carried out a coup in 1965 and made himself President.
Over the next 30 years the United States supplied more than $1.5 billion in economic and military aid to Zaire. Much of it was salted away by Mr. Mobutu in Swiss banks, or used to buy chateaux in Europe. Zaire was left to decay into the chaos portrayed by V. S. Naipaul in his novel "A Bend in the River."
C.I.A. officials and other Americans who dealt with Mr. Mobutu were under no illusions about him. In their view we had to support him because he was an anti-Communist bulwark in the cold war. As Franklin Roosevelt said in another context, he was an S.O.B., but he was our S.O.B.
In the 1970's we enlisted President Mobutu in a particular cold war adventure: the arming of Jonas Savimbi, the Angolan rebel leader, in his attempt to overthrow the leftist Government of Angola. The C.I.A. got arms to southern Zaire, and from there to the Savimbi forces. The Angola caper gave Mr. Mobutu added leverage with his American backers. If they wanted to keep the Angolan rebels in the field, he would say, they had to line his pockets.
More than once the United States had the chance to press Mr. Mobutu for reform -- and funked it. In 1978, when we helped him put down a rebellion in Shaba Province, we could have called for democratization but did not. In 1991, after an army mutiny, a Bush Administration committee recommended pressing Mr. Mobutu to retire, but the idea was quashed.
Zaire is not the only example of U.S. Governments using the C.I.A. to reshape the politics of another country, indifferent to the cruelties imposed on the people of that country. Guatemala is another, perhaps equally outrageous from the viewpoint of international law and human values.
In 1954 a military coup sponsored by the C.I.A. overthrew the left-wing Government of President Jacobo Arbenz, one of the few in Guatemala's history that had been freely elected. The coup began a long national descent into savagery.
In the 1980's, Guatemalan military forces carried out a relentless campaign against rebels among the Indians who make up a majority of the country's population. The military strategy was to destroy villages deemed sympathetic to the rebels. In the end 140,000 people were killed or missing and one million displaced from their villages.
Many Guatemalan military and political leaders were on the C.I.A. payroll. Last year the Intelligence Oversight Board found that the C.I.A. had paid a number of military officers suspected of assassinations, kidnapping and torture.
The Guatemalan civil war was finally brought to an end by a peace agreement signed last December. Other civil wars have ended in El Salvador and Nicaragua, where the C.I.A. was even more deeply engaged.
A few months ago the C.I.A. made public training manuals it had used with at least five Latin American security forces in the early 1980's. The manuals featured techniques of psychological coercion to make people talk -- techniques that the agency said it gave up in 1985.
In all these activities the C.I.A. has not been a rogue elephant. It has been carrying out the wishes of the highest American authorities. But the existence of the C.I.A., operating in secret, allowed those authorities to act as if they knew nothing of the torments inflicted on other people in what we deemed to be our interest.
"Mobutuism is about to become a creature of history," Michael McCurry, the White House spokesman, said on April 9, washing America's hands of its S.O.B. at long last. I would like to be around when a Presidential spokesman says, "C.I.A. corruption of other countries' politics is a creature of history."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); ANGOLA (94%); GUATEMALA (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZAIRE; GUATEMALA; UNITED STATES (97%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); ANGOLA (94%); GUATEMALA (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS COLD WAR (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); COUPS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ARMIES (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); RIVERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); 

PERSON: MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES); LEWIS, ANTHONY VIDIAHAR SURAJPRASAD 'V S' NAIPAUL (56%); FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT JR (55%); JONAS MALHEIRO SAVIMBI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



519 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Lawmaker Questions Plans Of Mortgage Enterprises

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
Representative Jim Leach, the chairman of the House Banking Committee, called on the Clinton Administration today to review the investments and expansion plans of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Fannie Mae and the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
Mr. Leach's request came several days after the Banking Committee learned that Fannie Mae was weighing a plan to give insurance to homeowners that would pay off their mortgages if they died or became disabled. 
 Representative Leach has also criticized the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac, in recent weeks for investing millions of dollars in the bonds of the Philip Morris Companies. Freddie Mac, which eventually sold the bonds, said it had bought them as part of a broader effort to build a $10 billion investment portfolio of long-term corporate bonds and other investments not tied to the housing market, according to the banking panel.
Representative Leach, an Iowa Republican, contended that the two Government-sponsored enterprises, which raise money at below-market rates and use it to buy home mortgages from lenders, may be straying from their federally chartered mission to expand home ownership.
Policy makers should insist that the companies "remain focused on their housing mission, not on tangential areas, which appear primarily aimed at stockholder returns, not public purpose," Representative Leach wrote today to the Housing and Urban Development Secretary, Andrew M. Cuomo. The department oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Officials of Fannie Mae rejected Representative Leach's suggestion that the company was moving into new areas unrelated to housing.
"Everyone will see that there is not a charter issue once they see the value of this product to home buyers," David Jeffers, a spokesman for Fannie Mae, said.
Fannie Mae's stock lost 12.5 cents today, to $38.625; Freddie Mac fell 62.5 cents, to $28.125.
Representative Leach also questioned whether a new Federal Home Loan Bank program could be "a long step toward direct lending," exceeding the system's federally chartered mission to provide capital for loans to the nation's savings institutions and some banks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP; FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM; FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (71%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP; FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM; FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; FINANCES; INSURANCE MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: LEACH, JIM (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ANDREW CUOMO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



520 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Double Crime

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
"The suffering or death of any human being of any or no religion is as offensive to God and as demeaning to us as is the suffering and death of Christians. However, to act is to act on something particular -- and the persecution of Christians worldwide is massive, underreported, largely unknown and when known is often passed by in silence."
That comment leads this column because of what it says and where it was made. 
 Paul Marshall, a writer and teacher on religious persecution, said it at a New York City Council hearing. The Council is considering legislation to take billions in municipal contracts, bank deposits and pensions away from business in the China trade.
If enough states, cities and stockholders take action the Chinese Government and Christians it persecutes will know there is more to America than Washington's trade-driven sycophancy. Local and individual action can be a response to the challenge in the title of Mr. Marshall's new book: "Their Blood Cries Out."
A double crime is being committed. The crime of persecution: by Communist regimes and those Islamic governments and movements that consider freedom of religion a danger to them. The crime of the accepting witness: free nations that look away out of greed for trade, or political cowardice.
Recognition of both crimes will be a blessing in itself -- "dayeinu," as Jews sing at the Passover seder -- and would lead to others. It is not easy for people of good heart to act against the persecution of one group without opposing the brutalization of the minds and souls of others.
Religious persecution is committed because dictators know all human rights break holes in the walls of fear that they erect to protect them from their people. But freedom of religion is often not even mentioned in the list of human rights and gets least international support -- except when organized with determination and continuity. This has not been done about Christian persecution.
Human rights movements and writing, including mine, usually deal with arrest, torture and murder of those who try to exercise their political or social rights, not nearly enough on assaults against religious human rights. U.S. politicians and diplomats tend to act as if protest against Christian persecution is against the Constitution.
All human rights pay the price. Only when religious freedom is understood to be as critical as any other liberty will a nationwide human rights constituency be built in America.
But such a grass-roots constituency is in the making, largely because of a growing awareness of persecution of Christians.
That won't make everybody happy. Try asking your local U.S.-China lobby C.E.O.'s for contributions to persecuted Chinese.
Some Christian groups that "witness" in China warn that public "shaming" of the Chinese Government, or economic sanctions, will convince Beijing that Christians are a threat, and increase their persecution. Makes my skin crawl with memories about blaming Jews for upsetting the Nazis.
High-level ignorance about the techniques of religious persecution must delight the persecutors. Newt Gingrich worshiped at one of China's officially recognized churches, often shunned by other foreign visitors. Imagine how this came across to Chinese Christians who refuse to be part of the government-controlled churches, and instead risk their freedom by worshiping at one of their many underground "house churches."
House churches? What are they? The question came from James Sasser, a defeated Tennessee politician, after he was appointed Ambassador to Beijing. Human rights folk will forget that question, in 50 or 60 years.
Still, the awareness of Christian persecution grows within Congress and across America. Every public hearing that leads to action, every stockholders' suit, every church or synagogue protest helps it grow.
In my columns on Christian persecution I have emphasized the Chinese because, for money, Western business and governments strengthen the dictatorship that hounds Chinese Christians. The persecution of Christians outside China also grows -- as of the Copts in Egypt. I will write about them soon. Against persecution of Christians, no one column will end my writing or commitment. I've made that promise to myself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TITLE: THEIR BLOOD CRIES OUT (BOOK)

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; BOOKS AND LITERATURE RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); MURDER (78%); TORTURE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); LITERATURE (75%); WRITERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); CITIES (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); PASSOVER (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; MARSHALL, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



521 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Fed Official's Speech Raises Anxiety as Bond Prices Fall

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The prices of Government securities fell yesterday as worrisome economic data hinted that a blizzard of key reports next week might encourage the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates.
Traders were wary about taking big positions in bonds ahead of the reports next week, which many investors expect will continue to show a strong economy, raising the danger of increased inflation. The market has been pricing in some of the risk of further Fed rate increases. 
 Adding to the hesitation in the market were remarks made yesterday by Laurence H. Meyer, a Federal Reserve governor, to the Forecasters Club of New York. Mr. Meyer, an appointee of President Clinton who is considered a moderate on monetary policy, warned that further interest rate increases might be needed to slow an economy that he said might be overheating.
The 30-year bond fell for the second consecutive session, shedding 17/32 , to a price of 9327/32 ; the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 7.13 percent, from 7.08 percent on Wednesday, bringing it back almost to where it was two weeks ago.
Bond prices traded lower early when the Government released a report showing that initial claims for unemployment benefits fell by 8,000, more than expected, to 324,000 for the week ended April 19. Bond investors are concerned about the strength of the labor market, fearing that it will ignite inflation, which erodes the value of bonds.
But investor reaction to a slight drop in the Conference Board's March help-wanted index, which tracks job advertising in newspapers, was muted. The index fell to 87 in March from a revised 89 in February, which was originally reported at 90. Analysts said an 87 reading was still high and consistent with a strong labor market.
Meanwhile, the distribution of the nearly $29.5 billion of new two- and five-year notes auctioned by the Treasury on Tuesday and Wednesday continued, even as dealers set up for yesterday's $13.75 billion auction of new one-year bills.
Anthony Chan, vice president and chief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation in Columbus, Ohio, said the supply of Treasury and corporate paper this week, without solid economic indicators to go by, had made it challenging for the credit markets. "Therefore, in the end, market investors found little incentive to continue absorbing the increased supply without pushing yields higher," he said.
Mr. Chan said the auction of 52-week bills provided some encouragement to the market as the bid-to-cover ratio, a measure of demand, came in at 4.77 to 1, higher than during the previous auction, when it was 4.54 to 1. Both figures reflect the sharp increase in demand recently. Mr. Chan said the average bid-to-cover ratio for the one-year bill since January 1993 had been 2.91 to 1.
Still, the one-year bill was awarded at an average rate of 5.72 percent, up from 5.66 percent last month and the highest since 5.90 percent on April 27, 1995.
"No matter what anyone says," Mr. Chan said, "it's quite clear that investors will not really be able to sink their teeth into the market" until next week's reports. On Tuesday, the Government will release the Employment Cost Index for the first quarter, and on Friday, it will release the overall employment report for April.
Mr. Chan said the remarks by Mr. Meyer of the Fed had raised the anxiety level in the market. In an unusual move, the Fed released the text of his speech to prevent investors from misconstruing his remarks.
"The market's greatest fears were realized when they learned that Meyer is truly concerned about the strength of the U.S. labor markets and the recent rise in the manufacturing capacity utilization rates," Mr. Chan said.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new one-year bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Average Price	94.216	Discounted Rate	5.72%	Coupon Yield	6.06%	High Price	94.227	Discounted Rate	5.72%	Coupon Yield	6.06%	Low Price	94.216	Discounted Rate	5.71%	Coupon Yield	6.05%	Accepted at low price	28%	Total applied for	$66,501,145	Accepted	$13,949,185	Noncompetitive	$1,121,925	
 
The one-year bills mature on April 30, 1998.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from January 1997 through April 1997. (Source: The Bond Buyer); "1-Year Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate for 1-year Treasury bills from January 1996 through August 1997. (Source: Treasury Dept.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (69%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



522 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Fall

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
First-time claims for jobless benefits dropped by 8,000 last week despite the ripple effects of a series of auto worker strikes. The Labor Department said today that new applications for unemployment insurance totaled a seasonally adjusted 324,000, down from 332,000 during the week ended April 12. The drop occurred despite a strike at a Chrysler plant that has caused parts shortages leading to layoffs at 16 other plants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); STRIKES (88%); LAYOFFS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



523 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
* Banc One Corp., Columbus, Ohio, is selling $900 million of debt securities in two parts. The first part is $400 million of notes due in 2007 through Salomon Brothers. The notes are priced at 99.792 to yield 7.63 percent. The second part is $500 million of debentures due in 2027 through Morgan Stanley & Co. The debentures are priced at 98.647 to yield 8.121 percent.
 
* Fannie Mae is selling $50 million of medium-term step-up notes due in 1999 through Deutsche Morgan Grenfell. The notes, which can be called on May 11, 1998, carry an interest rate of 6.32 percent. If the issue is not called, the coupon increases, or steps up, to 7.1 percent. 

* SK Telecom Co., Seoul, South Korea, is selling $230 million of Yankee notes due in 2004 through Merrill Lynch & Co. The notes, which are dollar-denominated securities issued by foreign banks or companies, are priced at 99.559 to yield 7.833 percent. The issue is rated A1 by Moody's Investors Service and A+ by Standard & Poor's.
 
Preferred Stock
* Omega Healthcare Investors Inc., Ann Arbor, Mich., is selling two million shares of series A cumulative preferred stock totaling $50 million through A. G. Edwards & Sons. The securities are rated Ba2 by Moody's and BB+ by both S.& P. and Duff & Phelps.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); MS (NYSE) (84%); SKMD (LSE) (83%); SKM (NYSE) (83%); 017670 (KSE) (83%); OHI (NYSE) (68%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (72%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (72%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (68%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (51%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (54%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); SK TELECOM CO LTD (83%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (72%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); OMEGA HEALTHCARE INVESTORS INC (68%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); OHIO, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (51%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); DEBT NOTES (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



524 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: New York City Sued by U.S. On Water Filtration Plant

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
The Federal Government sued New York City yesterday for failing to build a $600 million filtration plant to clean drinking water from its most polluted reservoirs, those east of the Hudson River.
In theory, the Justice Department could seek more than $27 million in penalties, although officials there and at the Environmental Protection Agency said their main goal was to force the city to build a plant that has been planned for 20 years but delayed by the cost and disputes over where it will be built. 
 The affected reservoirs, in the city's Croton watershed, still produce potable water, about 10 percent of the city's supply, but have been increasingly hemmed in by development and tainted with waste water from sewage treatment plants.
Since June 1993, the city has been in violation of the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, for failing to filter the Croton water, but it had been granted a series of extensions by the E.P.A. and New York State health officials as it explored sites and technical options for a filtration plant.
But when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani ordered a new round of studies of the plant last year, and some city officials started to question the need for filtration, E.P.A. officials began threatening court action to force the city to build the plant. The estimated $600 million plant would be paid for entirely by water users in the city, through increases in city water rates.
Some Federal officials said they feared that the Mayor, with a re-election campaign looming, was trying to delay the politically sensitive decision of where to build the plant. For years, the city has favored a Bronx site at a reservoir in Jerome Park. But residents of the neighborhood organized to fight the project.
The lawsuit over the Croton filtration plant contrasts with the sense of harmony surrounding ceremonies in January, when the city signed a separate agreement with Federal and New York State officials to protect the reservoirs west of the Hudson that supply 90 percent of the city's water. That agreement averted a threatened Federal order to build a much larger filtration plant that could have cost more than $6 billion.
Randy M. Mastro, Deputy Mayor for Operations, said the E.P.A.'s decision to seek penalties because of the delays in the Croton filtration plan "is the Federal Government run amok."
The lawsuit, he said, was particularly "ludicrous" in light of the January agreement, under which the city will spend more than $1 billion over 15 years to protect its water. On Monday, the city issued the first round of checks for water projects in all of its watersheds under the deal. Significant work will be done in the Croton system under that plan, Mr. Mastro said.
"To have E.P.A. turn around within weeks of that and suddenly cry foul about Croton is certainly perplexing at the least," Mr. Mastro said.
Mayor Giuliani said: "They are trying to get us to make a decision faster than would be responsible. We will defend that in court, and I'm sure that we will prevail."
The city has 20 days to respond to the action, although an agreement could be negotiated out of court, said Stanley N. Alpert, a prosecutor in the office of the United States Attorney in Brooklyn, where the complaint was filed.
Officials at the E.P.A. defended their decision to sue, saying that the filtration plant was needed to protect public health and that the city had resisted setting a firm deadline to build it.
Jeanne M. Fox, the agency's regional administrator, said: "This should have been settled by now. For two decades, there's been water-quality degradation and decline in Croton." She said the city and the state had long agreed on the need to filter the water, adding that "it shocked the heck out of me" when she began hearing city officials question filtration last year.
All along, the E.P.A. has not been concerned with where the plant is built, only with when, Ms. Fox said. "We tried negotiating for a while and made some progress, but ultimately it wasn't going anywhere," she said. "So we had to file. We just couldn't wait anymore."
Other municipalities have paid fines for lagging in efforts to filter reservoirs that fail to meet strict health standards, she said. These range in size from Colorado Springs, Colo., population 300,000, to Cushman, Ark., population 1,200.
New York City has to be held to the same standard, Ms. Fox said in letters to Mr. Mastro earlier this month. The penalties are intended to insure that New York City does not benefit economically from delaying the construction project.
A senior adviser to Gov. George E. Pataki said: "That's a bureaucratic answer. If we'd all stayed in that mind-set, there wouldn't have been a watershed deal." He added that he hoped negotiations between city and Federal officials could still resolve matters outside the courtroom.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Map of Westchester showing location of The New Croton Reservoir: The New Croton Reservoir is part of a watershed for New York City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CROTON (NY); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; WATER POLLUTION; FINES (PENALTIES) WATER POLLUTION (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); WATER QUALITY (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); UTILITY RATES (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



525 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: The Commercial and the Utopian: Can They Reconcile for a Woodstock Theme Park?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER 

 BODY:
One businessman called to propose a miniature golf course pegged to themes of the irreverent 1960's. Another said he had designed the stage at the original Woodstock festival and wanted to help out again, but was concerned that a Woodstock theme park be true to its ideals.
"You don't pave paradise to put up a parking lot," said Mel Lawrence, a Manhattan filmmaker, quoting a Joni Mitchell song. 
 The commercial and the utopian -- antagonists during the Woodstock festival in 1969 -- crossed paths again yesterday in response to a plan by Alan Gerry, a cable television entrepreneur, to develop the original site in Bethel, N.Y., as a theme park about the music and counterculture of the 1960s.
Modern-day self-described hippies, like a man who calls himself Day and a woman named Abigail Storm, urged that 37-acres of the site -- the bowl-shaped field where the stage was centered -- be kept pristine so pilgrims can gather there annually on what to them is sacred ground.
At the same time, business people tied up Mr. Gerry's telephone because they saw a theme park as an opportunity to make money.
There were some who hoped that a park would pay homage to the good things of the 1960's -- the civil rights demonstrations, Vietnam War protests and communal feeling. Others who attended the Woodstock festival in 1969 wondered why anyone would want to memorialize it.
"Only in 25 years' hindsight was it a cool thing," said Stephen Kling, a 44-year-old art director for a Manhattan advertising agency who attended Woodstock as a teen-age caricaturist and found himself trapped there. "It was not a cool thing. Can you imagine music for three days solid? Do you know what that does to your head? I thought it was going to be an overgrown fireman's carnival and it turned into this kinetic disaster area with helicopters flying overhead and 400,000 people without any food and no sewerage."
On Wednesday, Mr. Gerry, one of the country's richest people, disclosed that he had purchased the concert site and 1,000 surrounding acres and wanted to build a theme park on the scale of Colonial Williamsburg, Va. He offered few specifics, but mentioned the possibility of a museum, theater, train ride and other features that to some raised the specter of another Disneyland in the hardscrabble countryside of Sullivan County.
Mr. Gerry said he would keep the actual concert site, a onetime cow pasture, as natural as possible. But the remainder of the land would be turned into a year-round tourist attraction.
Sullivan County officials like Rusty Pomeroy, chairman of the County Legislature, were delighted. They have been desperate for projects that would stimulate the county's ailing economy, and Mr. Gerry's proposal stirred visions of grizzled but well-heeled former flower children bringing their children to visit the site where they once sowed a few wild oats.
But veterans of the Woodstock generation like Happy Traum were more cautious. For 30 years, Mr. Traum, a musician, has lived in Woodstock, N.Y., the town 30 miles east of Bethel where the concert was initially supposed to be held.
"It sounds pretty hokey to me to make a theme park out of our youth," he said. "But I don't know what the ramifications will be for the people who live there and whether they'd respect the time or whether it would be about a lot of pseudo-hippies and flower power."
For almost a decade, the cow pasture has drawn thousands of people during the August anniversary of the three-day Woodstock concert, overwhelming the local police. In 1994, more than 40,000 people streamed there for the 25th anniversary.
Ms. Storm heads the Woodstock Nation Foundation, an organization in Monticello, N.Y., that she runs with her husband and five children. They operate a Web site dedicated to protecting access to the concert site. She said she did not mind a theme park as long as the owners permit people to freely assembly every August. Ms. Storm was not at Woodstock, but believes something transforming happened there.
"I really believe there was an outpouring of spirit, a culmination of spiritual revelation in people's lives, and that was what was not forgotten," she said. "They may have come there for sex and drugs but they found something that changed their lives."
Similarly, Day said that if the developers are only interested in protecting their pocketbooks, "there will no authentic hipsters present."
"The hipsters will withdraw from it and it will mean a cheap imitation," said Day, who uses the acronym formed from his former name, Dennis Albert Yusko.
Duke Devlin, who made it to the 1969 concert after traveling from a commune in Texas, is excited by the theme park proposal. That is because he stayed on in the area after the concert and now, a grandfather, he operates a farm stand four miles from Bethel.
"If somebody wants a peach or an apple, they'll have to buy it from me," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATURAL ASA (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BETHEL (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS; WOODSTOCK MUSIC FESTIVALS FESTIVALS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); MUSIC (89%); COUNTIES (83%); GOLF (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); FILM (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (65%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); HELICOPTERS (61%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH; GERRY, ALAN ALAN GERRY (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



526 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Banks Putting Out Welcome Mat for Developers of Rental Buildings

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
With rental prices soaring and the sales market steady, banks in recent months have begun writing loans for new residential projects, a practice they had all but given up during the recession in the early 1990's.
No one keeps official track of how many of these conventional loans for rental residential buildings are now being written, but mortgage brokers say the attitude has clearly changed. 
 "We've finally passed the critical point where it makes economic sense to the banks to finance a straight-line rental," said Andrew J. Singer, a mortgage broker who is chairman of the Singer & Bassuk Organization, using the term for a nonsubsidized project. "Rents have reached historic levels, and the lenders are less worried about repayment."
The changed atmosphere for development loans presented one developer with a choice he might not have otherwise had: go to the banks for a conventional, higher-rate construction loan or wait around for a lower-interest, state-financed loan -- and possibly miss the market.
Ed Kalimian, the developer of the Manhattan Promenade, a new 22-story rental building now rising at 344 Third Avenue, between 25th and 26th Streets, chose the higher interest rate for his $20 million construction loan to get started sooner.
Mr. Kalimian expects the construction to be completed by January. If he had had to wait for the lower-cost state money -- part of the so-called "80/20" program for developers -- he might have lost six or seven months, he said.
Under the 80/20 program -- the financing path that has been preferred in recent years by almost all of New York City's major rental builders -- the developer agrees to offer affordable rents to lower-income tenants in exchange for receiving funds obtained from state-issued, tax-exempt bonds. In addition to the financing, developers who follow the 80/20 formula are also eligible for 20-year tax abatements under a city program.
In this case, Mr. Singer added, the lender, PNC Bank, which is based in Pittsburgh, had several other factors to weigh in giving a construction loan. The first was Mr. Kalimian's intention to switch to long-term 80/20 financing as soon as construction was completed and the apartments were rented. The application has already been submitted to the state's Housing Finance Agency, said Mr. Singer's partner, Richard Bassuk, although no commitment has been received. The two brokers said that they believed the proposed switch, from conventional construction financing to permanent 80/20 financing, was unprecedented. Usually, developers using 80/20 financing use it for both short- and long-term needs.
The ability to get Mr. Kalimian's new building up and renting -- he plans 183 studio, one- and two-bedroom apartments, renting for $1,600 to $3,200 -- should more than compensate for the one or two additional percentage points of interest he is paying for the construction loan, he said. The mortgage brokers and the developer declined to give the exact terms of the loan.
Another part of the development strategy is that the earlier start date also allowed the developer to bargain with the city's building contractors involved in the project, whose cost, including land acquisition, adds up to more than $30 million. Because there are many other apartment building projects planned but very few actually at the construction stage, Mr. Kalimian said the contractors would work for less. Already, Mr. Kalimian has hired 95 percent of his trades people "and already, I am starting to see the prices go up," he said.
Another reason the bank looked favorably on Mr. Kalimian's request was that his development group, ATA Enterprises, had pledged a whopping down payment -- more than 38 percent of the total project's cost, according to the mortgage broker. Developers usually put down 20 percent to 25 percent.
Frank Pomar, a senior vice president at PNC, said the bank, in its own analysis, "found a solid residential neighborhood, a demand for housing that had been pent-up since the early 90's."
"It was a safe loan," he said, "with significant equity, and we're excited about it." If Mr. Kalimian gets the rents he is projecting, the banker said, "The deal can work either way: conventional or 80/20, giving us a bigger universe of repayment strategies."
Mr. Kalimian and his son and partner, Robert Kalimian, closed last month on the $20 million construction loan. The developers began buying the parcels and air rites that make up the site eight years ago. "There were a bunch of tenants," Mr. Kalimian said, "and little by little we got them out."
In the time that it took to negotiate deals with the tenants, the real estate recession hit, "and now we feel lucky we didn't get them out sooner," he said. "They delayed us until we hit a better market."
The new building, designed by the Stephen B. Jacobs Group, will be a boxy brick tower with 6,200 square feet of ground-floor retail space.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PNC BANK NA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BANKS AND BANKING; RENTING AND LEASING; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; MORTGAGES CONSTRUCTION (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX LAW (67%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TAX INCENTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE; SINGER, ANDREW J; KALIMIAN, ED

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



527 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: In South America, Auto Makers See One Big Showroom;
Hot Markets Are Producing Cars For Domestic Buyers and Export

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

 BODY:
SAO JOSE DOS CAMPOS, Brazil
Since the days of Marco Polo, the possibilities in Asia have captivated traders, merchants and business executives. It is the continent of tomorrow, experts say, and when a company the size of General Motors sinks $750 million into Thailand and $2 billion into China, it makes for big headlines.
But in Brazil and Argentina, much closer to home, the world's biggest auto maker has committed $4 billion. And while there are few headlines back home, there is plenty of money to be made today. 
 After a half century of false starts, Brazil and Argentina are booming and a large upper middle class is emerging with money to spend. Auto executives around the world have concluded that the two countries, which taken together make up 80 percent of South America's auto sales, represent an even more lucrative market than Southeast Asia or Eastern Europe.
And so, faced with little or no growth at home, American, European and Japanese car makers are pouring a total of $18 billion into new South American factories, convinced that the recent double-digit sales growth will continue.
As a single market, Brazil and Argentina "will pass Germany and become one of the top three markets in the world, behind the United States and Japan," predicts Mark T. Hogan, president of General Motors of Brazil Ltd.
Not everyone sees it Mr. Hogan's way, but most auto executives agree that unlike other developing markets where profits are anticipated down the road, there are plenty to go around now in this part of the world. G.M.'s profits in South America, for example, are higher than anywhere else.
The prosperity is readily apparent at G.M.'s palm-fringed factory here about 60 miles northwest of Sao Paulo. The factory's highly automated assembly lines operate 23 hours and 15 minutes a day and still do not keep up with demand. So many employees are now able to afford the Chevrolet Corsa, a tiny car too small for American tastes, that there is a critical shortage of spaces in the employee lot.
The Chrysler Corporation has such confidence in this market that it will open its first new factory in a developing country since 1965 on April 25 in Cordoba, Argentina.
The main reason for the auto boom has been a resurgence of economic growth. In both Brazil and Argentina the growth of economic output is expected to surpass 4 percent this year and next, putting them ahead of the United States, Japan and Europe and in a league with the Philippines and the Czech Republic.
Inflation, once at crippling annual rates of 5,000 percent or more in both countries, is now running at 9 percent in Brazil and just 1 percent in Argentina. Banks, once reluctant to lend, are now happy to make car loans.
Jose Filho, a retired sales manager, said that he and his wife, Theresinha, had watched with amazement as their three married children, two engineers and one architect, had bought a total of 10 new cars in the last three years. "We just have one car," a 1987 Chevrolet Chevette, Mr. Filho said.
And Marcelo Suarez, a 27-year-old worker at a Volkswagen factory near Buenos Aires, said that a bank loan last year had allowed him to buy his first car, a $12,000 VW Pointer. "Before, there weren't any loans," Mr. Suarez said.
The Japanese in particular have concluded that Brazil and Argentina represent the largest and most attractive of the world's emerging markets, and are beginning to set up factories here. By comparison, the smaller auto market in Thailand is becoming saturated; China and Indonesia pose political difficulties; India still has too few roads, and demand is only beginning to rise in Eastern Europe, said Koichi Kondo, president of Honda Motor of Brazil Ltd.
For half a century, predictions have abounded that Brazil would become a true economic powerhouse only to see growth suppressed by political instability, hyperinflation and protectionism. After a similar experience for 40 years, Argentina got off to a roaring start in the early 1990's only to suffer the effect of Mexico's recent recession, which dampened its economy and cooled international investor interest.
Some skeptics question the wisdom of expanding the Brazilian and Argentine auto industry to the point that it can supply a market the size of car-crazy Germany. They worry about an investment frenzy leading to a surplus of cars sold off for a loss. Also, the export of surplus cars from here could worsen an international glut of car production.
The Ford Motor Company, which alone among the world's auto giants is not building new plants here, questions other auto makers' ambitious plans. "They are underestimating by far, I think, the difficulty of operating here, and overestimating the potential," said Ivan Silva, president of Ford of Brazil Ltd., which already has two huge assembly plants near Sao Paulo, a vast factory city choking on air pollution and traffic, with as many people as New York City and its suburbs combined.
Aside from pollution and traffic, too rapid growth can create other worries. Auto sales in Brazil in the first quarter ran at an annual rate of 2.2 million vehicles, triple the level five years ago, feeding concerns that the economy may be overheating.
Auto sales in Argentina have also been brisk, running at an annual pace of 400,000. The region is thus gaining fast on Germany, where 3.6 million vehicles are sold each year.
Since Brazil has extraordinary income inequality -- one of the widest gaps between rich and poor of any country, according to the World Bank -- some auto makers are hedging their bets by pursuing wealthy customers, who are likely to go on spending even if the economy sours.
Michael M. O'Mara, Chrysler's executive director of sales and marketing in Brazil, recalled the plainly dressed man who recently showed up at a Chrysler dealership with his wife and adult son and, without bothering to bargain, bought three armor-plated Jeep Grand Cherokees for $110,000 apiece. (Soaring crime, notably kidnappings, has turned Brazil into one of the world's best markets for bullet-proof vehicles.)
Yet the wealth and potential for growth are matched by great poverty, which leaves a few observers pessimistic. "Everyone is expecting really high numbers for their plants, and we just don't think it'll happen," said Julie E. Trausch, an auto analyst at J. D. Power & Associates, which recently opened a Sao Paulo office.
But that gloomy assessment remains a minority view. In Brazil, the market is exceptionally young. About a third of the population is under 16, compared with 22 percent in the United States. While many of them are poor, auto makers are pinning their hopes on the rising number of professionals here. Honda has estimated that while only 400,000 households in this country of 170 million people are truly wealthy, an additional 2.7 million households have annual incomes above $48,000, and 8.6 million more earn at least $24,000.
Auto companies are also pleased that neither Brazil nor Argentina has a truly home-grown car maker to favor with government policies. By contrast, Malaysia and Indonesia are trying to set up government-backed auto companies, and China has forced multinationals to enter into joint ventures with local auto makers.
An unusual combination of free and managed trade has also increased auto sales and production here. Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay are gradually dismantling steep trade barriers under a regional free trade agreement that the Portuguese-speaking Brazilians call the Mercosul pact and the Spanish speakers in the other three countries call the Mercosur pact.
Ford, for instance, now builds its Fiesta in Brazil and its Escort in Argentina and ships cars across the border. That kind of system allows auto makers to reap economies of scale that have cut hundreds of dollars from average car prices, Mr. Hogan of G.M. said.
At the same time, Brazil has retained 63 percent tariffs on cars from the rest of the world. A few years ago, that was lowered to 31.5 percent for companies that assemble cars here with a significant number of domestically made parts. That discount has proved a big lure for the world's car makers, but the four companies with operations here when car imports were actually banned in the 1980's -- Volkswagen A.G., Fiat S.p.A., G.M. and Ford -- still hold a combined 99 percent market share. United States trade officials have objected to tariff policies here as possible violations of international trade rules, a contention that Brazilian officials deny.
To supply the growing market, new factories and even some old ones have been loaded with the latest equipment, making them at least equal, if not superior, to many factories in the United States. Several years ago, in Sao Paulo, G.M. was able to gear up production of a new sedan in half the time it took a G.M. factory in Kansas last year to reach full production of another redesigned sedan.
Extensive automation has improved quality and produced rising exports of auto parts to industrialized countries. G.M. is even considering whether to begin exporting pickups to the United States once it catches up with demand here -- something it has been unable to do for the last five years. G.M. already ships Chevrolet Blazers to Russia from the Sao Jose dos Campos factory, not from the United States.
Heavy investment here has prompted concerns among labor leaders in industrialized countries. Auto workers in Brazil and Argentina earn about $5.50 an hour plus benefits, more than in most developing countries but a third of wages in the United States. The United Automobile Workers union has been very critical of G.M. for installing the latest equipment here instead of at home.
Yet the automation is making life easier for workers here. "I have to use my mind more; I use my muscles less," said Jose Calvo, a 49-year-old worker at the Sao Jose dos Campos factory, who watched carefully as molten aluminum sluiced into molds, where it would cool into camshaft supports for export to G.M.'s Opel subsidiary in Germany.
With so many things finally going right for the auto industry in this region, auto makers are just hoping their good luck will last, particularly in Brazil. "Everybody is watching what is going on, somewhat excited but somewhat concerned," said Mr. Kondo of Honda. "We pray to the Government, 'Please manipulate the economy well.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Auto sales in Argentina, where Ford has a plant in Pacheco, are running at an annual pace of 400,000. (Horacio Paone for The New York Times); At G.M.'s factory in Sao Paulo, the automaker cannot keep up with demand for pikups and sport utility vehicles. The production equipement of G.M.'s South American factories is more modern than at many plants in the United States. (Cristina Villares for The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Map of Brazil showing the location of Rio de Janeiro. (pg. D1)
 
Charts: "A CLOSER LOOK: Building More Cars"
Auto makers are building new factories to raise output in Brazil to 2.7 million vehicles within 3 years. Total annual vehicles produced in Brazil, including light and heavy trucks. Chart shows the total number of vehicles produced in Brazil (in millions) for the years 1986 through 1996. (Source: J.D. Power and Associates) (pg. D4)
 
"Existing Car Factories in Brazil And Argentina"

	ESTIMATED CAPACITY	MANUFACTURER	PER YEAR	Fiat	636,000	Volkswagen	632,000	Ford	440,000	General Motors	383,000	Peugeot/Citroen	162,000	Renault	120,000	Mercedes-Benz	72,000	Toyota	10,000	TOTAL	2,455,000	
 
"New Factories And Factories Being Built"

	ESTIMATED CAPACITY	MANUFACTURER	PER YEAR	Fiat	321,000	Volkswagen/Audi	242,000	General Motors	230,000	Hyundai	100,000	Mercedes-Benz	95,000	Honda	80,000	Renault	80,000	Chrysler	60,000	Asia Motors	60,000	Peugeot/Citroen	55,000	Toyota	50,000	Mitsubishi	30,000	TOTAL	1,403,000	Total estimated capacity of all plants in 2000 -- 3,858,000
 
(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (96%); ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); THAILAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); PHILIPPINES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (89%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: ;FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS DO BRASIL LTDA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AMERICA; BRAZIL; ARGENTINA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; EUROPE; JAPAN; BRAZIL (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (96%); ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); THAILAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); PHILIPPINES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (89%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SALES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ; INDUSTRY PROFILES; CAPITAL INVESTMENT AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); TRENDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (67%); 

PERSON: ;BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



528 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Long-distance truck drivers get the royal treatment from the Knights Inn hotel chain.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell 

 BODY:
IN the segmented hotel market of the 1990's, there are chains that cater to the idle rich, to business travelers, to families, to retirees, to vacationers -- even hotels that cater to people's pets.
Yet while the hotel market may seem to have been sliced and diced every conceivable way, Knights Inn, a fast-growing chain with 200 hotels in 34 states and Canada, has staked out a turf all its own: that of becoming the unofficial hotel of long-distance truck drivers. 
 While Westin hotels have a Kids Club, Motel 6 leaves the light on, and the Sheratons, Marriotts, Hyatts and Hiltons reward guests with frequent- flier miles, Knights Inns' "King of the Road" club gives truckers room discounts, free continental breakfast, free local calls, free Thermos coffee refills -- and free parking for their 18-wheelers, either on site or nearby.
Knights Inn also advertises regularly in Moving Out, a monthly publication for professional truck drivers, and on the "Overdrive Top 10 Radio Countdown," a nightly radio show aimed at truckers that covers most of the continental United States. Altogether, Knights Inn is spending a little more than $100,000 for this year's advertising campaign.
Every month the Knights Inn ad in Moving Out lists every property complete with address, phone number, room rate and whether truckers can park tractor and trailer rigs on site or only the tractor. In addition, each month a trucker who has done a good deed is honored as "Knight of the Highway" and presented with a gift certificate for five free room nights at any Knights Inn.
"Lots of hotels have taken truckers as a sort of last resort," said Ramesh Gokal, the president of Knights Inn, "but we reversed that process. When our market research showed that truckers are a valuable market segment and demonstrate high customer loyalty, we went to the trucking industry and said, 'We want you and we'll take care of you.' People forget that truckers also take vacations with their families."
Pam Pollock, the editor of Moving Out, said that while many trucks have sleeper cabs, "A lot of truckers still like a good night's sleep in a clean hotel room."
There are about 3 million truck drivers in the United States, including 1.1 million owner-operators. More to the point, perhaps, Mr. Gokal said that long-distance truckers spend an average of 21 nights on the road each month.
Knights Inn ads are created by Musselman Advertising Inc. of Allentown, Pa., which designed the chain's mascot, a knight in armor, that will be featured in all advertising and direct marketing. Although Allentown is the longtime world headquarters of Mack Trucks Inc., that coincidence had no bearing on the Knights Inn-Musselman relationship.
"We haven't worked with Mack," said Jamie Musselman, president of the agency, "but for years we have worked with hotels, especially those in the budget and economy sectors, and that experience was attractive to Knights Inn."
Founded in 1970 in Columbus, Ohio, Knights Inn went through two bankruptcies before it was bought in August 1995 by HFS Inc., the franchisor of Days Inn, Ramada, Howard Johnson and four other hotel chains. The typical Knights Inn property is single-story, with 80 to 100 rooms, and a room rate of $35.50. The chain intends to keep the room rate below $40, Mr. Gokal said, the first American of Indian descent to head a major chain, "because above that you're in the economy segment."
Knights Inn expects to add another 100 hotels by year's end, though that will still keep it well behind Accor's Motel 6, which has more than 800 hotels in the United States, in the budget category. Knights Inns' average revenue per available room is $18 a day, which the chain hopes to raise by increasing occupancy.
It is also aiming its marketing at retirees and construction workers, Mr. Gokal said, because, "while consumers are much less brand loyal than they were 15 years ago, they are segment loyal." He added, "So we see a big opportunity because truckers and construction workers do not usually 'trade up' to higher-priced hotels as the economy improves, and we think we can build brand loyalty." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: KNIGHTS INN (HOTEL CHAIN); MUSSELMAN ADVERTISING INC MACK TRUCKS INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: KNIGHTS INN (HOTEL CHAIN); MUSSELMAN ADVERTISING INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; ADVERTISING; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING HOTELS & MOTELS (95%); TRUCK DRIVERS (92%); HOTEL CHAINS (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); TRUCKING (89%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (72%); BRANDING (70%); SLEEP (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (54%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



529 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Burmese Sanctions Get Little Backing in Asia

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, April 24

 BODY:
Not long ago a senior American diplomat in Myanmar who desperately wished for that country's pro-democracy movement to prevail conceded that economic sanctions would at most amount to "a moral shot across the bow."
The United States has less economic leverage in the former Burma than in many countries around the world. And it has failed to persuade Myanmar's neighbors in the region -- its primary trading partners -- to join in any form of sanctions. 
 However badly the Burmese military Government treats its citizens, it appears that the economically powerful Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, is intent on welcoming Myanmar as a member this year.
Nevertheless, the economic sanctions announced this week by President Clinton have resonated in a region where the United States has been the most consistent voice in keeping human rights on the international agenda. The "shot across the bow" is not without resonance.
It has drawn the kind of defensive reaction here that has led regional leaders in recent years to tout the idea of "Asian values," in which group welfare takes precedence over individual rights.
It is a bottom-line philosophy that suggests, in effect, that if everybody can do business and get richer, everyone will be better off. Issues like child labor, environmental protection and individual liberties must take second place.
As Myanmar has opened its economy in recent years, most Asean nations have hurried to strike business deals, even as that nation's human rights abuses have continued.
Thus the Malaysian Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad, said today that "we are going to work very hard to get Burma into Asean" regardless of the American sanctions.
In Indonesia, a Government spokesman, Ghaffar Fadyl, said, "We have believed from the beginning that any sanctions against Burma will not bear fruitful results."
And in Thailand, a Government spokesman said Prime Minister Chavalit Yongchaiyudh would proceed with a visit to Myanmar next month regardless of American sanctions.
In a statement today, the Government of Myanmar said it believed that American sanctions were "for their own political consumption" and asserted that the action would not affect Burmese policies.
"We feel sorry for United States companies because they will not get a second chance later to invest in Myanmar if opportunities are taken over by companies from nations with consistent foreign policies," it said.
The low-key reaction contrasted with angry attacks on the United States in the past and a tit-for-tat barring of American officials last year when Washington moved to bar entry to members of the military Government.
Though trade ties with the United States are limited, Myanmar has been particularly sensitive over the years to criticism from Washington.
The United States is the fourth largest investor in Myanmar, but most of that investment is in one deal, a $1 billion natural gas pipeline being constructed jointly by the California-based oil company Unocal and by Total of France.
The sanctions announced this week are not retroactive, and that project is not affected. But Unocal said on Wednesday that it would now halt exploration of two potential natural gas fields.
A number of other American companies, including Pepsico and several clothing manufacturers, have withdrawn from Myanmar under public pressure, and several states and cities have enacted their own bans on business with companies that operate there.
Despite its limited economic leverage with Myanmar, though, the United States has a significant symbolic presence there, in part perhaps because it is that country's most consistent critic.
In 1988, when masses of pro-democracy protesters filled the streets of the capital city of Yangon, formerly Rangoon, the United States Embassy was one focal point of demonstrations. The United States was seen as a friend and potential savior of the protesters.
That peaceful uprising was crushed when the army fired into the crowds, killing hundreds of people.
In 1989, the Government placed the leader of the pro-democracy movement, Aung San Suu Kyi, under house arrest. When her party won a landslide victory in parliamentary elections in 1990, the military ignored the results and clung to power.
Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest in 1995. But in the last year, harassment and arrests of her followers have increased, and in recent months her movements and contacts with the public have been severely restricted.
Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi has called repeatedly for the imposition of sanctions, and after the announcement was made this week, the chairman of her National League for Democracy, U Tin Oo, said the move was "one we have very much longingly hoped to happen."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); THAILAND (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: ASEAN (ASSN OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS) ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASEAN (ASSN OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS) ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); THAILAND (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); POLITICS (74%); NATURAL GAS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); CHILD LABOR (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (50%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (50%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



530 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: Files of Democratic Fund-Raiser Present an Unfinished Mosaic of Networking

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
The Chinese year 4694 dawned 14 months ago, and began propitiously for John Huang.
The 50-year-old Mr. Huang was embarking on a new role as finance vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, a position that brought him close to the inner circle of Presidential politics. His charge: to raise $7 million for the Democratic Party from Asian-Americans. 
 Mr. Huang, a former banker, onetime American representative for the wealthy Riady family of Indonesia and then a middle-level Commerce Department official, moved quickly to establish himself as the man to see for Asian-Americans interested in access to President Clinton or a job in politics or the Administration. And for Democratic officials he became the interpreter of Asian-American thinking and business interests.
With a flurry of faxes, phone calls, White House visits, dinner invitations and briefing papers, Mr. Huang wasted no time in parlaying his new position into a pivot point for the Asian-American political and business communities.
By mid-February of last year, he had been at the Democratic National Committee for six weeks, having left his Commerce Department desk, and taken a 50 percent pay cut, to support Mr. Clinton's re-election and, it appears, further his own ambitions to become a major political player.
Thousands of pages from Mr. Huang's files, released by the Democratic committee last week in response to subpoenas from Congressional investigators, show that he attacked his new party assignment wholeheartedly.
The papers present an incomplete mosaic of a prodigious networker who called on an impressive array of contacts in the United States and overseas. They also offer a tantalizing look inside the world of Democratic fund-raising and the Asian business community in the United States.
But they are ultimately unsatisfying, because much remains missing: Mr. Huang's Democratic National Committee telephone logs, most of his outgoing correspondence, his travel records, details of his visits to the White House and Clinton-Gore campaign headquarters, and accounts of business he conducted from locations other than his office at the Democratic committee.
Even the voluminous records provided by the committee are missing hundreds of pages, having been "redacted" to protect donors' identities and maintain the confidentiality of internal party deliberations.
Still, the glimpse of a two-week period in February afforded by the documents shows that Mr. Huang wasted little time making the transition from Commerce Department bureaucrat to political financier.
Mr. Huang is a native of China who was educated in Taiwan and the United States and has been an American citizen for 21 years.
He has refused all interview requests since he attained notoriety late last year after having raised $3.42 million for the party, of which the Democrats have said they are returning $1.6 million as improper or questionable. His lawyer, Ty Cobb of the Washington firm of Hogan & Hartson, declined to elaborate on the documents in Mr. Huang's files.
Just days after joining the Democratic National Committee, Mr. Huang spoke to a group of Chinese-Americans in San Francisco of his motivation for becoming involved in national politics. He said he felt an obligation to participate in public life after having become prosperous in his adopted country.
"My wife's grandfather came here to build up railroads, earning 25 cents a day," Mr. Huang told the gathering, at the Meriwa restaurant in Chinatown on Jan. 8 of last year, according to an account in AsianWeek magazine. "In the early days, you had to take care of your economic well-being first.
"But once you achieve a certain success, you really have to think about what else you can do. We cannot simply think when we cross the river, coming to the promised land, that we have done enough."
Mr. Huang's first major fund-raising assignment at the Democratic committee was to organize a Presidential dinner for wealthy Asian-American contributors on Feb. 19. He was clearly determined to make a good first showing.
The files chronicle his contacts with prospective guests for the dinner, held at the Hay Adams Hotel across Lafayette Park from the White House. One fax message includes a catalogue of benefits for donations ranging from $5,000 to $250,000.
The minimum price for a seat at one of the tables was $12,500. The goal for the evening was $500,000, and the event cleared $813,880 after expenses.
As he was soliciting donors, Mr. Huang was also preparing a briefing paper for the President.
He padded the briefing document with pages of demographic data on "Asian Pacific Americans" ("Approximately 66% of Asians live in five states -- California, New York, Hawaii, Texas and Illinois"), voter preferences ("Fifteen percent of APA's voted for Perot" in 1992), lists of Asian-American elected officials ("In 1994, there was an unprecedented number of APA's who ran for elected office") and issues of concern to Asian-Americans (immigration, affirmative action, small-business programs and the "glass ceiling" limiting Asian-American business advancement).
But the Clinton dinner was only one of a dozen balls Mr. Huang was juggling last February.
He was also active in assembling the Asian Pacific American Working Group, which brought together the Administration's top-ranking Asian-American officials. He attended two mid-February White House meetings of the group, whose chairwoman was Doris Matsui, deputy director of the White House Office of Public Liaison and wife of Representative Robert T. Matsui, Democrat of California. Mrs. Matsui cleared Mr. Huang into the White House complex two more times in late February, but there is no record that he actually attended meetings on those dates.
The Presidential dinner on Feb. 19 was followed the next day by a breakfast meeting of a group of Democratic contributors, the Asian Pacific American Leadership Council, where Vice President Al Gore was the featured speaker. Mr. Huang was the principal organizer for that event as well. He saved time by sending the Vice President the same 31-page briefing paper that he had prepared for the President.
The two events brought the party more than $1 million in a 15-hour period. Among the items in Mr. Huang's files is a photograph of an unidentified member of the Leadership Council presenting Donald L. Fowler, then the party's national chairman, a blown-up check for $1 million.
Four days later, Mr. Huang organized the Asian Pacific American Summit, a daylong symposium in Washington to recruit and motivate new Democratic fund-raisers.
Meanwhile, he was in demand at Chinese New Year celebrations, including a banquet, sponsored by the Maryland-China Business Council, at a Chinese restaurant in Baltimore on Feb. 29.
The speaker was Li Daoyu, Beijing's Ambassador to the United States, but Mr. Huang sent his regrets, according to Anthony Goh, vice president of the Business Council.
He also declined a New Year's party invitation from a group of Taiwanese-Americans, pleading a scheduling conflict.
During the same period, Mr. Huang was preparing for a Feb. 28 meeting at the offices of his former employer, the Commerce Department, between Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown and Shinji Sakai, president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A.
The precise purpose of the meeting remains unclear. The session was canceled by Commerce officials the day before it was to take place, and Mr. Brown and a number of other top department officials with knowledge of the meeting were killed in a plane crash in Croatia last April.
Democratic officials said they could not explain why Mr. Huang had been included in the list of those to attend the meeting.
A Toyota lobbyist, W. Michael House of the Washington law firm of Hogan & Hartson, the same firm now representing Mr. Huang, also was to have attended. Mr. House declined to discuss the planned meeting.
Toyota's American subsidiary gave $121,000 to the Democratic National Committee from 1993 to 1996, but there does not appear to have been any substantial donation either immediately before or immediately after the meeting's scheduled date of Feb. 28.
Mr. Huang's fax machine was also humming with resumes from job-seekers, including one from a Chinese-American woman employed by the State Department's business development office in Taiwan. In a note written in Chinese, she asked his help in obtaining a position at a trade office in Shanghai.
The files provide no record of Mr. Huang's reply.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: HOGAN LOVELLS US LLP (50%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ASIAN-AMERICANS ASIAN AMERICANS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); SUBPOENAS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (61%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: HUANG, JOHN; BRODER, JOHN M BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



531 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Technology Rally Fails To Lift Market

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Investors allowed worries over rising interest rates to overpower a strong rally in technology stocks yesterday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average down following a morning rally.
Enthusiasm sparked by better-than-expected results that I.B.M. had released after the market closed on Wednesday caused the Dow to surge nearly 80 points in early trading. Other technology issues rose sharply as well. 
 But a warning from a Federal Reserve governor, Laurence H. Meyer, that the economy might be overheating raised fears that the Fed will increase interest rates when it meets again next month.
"This morning was a continuation of the idea that corporate earnings were positive," said Hank Herrmann, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed in Kansas City, Kan. "But in the afternoon it gravitated to the idea that positive earnings are the result of an economy that is too strong."
Indeed, several companies that reported strong earnings, including Procter & Gamble and Delta Air Lines, saw their shares fall sharply.
The Dow ended the day at 6,792.25, down 20.47 points. It was the second consecutive decline since the average soared 173 points on Tuesday, its second-biggest daily point rise ever.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was also down yesterday, falling 2.46 points, to 771.18. But the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 0.96 point, to 1,228.10, its third consecutive gain.
I.B.M.'s results exceeded analyst estimates by 10 cents a share. In addition, positive comments about the company's future performance by its chief financial officer set the stage for a rally when the market opened this morning.
I.B.M. shares, which account for 7.3 percent of the Dow, surged as much as 14 5/8 before falling back. The stock closed at 153 5/8 a share, up 11 1/4, or about 8 percent. Had it remained unchanged, the Dow would have dropped about 57 points yesterday.
Other technology stocks followed. Shares of Computer Associates International, which said late Wednesday that it would surpass Wall Street quarterly earnings estimates, was up 4 3/8, or nearly 10 percent, at 48 1/2. Dell Computer rose 1 7/8 a share, to 81 1/4, while Compaq Computer gained 2 5/8, to 80 1/8, after it said it would buy back as many as 25 million of its own shares.
The Oracle Corporation climbed 1 3/4 a share, to 39 1/2. The Microsoft Corporation, which has had sizable gains since it announced strong earnings last week, fell 1, to 114 1/8.
But the technology stocks could not hold up the overall market after Mr. Meyer, in a luncheon speech to the Forecasters Club of New York, warned that prices could begin to increase because of rising wages, a low unemployment rate and strong industrial production.
Last month, the Fed raised interest rates for the first time in two years to pre-empt a rise in inflation, sending a shock to investors who fear that higher rates will reduce corporate profits. Wall Street is now awaiting a series of economic statistics that will be released next week, including labor costs, job growth, and gross domestic product.
"We have had the shot across the bow," said Thomas M. Galvin, chief equity strategist at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, of the March interest rate increase.
Referring to Alan Greenspan, the Ferderal Reserve chairman, and his recent warning about the stock market, Mr. Galvin added, "Greenspan should at least take heart that we have moved from irrational exuberance to manic depression in 45 days."
Following the remarks by Mr. Meyer, several blue-chip stocks fell sharply. Airlines, which are considered vulnerable to downturns in the economy, were particularly hard hit. Delta fell 5, to 93 1/8. Some analysts also said that investors cashed in on a recent surge in Delta's stock.
The UAL Corporation, which owns United Airlines, fell 4 1/2, to 76, while US Airways Group lost 2 5/8, to 31 1/2.
Allied Signal yesterday reported first-quarter net income of 92 cents a share, 2 cents above expectations, but the stock fell 3 7/8, to 69 7/8.
Procter & Gamble fell 2 1/2 to 123, after posting third-quarter profit of $1.26 a share, 2 cents ahead of estimates. Still, analysts said, P.& G.'s sales growth was disappointing.
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); CA (NASDAQ) (63%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (61%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); WDR (NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (77%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (84%); CA INC (63%); MICROSOFT CORP (61%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); WADDELL & REED INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (77%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



532 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. Clears Merger Of Nynex and Bell Atlantic
The Justice Department said that it would not try to stop the $22 billion merger of Bell Atlantic and Nynex. The decision, which came after a nine-month investigation, removes the last major hurdle to a deal that would create a communications goliath, offering local telephone service from Maine to Virginia. 
 The department overrode the objections of consumer advocates and several state officials, most notably the Attorney General of New York State, Dennis C. Vacco. [Page A1.]
 
Barney's Discloses Earlier Saks Bid
Barney's said that Saks Holdings had made a $330 million offer for it in February that was rejected as too low. A Barney's executive disclosed the bid during a Federal bankruptcy court hearing on Barney's plans to offer break-up fees of up to $8.5 million to attract higher bids. Earlier this week, Saks and a partner offered $290 million for Barney's. [D2.]
 
Worrisome Hints for Bond Market
Treasury prices fell on hints of possible further interest-rate increases, including remarks by Laurence H. Meyer, a Fed governor, who said that the economy's pace might be unsustainable. The 30-year bond yield rose to 7.13 percent from 7.08. [D16.]
 
Mr. Meyer's remarks bolstered the dollar, which becomes more attractive when American interest rates are headed upward. The dollar also benefited from news that a big Japanese life insurer was in financial trouble, which weakened the yen. [D13.]
 
Procter & Gamble Earnings Up 16%
Procter & Gamble, benefiting from its efforts to cut costs, said that its quarterly earnings rose 16 percent. The consumer products giant's results benefited from a reduction in its variety of products, the streamlining of production and a change in the way retailers are supplied. [D5.]
 
American Express Net Rises
American Express said its quarterly earnings rose about 15 percent because of increased business in its charge and credit cards and record sales in mutual funds. [D4.]
 
Delta Stock Falls Despite Profit Rise
Delta and Southwest reported strong profits, as other airlines have, despite higher fuel costs. But Delta's stock fell after a run-up, while Southwest's rose. [D2.]
 
MCI Posts Steady Results
MCI Communications said that its profit was unchanged in the first quarter as losses from new wireless and local phone businesses offset an increase in profit from the long-distance business. [D2.]
 
As Profits Fall, E.D.S. Ponders Cuts
Electronic Data Systems reported earnings that fell well short of analysts' expectations. The company, which has disappointed investors since it was split off from G.M. in June, also said that it was reviewing the size of its work force and might cut some jobs. [D6.]
 
Kidder, Peabody to Settle Suit
Kidder, Peabody, which is completing its legal obligations and winding down its operations after leaving the brokerage business, agreed to pay $14.1 million to settle a class-action suit that accused it and other firms of fixing prices on the Nasdaq stock market. [D2.]
 
S.&P. to Stay in Manhattan
Standard & Poor's, a fixture of New York City's financial industry since 1860, agreed to keep its 2,057 employees in the city through the year 2019 in exchange for tax incentives and energy discounts worth at least $23.7 million. The company rejected a more lucrative bid from New Jersey. [B10.]
 
Review of Fannie Mae Plans Sought
Jim Leach, the chairman of the House Banking Committee, called on the Clinton Administration to review the investments and expansion plans of Fannie Mae, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank System. He has questioned whether the organizations are straying from their missions. [D5.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,792.25 down 20.47
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.13% up 0.05
The Dollar -- 126.13 yen unchanged
 
Photo: Laurence H. Meyer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); AXP (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (85%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MERGERS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); RETAILERS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



533 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Ban on Chemical Arms Is Approved by Senate
The Senate voted 74-26 to approve a treaty to ban the production, storage and use of poison gas as a weapon of war after Trent Lott, the Senate Republican leader, tepidly endorsed it. Conservative Republicans had opposed the treaty, but Mr. Lott said he decided to back it after receiving a letter from President Clinton promising to withdraw if it compromised the nation's military capabilities. A1
 
A Mother Lode of Dinosaurs
A huge trove of dinosaur fossils that includes the first fossilized internal organs of dinosaurs ever seen and the first fossil of a dinosaur containing a mammal it had just eaten has been discovered in a remote region of northeast China, scientists announced. More than 200 fossils of a primitive bird, plus mammals, insects and plants, were also found. A1
 
Anger at Guerrillas' Treatment
Unidentified Peruvian officials and former hostages accused the Peruvian military of executing some guerrillas who were trying to surrender during the raid to free their hostages. The Government said the guerrillas' bodies would be buried in unmarked graves, prompting protests from their relatives. A1
 
British Campaign in Final Week
Tony Blair and his Labor Party colleagues strove to keep their commanding lead in the polls from collapsing as the final week of campaigning in Britain began. Mr. Blair stressed what his party would not do if elected next Thursday. Prime Minister John Major and his Tories, who have been in power for the last 18 years, sought to emphasize the country's economic achievements. A5
 
Rwandan Refugees Disappear
United Nations officials said tens of thousands of Rwandan refugees had abandoned a camp near Kisangani in Zaire after three days of confused fighting. Aid workers and journalists escorted by Zairian rebels to the site found nothing but debris. It was unclear where the refugees had gone. The rebel leader, Laurent Kabila, denied his forces had killed them. A6
 
Japan Guru Pleads Not Guilty
Shoko Asahara, the guru of the Aum Shinrikyo religious cult, pleaded not guilty to being the mastermind of the 1995 nerve gas attack on the Tokyo subway that killed a dozen people and injured thousands more. In a baffling monologue that often slipped into broken English and drew jeers from the court audience, Mr. Asahara blamed two aides, saying they did not obey his orders to abort the sarin gas attack two days before it occurred. A7
 
France Seeks to Deal With Cuba
France said it would sign an accord protecting and promoting investments with Cuba. American officials were not invited to the signing; they said they were not surprised or offended by the deal. The European Union, including France, refuses to observe the terms of a United States law that seeks to punish companies that do business in Cuba. A8
 
NATIONAL A12-25
 
Revolution Was Aim, U.S. Says in Bombing Trial
The Government opened its case in the Oklahoma City bombing trial by portraying Timothy J. McVeigh as a man who wanted to use violence to incite a second American Revolution. Mr. McVeigh's lawyer said he would show that his client was the victim of false identifications by biased witnesses and of bungling by the F.B.I. crime laboratory. A1
 
Medicare Still Facing Shortfall
The Medicare trust fund that pays hospital bills for elderly people will run out of money in four years unless Congress takes action to slow spending or raise taxes, its trustees said in their annual report. Last year's report said much the same thing; no action was taken then. A16
 
Mystery Package at B'nai Brith
The authorities in Washington, D.C., sealed off the world headquarters of B'nai Brith with 108 people inside after a mail room employee noticed a foul odor emanating from an envelope marked "anthrachs." The occupants were allowed to go home more than eight hours later after tests found that the contents were not anthrax, a deadly bacterium. A12
 
'91 Gas Attack Called Possible
A respected chemical-weapons researcher who had been mysteriously dismissed from a special White House panel said he believed Iraq might have attacked American troops with chemical weapons during the 1991 war, something the Pentagon has repeatedly denied. A15
 
Universe's Shape Is Disputed
Two scientists said an assertion that the universe has an "up" and a "down" was based on a statistical flaw. The authors of the original study stood by their work. A20
 
Election Law Move Set Aside
The White House set aside its plans to ask the Federal Election Commission to ban large, unregulated campaign donations. Two senators who are leading a drive to change campaign finance laws said the White House plans could have undermined support for their legislation. A22
 
Success Found for a Vaccine
A vaccine to prevent urinary tract infections has proved successful in mice and holds promise for people, though it will not be available for at least five years, researchers reported. A23
 
Meeting on Tobacco Settlement
Top law enforcement officials from states involved in the tobacco settlement called a meeting for Monday to plot strategy and resolve disputes. Differences have emerged among the officials over how to proceed with the settlement. A24
 
Fay Wray Plays the Capitol
 Fay Wray, the 89-year-old heroine of "King Kong," led a Hollywood delegation to Washington to seek a change in the copyright laws to give older writers a portion of the payments for replaying their movies. Also present was Julius Epstein, who earned a grand total of $15,208 as co-author of "Casablanca." A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
A Top AIDS Scientist Moves to Queens College
Prof. Luc Montagnier, the co-discoverer of the AIDS virus, said he would move the base for much of his research from the Pasteur Institute in Paris to Queens College. He was lured by a Queens College alumnus who donated $4.5 million to start an AIDS research institute there. A1
 
Open Doors, Nowhere to Go
Subway and union officials reported a rash of incidents in which train doors had been opened on the wrong side or while a train was not fully in the station. They had no explanation, but said steps had been taken to curtail the practice. B1
 
No-Hat Rule Brings Lawsuit
A Sikh man sued a Manhattan restaurant for refusing him service because he would not take off his turban. The man, Jaswinder Pal Singh, said the restaurant staff would not listen to his explanation of his turban's religious significance. The restaurant's manager said its no-hats policy would not be changed. B2
 
Case Sweeps Elevator Agency
Eleven New York City elevator inspectors were indicted on charges of extorting bribes. Ten others have pleaded guilty to extortion and another is expected to, Federal officials said, meaning that nearly half the city's 58 elevator inspectors have been charged with crimes. B3
 
WEEKEND C1-28
 
Arts Chief Replies to Gingrich
The chairwoman of the National Endowment for the Arts described Newt Gingrich's suggestion that entertainers become the main financial backers of the arts as "elitist." C3
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-17
 
Telephone Merger Is Cleared
The Justice Department announced it would neither try to block nor impose conditions on the $22 billion merger of Bell Atlantic and Nynex. The decision removes the last major hurdle to a deal that would create a telephone company stretching from Maine to Virginia. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
SPORTS B13-23
 
OBITUARIES B12
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
Editorials: Troubling portents in Zaire, book burning that worked, a lesson from Milwaukee, reforms in the Family Courts.
Columns: Bob Herbert, Anthony Lewis, A. M. Rosenthal.

Chronicle D24
 
Crossword C18
 
Weather B11

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: FRANCE (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PERU (92%); RWANDA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (85%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST CHINA (71%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PERU (92%); RWANDA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (85%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); REFUGEES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CULTS & SECTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MAMMALS (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); TRENT LOTT (73%); TONY BLAIR (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



534 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Sugar Lobbying Near Everglades Began Early;
Needless Import Quota

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your April 20 editorial "The 50-Year War on the Everglades" may actually understate the factor by which United States sugar prices are inflated by the Government's import quota, and leaves out the price that consumers must pay for this "welfare for the rich" program, in addition to whatever damage is being done to the Everglades. 
 As noted by economists, recent world prices for sugar have been as low as 4 cents a pound and American prices as high as 25 cents.
Even in 1989, when the difference was only 12.5 versus 23 cents, nearly $930 million extra was extracted from American consumers by the sugar industry through the quota. But the total cost to consumers was even more: about $2 billion
The difference was made up by about $400 million in extra profits to the few importers lucky enough to get a piece of the 3.8 billion-pound quota and about $635 million "deadweight" losses simply wasted through overall underconsumption and misallocated, inefficient production.
Even if the world price rose in reaction to freed United States demand -- a great potential benefit to our struggling Caribbean neighbors -- the savings could still be substantial.
The multibillion-dollar environmental reconstruction project envisioned by the Government may or may not be good policy. But if "Big Sugar" is at fault, this industry could be cut down to size without spending a penny -- in fact, at a possible savings of billions -- just by lifting the quota.
 
MERRILL SMITH
Flushing, Queens, April 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EVERGLADES (FLA); FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUGAR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; QUOTAS AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); SUGAR MFG (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: SMITH, MERRILL

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



535 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Standard & Poor's, Given Subsidies, Is to Stay in New York

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
Rejecting a more lucrative bid from officials in New Jersey, the Standard & Poor's Corporation, a fixture of New York City's financial industry since 1860, agreed yesterday to keep its 2,057 employees in Manhattan through the year 2019 in exchange for a package of tax incentives and energy discounts worth at least $23.7 million.
The company's threatened move to New Jersey heated up an on-again, off-again border war over jobs, particularly those of financial-sector firms. Charles Millard, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, cited the battle for Standard & Poor's in accusing Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey of violating a 1994 pledge not to poach on New York companies. 
 New York officials and real estate brokers involved in the negotiations said Standard & Poor's passed up more than $50 million in tax incentives and other subsidies offered by New Jersey officials, who sought to lure the company to Newport City, a new million-square-foot office tower on the Jersey City waterfront. Had the company decided to move across the Hudson, it would have represented a significant blow to New York City's efforts to retain major financial-sector companies in Manhattan.
As part of the deal, the company, a division of McGraw-Hill, could receive up to $10.8 million more if, over the next 22 years, it hires the 2,615 additional workers, as it expects.
Under the deal, all 4,010 employees that McGraw-Hill has in New York City will remain in the city. The Standard and Poor's division, which is now spread among four buildings, will be consolidated at 55 Water Street in lower Manhattan, city officials said. In addition to Standard & Poor's bond rating and financial information services employees, 1,372 employees of other McGraw-Hill divisions, which had considered moving to the Newport City tower, will instead remain in midtown Manhattan when their leases at various buildings expire in 2002. An additional 581 employees at the parent corporation's headquarters, at 1221 Avenue of the Americas, at 48th Street, will also remain in the city.
In staying in Manhattan, people familiar with the deal said, the company passed up less expensive real estate at the Jersey City site. At 55 Water Street, it will pay a minimum of $27 per square foot for 937,000 square feet, or more than $25 million a year, those people said.
The 53-story building overlooking the East River, which was a key holding in the Olympia & York real estate empire, was bought in 1993 by Retirement Systems of Alabama, a state employees' pension fund.
Under its agreement with city and state economic development officials, McGraw-Hill will receive $19.7 million in sales tax exemptions on capital expenditures for costs like construction of its new offices. It will also receive $4 million in energy discounts. All told, it is to receive more than $5,900 in breaks for each worker who remains in New York.
On a per-employee basis, the deal is by no means the most lucrative jobs-retention package that the Giuliani administration has awarded: the New York Mercantile Exchange received incentives of $22,700 per worker in 1994, and the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange got $26,000 per worker in 1995. The costliest business-retention deal on record was with Chase Manhattan, which received $51,000 per employee in 1988.
Increasingly, city officials have tried to tie incentives to the creation of new jobs. Mr. Millard of the city's Economic Development Corporation said one-third of the incentives for Standard & Poor's are tied to its planned expansion. But yesterday's agreement differed markedly from a deal earlier this month in which ING Barings, a British-Dutch financial services concern, committed to expand its payroll in New York by 870 people in return for $5 million in tax breaks and energy savings. Barings will receive benefits only if it creates new jobs, not merely by keeping its 800 existing employees in the city.
Overshadowed yesterday was another sizable real estate transaction at 55 Water Street, in which the Chubb Insurance Company leased 150,000 square feet for 20 years, according to Stephen Siegel, president of Insignia/Edward S. Gordon Company, the broker for Chubb.
Mr. Millard said the deal with McGraw-Hill brings to $500 million the total in incentives that the city has granted to retain jobs during the Guiliani administration, but he contended that the companies benefiting from the deals contribute $875.6 million a year to the city in taxes.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said the city's share of the incentives would be paid back in less than five months, since McGraw-Hill pays $40.4 million a year in city taxes.
Harold W. McGraw 3d, president of McGraw-Hill, said he was "thrilled with the outcome" of the negotiations with New York, but hastened to assuage any hurt feelings in Trenton. "This is not a bad day for New Jersey," he said. "We have 1,500 employees in New Jersey, we're proud of that, and we do plan to grow a little bit in that area."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold McGraw 3d, president of McGraw-Hill, at news conference. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (94%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; TAXATION; ENERGY AND POWER TAX INCENTIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); SALES TAX (72%); TRENDS (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M HAROLD W MCGRAW III (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997



536 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
German Economist's Remarks Lift Dollar Against the Mark

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar rose sharply against the mark and ended higher against other currencies yesterday after the top economist of Germany's biggest bank predicted that it could rally to 1.800 marks and 130 yen.
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin also contributed to the dollar's advance by reiterating his support for a strong dollar on the eve of a meeting of Group of Seven finance ministers and central bankers in Washington. 
 Traders interpreted Mr. Rubin's remarks as a sign that representatives of Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States would say nothing about excessive dollar strength in their meeting communique, signaling a reluctance to intervene yet.
"It seems like traders didn't want to go home short dollars heading into the weekend," said Robert Katz, a currency trader at the MTB Bank Corporation in New York. "There's just a general feeling that the G-7 won't try to cap the dollar's rise."
In New York the dollar rose to 1.727 German marks, from 1.715 marks on Thursday and the highest level in nearly two weeks. The dollar also rose to 126.25 Japanese yen from 126.13 yen. The British pound fell to $1.6231 from $1.6263.
Mr. Rubin's remarks were viewed as an important point in the trading day, but some traders said that the more significant cause of dollar strength came earlier from Norbert Walker, chief economist of Deutsche Bank, Germany's biggest bank.
Mr. Walker said he believed that financial and monetary officials from the so-called G-3 nations -- Germany, Japan and the United States -- would tolerate a dollar level of 1.800 marks and 130 yen.
"That really pushed the dollar up," said Earl I. Johnson, foreign-exchange economist at the Bank of Montreal's Chicago branch. "We were waiting for something to trade on, so we just jumped on that."
Though Mr. Rubin later reaffirmed his continued concerns about the yen's weakness, he offered no suggestions about where the dollar-yen exchange rate should be.
"We were looking for words that would be backed up with actions, and we didn't get that," Debra Larsen, assistant vice president for foreign exchange at Commerzbank in New York, said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (84%); BMO (NYSE) (84%); CZB (LSE) (58%); CBK (FRA) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (84%); COMMERZBANK AG (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); MTB BANK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (77%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); 

PERSON: BEN NELSON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



537 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Ignoring U.S., France Signs Accord Protecting Cuba Ties

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: PARIS, April 25

 BODY:
France signed an agreement today protecting the interests of French companies that invest in Cuba, brushing off mild American criticism of the accord.
"The Government of France is sovereign and independent in its decisions," Franck Borotra, the French trade minister, said after he and the Cuban Foreign Investment and Economic Cooperation Minister, Ibrahim Ferradaz Garcia, signed the agreement this afternoon. 
 France and the European Union, Mr. Borotra assured his Cuban colleague, will continue to fight the 1996 Helms-Burton Law, American legislation that would punish European or other companies that invest in Cuban properties expropriated from owners who now live in the United States.
And if the Clinton Administration does not fulfill a promise to soften its terms, Mr. Borotra said, France and its European allies will insist on reconvening a World Trade Organization panel that was to decide on the international legal standing of the Helms-Burton Law.
The Europeans suspended the dispute this month after the Clinton Administration said it would try to eliminate a provision from the law that denies United States visas to executives of offending foreign corporations.
"The arrangement does not settle the problem," Mr. Borotra warned.
Asked about a statement by the State Department's spokesman, Nicholas Burns, on Thursday saying that the United States favored other countries' turning their attention to the human rights situation in Cuba rather than normalizing economic relations with it, Mr. Borotra said:
"The French initiative is part of a critical dialogue that we have with our different partners. And since the opening of the possibility of foreign investment in Cuba in 1993, France is the 19th country that has signed a bilateral accord; of the 15 European Union members, France is the 7th to sign," he said, behind Britain, Spain, Germany and Italy, among others.
"Now I'll go look for the seven previous statements," Mr. Borotra joked, apparently meaning White House criticisms of the other countries that had signed with Cuba previously.
French politicians of all parties have long been critical of the American economic blockade of Cuba. Francois Mitterrand, President Jacques Chirac's predecessor, called it "stupid" and invited Cuba's leader, Fidel Castro, to Paris two years ago and gave him a warm reception.
"How else except by encouraging growth and satisfying their needs can we help bring about the better standard of living the Cuban people aspire to today, in an environment that remains full of conflict and bars them normal access to international trade?" Mr. Borotra asked rhetorically in remarks after the signing ceremony today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (99%); CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (59%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



538 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Lower Ahead of Next Week's Data

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices in the Treasury market were depressed yesterday as a combination of factors led investors to sell -- fear that next week's economic statistics will be strong, a heavy supply of corporate and municipal debt and light volume.
The 30-year bond fell 5/32, to 93 22/32 to yield 7.14 percent, up from 7.13 percent on Thursday. 
 The home resales report for March suggested at first glance that higher borrowing costs had begun to take hold, but investors were given only a temporary respite. Economists said that poor weather hurt sales and that they expected a rebound in April. Resales fell 2.8 percent, to an annual rate of 4.11 million units, after rising a revised 8.2 percent in February. Home resales make up about 85 percent of all single-family home sales.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said that after enjoying a statistics-free environment this week, the financial markets would duck for cover under a downpour of data next week.
"In all likelihood," he said, "it will be the labor market statistics on Friday that will set the tone for the near-term path of the bond market." The payroll number will be of particular interest, he said, "to see if the moderation in growth suggested by the March figure continued in April." The range of market forecasts extends from a modest gain of 125,000 to a strong jump of 275,000, with most projections clustered between 200,000 and 225,000.
Mr. Fine said, "While a consensus-type increase would suggest some moderation in payroll growth, it would not prevent the Fed from tightening again in the near future to squash any incipient buildup of inflationary pressures." In addition to nonfarm payrolls, the report will include data on the unemployment rate, average hourly earnings and the index of aggregate hours worked, all of which affect market psychology and direction.
One of the key early reports will be Tuesday's Employment Cost Index for March, which is rapidly becoming a major market indicator. The index is expected to rise a bit to a 3 percent year-over-year increase. Mr. Fine said anything above 3.1 percent was likely to disturb traders.
In a rare Friday municipal bond offering, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey priced $943.1 million of special-project revenue bonds through underwriters led by Lehman Brothers with a maximum yield of 6.1 percent for an issue due in 2025.
Sylvan G. Feldstein, a municipal bond analyst at Guardian Asset Management, said he was not aware of any other privatization bond issue that was larger. The bonds, which will pay for the construction of a new international terminal at Kennedy International Airport, are insured by MBIA Inc. and carry the insurer's triple-A rating; the underlying ratings on the bonds are Baa-2 by Moody's Investors Service and BBB+ by Standard & Poor's.
Yields on serial bonds with shorter maturities ranged from 5.2 percent for an issue due in 2003 to 5.77 percent in 2015; a long bond due 2022 was priced to yield 6.06 percent.
Mr. Feldstein said the yields were low considering that for investors subject to the alternative minimum tax the income would be taxable. He attributed the low yield to "demand apparently spurred by the name of an infrequent borrower and the large size of the sale, and the fact that this bond issue is a one-shot deal."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (84%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (62%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MBIA INC (84%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (62%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); GUARDIAN ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); INFLATION (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (66%); PORT AUTHORITIES (64%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (61%); AIRPORTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



539 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Higher Rates and Bad Weather Hurt Housing Resales in March

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25

 BODY:
Home resales fell 2.8 percent in March as higher borrowing costs began to bite, the National Association of Realtors said today.
Economists said that poor weather also hurt sales but that they expected a rebound in April. 
 The decline, which was smaller than the decrease of 3.2 percent that analysts had forecast, lowered the annual rate of resales to 4.11 million units. The figure is for closings on home sales, which lag behind contract signings by a few months. Resales account for about 85 percent of all single-family home sales.
Resales rose 8.2 percent in February, revised downward from the 9 percent originally reported.
The economists, citing poor weather in March in much of the nation, said the figures were stronger than they appeared.
"The declines were in the Midwest and West, where there was heavy snow and flooding in March," said Christopher Low, an economist with HSBC Securities in New York. "Because there is a very long lag between changes in rates and changes in home sales, we expect a rebound."
William Sullivan, an economist at Dean Witter Reynolds in New York, said the "4.11 million rate is very strong historically."
Mortgage rates have increased since mid-February. The rate on a fixed 30-year mortgage was 7.90 percent last month, up from 7.65 percent in February.
In the short term, analysts said, some buyers could still act to lock in rates before they rise any further.
Over all, though, economists have said that four factors are likely to restrain sales and home construction this year. In the last four years, more single-family homes were built than at any time since the 1970's, while household-formation rates were below the level they reached in the 1980's. Employment growth is likely to slow, and income gains will probably follow suit. Debt-burdened Americans are not likely to be eager to borrow more until they have paid off at least part of what they owe. And mortgage rates are likely to keep rising as policy makers at the Federal Reserve tighten credit further.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); WEATHER (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



540 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: Across Alaska's Tundra Yet Again;
A 2nd Pipeline, This One for Gas, Gains Support

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE

 BODY:
Not so long back in Alaskan history, there was a golden period known as "the pipeline."
It was a 1970's boom time of thousands of new jobs and the anticipation of billions of dollars in new state revenue as the largest single private construction project in United States history, the 800-mile oil pipeline from Alaska's North Slope fields south to the port of Valdez, went up. 
 It was such a halcyon, high-living era that for years after, Alaskans recall, wistful bumper stickers appeared on their cars reading something like this: Lord, give us another pipeline. We promise not to fritter it away this time.
Lately, it has come to look ever likelier that their prayer will be answered -- and that in the pantheon of monumental engineering feats, the oil pipeline may face some competition.
Inch by inch, agreement by agreement, the State of Alaska, along with the oil producers of the North Slope -- Exxon, ARCO and British Petroleum -- and an Alaskan subsidiary of the transportation giant CSX are moving toward building another multibillion-dollar pipeline.
This one would carry natural gas instead of oil, and its market would be purely export. An estimated $4 billion a year of the liquefied gas -- a byproduct of the oil drilling in Prudhoe Bay -- would be shipped across the ocean to fuel the expanding economies of the Pacific Rim.
The idea of such a gas pipeline has been bruited about in Alaska ever since the oil pipeline was completed in 1977. Indeed, an earlier effort had the support of the Federal Government, but fell apart when financing could not be secured and an excess of natural gas on world markets made it unfeasible.
But in recent weeks, "this proposal has gone from being impossible to improbable to people talking about it in the doable sense," said Bob King, a spokesman for Gov. Tony Knowles of Alaska. "Although," Mr. King added, "many people in the industry are quick to point out there are still significant obstacles and hurdles that have to be dealt with."
Those hurdles are daunting indeed. They range from the initial estimates that the pipeline project, including processing plants and ships, would cost a forbidding $15 billion -- expected to come from a still-to-be-determined consortium of gas producers, consumers, the state and other investors -- to the risk that by the time it is completed, other natural gas projects will have usurped the market.
But with millions of dollars already invested just in feasibility studies, the companies involved say that they are forging ahead on ways to cut costs. And they are talking with the state about breaks on taxes and royalty payments that would help make the project worth the risk.
With investments in other gas projects around the world that could end up competing with the Alaskan pipeline, the oil companies remain coy, holding out to see what incentives the state will offer and how the economics will pencil out. Some of the oil producers talk of assembling their own, competing pipeline plan. But in whatever form, their flirtation with Alaskan gas appears to be growing more serious.
"We're very excited here at ARCO," said David Lawrence, the company's manager of gas commercialization and marketing. "There are 26 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves and we own roughly a third of them. That's the equivalent of 1.4 billion barrels of oil. When you've got a resource that big with all the wells already drilled, you've got a tremendous incentive to actually make it a commercial proposition."
He and state officials cautioned, however, that as windfalls go, a gas pipeline would not compare with the one for oil.
At its peak, the existing pipeline delivered 2 million barrels of oil a day, while the gas pipeline would deliver an energy equivalent of only 400,000 barrels, according to Wilson Condon, the state commissioner of revenue. Alaska's total revenue from oil comes to about $2 billion a year, while it expects only about $400 million from the gas pipeline. And once built, any gas pipeline would employ only a few hundred additional Alaskans.
Another difference is that while there was ample demand for Alaska's oil, the gas project faces lots of competition. Huge projects aiming at the same market are on the drawing boards in Indonesia, Australia and elsewhere, and it remains to be seen whether any of them will beat the Alaskans to winning long-term contracts with Asian power companies.
"The state supports the project," Mr. Condon said, "but is approaching it with care."
Still, the Alaskan project has taken some notable steps forward in recent weeks.
On March 20, Governor Knowles and representatives of the three oil companies signed memorandums of understanding pledging to work together on developing the gas project. The state also signed a separate memorandum with Yukon Pacific, the CSX gas transport unit. And both the Alaskan House and Senate passed resolutions saying that the project should be pursued.
Doing so, though, will require some world-class negotiating. "Everybody is maneuvering," Mr. Condon said, "and the state's policy is to see whether we can get them all to maneuver onto the same sheet of music."
One of the biggest conflicts has been over timing. Yukon Pacific, a longtime advocate of the current project, argues that Alaskan gas has a small window of opportunity early in the next decade to beat other gas projects to the Asian market.
That sooner-the-better position has backing from many Alaskan legislators, among them Representative Ramona Barnes, an Anchorage Republican who has been loudly warning the oil companies not to drag their feet on the gas project. Along with former Gov. Walter Hickel, another strong supporter of the project, she has gone as far as mentioning ominously that under the terms of the Prudhoe Bay leases, the state can take back the gas at the wellhead if the oil companies do not develop it.
Applying pressure on the oil companies is necessary, Ms. Barnes said, because with investments in competing projects overseas, their interests do not wholly coincide with those of Alaska -- or the United States.
The companies have invested in natural gas projects in other countries, and she said, "If our project gets into the world market before those other projects do, they'll have to find other places to sell that gas."
Her ally, Jeff Lowenfels, the president of Yukon Pacific, went even further. "The Federal Government likes this project," he said, a claim confirmed by the Commerce Department, "and the President has been briefed on it. Every President has liked this project.
"It's win for the Federal Government, win for the people of Alaska, win for the people of Japan," he continued. "But it's clear some of the participants in the project have competition for the dollar that they invest. Alaska doesn't. The United States doesn't. But the oil companies do."
Spokesmen for the oil companies, though, challenged the claim that there is only a brief window for Alaskan gas, arguing instead that there will be plenty of demand even if the line begins operating well after 2005.
Timing is hardly the only source of friction between Yukon Pacific and the oil producers.
For nearly 15 years, Mr. Lowenfels said, his company has been the main force promoting the gas pipeline; he and his colleague, Wayne Lewis, have given a slide show explaining the project and its benefits perhaps 1,000 times, he said.
They were confident that the oil companies would eventually come around, so Yukon Pacific went through the painstaking process of obtaining all the permits needed to build the pipeline -- enough that they can be spread like a smorgasbord along the long conference table in their Anchorage office. They even obtained a Federal export permit that is, Mr. Lowenfels said, all the Federal go-ahead the project requires.
Those permits, Yukon Pacific believes, are crucial to its pipeline plan. Any alternative proposal by the oil companies would have to commence an equally arduous paper chase, so while Yukon Pacific owns none of the gas, "we are the toll-taker," Mr. Lewis said. Yukon Pacific says that it wants to negotiate with the oil companies, and does not insist on a leading role in the project.
Other conflicts are likely to blossom as time passes. State officials want assurances that the project employs as many Alaskans as possible; a hot public debate is also likely about just how favorable a deal the state should offer to get construction under way.
One front likely to remain calm, though, is the environment; Yukon has worked with environmental advocates from the start, and the project is expected to raise far fewer disputes than the oil pipeline because it would run in the same corridor as the existing pipeline. "People think it's like Sixth Avenue, but it's more like the width of Manhattan," Mr. Lowenfels, who is originally from Scarsdale, N.Y., said of the corridor.
For all the current momentum, backers of the new pipeline still worry that it could run out of steam. Former Governor Hickel recalled that during the development of the oil pipeline in the 1970's, he was the "convener," taking the heat over the project and making it happen.
Now, he said in an interview in his office at the Captain Cook Hotel in Anchorage, "I think the problem is basically that the gas pipeline needs that convening force."
But he believes it will happen.
"The gas line would be a great thing for America," Mr. Hickel said, echoing his 1960's enthusiasm for the oil pipeline. "I'm a great believer in big projects."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alaskan pipeline. For nearly 15 years, Yukon Pacific executives Jeff Lowenfels, and Wayne Lewis, have been trying to get a natural gas pipeline built next to the existing oil pipeline. (Jim Wilson for The New York Times)
 
Map: "Pipe Dreams in the Pacific"
A long-proposed liquefied natural gas pipeline is closer to being built in Alaska to meet the growing demand for fuel in Japan, Taiwan and South Korea. Alaska, however, has competition. Aiming at the same Asian market, oil companies have huge projects on the drawing boards in Indonesia, Australia and elsewhere. Map of Pacific Ocean area showing Alaska, Russia, and Japan.
 
Charts: "Natural gas consumption in Alaska's projected export markets ..."
(1995 figures, in million metric tons)

Japan	55.5	South Korea	9.2	Taiwan	3.9	
 
"... and how much gas Yukon Pacific expects to produce."
(1995 figures, in million metric tons)

By 2005	6	By 2010	14	
(Sources: BP Statistical Review of World Energy 1996; Yukon Pacific) (pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (91%); BP (LSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (92%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (73%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (68%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (96%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARCO ALASKA INC; EXXON CORP; BRITISH PETROLEUM CO PLC BP PLC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARCO ALASKA INC; EXXON CORP; BRITISH PETROLEUM CO PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; PRUDHOE BAY (ALASKA); FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (92%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (73%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (68%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%); ALASKA, USA (96%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); PIPELINES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); NATURAL GAS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (87%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



541 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Warns Japan Leader On Trade Gap

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25

 BODY:
President Clinton warned Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan today that a sudden resurgence of his country's trade surplus with the United States threatened to raise political tensions again over the slow pace at which Japan was opening its markets and deregulating its economy.
Mr. Clinton's words were carefully calibrated, reflecting his advisers' concern that the two countries not return to the kind of high-stakes trade confrontations that dominated Mr. Clinton's first three years in office. Instead, both leaders said little about their economic differences in public, with the President noting at a news conference in the East Room today that he had urged Mr. Hashimoto to "avoid a significant increase" in Japan's trade surplus. 
 But in private, officials say, roughly two-thirds of their meeting was spent in a review of economic issues, including Mr. Hashimoto's drive to deregulate significant portions of the Japanese economy by 2003. That was in sharp contrast to other recent meetings with Japan, which focused on security issues, particularly on reducing tensions caused by the basing of tens of thousands of American troops on Okinawa, Japan's southernmost island.
"The discussions were quite blunt," said Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, who sat in on the talks. While the President and the Prime Minister made no reference to the specifics of their conversation in public, Administration officials said that Mr. Clinton went into some detail about concerns that progress had stalled on the automotive accord signed between the two countries in 1995 -- an agreement Mr. Hashimoto negotiated personally as Trade Minister.
However, a senior Japanese official in Mr. Hashimoto's entourage said that he thought Mr. Clinton's trade concerns were "somewhat manufactured" and that the President's review of the existing problems was "not very detailed or serious."
The latest swing of the pendulum toward trade issues indicated that the Administration was struggling to find a way to nurture its most important military alliance in the Pacific without sending Tokyo a signal that trade issues had dropped to second place on Washington's agenda. "This is probably something we should have started months ago," one senior economic adviser to the President said recently, noting that during the 1996 election campaign the White House was not eager to engage in public trade arguments.
But during their news conference and in other appearances today, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Hashimoto acted as if they were old friends who would quietly work out their differences. Mr. Hashimoto repeatedly referred to the President as "Bill," apparently for domestic consumption back in Japan, where a prime minister's ability to manage the Americans is often measured by the appearance of American-style informality. At the news conference today, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Hashimoto neatly stepped around foreign policy issues on which the two countries clearly had some differences. The biggest of those concerns is North Korea: The Administration has announced it is sending significant food aid to relieve a growing famine in one of the world's last Stalinist states, while Japan has refused to give direct aid.
Mr. Hashimoto defended that decision today, saying that "if we speak of humanitarian circumstances, there are certain things we would like the North Koreans to do for us."
He cited the North's refusal to allow Japanese women who had married North Koreans to communicate with their families in Japan or to visit there. And he referred to the still-mysterious disappearance years ago of some Japanese schoolchildren, who he said were "likely abducted by the North Koreans."
Mr. Clinton made an unusual appeal for North Korea to attend talks at the United Nations about signing a peace accord with South Korea, talks that he suggested could open the way for broader aid to the North.
"It was a big disappointment to me when they did not come" last week, the President said, "because I think it is clearly in their interest."
Japanese officials said the two leaders also discussed China, without mentioning the differences between Washington and Tokyo on the speed at which China should be allowed into the World Trade Organization. Japan has sought faster admission for China, even if that means dropping some requirements for membership in the club of trading nations.
The Administration's focus on economic issues today may have been fueled, oddly enough, by a rare misstatement of the agenda of the meeting earlier this week by Michael D. McCurry, the President's press secretary. Mr. McCurry told reporters that he expected the meeting to focus on security issues -- which would have played directly into Japan's own agenda. It is unclear whether he knew that President Clinton had sent a confidential letter to Mr. Hashimoto earlier this month, pointedly warning that Japan's deregulation effort must "proceed apace" and focus on market openings for foreign companies.
Mr. McCurry's comments resulted in protests to the White House from Ms. Barshefsky, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and other economic aides to make sure that the message of today's meeting stayed on track.
Part two of today's minuet with Japan will come on Sunday, when the finance ministers of the seven largest industrial nations meet at the Treasury Department to discuss exchange rates. Several months ago they signaled that the dollar had risen far enough, though today it remains just about as strong compared with the yen and the mark as it did when the ministers last met.
Speaking to reporters today, Mr. Rubin said he had "nothing to add" to his previous statements about exchange rates, but noted that Japanese officials had said several weeks ago that they were concerned about the weakness of the yen and that he shared that concern.
The Administration continues to come under pressure from manufacturers, especially the Big Three auto companies, to reverse or at least cap the dollar's rise to help American companies stay competitive.
In a rare departure from usual practice, Mr. Clinton commented on the strength of the dollar. In response to a Japanese reporter who asked whether the strong dollar was increasing the trade gap with Japan Mr. Clinton said: "We do not want a weak dollar simply to improve our trade position. That is not our economic policy, to go out and seek a weak dollar."
"But neither do we want any other actions to have the effect of throwing the exchange rate system out of whack in order to gain undue advantage in international trade," the President added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (78%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY DEREGULATION (92%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (86%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); TRENDS (69%); ARMED FORCES (66%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



542 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
The English Impatient

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: By COVENTRY, England

 BODY:
John Major peered at leather swatches in teal, oatmeal, cream, coffee and warm charcoal.
"Fascinating," he murmured.
Touring the Jaguar plant here to show that British industry is thriving (though Jaguar is owned by Ford), Mr. Major examined lube routines and petrol pump modification data before moving on to interior trim -- trailed by an unwieldy mob of wife, press and advance staff. 
 "It's interesting," Mr. Major said, gazing at leather, "because when you see the trim on a car, you don't know where it comes from or how it's cut."
Poor Prime Minister. Welcome to the world of American-style photo ops, where you learn stuff you never wanted to know in excruciating detail in return for a couple of seconds on the evening news.
The tabloid reporters were so bored they wondered if they could make something of Mrs. Major's recycled outfits. "Sad Secrets of Norma Major's Dresses," ventured one hack.
Mr. Major has an owlish expression, and a cat mouth that curls up slightly at the edges, giving the impression that he's dryly amused, even when nothing amusing is being said.
The nice John Major reminded me of the nice George Bush in that last weekend of the '92 race, when the President finally realized he would never catch up to his younger rival. The Prime Minister, however, can't blame a bad economy. Britain is sizzling, from fashion to business. "We even had 'The English Patient,' " said one frustrated top Tory. (Though Disney got the profits.)
Just as George Bush seemed to shrink around Ronald Reagan, so Mr. Major fades to gray when the gloriously mad Margaret Thatcher steams into view, clutching her famous clarity and her famous handbag.
When the two appeared together in northern England, they conjured up the image of Norma Desmond and her chauffeur in "Sunset Boulevard." When Baroness Thatcher planted a cherry tree, she shoveled dirt onto Mr. Major's shoes.
Mr. Major also fades to gray on his own. "Tory Blair" or "Phony Tony," as the Tories call him, is considered programmed and unctuous, and reporters like the low-key Mr. Major, because they think he is being himself. But his party has been in since Jimmy Carter, and people are bored. One of the more scintillating Tory slogans, referring to the recession, is: "Yes, it hurt. Yes, it worked."
The Prime Minister has been unable to get much traction painting Mr. Blair as someone too weak to stand up to the French and Germans -- a Tory ad had a tiny Mr. Blair sitting on Helmut Kohl's lap -- because Mr. Major himself can't get control of his squabbling lieutenants.
Tony Blair has tight control of his party. He never mentions the word Socialism, preferring focus-group-pleasing words such as "challenge" and "millennium." Some Red-flag Laborites have bolted -- "The Labor Party has ceased to exist," said Vanessa Redgrave. "New Labor has become Thatcherism's last best hope," said the old coal miners' leader Arthur Scargill -- but most are muzzled.
To make up for the passion that has been drained from Labor's rhetoric, Mr. Blair roams the stage and plants his feet apart and proclaims, "I am a modern man." ("I am the Eggman," observed a Daily Telegraph editorial. "I am the Walrus.")
Saying he is beyond ideology, Mr. Blair offers "modernity" instead. In the Clintonian tradition of "Le parti, c'est moi," he also offers himself. In a short movie broadcast Thursday night, Mr. Blair talked about how his father's stroke and mother's death had influenced him. There were shots of him playing tennis and football, eating with his children, and making tea in the kitchen. One reviewer wondered why Mr. Blair had so many pepper grinders.
Mr. Major tried a little of the "trust me" routine. "Look in my eyes and know this: I will always deal fair and true," he said. But mostly, he is trying to be a modest man. He rejected the pleas of his ad guru, Lord Saatchi, for a final blitz, fearing it would smack of panic and break the budget.
His only hope is that Mr. Blair starts acting hubristic, as Neil Kinnock did in the last election. Unlikely. Mr. Blair's interview with The Times of London yesterday was so relentlessly cautious it merited the headline: "Blair waits to unwrap the train set."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CELEBRITIES (88%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BLAIR, TONY; MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN) TONY BLAIR (89%); RONALD REAGAN (77%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



543 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: Volunteers: Pro and Con

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25

 BODY:
When the last of the limousines leaves Independence Hall in Philadelphia next week, after a three-day "summit" that will bring together President Clinton, three former Presidents, 30 governors and dozens of corporate executives to praise and promote volunteer work, one impudent question may remain:
Does volunteerism really do any good? 
 The complicated answer, when measured in hard data and even harder experience, is something along the lines of "yes, but." And both halves will be worth remembering in the coming week, when volunteerism, that ancient American virtue, promises once again to be oversold by supporters and underappreciated by critics.
The contributions of volunteers are plain to see. As many as 93 million Americans donate a remarkable total of 20 billion hours of their time each year, in acts of service that enrich their communities and their own spirit. They put on bake sales, clean parks, plant trees and coach soccer teams. They can be particularly adept at meeting one-time challenges like fighting floods or feeding the victims of earthquakes and fires.
The "buts" are less obvious.
Noble though its aims may be, the nonprofit sector, where volunteers do their work, is often a chaotic place: inefficient, underfinanced, lacking in rigorous evaluation and largely exempt from the self-policing that the market coaxes from corporations and that elections instill in government. What is more, only a small minority of the nation's volunteers work on the gritty social problems that the Philadelphia conference seeks to address. Most gravitate toward cultural venues, like theaters and museums, and to activities in their own neighborhoods -- not to the nation's ghettos, where Mr. Clinton hopes to make an impact in the lives of two million "at risk" youths, who are the conference's theme.
Intentionally or not, one leading advocate of volunteerism underscored its practical limitations in an interview this week.
"I think I would be a little more intimidated about having to counsel someone who's suicidal or taking drugs than taking someone through a museum," said Sara Melendez, president of Independent Sector, an association of 800 nonprofit groups. "I don't know if I would have the stamina to work with children who've been abused. It might just wipe me out emotionally."
To their credit, the organizers of the conference -- the Presidents' Summit for America's Future, which runs from Sunday through Tuesday -- have not called simply for a nonvariegated rise in volunteer work. Rather, they have outlined five specific ways in which poor children can be helped: mentoring, after-school programs, health care, job training and service by the needy themselves.
And despite the star-spangled hype surrounding the Philadelphia gathering, there is reason to hope that volunteers can prove useful in at least some of those areas.
Mentoring, for instance, is one of the few categories of volunteer work that have a bit of social science on their side.
While there are hundreds of mentoring programs across the country, until recently there was little concrete evidence to show that they did much good. Then, in 1995, Public/Private Ventures, a research group in Philadelphia, published a landmark study of the Big Brothers/Big Sisters program, the nation's oldest and perhaps most sophisticated mentoring effort.
The researchers followed 959 youths 10 to 16 years of age for a year and a half, and found that the youths with mentors were 46 percent less likely to start using drugs than those on a waiting list for mentors. Among minority youths, the effect was even greater: they were 70 percent less likely to use drugs.
Those in the program were also 27 percent less likely to start drinking, and a third less likely to hit someone. They skipped half as many days of school, and made small but statistically significant improvements in their grade-point averages.
Social science regarded these gains as mammoth. "The results surprised us," said Gary Walker, the president of the research group. "They were really substantial."
Even so, there are reasons to be cautious about what mentoring programs can achieve. Since the study followed the youths for only 18 months, it is silent about how they fared later. And Mr. Walker is quick to warn that other mentoring programs may not be as effective. Bad mentors can even have a negative effect, since vulnerable teen-agers will have been thrust into yet another relationship that ultimately fails.
Part of the success of Big Brothers stems from its extensive screening of volunteers, a process that can last up to a year. Currently the program has about 100,000 active mentors, and 30,000 youths on a waiting list. Any initiative that, like Mr. Clinton's, hopes to reach two million children has to confront a difficult question: Where will the mentors come from?
A second goal identified by the conference's organizers is to promote service among the poor themselves. And here, too, research and experience suggest that the strategy has some promise. Middle-class volunteers have long acknowledged that they gain as much as they give -- and so, it seems, do needy youths.
Dr. Steven J. Wolin, a psychiatrist at George Washington University, has studied what he calls "resilience," those qualities that help youths at risk to overcome troubled backgrounds. And among the seven "resiliencies" he identifies is the habit of helping others.
"They have figured out that they have to do good out in the world in order to help themselves," said Dr. Wolin, co-author with his wife, Sybil Wolin, of "The Resilient Self" (Villard, 1993). "It makes them feel strong."
Among the institutions that have drawn on that insight is Eagle Rock School, a highly regarded boarding school in Estes Park, Colo., that draws at-risk youths from across the country. While students there enjoy abundant computers and acres of Rocky Mountain splendor, they must in turn perform 500 hours of community service before graduating from the 12th grade.
"When you have done the work -- paid the 'blood tax,' to use William James's phrase -- you speak with a different voice," said Robert Burkhardt, the school's headmaster. "You speak with the voice of ownership. You own the society."
But there is reason to question the progress that volunteers can make toward some of the conference's other goals. While the organizers hope to advance the cause of enhancing "the marketable skills" of the needy, for instance, most previous job training programs have shown discouraging results.
In 1994, Abt Associates published the definitive study of the Job Training Partnership Act, which had created the nation's largest job training program. While the program produced some benefits for adults, it had no effect at all on poor youths. Those who completed the program had average annual earnings of about $4,080 in the next two and a half years, the same as a group of comparable youths who had not enrolled in the program.
Other job training studies have reached similar conclusions.
"The existing research is fairly pessimistic about direct job training kinds of efforts," said Larry Orr, the chief economist at Abt.
The conference also aims to improve the health of needy youth. Here, too, there is reason for caution about what volunteers can accomplish. For one thing, the organizers' specific goals seem diffuse and overly broad, ranging from increasing the number of Head Start participants to raising immunization rates. Further, health programs most often need trained personnel who can keep long and regular hours, not the intermittent aid of volunteers.
Dr. Walter Orenstein, director of the national immunization program at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in Atlanta, said volunteer work was "an intermediate part of the solution" to low immunization rates. "
"At the beginning of all this, there was a healthy degree of skepticism among professionals toward volunteers," he said. "They tended to be a 'here today, gone tomorrow' kind of thing."
But he said some programs had nonetheless found ways to capitalize on volunteers. Project Child in Jacksonville, Fla., for instance, matches them with needy families that have just had a new baby. Over the next few years, the volunteer helps keep track of the child's immunization schedule, and helps the family get to the clinic.
The other value of volunteers, Dr. Orenstein said, is a less obvious one: "They contribute to the building of political will, because they tend to have access to local leaders, to the Kiwanis Club and the Junior League."
In the past, Presidential calls for more volunteer work tended to bring stale, either-or debates about which was more important, government or private institutions. While some of that still echoes, the conference next week, where Mr. Clinton will be joined by former Presidents George Bush, Jimmy Carter and Gerald R. Ford, is winning a more respectful hearing, including the covers of news weeklies. That raises the hope that a more sophisticated debate will neither exaggerate nor deride volunteerism but instead contribute to its improvement.
U.S. News and World Report, for instance, topped its cover articles this week with a provocative headline: "Do Do-Gooders Do Much Good?" Colin L. Powell, the conference's general chairman, quickly dismissed the question as the work of cynics, but in fact the articles were written by two certified do-gooders themselves -- one liberal (Steven Waldman), one conservative (Michael J. Gerson), each willing to scrutinize volunteerism, which they both support.
Both men noted the nonprofit sector's management problems, and acknowledged that even volunteer programs cost money. They also debated the proper role of government in raising the number and quality of volunteers.
"The problem with this stuff is that people either tend to dismiss it or go into full cheerleader mode," Mr. Waldman, a former official at the Corporation for National Service, said in an interview. "We were trying to get people to pay attention to how it really works."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among the goals of next week's Presidential "summit" is the promotion of community service, which Frank Sutton, a Philadelphia block captain and volunteer sweeper, already knows something about. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available VOLUNTEERS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); SOCCER (68%); SLUM DWELLINGS (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



544 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Judge Upholds Drug Agency On Tobacco Regulation
A Federal judge in North Carolina upheld the F.D.A.'s power to regulate tobacco as a drug, but he said the agency lacked the authority to control advertising aimed at youths. 
 The mixed decision, the first word by a Federal court on Administration rules meant to deter children from smoking, was a substantial victory for advocates of controlling tobacco. The cigarette industry has fought for decades to avoid Federal jurisdiction over nicotine, and the ruling appeared to weaken the industry's hand in settling tobacco litigation. [Page 1.]
 
Stocks Fall on Economic Anxiety
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 53.38 points, closing at 6,738.87, as investors braced for a series of economic reports next week that are expected to clarify the outlook for interest rates. Tobacco stocks were hard hit, with Philip Morris off 2 1/8 at 39 1/2 and RJR Nabisco Holdings down 2 3/4 at 28 7/8. The Dow's drop trimmed its gain to 35.32 points for the week, despite Tuesday's 173-point surge. The Nasdaq composite index fell 18.81 points, to 1,209.29, down 13.28 for the week. [40.]
 
Electronic Data Systems' stock tumbled $9.50, to $32.50, after the company reported an unexpected earnings slide. [38.]
 
Prices Drop in Treasury Market
Prices for Treasury securities fell as a combination of factors led investors to sell -- fear that next week's barrage of economic statistics will be strong, a heavy supply of corporate and municipal debt and light volume. The 30-year bond slipped 5/32, to 93 22/32, pushing its yield up to 7.14 percent. [40.]
 
Westinghouse Loses $151 Million
Westinghouse Electric lost $151 million, or 23 cents a share, in the first quarter, exceeding analysts' forecasts of 10 cents a share. A poor performance at its CBS television unit offset strong results at its radio network. [39.]
 
Disputed Results In Harrah's Vote
A hotel workers' union said that it had won a shareholder vote removing an anti-takeover poison pill device at Harrah's Entertainment with 68 percent of the votes at the company's annual meeting in Memphis. But the casino company contended that the resolution failed because the results did not equal 75 percent of outstanding shares. [38.]
 
Home Resales Off 2.8% in March
Home resales fell 2.8 percent in March as higher borrowing costs began to bite, after rising a revised 8.2 percent in February. Economists said that poor weather also hurt sales; they foresaw a rebound in April. [38.]
 
Trade Deficit Narrowed in February
The trade deficit declined to $10.4 billion in February, corrected figures from the Commerce Department showed, narrower than first estimated. Government economists overestimated oil imports in the first two months of the year by $1.2 billion. [39.]
 
France Signs Accord With Cuba
France signed an agreement protecting the interests of French companies that invest in Cuba, brushing off mild American criticism of the accord and vowing to continue to fight the 1996 Helms-Burton Law. [3.]
 
GTE Leaves Stamford for Dallas
GTE, one of the first big industrial companies to move its headquarters to downtown Stamford, Conn., in the early 1970's, said it would move to the Dallas area. [28.]
 
Dollar Rises Sharply Against Mark
The dollar rose sharply against the German mark, reaching 1.727 marks, up from 1.715 marks on Thursday. It also ended higher against other currencies after the top economist of Deutsche Bank predicted that it could rally to 1.800 marks and 130 yen. [36.]
 
Soybean Futures Prices Advance
Soybean futures prices rose sharply, jumping 19.5 cents, to $8.675 a bushel, for July delivery, on speculation that China had bought or was seeking to buy American supplies. July coffee fell 4.95 cents, to $1.9325 a pound, after a truck drivers' strike ended in Colombia. [36.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,738.87 down 53.38
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.4% up 0.01
The Dollar -- 126.25 yen up 0.12
 
Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (64%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (64%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (64%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (56%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (56%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (64%); KRAFT NABISCO (56%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUDGES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); SMOKING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); BONDS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); EXISTING HOME SALES (74%); STATISTICS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TOBACCO MFG (71%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (70%); BOND MARKETS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); CASINOS (64%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); HOTEL STAFF (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



545 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: GTE Leaving Prime Space In Stamford

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, April 25

 BODY:
GTE Corporation, one of the first Fortune 500 companies to move its headquarters to downtown Stamford in the early 1970's and remake the city into a corporate center, announced today that it would move its headquarters to Dallas.
The move is part of GTE's consolidation of corporate staff, and the company said it did not know yet how many of the 650 employees in Stamford and Norwalk would be transferred. 
 Yet city leaders were surprisingly sanguine today about GTE's announcement, as Stamford continues to recover from the recession of the late 1980's. Five years ago, they were worried about growing office vacancies as the corporations that helped build Stamford began downsizing during the recession. Now, a state lawmaker from Stamford is balking at a state incentive package to lure Zurich Reinsurance to his city, calling it too generous.
"It would have been a terrible blow just a few years ago," Mayor Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford said of GTE's decision. "The reality is that Stamford is a very hot market right now."
This fall, Swiss Bank, now in New York City, is scheduled to begin transferring about 2,000 employees into its new 20-story building near the train station. The office vacancy rate is about 8 percent, compared with 28 percent just four years ago, said Christopher P. Bruhl, president of the Southwestern Area Commerce and Industry Association.
GTE's glassy headquarters near the highway, might be put to better use, Mayor Malloy said. "Instead of being occupied by 600 people," he added, "maybe it will be occupied by 1,200 people."
GTE officials said that the $21 billion telecommunications company would merge its corporate staff in Connecticut with the staff at its largest division, telephone operations, based in Irving, Texas. The streamlining will help the company provide customers with a single corporate image and reach its market more quickly, said Harvey W. Greisman, GTE's vice president of corporate communications. The transfers and downsizing will begin within the next few months and be completed sometime in 1998.
The move will still leave Stamford with five Fortune 500 companies, including Xerox and Pitney Bowes. Mr. Bruhl said that many of the financial service companies that are helping to fuel Stamford's growth are smaller companies.
Mr. Bruhl said he was sorry to see the departure of GTE, which moved here in 1973. But he was not surprised, given the company's slow downsizing of staff in Connecticut and because much of its business is in the South.
He is hoping for a quick replacement, since GTE renovated the building last year. "A broker has already called me begging me to get him into see the building," Mr. Bruhl said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (95%); VZ (NYSE) (95%); PBI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ZURICH (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GTE CORP VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (95%); COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (54%); PITNEY BOWES INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GTE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); DALLAS (TEXAS); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ZURICH (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL COMPANY RELOCATIONS (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); CITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



546 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: CUNY President Is Re-elected in Heavy Vote

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
In the first contested election in 20 years, the faculty and staff union of the City University of New York re-elected Irwin Polishook, the 62-year-old president, and his Unity Caucus.
But the challengers, a year-old group known as the New Caucus, drew about a third of the vote, according to preliminary figures released yesterday, in an election that saw an unusually heavy turnout. More than 60 percent of the 9,300 members voted. The union, called the Professional Staff Congress, represents 11,000 members of the faculty and academic staff at the university. Its last contract expired 14 months ago. 
 The insurgent group, led by Steven London, a 48-year-old political scientist at Brooklyn College, had charged that the union had not defended the faculty -- or the university -- sufficiently at a time of crisis, and that it needed to fight harder for more funds for higher education in addition to faculty jobs.
"For our first time out, I think we made a tremendous impact," Dr. London said. "We are here to stay. We are not going to go away."
Dr. Polishook, a history professor at Lehman College who was first elected in 1976 -- in the union's last contested election -- said that the union had actively defended the university, through lobbying, lawsuits and a major advertising campaign.
Since February, the union has spent $120,000 on a campaign designed by Henry A. Sheinkopf, the Democratic political strategist.
Dr. Polishook said he was optimistic that the university would be recognized for its importance to the city and the state and would eventually win back financing and more faculty and staff positions.
"We've surmounted the unimaginable once before, and we will again," he said, referring to New York City's financial crisis in the 1970's.
The New Caucus slate campaigned for a no-retrenchment policy for faculty and staff and wage increases above inflation, as well as for making higher education a higher priority. It also said it would spearhead a "first year free" tuition campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); HISTORY (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (55%); SUITS & CLAIMS (51%); 

PERSON: POLISHOOK, IRWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



547 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: A Bag of Sticks and Golf's 'Black Monster';
Aces and Duffers Alike Dream of U.S. Open on a Course in Bethpage

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: FARMINGDALE, N.Y.

 BODY:
With only a year of golf experience under his belt, Jeffrey Brooks shrugged off the sign on the first tee of the Black Course at Bethpage State Park warning all but the most advanced golfers to stay away.
His first shot was a beauty, a 240-yard drive down the fairway -- the kind of shot many pros will be happy to make when the United States Open is played here in the year 2002. It will be the first time the national championship is staged on a public, government-owned course. 
 But things rapidly went downhill for Mr. Brooks, 26, an Upper East Side computer consultant; his next shot sailed onto a green -- but of a different hole on an adjacent course.
Ending the day with a 36-over-par 107, Mr. Brooks drove back to Manhattan for his weekly roller hockey league game.
"Hockey will be restful after this!" he said with a laugh.
But like thousands of other hackers around the metropolitan area, Mr. Brooks swore that he would line up again for the privilege to be humiliated on what has become the metropolitan area's premier field of dreams.
It seems everyone with a putter and driver wants to see what makes the 7,000-yard Black Course, with its swirling head-winds, sandtraps the size of the Sahara and greens so small they look like postage stamps from the tees, special enough to host the United States Open.
After all, how many weekend pickup basketball players get the chance to play against Michael Jordan or throw up a foul shot from the floor of Madison Square Garden? What would the average overgrown teen-ager give to shag a single fly ball from center field in Yankee Stadium?
"To be able to walk the same fairway as a Watson or a Couples, and then be able to say I hit an 8-iron from the same spot as Watson did," said Vincent Mora, a 31-year-old health care executive from Melville, "well, that makes playing here that much more pleasurable."
In the past, only the wealthiest could play area courses where national championships have been held, clubs like Westchester's Winged Foot or New Jersey's Baltusrol that cost tens of thousands of dollars to join.
But it costs only $25 for anybody with a touch of masochism to play the "Black Monster." The Black Course is the great leveler -- for cocky golfers who overestimate their skills, and for the plumber or firefighter who would like to play a course that is as good as, or better, than the fanciest private clubs.
"Saturday it rained in buckets, and I guarantee there were 20 people on the first tee ready to go off," Barney Adamo, the course starter and ranger, said on a Monday morning in mid-April. "Everyone wants to play because of the Open, but they come off the course looking dejected, like they just lost their best friend or got robbed out there."
The excitement has been building ever since the United States Golf Association announced on Aug. 26 that the Black Course had been selected for the Open.
An estimated 30,000 spectators will come each day of the tournament to watch 156 of the world's finest golfers compete for $2.5 million or more in prize money. Local and state officials expect the event to bring more than $20 million to the local economy.
"For years, the U.S.G.A. was identified with private country clubs like Baltusrol," said Timothy P. Moraghan, an association official who helped select the Black Course. "The concept of this selection was the game is for everybody out there."
The U.S.G.A.'s new populist touch comes as golf enjoys a boom across the metropolitan area.
Tee times at public courses have become so prized that an increasing number of New Jersey courses have installed computerized, automated reservation systems. Nassau County players are driving farther and farther east to avoid the lines.
At Bethpage, players without reservations sometimes sleep in their cars Friday and Saturday nights to get an early morning tee-off time.
Sam Yousif, a 24-year-old computer sales representative from Jersey City, avoided the crowds by playing hooky from work one Monday in April. And, not unexpectedly, he spent most of his day hacking, shanking and skulling golf balls. He hit no less than 8 on eight different holes for a score of 120 -- a respectable score, maybe, in bowling, but in golf, well, more than enough reason to consider quitting the game entirely.
But despite his shanked drives and fairway dribbles, he never lost his cool -- unlike one of his partners, who threw an iron down in disgust after a series of blown shots.
"There's a level of prestige playing here," Mr. Yousif said after missing a putt. "When you tell other players you played the Black at Bethpage, people ask, 'Was it as hard as people say?' The golf gods get their revenge, one way or another."
That's what A. W. Tillinghast, one of golf's greatest course designers, intended when he laid out the Black Course in the 1930's at the end of his career. Like so many of his better-known courses, such as Winged Foot, the Black Course was designed for the precision golfer.
Long, accurate iron shots are a must, or disaster waits in the extra deep bunkers and the woods that surround his tiny greens.
The course was designed in the old Scottish style, said Chuck Workman, the Bethpage pro, with rough so high that if "you put your bag down, you lose it."
Mr. Workman predicted that "with Tiger Woods in the field, I feel 4 to 6 under par will win the tournament." That's a remarkably high score in an age when many tournaments are won by players hitting 12 under par or more.
The Black Course will be closed in mid-July for about a year to be spruced up, lengthened and made even tougher. Many players seem to shrug off the inconvenience and are steadying themselves for future hardships. "I'll be back," Mr. Yousif said, grinning.
As legend has it, even the great Sam Snead stormed off the Black Course in frustration during a 1940 exhibition match with Byron Nelson. One version has it that Snead lost his cool when he overshot the 15th green; another that a sand trap on the fourth hole did him in.
In a 1983 interview, Snead denied having walked off the course, but he added, "I remember on one hole they had the tees so far back, Byron couldn't get to the fairway."
But the dreams that bring the duffers, as well as seasoned recreational and marginal professional players, to the Black Course come in all sizes, and not all are nightmares.
"I'll be able to say I play where Tiger plays," said James Bell, 41, as he prepared to hit a soft 9-iron from the tee on the par-3 third hole on a Tuesday morning in mid-April. Mr. Bell, the owner of a marketing firm from Massapequa, managed to swing a silk-smooth stroke, drawing his ball beautifully so that it stopped rolling a mere nine feet from the pin. "Let's see if Tiger can do that!" he whooped.
Charles White, a 40-year-old consultant from Setauket who played with Mr. Bell, came to Bethpage with what appeared to be an impossible dream. Having played several professional events in Europe a few years back while serving in the Navy, Mr. White hoped to polish his game enough to qualify for the United States Open this year.
But even he was no match for the Black Course. Destruction awaited him on the fourth hole, a 528-yard par-5 that requires a giant tee-shot to escape a nest of soft sandtraps with a propensity for burying golf balls.
His third shot, an arching 8-iron approach to the green, hit a wall of wind and then the branch of a giant oak tree. Attempting to punch another 8-iron shot out of the woods, he hit another oak -- and lost the ball entirely.
He ended the day discouraged, conceding that he might not be ready for the Open after all. "I'm not going to embarrass myself," he shrugged.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles White led Vincent Mora, center, and James Bell past a sand trap on the Black Course, where the United States Open will be held in 2002. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 25); Charles White, a veteran of professional tournaments in Europe, played the Black Course in Bethpage as he prepared himself for this year's United States Open. He ran into trouble on the seventh hole. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)
 
Map/Diagram: "Surviving the Black Course"
Chuck Workman, director of golf at Bethpage State Park, has these hints to guide you through five of the toughest holes on the course.
 
4 -- Par 5, 528 yards
Keep ball on right side of fairway. Green slopes front to back; best chance of holding the green is from the right.
 
5 -- Par 4, 446 yards
Takes drive of 245 yards to carry the sand to the right. All others must play left of trap, but best approach to green is from the right.
 
7 -- Par 5, 585 yards
Left side of fairway avoids 1.5-acre sand trap and allows sight of the green. Green slopes left to right; best approach is from the left.
 
12 -- Par 4, 480 yards
Wind blows in your face or left to right, making it tough to hit a draw. Two-tiered green is soft in front. Use at least one club more to make the back tier.
 
15 -- Par 4, 438 yards
Small, high green slopes toward back and out of bounds. Need loft and good backspin to hold this green and keep ball in bounds.
 
Map of the Black Monster golf course: Playing the "Black Monster" can be a daunting experience. (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (53%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (53%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (53%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (53%); UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BETHPAGE STATE PARK (LONG ISLAND); NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF; UNITED STATES OPEN (GOLF) GOLF (91%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); CITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STATE PARKS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (70%); BASKETBALL (68%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



548 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2757 words

HEADLINE: RESCUE IN PERU: 126 DAYS -- A special report.;
How Peruvian Hostage Crisis Became Trip Into the Surreal

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO; Calvin Sims contributed reporting to this article from Lima, and Sheryl WuDunn from Tokyo.

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 25

 BODY:
Minutes after explosions and gunfire erupted at the Japanese Ambassador's residence in December, the cream of Peruvian society cowered under pianos and coffee tables. From the bathrooms came a chorus of flushing toilets as diplomats, military and government officials flushed away their identity papers.
They held their noses to the floor, where the air was heavier than the tear gas that the police were suddenly lobbing in. Officers tore off their stripes. Some took off their shirts. 
 "Each one made himself a little less important than he was," said Manuel Torrado, a pollster. "I said I was a press attache. The dean of a university said he was a professor."
With the taking of the residence by a band of leftist rebels, Mr. Torrado said, he and hundreds of other guests had entered a realm where credentials prized just an hour before could only work against them.
So began their journey into a different world, far from their workaday ones as Cabinet ministers, Supreme Court justices and business executives. For many that evening, it would become a four-month ordeal, and a particularly surreal one.
An ardent anti-Communist leader, President Alberto K. Fujimori, found himself talking with one of the world's remaining ardent Communists, Fidel Castro of Cuba, about providing refuge for the guerrillas. A Marxist revolutionary movement that most had thought broken resurfaced and held center stage in a Peru whose leaders were dedicated to eradicating terrorism. A conservative Agriculture Minister found himself inspired by his talks with a revolutionary young peasant, and began sketching out a plan to help the poor grow coffee.
At 8:20 on a cool summer night on Dec. 17, the week before Christmas, the guests were piling into the annual birthday celebration for Emperor Akihito, the diplomatic soiree of the year for Japanese embassies around the world. Sipping cocktails and nibbling sushi on the lawn behind the Japanese Ambassador's house were Lima's most important political and social figures, including the foreign and agricultural ministers, the President of the Supreme Court, six Supreme Court justices, five generals of the National Police and President Alberto K. Fujimori's mother, sister and brother. The American Ambassador, Dennis Jett, had left the party early, but seven American diplomats had stayed behind. The only usual guest missing was the most important one: President Fujimori.
Suddenly, an explosion shattered soft conversation, shaking the glasses and bottles on the tables. It sounded like a car bomb going off on the street outside, but the danger was much closer. Within 30 seconds, 14 masked men and women, some of them teen-agers, clambered through a hole they had blasted in the garden wall and slipped behind the trees. Two took positions at the front entrance.
"This is the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement," a voice announced. "Obey and nothing will happen to you."
The rebels began shooting in the air, and ordered the guests to hit the ground. They warned their victims not to look at them, though it would have been impossible to identify them with the movement's trademark red, white and black bandanas over their faces.
Barely concealed panic took hold of some guests, while adrenalin seemed to race through the rebels. "Don't waste your bullets," Sally Bowen, a reporter for The Financial Times, heard one rebel tell another. "We may need them for this group here."
Another captive, Mr. Torrado, thought they would all be killed, most likely by the police who would storm in at any minute. He stared at the half-empty glass of whisky he had left on the grass in front of his nose and almost reached for it. He was sure it would be his last, and he might as well finish it.
The rebels' bullets were quickly answered by those of the police. For 40 minutes, the guests lay there with bullets flying over their heads.
It was then that the second in command, whom the rebels later called El Arabe, asked for the party's host, Ambassador Morihisa Aoki, who was sitting on the ground with the other guests.
"Get up," El Arabe ordered. Many thought the Ambassador would be killed on the spot. Instead he took a megaphone, and with El Arabe supplying the words, told the police to hold their fire.
"Please respect the integrity of my guests and stop shooting," Mr. Aoki said. "You're going to kill them."
The guerrillas moved all the guests inside the house, ordering them back on the floor with their hands behind their heads. Men in suits and women in cocktail dresses and silk kimonos crowded onto every inch of floor space, under tables and the piano.
As soon as the firing stopped, the guerrillas announced that they would release all the waiters, women and elderly guests. But when they opened the door to let them out, the police lobbed tear gas into the house.
The rebels, who had come prepared with gas masks, were hardly troubled by the gas. The guests grabbed handkerchiefs or paper napkins for protection. President Fujimori's mother, along with his sister Rosa, went among the guests with a bowl of water to moisten the handkerchiefs, in an attempt to ease the effects of the tear gas.
Mr. Aoki took the megaphone again and repeated his request for the police to hold their fire. He then turned to El Arabe. "Let these people go," he told him. "They've got nothing to do with this. I, alone, am important enough for you to bargain with."

The Standoff
Talks Go in Circles, And Raid Is Readied
Michel Minnig, the newly arrived head of the International Committee of the Red Cross, approached the rebel leader to identify himself. Shortly afterward, he went outside with his hands up and shouted at the police to stop shooting. "At that moment, he became the neutral mediator," said Julio Higashi, a publicist.
Sally Bowen identified herself as a journalist, and told a guerrilla standing near her that she wanted to stay. Her request was turned down, but before she filed out with more than 200 women, she was taken to meet the commander of the operation, Nestor Cerpa Cartolini.
She and another journalist asked Mr. Cerpa what the rebels were doing there. He reached into his knapsack and pulled out a book, "Companeros, Toman Nuestro Sangre" -- "Comrades, They Take Our Blood."
"This is where it all began," he said. The book focuses on union workers whom Mr. Cerpa had led in the takeover of a bankrupt textile factory called Cromotex in 1979. That clash had ended, inauspiciously, with a military assault that killed six workers.
In the early hours of the siege, hostages feared that they would die not at the hands of their captors, but in a military assault by Government security forces.
Mr. Cerpa said he and his band of 13 rebels -- actually 4 men and 10 youngsters recruited from the jungles -- would start killing captives if President Fujimori did not appear for face-to-face talks. His goal, he said, was the release of more than 450 Tupac Amaru members in Peruvian jails.
The rebel leader threatened to begin the killings with Foreign Minister Francisco Tudela. But the deadline for his killing came and went with Mr. Fujimori sticking to his refusal to meet with Mr. Cerpa. The rebel leader backed down. He announced that there would be no killing, at least not by the Tupac Amaru.
Instead, the hostages say, Mr. Cerpa tried to win over his captives, engaging them in philosophical conversations about the free market economy and the poor whose lot, he felt, would never improve. Though his band of rebels could not hold hundreds of people against their will over the long run, he used the first few days to expound his ideas, seemingly in an attempt to send the first captives out as favorable emissaries.
He released scores of prisoners over the next two weeks, including 225 in a "good-will gesture" shortly before Christmas. To a fearful general who had captured a comrade whose release Mr. Cerpa was now seeking, he said, "Don't worry -- we're not killers."
He asked pollsters among the captives about his group's standing, and whether Peruvians distinguished between the Tupac Amaru and the much more bloodthirsty Shining Path movement. In a statement, he suggested that the Tupac Amaru could transform itself into a political party.
The standoff between the rebel leader and Mr. Fujimori emerged as a contest of wills and images, with each one playing to twin audiences, at home and abroad.
While Mr. Cerpa settled in for a waiting game with Mr. Fujimori -- who had promised that he would not use violence unless the rebels began killing hostages -- the President almost immediately began taking steps for a counterattack to rout out the guerrillas. Before Christmas a team of 140 commandos began training, working out maneuvers on a mockup of the Japanese Ambassador's residence.
At the same time, the President agreed to hold preliminary conversations -- he was loath to use the word "negotiations" -- with the rebels. He appointed a commission of guarantors that included a former hostage, Ambassador Anthony Vincent of Canada, Archbishop Juan Luis Cipriani of Ayacucho and Mr. Minnig, the representative of the Red Cross.
The talks evolved into a kind of carousel, which moved in circles but never advanced. Whenever the golden ring of an agreement appeared within reach, something happened -- a harsh statement from the Government, the sudden breakoff of talks, the audible excavation of rescue tunnels -- to dash the prospects of a negotiated settlement.
The Bolivian Ambassador, Jorge Gumucio, said that within four days of being taken hostage, he had received word -- though he would not say how -- that the military was planning an assault. A small group of the hostages, military and police officers, were in constant contact with the armed forces, Mr. Gumucio said.
The military experimented with various scenarios for a rescue mission that included simultaneous attacks from helicopters and tunnels, according to one intelligence officer quoted in the Peruvian press. The commandos were divided into groups, with some given the specific mission of protecting certain hostages. Lieut. Col. Juan Valer Sandoval, who died in the raid, was to protect Foreign Minister Tudela and Ambassador Aoki.
Mr. Vincent, the Canadian Ambassador, acknowledged that in hindsight, some believed that the commission of guarantors had served as little more than a cover to give the President time to put in place the physical and political elements for a raid.
But Mr. Vincent said he believed that at the last stage, both sides were close to a settlement. Mr. Cerpa had convinced the younger guerrillas, who wanted nothing more than to go home to the jungle, to accept asylum in Cuba. He had lowered his demands for the release of 450 comrades, and said he would settle for 20. But he would not abandon the goal altogether. "In the end," Mr. Vincent said, the Tupac Amaru "would not be realistic."

The Captivity
Hostages and Rebels Are Both Worn Down
During the 126-day siege, the Japanese Ambassador's residence became its own laboratory, with the potential for connections between outlaws and the pillars of Peruvian society, which would be unimaginable under ordinary circumstances.
After the early days of political chats with Mr. Cerpa, there were few conversations to map a perfect world. Instead the hostages -- perhaps because they outnumbered the rebels, and because some had been told to expect a military rescue -- kept their distance from their captors.
"Overnight a small world was created, in which we applied everything we knew in the world," remembered Mr. Higashi, the publicist, who was released in the first few weeks. "Every day I washed my face and put on my tie, as if I were going to work. Because otherwise, if I let myself go, it could lead to depression."
The hostages said their days were marked by tedium, their great fight an effort to ward off depression. Gilberto Siura, a member of Congress who was a strong supporter of the military, said he felt "almost sure he was on a trip with no return." The rebels, he said, would practice repelling an attack each morning, holding guns at their victims and pretending to throw grenades at them.
Many hostages thought of work, and some turned to religion. The drawing up of a life's balance sheet, which might normally happen in a flash before death, went on over four months.
"Some of the hostages said to me, 'I received the Eucharist more in these last few months than I had in 20 years,' " said the Rev. Juan Julio Wicht, who was free to leave but who stayed to minister to the hostages. He shook his head. "They were good family men, but not very observant."
Yoshihiko Sakai, president of Peru Ajinomoto, said the most difficult part was "being entirely cut off from business information," and knowing that he was missing his company's annual shareholder meeting.
In the aftermath of the gruesome end to the crisis, few former hostages would admit to feeling any kind of empathy with their captors. But there were signs that their thinking may have changed during their experience. Shigeru Taki, the president of Matsushita Electric Peru, told his family that he had read a book by Mao Zedong.
Rodolfo Munante, the Agriculture Minister, drew up plans for cooperatives in the coffee-growing regions of Peru, home to some of the rebels , and began teaching one young guerrilla how to draw.
The captivity also wore down the rebels, who were prepared for the siege to last no longer than two weeks. In February, a former hostage said, he had seen one of the two teen-age girls among the rebels crying by a window from the stress. He asked her what was wrong. She said she missed her family and wanted to go home.
Once the rebels discovered that tunnels were being built, they moved furniture on the first floor and drew lines over the places they believed a tunnel would most likely be.
Several weeks ago, the rebels began playing indoor soccer -- two teams of four rebels each -- in the afternoon, taking off their shirts and weapons. It was the only time that a majority of the guerrillas were disarmed.
That was how they happened to be playing soccer right over the tunnel when the raid began. "Their discipline had deteriorated," said Mr. Vincent, who visited the residence two hours before the assault on Tuesday. "They spent a lot of time in recreation, doing puzzles. They would play a lot of soccer and sit around with the guns lying next to them."

The Assault
Fujimori Calculates, And Rebels Relax
While the rebels were relaxing their guard, the final touches were being put on the plan to close in on them. Ambassador Aoki, who had gotten word that a raid would occur during one of the soccer games, sent a message to Terusuke Terada, the Japanese observer on the commission of guarantors. He warned that such a raid could end in the deaths of many hostages, and urged him to press harder for a peaceful solution. But that plea appeared to come too late.
President Fujimori, in a news conference explaining the decision to strike, said the rebels had refused to allow government doctors to continue monitoring the condition of hostages, but released hostages said one of the doctors had provided more than medical care, slipping messages to the hostages and planting a listening device behind a curtain.
Mr. Fujimori said he had delayed the assault until the numbers of possible hostage casualties had come down to an acceptable level. Although some, including a former President of Venezuela, Carlos Andres Perez, criticized that decision, and suspicions have mounted that some of the rebels were shot after they surrendered, most Peruvians hailed their President.
Mr. Fujimori, whose popularity ratings skyrocketed 29 points, to 67 percent, in just a few days, returned to the residence a day after the raid to be photographed with the bloated and headless bodies of his enemies at his feet, in macabre footage taken by government cameramen and broadcast repeatedly on television.
But as he wept at the funerals of commandos killed in the raid, the families of rebels went on an anguished and largely futile search to collect their dead from the police. They had lost their children, and lost, too, the right to grieve and pray over their dead.
Today, the President handed back the residence to Japan's Foreign Minister. They walked together through the charred and bloodstained shell, home to the hopes and torments that had gripped Peru for 126 days.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DEC. 31, 1996 Early in the siege, the rebel leader, Nestor Cerpa Cartolini, left, led the Peruvian Foreign Minister, Francisco Tudela, into the Ambassador's residence. (Reuters); DEC. 20 In the first days after the rebels took over the residence, when they still held almost 400 hostages, a sign in the window betrayed an air of desperation. (Agence France-Presse); DEC. 21 Throughout the ordeal, there were tenuous links with captives. This photo of three hostages was smuggled out to a Lima television station four days after the attack. (Reuters)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: PERU (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (74%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); COFFEE (73%); COFFEE FARMING (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



549 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-7
 
Zairian Rebels Accused Of Driving Hutu to Death
United Nations officials accused Zairian rebels of trying to drive over 80,000 Hutu refugees to a slow death. Aid workers found that two camps south of Kisangani had been completely abandoned, and saw evidence that a bulldozer had dug fresh trenches. The rebel leader, Laurent Kabila, denied that his Tutsi-dominated troops had been killing the refugees. 7
 
No Executions, Fujimori Says
President Alberto K. Fujimori denied reports that Peruvian military commandos had executed Tupac Amaru rebels during the hostage rescue Tuesday. A poll published in Lima newspapers indicated Mr. Fujimori's popularity had soared after the rescue. Relatives of Nestor Cerpa Cartolini, the leader of the rebels who seized the compound, found the site in a shantytown where officials had buried him. 6
 
France Signs Accord With Cuba
France signed an agreement protecting the interests of French companies that defy the United States economic blockade of Cuba. France "is sovereign and independent in its decisions," the Trade Minister declared. American criticism was mild. 3
 
Korean Scandal Brings Tears
Kim Hyon Chul, a son of the President of South Korea, broke into tears at claims that he had helped ruin his father's reputation. Testifying before Parliament, he denied charges of influence peddling in connection with the dubious loans that led to the collapse in January of the Hanbo Steel Company. News reports said he might be arrested as early as next week. Eleven people have been arrested so far. 5
 
Russians Stall on Treaty
Russia's Parliament delayed action on the chemical weapons treaty, saying the country could not afford to destroy its stockpiles. While the treaty includes financial help, it might not provide the $5 billion that Russia says it needs to destroy 40,000 tons of chemical weapons. The hard-line Parliament often objects to treaties favored by the West. (AP)
 
Europe Rethinks Iran Policy
The European Union is to take up a proposal next week to break off high-level meetings with Iran. But diplomats would not predict that the measures, drafted by senior political officials from various capitals, would pass. American officials have been pressing their case for a tough policy. A German court recently implicated Iran's top leaders in the murder of Kurdish dissidents. (Reuters)
 
The Crowd Plays Sancho Panza
More than 800 people from all walks of life took part in a marathon reading of "Don Quixote" in Madrid to commemorate the anniversary of the death, in 1616, of the author, Miguel de Cervantes. The event included renditions in Chinese and a blind girl's recital from an edition in Braille. Similar events were held in public libraries across Spain. 4
 
NATIONAL 8-12
 
Judge Upholds Large Part Of Clinton Tobacco Policy
A Federal judge in North Carolina upheld the Food and Drug Administration's power to regulate tobacco as a drug. But he said the agency lacked the authority to control advertising aimed at youths. It was the first court ruling on the Clinton Administration's new rules meant to deter children from smoking. 1

Oklahoma City Bombing Relived
Joseph H. Hartzler, the lead prosecutor in the Oklahoma City bombing trial, took the jury of 18 Coloradans two years back in time and 650 miles away, calling witnesses who lived through the bombing to describe the terrifying moment. One brought a tape recording she was making that day in a building across the street that captured the blast and its aftermath. 1

Weld Seen as Mexico Nominee
White House officials said President Clinton would appoint Governor William F. Weld of Massachusetts as Ambassador to Mexico. They said Mr. Clinton believed that appointing Mr. Weld, a Republican, might help him achieve more bipartisanship on immigration, trade and narcotics disputes with Mexico. An aide to Mr. Weld said he was interested. 12

Missing Missile Case Is Solved
A civilian truck driver who vanished for three days with four Air Force training missiles was arrested in Texas. The driver, Ronald Dean Coy, was supposed to have driven the missiles from a plant in Georgia to an Air Force base in New Mexico. The authorities said he apparently unloaded them in a small Texas town after a dispatcher declined to wire him more money. The Air Force said the missiles had no warheads and were not dangerous. 8

Troubleshooting the I.N.S.
The Justice Department assigned one of its top troubleshooters and a former comptroller general to straighten out the Immigration and Naturalization Service's handling of the nation's citizenship process. An independent audit found last week that I.N.S. employees had largely ignored a set of safeguards intended to prevent criminals from winning citizenship. Critics say the agency will be unable to handle the record 1.8 million citizenship applications expected this year. 10

San Francisco Trash Strike
San Francisco's first garbage strike in 57 years began its second full day and threatened to create a health hazard. Residents were told to keep their garbage off curbs, double-bagged and in a cool place; health officials said their biggest concern was rats. (AP)

7 TB Cases at Coroner's
At least seven employees of the Los Angeles County coroner's office have been infected with tuberculosis, spread through poor ventilation and lax safety precautions, officials said. Officials said two employees who developed the disease had been isolated and treated and at least five others who tested positive had been treated and were being monitored. (AP) 

NEW YORK/REGION 25-29

Albany Official Proposes Tests in 5 Languages
New York State's Education Commissioner, Richard P. Mills, proposed letting students take the math, science and social studies Regents exams in Spanish, Haitian Creole, Russian or Chinese as well as English. But students would still have to pass a rigorous Regents exam testing their knowledge of English. The Board of Regents will discuss the proposal next week. 1

Empire State Victim Improves
Matthew Gross, the young musician who was shot in the head and critically injured atop the Empire State Building two months ago, was discharged from Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan and admitted to a rehabilitation center in New Jersey. Doctors had told his relatives in the hours after the shooting that he was unlikely to survive. 27

Key Tip in Pizza Killings
A tip from a woman led detectives to one of the two New Jersey teen-agers accused of ambushing and murdering two pizza deliverymen, court papers showed. Prosecutors refused to identify the woman or her relationship with the teen-agers. 28

U.S. Grounds 132 Helicopters
The Federal Aviation Administration grounded all 132 helicopters of the model that crashed in the East River last week so mechanics could check for cracks in the tail. Such a crack is suspected of having caused the crash. Three other helicopters of that type have also suffered tail cracks, but none resulted in accidents, F.A.A. officials said. 25

SPORTS 30-35

Rangers Advance to Round 2
Esa Tikkanen scored the game-winning goal in overtime and the Rangers beat the Florida Panthers, 3-2, to advance to the second round of the National Hockey League playoffs. Mark Messier, the team captain, added two goals to complete a 4-1 series victory for New York. 31

ARTS 13-19

BUSINESS DAY 36-49

U.S.-Japan Trade Issue Returns
President Clinton warned Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan that a sudden resurgence of his country's trade surplus with the United States threatened to raise political tensions again. But Mr. Clinton's words were carefully calibrated to avoid a return to high-stakes trade confrontations. 37
 
Stocks Take a Fall
Stocks fell sharply, with the Dow Jones industrial average dropping 53.38 points to finish the week with a gain of just 35.32 points. Investors were bracing for a series of economic reports next week. 40

Business Digest 37
 
OBITUARIES 52

Pat Paulsen
The mournful-looking comedian who ran five tongue-in-cheek races for the Presidency was 69. 52

EDITORIAL 22-23
 
Editorials: A more intimate volunteerism, giving birth at 63, Colombia's subtle censorship, a healthy apology.
Columns: Russell Baker, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge 50
 
Crossword 18
 
Weather 50

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PERU (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (70%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PERU (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (70%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); MURDER (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); WRITERS (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (71%); LIBRARIES (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); JUDGES (65%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (60%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



550 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Promoting Puerto Rico Trade

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW 

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R.

 BODY:
In an effort to increase exports to Puerto Rico, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman yesterday announced the formation of a joint committee to promote trade between New Jersey and the island commonwealth, where she was visiting. New Jersey exports about $230 million in goods annually to Puerto Rico, the state's largest trading partner in the Caribbean. Still, the state imports more from the island than it exports, and Governor Whitman, speaking from San Juan, called the trade relationship "a little bit unbalanced." 
 Mrs. Whitman, who became the first mainland Governor to address a joint session of the Puerto Rican Legislature yesterday, is scheduled to return from her three-day tour of the island today.
 SARAH KERSHAW

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); PUERTO RICO (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); PUERTO RICO (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EXPORT TRADE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); TRENDS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



551 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: BOARD OF REGENTS IS URGED TO TEST IN FIVE LANGUAGES

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

 BODY:
Grappling with the thorny issue of how to educate a growing population of immigrant students, New York State's Education Commissioner is proposing that the state's college-preparatory Regents exams be translated into four foreign languages for the first time.
The exams have long been used to determine a student's college preparedness and to award state-financed merit scholarships, and under Commissioner Richard P. Mills's plan to raise academic standards, passing grades on the Regents tests -- in English, mathematics, social studies and science -- will soon be required for all students to graduate from high school. 
 Mr. Mills said that offering the tests in the state's most common immigrant languages -- Spanish, Haitian Creole, Russian and Chinese -- would insure that students with limited skills in English had a fair chance to demonstrate their knowledge. Many educators hailed the proposal, and some even suggested that it did not go far enough.
But, reflecting the long-running national debate over bilingual education, others said it would be a disservice to students, who would inevitably have to master English in order to attend college or succeed in the workplace.
That debate has taken on greater significance since the Clinton Administration began preparing for national standards and tests earlier this year. A national math test, to be given to eighth graders starting in 1999, will be offered in Spanish, Federal officials said.
In making his proposal, Mr. Mills has walked a fine line. While he would allow students to take the math, social studies and science exams in their native languages, he would still require them to pass the English Regents exam.
He said that he would insist on the English Regents exam because "it is going to be very, very hard for them to succeed in this country without English."
In the past, to earn a high school diploma, students had to pass a set of much less difficult competency tests in those same subjects. Mr. Mills said he feared that students with limited English skills might score poorly on the math, science and social studies exams not because of a lack of knowledge but because of language problems.
"I don't want to lower our expectations of them," he said. "I also have to make sure that whatever we require is fair."
For more than a decade, the state has offered the less-rigorous competency tests in 30 languages, but to date the only Regents exam offered in another language has been Math, Level 1, which can be taken in Spanish.
The proposal, which the Board of Regents will discuss next week requires the board's approval. Chancellor Carl T. Hayden said that while he favored translating the required Regents exams, he was wary of creating a system that would deter youngsters from mastering English.
"I would like to see a serious evaluation of their language skills before that option is made available," he said. "I'm apprehensive about instituting something which takes away the incentive to learn English."
About 6 percent of the state's 800,000 high school students are classified as having limited proficiency in English, but more than 16 percent of New York City's high school students fall into that category. Whether special provisions should be made for them is one of the most contentious issues state education officials are facing as they begin to implement the new, more difficult graduation requirements approved by the Regents last April.
Mr. Mills has been a strong advocate of higher standards, but he said that he did not want to impose mandates that could push students with limited English out of the school system. Already, such students in New York City have higher dropout rates and generally take longer to graduate than their peers who are proficient in English.
"For me, it comes down to making sure that youngsters become literate in English, and I want the standards to be honored," Mr. Mills said. "It is like solving a math problem with many variables. It's just hard to keep it all in your mind when you say, 'I want them to learn English. I want them to meet high standards. I want the test to be fair.' It becomes very complex."
The Commissioner's plans drew mixed reactions from people on both sides of the debate on bilingual education.
Diane Ravitch, a former assistant education commissioner in the Bush Administration and a national leader in the call for higher standards, argued that the translations would place at a disadvantage students who ultimately have to survive in an English-speaking society.
"What makes more sense," she said, "is that students in New York State high schools learn English and be able to take Regents exams in all of these subjects in English. They will not be able to take a math class in college in Russian."
Frank Borzellieri, a member of Community School Board 24 in Queens, described the proposal as another instance of "pandering, catering to radical ethnic groups."
Bilingual education advocates praised the Commissioner's proposal, but some pressed for special English proficiency tests, in lieu of the English Regents exam. James J. Lyons, executive director of the National Association for Bilingual Education, a Washington-based advocacy group, argued that it would be unreasonable to expect newcomers and native-speakers of English to pass the same rigorous English exam.
Karen Crowe, a spokeswoman for the New York City Schools Chancellor, Rudy Crew, said that he supported the proposal so long as students could take the English Regents exam anytime during their high school career.
Officials at the City University of New York, where more than 20 percent of the undergraduates already take at least one English-as-a-Second-Language course, are watching the proposal with interest, but they declined to comment.
Ken Goldfarb, a spokesman for the State University of New York, welcomed the proposal, saying the English Regents requirement would insure that more students were able to read and write well in English. The city university system and community colleges in the state system have long admitted any student who earned a high school diploma.
This year's class of ninth graders will be the first to have to pass the English Regents exam, with a score at or above the 55th percentile, in order to graduate. The math, science, American history and world history requirements will be phased in over the next four years. State education officials estimated that it would cost about $350,000 a year to translate the tests, and they anticipated no additional costs.
Commissioner Mills said that he would consider other accommodations for students with limited English skills taking the English Regents exam, such as granting them more time. He also said he planned to offer glossaries in nine languages that students could use for the math Regents this fall. The languages are Spanish, Chinese, Russian, Haitian Creole, Korean, Bengali, Burmese, Vietnamese and Urdu.
Ramon C. Cortines, the former New York City Schools Chancellor who is now an acting assistant secretary at the United States Department of Education, said that New York would be the first state to translate college-preparatory exams. He said that other states were confronting the issue.
"There are people who feel the predominant language of the land is English," he said, "and that is what children should be tested in. I feel children should be assessed for what they know."
The impact of the proposed translations on colleges and universities is unclear. The change could, for instance, allow more students with limited skills in English to enter four-year colleges, instead of starting at community colleges, said David R. Merkowitz, a spokesman for the American Council on Education, which represents colleges and universities.
He noted that the City University of New York had a long tradition of preparing students of various ethnic and class backgrounds to enter the economic and social mainstream.
"It's a recognition that we have an enormously diverse society," he said. "Higher education has become a much more important and standard entry into the American middle class. And there is a recognition that it doesn't pay for this society to create obstacles."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); APPROVALS (68%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



552 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Trade Data Confirmed: $10.4 Billion February Gap

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25

 BODY:
Corrected figures released by the Commerce Department today confirmed that the trade deficit declined to $10.4 billion in February, narrower than initially estimated.
The correction made official what Government economists acknowledged more than a week ago, that they overestimated oil imports in the first two months of the year by $1.2 billion. 
 The shortfall in goods and services declined 1.5 percent during February to the lowest level since November. It had risen 17.6 percent during January, to $12.3 billion, also a revised figure.
On April 17, the Commerce Department initially said the February trade deficit declined to $11.6 billion as exports and imports both set monthly highs. Hours later, however, Government analysts acknowledged the calculation mistake, which private economists brought to their attention. They corrected the figure to the $10.4 billion that was confirmed today.
As it stands, imports rose 1.1 percent in February, to $83.83 billion, below the record $85.1 billion the Government mistakenly reported.
Oil imports totaled $5.6 billion, or 264.8 million barrels, during February. In its initial report, the Commerce Department estimated February oil imports at $6.6 billion, or 320.9 million barrels. That was about 20 million barrels more than estimated by the American Petroleum Institute and raised the first warning flags.
The mistake was attributed to the way the Government tracks oil imports. The Customs Service, a branch of the Treasury, collects a record of shipments from handwritten shipper declarations and forwards it to the Census Bureau for processing. Last month, the Customs Service forwarded old reports of crude oil shipments from as far back as November 1995, which were then counted as part of February's report.
Exports were not corrected. They rose 4 percent, to a record $73.5 billion, led by shipments of commercial aircraft, industrial hardware and auto parts.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 1997, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about corrected trade figures released by the Commerce Department misstated the change in the United States trade deficit in goods and services for February. The shortfall narrowed by 15.5 percent, not 1.5 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "'Balance of Trade"
Deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Chart shows imports, exports, and deficit for U.S. from September 1995 through February 1997. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET IMPORT TRADE (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (86%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); SHIPMENTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); CENSUS (68%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997



553 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Percolating

BYLINE: By Thomas Carothers; Thomas Carothers is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

 BODY:

COFFEE AND POWER
 Revolution and the
 Rise of Democracy
 in Central America.
 By Jeffery M. Paige.
 432 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
 Harvard University Press. $45. 
 The tumultuous wars of Central America have ended. Peace of a sort arrived in Nicaragua in 1989, in El Salvador in 1992 and just last December in Guatemala. But with peace has come inattention. Despite an enormous need for assistance to heal the wounds of war, the region that topped the agenda of United States foreign policy in the 1980's has dropped almost completely off Washington's radar screen.
Walking away from political conflicts abroad when the shooting stops and the bills come due has unfortunately become a regular part of American foreign policy. The sole benefit of this tendency is that it allows the conflicts to be understood on their own terms (rather than as extensions of United States interests). Jeffery M. Paige's "Coffee and Power" helps do just that for Central America.
Mr. Paige, a sociologist at the University of Michigan specializing in the study of revolutions, sets forth a sweeping historical analysis of the encouraging yet still fragile emergence of democracy in Central America. He focuses on what he calls "the coffee elite" -- the powerful coffee growers and producers who have dominated Central America since the 19th century. Only by examining these elites, and particularly their response to the revolutionary movements of the 1930's and 1980's, he argues, can Central American politics be understood.
Through exhaustive historical research and enterprising interviews, Mr. Paige penetrates the worlds of the most powerful families of El Salvador, Nicaragua and Costa Rica. He highlights a critical division within the coffee elite: the coffee growers, a landed aristocracy that has been the bulwark of conservative authoritarianism; and the coffee processors, a manufacturing class that has become a modernizing force.
Mr. Paige chronicles how in several Central American countries these two parts of the elite worked together to fight off populist revolutionary movements in the 1930's. Yet renewed revolutionary pressures in the 1980's drove them apart, provoking the processors to separate themselves from the growers and to permit democratic openings. Mr. Paige asserts that one of the "consummate ironies" of Central American politics is that by forcing this division of the elite, revolutionary movements ended up producing what he calls a "bourgeois democratic revolution" in Nicaragua and El Salvador.
The approach of "Coffee and Power," one that concentrates on class and on economic structures, has its strengths. It enables Mr. Paige to dissect the power relationships that underlie Central America's tragic politics, and it allows him to explain how socioeconomic differences in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Nicaragua led to sharply varied political paths.
But Mr. Paige's method is as narrow as it is deep. Much is missing. For example, he refers to a "10-year struggle" during the 1980's between the Salvadoran Government and the coffee growers, yet he never properly develops the crucial role of the Christian Democratic political center. Moreover, the broader context -- the overall democratic trend in Latin America and the fading of the cold war -- receives little attention. And in what must be a first for a book on Central America written from the perspective of the left, the role of the United States is actually underemphasized. The extensive United States support during the 1980's for both the Salvadoran military and the political center, though often contradictory and anguished, was essential to the political outcome.
Nonetheless, Mr. Paige has illuminated a path for comprehending countries whose histories have often been caricatured by polemicists and ignored by policy makers. With both peace and democracy tentatively achieved in Central America, the time is ripe for us to achieve a genuine understanding of a region that for too long has been a stranger at our doorstep.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: COFFEE AND POWER (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: CENTRAL AMERICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NICARAGUA (94%); EL SALVADOR (94%); COSTA RICA (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL AMERICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NICARAGUA (94%); EL SALVADOR (94%); COSTA RICA (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COFFEE FARMING (89%); POLITICS (89%); HISTORY (89%); COFFEE (79%); LITERATURE (74%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: CAROTHERS, THOMAS; PAIGE, JEFFERY M

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



554 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 37; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: In Fragments

BYLINE: By Jim Sleeper; Jim Sleeper is the author of the forthcoming book "Liberal Racism."

 BODY:

WE ARE ALL MULTICULTURALISTS NOW
 By Nathan Glazer.
 179 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
 Harvard University Press. $19.95.
 
 THE ONE AND THE MANY
 America's Struggle for the Common Good.
 By Martin E. Marty.
 244 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
 Harvard University Press. $24.95. 
 "We are all Keynesians now," Richard Nixon is said to have declared in 1971, as public deficit spending soared. Today, it seems, we are all budget-balancing Friedmanites. But in fact we are neither, and when any authority proclaims a consensus, we ought to start looking for cracks. Since Nathan Glazer, the distinguished analyst of race and ethnicity, opens "We Are All Multiculturalists Now" with a dictum from Richard Nixon of all people, one expects a big wink; so many have assailed the color coding of student bodies, work forces and electorates that, soon enough, even die-hard multiculturalists may find themselves saying, "We are all Americans now."
But Mr. Glazer is not so sure that we can strengthen the American side of our hyphenated identities, and in "The One and the Many," the religious historian Martin E. Marty also wonders whether the nation can live up to its motto, E pluribus unum, "From many, one." Both men continue the liberal reappraisal of multiculturalism undertaken by Arthur Schlesinger Jr., Russell Jacoby, Todd Gitlin, Michael Tomasky, David Hollinger and others, but neither foresees any great prospect of reuniting America. Neither spends much time decrying multicultural follies or proposes an economic solution to cultural fragmentation. Both think that our challenges run far deeper, although each takes a different path to confront them.
Mr. Glazer once had hopes for assimilation. Although in 1963 he and Daniel Patrick Moynihan showed in "Beyond the Melting Pot" that even third-generation white Americans came together along ethnic lines, he thought we would be able to dispense with race as an organizing principle of society. In 1975 he argued in "Affirmative Discrimination" that America would do better by blacks if, while protecting civil rights, it abandoned racial remedies that, in his view, only deepened the discrimination they were intended to prevent.
One might expect Mr. Glazer to join other writers now in challenging the balkanization of America. If he were writing "in a normative mode," he says, he would do just that: "I would say more or less what . . . others who respect the diversity of American origins but appreciate fully the power of the integrating values of our common society say: Let us . . . avoid the fixing of lines of division on ethnic and racial bases." But in this book Mr. Glazer is "normative" about only one thing: "the African-American condition . . . where the community of descent defines an inescapable community of fate, where knowledge and moral values are indeed grounded in blood and history." Multiculturalism, he concludes, "is the price America is paying for its inability or unwillingness to incorporate into its society African-Americans, in the same way and to the same degree it has incorporated so many groups."
I wish that Mr. Glazer had said this at the beginning of his book. Opening instead with some Florida voters' rejection of a school board's claim that "our American heritage and culture" are superior to others, he announces simply that "multiculturalism in education . . . has, in a word, won." Almost eerily, he adds: "I do not assert this either to sound an alarm . . . or to celebrate it. I feel warmly attached to the old America."
Instead of taking on multiculturalism or addressing the African-American condition, Mr. Glazer spends chapters asserting that even some fantastical multicultural notions are with us to stay. He doubts that Native Americans helped shape the Constitution. "But how important is it that students should know that?" he asks. If teaching that the Hodenosaunee federation influenced the Founding Fathers is a way of raising "Native Americans in the esteem of their fellow students, would that be a justification" for including the story in the curriculum? He never decides.
Several such passages confuse children's needs for narrative simplicity with dubious assumptions about adolescent self-esteem and with doubts about whether a liberal society can agree on (admittedly provisional) truths that curb racial, sexual and religious conflicts. Mr. Glazer never asks whether racialist narratives cultivate democratic dispositions, whether bilingualism enriches civic dialogue, whether reading Thoreau or Whitman might stimulate young blacks now as it did Richard Wright and Ralph Ellison, whether racial typing helps mixed-race children and others who want to escape pigeonholing, and whether some racial narrators want a ritualized exclusion in order to win paychecks, moral cachet and even opportunities to exploit others in the name of race loyalty.
"Perhaps I am too impressed by the more militant leaders and group advocates," Mr. Glazer writes, recounting that while serving with some of them on a commission to revise New York's social studies curriculum, he learned "how surprisingly we can disagree on what seem to me to be simple truths." I think Mr. Glazer is too impressed, and that he gives the commission's work too much credence as a guide to nonwhite students' hopes and needs.
He recalls thinking 20 years ago that African-Americans would become "simply Americans of darker skin"; now, he sees "a hard institutionalization of differences." He thinks that "the forces that will produce the changes we are looking for are individual and voluntaristic, rather than governmental." And he is properly unimpressed by those who assail multiculturalism in the name of a transracial America but do very little to open up doors to blacks. Yet he never shakes his own race-based fatalism enough to confront the possibility that multiculturalism's glaring failures, too, are letting blacks down.
Martin E. Marty also wonders whether America can reconcile its increasingly "incommensurable" racial, sexual and religious group narratives by drawing from them common sentiments and practices to make public life more constructive. "The American experiment itself is a delicate venture, a gossamer fabric," he writes, and "its moral, spiritual and intellectual capital are in need of restoring." Rebuffing both patriotic "totalism" and parochial "tribalism," Mr. Marty envisions a national "conversation," a diffuse cultural project that cannot be scripted or commanded.
He acknowledges that free conversations can drive many to imagined solidarities. He cites an observation by the philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre that people are "storytelling animals" and that they become possessed by the stories that orient them in the world. But while every group considers its own narrative unique, Mr. Marty draws from his study of religious communities to observe that most follow familiar patterns of self-definition and self-maintenance. He notes that constitutional framers like James Madison, anticipating such patterns, required "secular rationality as a basis for communication," relegated religions to the private sphere and yet suffused the body politic with enough Judeo-Christian universalism to give it a moral mission.
With these commitments now challenged by a growing array of accusatory narratives, America is in "trauma," he believes. Taking note of James Baldwin's question, "Do I really want to be integrated into a burning house?" he suggests that America has failed to integrate blacks partly because it has lost its capacity to integrate itself more broadly. But he cautions against seeking a new national "story" like manifest destiny or leadership of the free world to replace the vision of the Founding Fathers. He warns, too -- as does the record of this bloody century -- against seeking unity in ideological understandings of power and wealth.
Mr. Marty prefers the philosopher Michael Oakeshott's conception of a "civil association" of communities that, like porcupines in winter, huddle for warmth yet keep some distance from one another's sharp quills. But humans cannot strike such a balance by instinct alone, and Mr. Marty calls for closer study of past attempts at social integration, along with a more assiduous cultivation of common sentiments and affections. Where do we find the disposition to do that? Mr. Marty is a Lutheran minister as well as a historian, and at times his essay becomes a fine Niebuhrian sermon, evoking the "gossamer fabric" that has sustained Americans not as multiculturalists or superpatriots, or as Keynesians or Friedmanites, but as people who are free. Yet if we want also to be people who are not divided by color, we will have to reckon with Mr. Glazer's racial pessimism even as we welcome Mr. Marty's summons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WE ARE ALL MULTICULTURALISTS NOW (BOOK); ONE AND THE MANY, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); CULTURE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ETHNICITY (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); RACE & RACISM (85%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); REFUGEES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); LITERATURE (73%); HISTORY (73%); TRENDS (72%); RELIGION (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); WRITERS (65%); 

PERSON: SLEEPER, JIM; MARTY, MARTIN E; GLAZER, NATHAN RICHARD NIXON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



555 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Canada Paves the Way To Prince Edward Island

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
CANADA is big, the second biggest country in the world after Russia. Holding together such a vast territory has always been a problem, so much so that William Mackenzie King, a prime minister of Canada, once said, "If some countries have too much history, we have too much geography."
 On Canada's eastern coast, the Government vowed in 1873 to connect Prince Edward Island to the mainland by ferry if it agreed to join the confederation. After 124 years, on June 1, the link will be made permanent when the new Confederation Bridge opens to traffic. 
 The gracefully curving bridge, which will make travel faster and cheaper, is expected to add more than 140,000 tourists a year to the 740,000 who already visit the quaint farms and pastoral villages of Canada's smallest province.
 A majority of the island's 135,000 residents supported the bridge in a decisive referendum in 1988, mainly because the jobs it is expected to bring will help reduce the province's 14.5 percent unemployment rate.
 "The ferry has always been a barrier to the tourism market," said Ian David Hurst, general manager of the Prince Edward Hotel in Charlottetown, the island's capital.
 But other islanders fear overdevelopment. Allan MacDonald of Rice Point fears that being linked by a nine-mile bridge to the mainland will change the island's character. Mr. MacDonald, who has fished the Northumberland Strait between the island and the mainland for more than 50 years, will be sorry to see the bridge open.
He is upset that roiling waters have already disrupted fishing, and that even now tourists outnumber residents by five to one: "But I guess there's not much left to say now that that great slab of concrete is up."
 That "great slab" will cost the Canadian Government $620 million. It is an engineering marvel, made to withstand some of the harshest wind and weather conditions, and to last 100 years, twice as long as most bridges. Weaknesses in the concrete were detected early on and then corrected, according to engineers. The biggest design problem was how to make sure the bridge could withstand the great mats of broken ice that flow down the Northumberland Strait each year with enough power to move almost anything in their way.
 The huge gray concrete piers of the Confederation Bridge are protected by cone-shaped caps at the water line that lift the ice and cause it to break. Since the first pier was installed two years ago, engineers say, the system has worked as planned.
 About 27 percent of tourists to Prince Edward -- named for a member of the British royal family in 1799 -- come from the United States. They often found that the ferry could be forced out of service by floating ice, or high winds in the straits. When the ferry ran, the trip lasted about 45 minutes, but backups on land could stretch to several hours.
 Crossing the bridge, which has two lanes in each direction, will take about 12 minutes at the speed limit of 80 k.p.h. (50 m.p.h.), according to engineering estimates. The bridge will be open all year, but speed limits are likely to be lowered when wind velocity exceeds 12 miles an hour.
 Bridge tolls have not been officially set but they are expected to range from $22 to $30 a car. That would make the crossing less expensive for a family of four because the ferry charges $15 a car, plus $6 for each adult and $3 for children (a total of $33).
 The old ferry service between Cape Jourimain, New Brunswick, and Borden-Carleton, Prince Edward Island, will be discontinued when the bridge opens. But if a ferry crossing is an essential part of a vacation dream, the more southeasterly ferry crossing from Caribou, Nova Scotia, to Wood Islands, Prince Edward Island, will continue to run from May through December.
 Bicyclists and pedestrians will be strictly prohibited from crossing the bridge, but administrators said a shuttle bus service will be available on a frequent schedule.
 Tourism officials are hoping the bridge will encourage more visitors to come at times other than the short but intense summer season in July and August. They say interest in conventions is already picking up because of the approaching opening of the Confederation Bridge, but despite fears about overdevelopment, no new hotels have been built or approved.
 Certain sites are likely to get much busier, such as Cavendish farm, the setting for Lucy Maude Montgomery's famous novel, "Anne of Green Gables." Crafts shops and cafes in downtown Charlottetown also are likely to be jammed.
 But some islanders are confident that the island's uniqueness is not threatened. "Now, if our culture was going to change, it would have done that already with all the telvision and movies we watch," said Carol Horne, editorial coordinator of the province's Department of Economic Development and Tourism. "It's just a bit of road, isn't it?"

GRAPHIC: Map of Canada showing the location of Prince Edward Island: When bridge opens, ferries from New Brunswick will stop running.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (94%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (90%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND (CANADA); CANADA; NEW BRUNSWICK (CANADA); ; NOVA SCOTIA (CANADA); CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (94%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (90%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (74%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; CONFEDERATION BRIDGE (NOVA SCOTIA-PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND); GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; FERRIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TOLLS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); WEATHER (85%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); TOURISM (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); BRITISH ROYALTY (72%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ENGINEERING (67%); REFERENDUMS (53%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



556 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 17; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: Serious Volunteerism at the Junior League

BYLINE: By DIANE SIERPINA 

 BODY:
NOT every town can marshal the volunteers it needs. Even if plenty of well-meaning individuals could be identified, who would organize, train, motivate and lead them into action?
Volunteerism is expected to become a national cause -- highlighted by the three-day summit on community service in Philadelphia opening today. Will average volunteers be there? Probably not. They may be too busy with work and family. But if the summit wanted to showcase a place where volunteers really matter, its leaders -- President Bill Clinton and Gen. Colin Powell, retired, among them -- would need only look to Greenwich. 
 Despite Greenwich's upscale image and undeniable affluence, social and economic problems need addressing, say residents.
When town officials or social service agencies need such help, they call the Junior League. League members are committed to devoting many hours of work, raising funds and generally patching the holes that pop up in their communities.
"Why are these people taking time out of their lives -- whether working or non-working -- to give to the Junior League?" asks its president, Lin Lavery. "It's because we really accomplish a lot. This is a high-energy town. There are people here who want to accomplish a lot in their lives."
The Junior League is "one of the great assets of this town, no doubt about it," says Robert Arnold, president of Family Centers Inc., a counseling and educational services agency. "Whatever it takes, they get the job done."
The League women helped create two Head Start programs in local housing projects as well as the Den, a support center for grieving children and families in Fairfield and Westchester counties, all now turned over to the Family Centers.
The League's latest project, designed at the request of Family Centers, is a computer and job skills training program for housing project residents.
The 900-member Junior League of Greenwich, which was founded in 1959, is the largest of seven in Connecticut. Dues run to $120 annually for its nearly 400 active members (those with less than five years of service) and $95 for the remainder.
The Junior League -- founded in 1901 by Mary Harriman, the 19-year-old debutante daughter of the railroad tycoon Edward H. Harriman and sister of the diplomat and Governor of New York State, Averell Harriman -- still projects the image of a society lady, complete with gloves and a string of pearls. But about half the members in Greenwich work outside the home, said Ms. Lavery, a former high school English teacher. Many have advanced degrees or careers on Wall Street, in banking or in law.
Some, like Karen Royce, the director of communications, were new to town and attracted after participating in a League-sponsored program. Others live in neighboring communities, but may have children in Greenwich private schools or friends in the organization. And, Ms. Lavery says, the League now attracts many single working women who return home after college to reside with parents because of the high cost of living. This year's new members include women from a variety of careers (including professional modeling and publishing) and ethnic backgrounds.
The League admits just 40 members a year, the better to educate and assimilate them. Women must be between the ages of 21 and 44 to join, but the Greenwich League has members well into their 80's. There are mother-and-daughter members and those with 20 or more years in.
Each year, League members contribute an average 55,000 hours of service to the community. And, over the past four years, they have returned $500,000 to the town in projects (which number six to eight annually), according to League literature.
The Greenwich League still sponsors an annual cotillion for 18- and 19-year-old debutantes, but requires each young woman to perform community service. Volunteerism is a mission League members expect their own children to follow. "We're not interested in just writing a check," says Ms. Lavery. "That's not what we're here for. One of the things you get from the Junior League is a real sense of community, affiliation and working together."
The biggest fund-raising event is the annual four-day Enchanted Forest, held each November. Last year, the event, which takes a year of planning, was accomplished with the help of a 70-member committee headed by Mari Glick. It included a free breakfast for elderly people, children's programming and the sale of 150 decorated holiday trees and another 150 gingerbread houses. And it raised more than $150,000.
Before beginning an assignment, League members are trained in how to plan, set goals and motivate a team for success, explained Mary Beth McCarty, the League's president-elect and a former investment banker. Motivation is the key. "You don't have a contract or bonus to depend on," she said.
League-initiated projects in Greenwich include a youth employment service; Parents Exchange, counseling sessions on parenting skills with trained facilitators; Parents Together, a newsletter for parents of adolescents; school programs on building self-esteem and the benefits of recycling. There are also projects called Safety Town, a 10-day safety awareness and accident prevention program for preschool children; two new playgrounds, and programs on AIDS awareness, safe driving, women's health issues, foster care and domestic and media violence.
But one of the League's biggest contributions to Greenwich and seven other towns in Fairfield County is the creation of a shelter for young people 12 to 17 and crisis intervention program for newborns through age 11 called Kids in Crisis.
A League committee headed by Ms. Lavery assessed the need, raised money privately and applied for a grant, hired staff, found the site and ran the program for three years beginning in 1978 before spinning it off as a private agency. In 1989 the League stepped in again to create the intervention program.
"They really were the ones that helped to give birth to the youth shelter," says Shari Shapiro, executive director of Kids in Crisis. "And when we went back to them to ask for assistance with the nursery program, they were right there for us."
Rather than insulating members, League experiences broaden perspectives beyond their own lives and neighborhoods, Ms. Lavery says.
On a typical Monday night, eight or more League members can be found at the Wilbur Peck housing project on Davis Street teaching residents keyboarding and other computer skills while their children play in the Head Start classroom next door.
Joanna Williams, who formerly ran an import business, has worked nearly full time for the past year on a program called Teaching Computer Skills. The League donated two computers, solicited seven secondhand computers, software and training materials from the community, and provided $10,000 in funding to get it started.
Ms. Williams and Phyllis Gabriel, the vocational coordinator for Family Centers, also try to find jobs for their students with local employers. One participant, Maria Riano, a Columbian who spoke little English and had only a second grade education, last fall was hired as a salesperson by Saks Fifth Avenue in Greenwich. It was a measure that the program was succeeding.
Holly Izant-McSharry, 35, a banker and a League member, was helping Wesam Georgi, 29, an accountant from Kuwait, to put together a resume. Mr. Georgi, who works in a delicatessen, hopes to get a banking job. He said he would not have tried to fine tune his computer skills if the free program hadn't been available.
Among the class are men and women of many nationalities. "These people are very motivated," said Ms. Williams. But she admits the program has had limited success so far attracting the parents of some Head Start children. "We have to build a trust to have their trust," she said. "They come and then they tell their friends. Everything is one on one."
What attracts a young person to commit leisure time to the League? Tasha Brough, a public relations coordinator for Estee Lauder in Manhattan, says it's the opportunity to remeet the community in which she was born and raised, get involved in hands-on projects and see results. "I'm honing new skills and building my own resume as well," she said.
One measure of the League's success is that members take their leadership skills to other community service programs and projects as volunteers or paid employees. The League also has a friend in town government. Lolly Prince, a former League president, was elected last fall as one of three Greenwich Selectmen. Ms. Prince credits the League for helping acquaint her with the town and honing her organizational and people skills.
The town and the League have a great partnership, says Ms. Prince, because they have a common goal: to keep Greenwich family-oriented and to protect its residential character. "Anytime you have a shared vision," she says, "that certainly makes things happen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joanna Williams of the Junior League helps Wesam Georgi, a Kuwaiti, at the keyboard and, left, checks over a workplace outfit with Sara Spreitzer of Byram.; Meg Orner and Youstina Youssef, 4, play Peek-a-Boozoo session in a Head Start session. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); 

COMPANY: JUNIOR LEAGUES

ORGANIZATION: JUNIOR LEAGUES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; GREENWICH (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; VOLUNTEERS FAMILY SERVICES (89%); CHILDREN (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); FAMILY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CHILD WELFARE (74%); CITIES (73%); TRENDS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); GRIEF COUNSELING (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (64%); 

PERSON: SIERPINA, DIANE BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



557 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1937 words

HEADLINE: A Victorian Gem Restored

BYLINE: By PAULA DEITZ; PAULA DEITZ, co-editor of The Hudson Review, writes frequently about gardens.

 BODY:
FEW moments equal the steamy calm after a tropical storm, with the soft music of water droplets being shed by hundreds of saturated trees. During just such a moment of horticultural theater in the New York Botanical Garden's newly restored Enid A. Haupt Conservatory, it was transfixing to stand still and listen. Clouds of moisture from the high-tech misting system had recreated the lushness of the jungle among the mahogany and kapok trees, the banana plants and chocolate trees of the Lowland Tropical Rain Forest.
The forest is one of four "biomes," or environments, in the splendid Victorian greenhouse in the Bronx -- the largest of its kind in America. Reopening to the public on Saturday after a four-year, $25 million rehabilitation, the Conservatory is the centerpiece of the Garden's seven-year plan for renovation and renewal. Its 17,000 panes of glass were replaced by hand. The huge plant collection, now numbering 3,000, in this museum of horticulture has also been reinstalled, with some new plants and new settings, and a spacious cafe now stands in the spruce grove near the Conservatory. 
 A World of Plants, as the new installation is called, begins dramatically in the Palms of the Americas Gallery, under the 90-foot-high dome of the entrance rotunda. Visitors move from there through 10 connecting pavilions and four environments -- from lowland and upland rain forests to deserts of the Americas and Africa. Here, the intimate contact between visitors and plants is greater than ever; brushing away the banana leaves as you make your way through the rain forests and smelling the sweet scent of jasmine in the subtropical pavilion takes you about as far from New York's urban bustle as it is possible to get.
Essentially, the exhibits constitute scientific laboratories in the guise of a trip around the world, and their beauty and drama derive from the patterns found in nature by the scientists who have traveled to the Amazonian rain forests or African deserts to collect plants for research. (The Botanical Garden counts at least 1,000 such expeditions in its history, and its role as a scientific institution is at least as important as its role in providing a green haven for the public.) Frequently, the botanists themselves talk about their experiences on the informative taped tour.
The Conservatory's curved ceilings of glistening new glass open to scudding clouds and blue sky are direct descendants of two monumental glass structures in England. Richard Turner's 1848 Palm House at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, and the Crystal Palace designed for the 1851 Great Exhibition in London by Sir Joseph Paxton constituted a revolution in architectural technology that has informed every similar structure since. Conceived as a storehouse for the conservation of tropical plants collected on expeditions all over the world, the Palm House, in particular, became a romantic setting establishing a Victorian fad for palm-filled conservatories.
Fortunately for this country, two young members of the Torrey Botanical Club of New York, a Columbia professor, Nathaniel Lord Britton, and his wife, Elizabeth, took a belated honeymoon to England in 1888 and roamed around Kew Gardens for many pleasurable hours. Her longing for a garden "just like that" translated into the founding in 1891 of the New York Botanical Garden, with Mr. Britton becoming its first director.
In Europe, leading botanical gardens found their genesis in royal properties or major universities; but in New York City, the club started its garden from scratch in Bronx Park, a 250-acre site that included the former estate of Pierre Lorillard, the tobacco merchant. Beginning with virgin territory -- a 40-acre 17th-century forest is one of the Garden's major scientific and scenic assets -- the first master plan included the Lord & Burnham Conservatory, which was completed in 1902 (the restoration architects are Beyer Blinder Belle). The Conservatory, with its prominent domed Palm House, balanced the Garden's 1901 Museum Building, with its central dome, designed by Robert Gibson, architect of the Cartier building on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. Both structures display leafy Corinthian pilasters. Generally, visitors are so focused on the gardens and greenhouse displays that few are aware of the Garden's architectural legacy, from 19th-century industrial buildings and cottages in fieldstone to these magnificent Beaux-Arts designs.
This year, as part of the 1993-1999 master plan (which includes a children's adventure garden to open in 1998), under the direction of Gregory Long, the energetic president, the Garden has added a new building to this complex. Designed by Jacquelin T. Robertson and John Kirk of Cooper, Robertson & Partners, this simple, solid brick orangery with immense arched windows to the ground houses the cafe that seats 200 indoors and out; it replaces the historic Snuff Mill, which will be used for banquets and meetings. Adjoining the restaurant is a spacious terrace room for private entertaining (and a new source of income for the Garden). The public garden designer Lynden B. Miller has already created a garden here against the brick facades, with hollies, borders of box, climbing hydrangeas and a rose of Sharon trained into a blind arch.
When half of the Conservatory first opened in 1900, Mr. Britton is reported to have spent only $100 on the inaugural display of plants. Many survive today (a kapok tree, for one) at the completion of this restoration (the fourth such project in the building's history, and the largest), during which the glass, steel and wood structure was stripped to its skeleton and rebuilt with aluminum glazing bars. Unlike stabilization programs of the past, this one involved scraping and repainting every nut and bolt.
The suite of display houses -- five on either side of the rotunda -- form a C-shaped pattern around outdoor tropical and temperate pools, retaining the balloon-shaped silhouettes that belie their new state-of-the-art interiors. Mist and fog are created on demand, and vents automatically admit fresh air as long as the wind permits.
In the Palms of the Americas Gallery, a visitor begins to understand the dimensions of this undertaking when Joe Kerwin, the manager of the Conservatory, who masterminded the plant reinstallation, points out the Euterpe oleracea that has crossed the Pacific by barge from Hawaii to take its place here among the slender columns and umbrella canopies of at least 100 species of sister palms and cycads. A pond has been added, and along with rivulets, waterfalls and pools in other houses, enhances the quality of sound and reflected light.
Walking into the Lowland Rain Forest, one sees through a curtain of vines the massive branch of a kapok tree that has been hurled, archlike, across the path. Kapok trees, among the tallest in the forest, are what make rain forests so dark. But here, the kapok is an artificial, completely convincing creation, the stuff of dioramas; the top of the forest has been brought down to eye level with bromeliads thriving on the tree bark, and the sun pours through the gap to nourish the forest floor. It's a good script made more real by the excellent eye of the tropical plant curator, Francisca Coelho, who was raised in Trinidad. The remaining trunk of the tree, buttressed like a cathedral, is found further along.
Emerging from the underground tunnel linking this section with the dry regions of the Americas, Africa and Australia, one focuses on the sculptural quality of plants in these more open pavilions. Along the way are places to sit under a canopy of hanging plants and seasonal displays, as well as plantings of subtropicals such as camellias, olive trees and scented geraniums. At every turn, intelligent signs entice even the casual visitor to learn about the Garden's larger missions in environmentalism and economic botany, discovering the uses of plants including medicinal properties that are being learned firsthand from local healers in places like Belize. The thatched healer's hut near the great tree trunk gives an immediacy to the Garden's work.
The Conservatory's popular seasonal flower displays will continue in two galleries. For the reopening, in a tribute to another New York institution, the Cloisters, the medieval wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the exhibit will be a garden of flowers from the 16th-century unicorn tapestries. In 1941, two of the Garden's botanists identified the more than 80 species of plants in the seven Flemish tapestries, and their list provided the basis for the display. Scenes from the tapestries will be recreated in the Conservatory.
From the Garden's new entrance at the Conservatory Gate with its "lollipop" standing clock, the visitor is now led through a triangular circuit described by Gregory Long as "the garden within the Garden." Spring is a particularly good time to make the circuit, when showy tulips -- there are 12,000 here -- and flowering trees are coming into their own. Beginning with the herb and perennial gardens just starting to bloom, one walks past the Conservatory to borders ablaze with tulips and domestic-style demonstration gardens, which serve to help people reimagine their own.
Turning the corner at the new cafe, the walk continues under a broad avenue of tulip trees before shifting to the Rock Garden and Native Plant Garden on the hypotenuse. Spring is the peak season in the Rock Garden, with brilliant alpine flowers nestled among the boulders. The more adventurous can strike out for the wooded valleys where crabapple trees are in bloom or walk to the picturesque bridge over the Bronx River to view the waterfall that once powered the Snuff Mill.
Over the next few weeks, the clear glass of the Enid A. Haupt Conservatory will gradually be shaded from the sun with a wash of luminescent pale green. And during celebratory evening events when the interiors are softly illuminated, the dome will glow against the night sky -- a newly opalescent jewel in New York City's crown.
 
Among the kapok and chocolate trees
 The New York Botanical Garden is at 200th Street and Southern Boulevard, Bronx, N.Y. 10458; (718) 817-8700.
The hours are Tuesday through Sunday and Monday holidays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.
The Passport ticket includes admission to the Garden and the Conservatory, the Rock Garden and Native Plant Garden, as well as a tram tour. It costs $8 for adults, $4 for students, seniors (62 and older) and children 6 to 16. The Garden is free all day Wednesday and from 10 A.M. to noon Saturday. Separate admissions: Garden only, $3 and $1; Conservatory only (after entering the Garden), $3.50, $2.50.
The Garden Cafe, open from 11 A.M. to 5 P.M., has sandwiches from the carvery, hot and cold food, desserts and beverages. The lunch menu costs about $8.50.
Metro-North trains make the 20-minute trip from Grand Central Terminal in Manhattan to the Botanical Garden station; (212) 532-4900. By subway, take the D or No. 4 train to Bedford Park Boulevard. Visitor parking at the Conservatory Gate costs $4.
The New York Botanical Garden's Manhattan Shuttle makes three round trips a day on weekends and Monday holidays, picking up passengers at the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 79th Street, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82d Street; for reservations and information, (718) 817-8700.
To celebrate the opening of the Conservatory, Folk Parks '97, a festival of music and dance, will be held on May 4; there is no extra charge for the event. P.D.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Enid A. Haupt Conservatory has 17,000 panes of glass. Daffodils in bloom in the Garden. The Palms of the Americas Gallery. (Photographs by Jonathan Atkin for The New York Times) (pg. 8); Trunk of the artificial kapok tree in the Lowland Rain Forest. A display based on the unicorn tapestries at the Cloisters. The new Garden Cafe near the Mosholu Gate. (Photographs by Jonathan Atkin for The New York Times) (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (91%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (91%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; HAUPT, ENID A, CONSERVATORY (NYC); TRAVEL AND VACATIONS HORTICULTURE (90%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); RAIN FORESTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (87%); GARDENING (78%); WEATHER (78%); BOTANY (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); DESERTS (64%); BIOLOGY (62%); 

PERSON: DEITZ, PAULA

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



558 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2224 words

HEADLINE: CLASSICAL VIEW;
Chasing the Latest Phenomenon, With a Bow To Barnum

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH 

 BODY:
AN IDEAL HOLLYWOOD ENDING IT WAS NOT. How gratifying it might have been if David Helfgott had proved the resurrected pianistic genius, however eccentric, portrayed in the movie "Shine" and in the surrounding promotional apparatus. Then again, "Shine," produced in Australia, was not, strictly speaking, a Hollywood movie.
So what exactly happened? Is it possible at last, with Mr. Helfgott headed for Europe after two recitals this week in Pasadena, Calif., to cast a dispassionate eye on the affair of the last few months for what it may have to say about the worrisome state of classical music in the United States? 
 What became obvious on the pianist's arrival in America last month was that the Helfgott phenomenon had little to do with music. Suspicions raised in advance by the waywardness of his performances on the film soundtrack and in an RCA recording of Rachmaninoff's Third Piano Concerto (known to musicians, and now to moviegoers, as the Rach 3), were amply confirmed by two recitals in Avery Fisher Hall and another in the Academy of Music in Philadelphia: whatever level Mr. Helfgott had achieved before his mental breakdown, this was not now a great, or even a particularly good, pianist. If the medium for his "genius" had been chess or mathematics, his shortcomings would probably have become more quickly and indisputably apparent to more people.
Nor, despite the heated terms in which it was argued, did the phenomenon have much to do with morality. There was, to be sure, a voyeuristic aspect to the intense curiosity surrounding the concerts as well as the movie; Mr. Helfgott's mental illness, especially as portrayed by Geoffrey Rush in the film, manifests itself in undeniably entertaining ways. But far more, there was a genuine desire to see an underdog triumph, Rocky-like, and to find once again, in the best Hollywood tradition, that love conquers all. Mr. Helfgott seemed to be enjoying his new-found fame and commercial success. If he was a victim of exploitation, then what is to be said of the preteen and teen-age prodigies who are trotted onto the concert stage with such regularity?
No, the Helfgott phenomenon had mostly to do with show business. That Jenny Lind, the "Swedish Nightingale," was actually a great singer probably mattered little to P. T. Barnum, who sold her to a ravenous American public a century ago; what mattered was that she was marketable. Barnum would have been the first to recognize the opportunity afforded by the success of "Shine," but he could hardly have done a better job of capitalizing on it than that done by his Australian counterparts.
And this, alas, is what the classical-music business has come to in America and elsewhere: chasing sensations, whether David Helfgott, Gregorian chant or aging tenors. It is a world full of institutions grown unwieldy, a world that has lost faith in itself and therefore looks for salvation in celebrity. Although the rumors of its demise have been greatly exaggerated, the classical world persists in taking suicidal risks in search of the quick fix, the ultimate high.
The big bucks, one might add, in the cases of companies and individuals trying to make a hefty profit from a business in which prestige was once as good as gold: radio stations, record companies and artist managements, not to mention the big-name artists themselves.
Classical radio in this country is by now an old, sad story. Of the few stations that have survived the carnage of recent decades, most have abandoned any serious commitment to the repertory, allying themselves with syndicates that offer mindless packages of juicy, ear-tickling tidbits. With rare exceptions, a Mahler symphony, an opera or even a serious song is not to be heard.
Now many of the big classical record labels seem bent on traveling a similar route. Having belatedly awakened to the existence of a reissue glut of their own making, they have in many cases simply jettisoned loyal artists and substantial repertory and turned to more profitable "thematic" compilations, movie soundtracks and dubious crossover efforts. But while they may have abandoned their ideals, they have not stopped dreaming: they dream of the next ready-made celebrity, like Mr. Helfgott, or the next fluky hit, like Henryk Gorecki's mystical Third Symphony.
Here are real tragedies for an art seeking new audience members. Much is made, and rightly, of the disappearance of music from school curriculums. But at least as important as early force-feeding of music to youngsters is easy and inexpensive access for those who may discover it at a later stage of life. Through much of the century, that access has come from the varied fare available on radio and records.
Perhaps the biggest problem of all, however, if one is to believe the English critic Norman Lebrecht, is simple greed. Mr. Lebrecht's latest book, "When the Music Stops: Managers, Maestros and the Corporate Murder of Classical Music," available in Britain and soon to appear in America, offers a scathing indictment of celebrity artists and their managers, although his good points tend to be undercut by a casual attitude toward factual detail.
AND HERE, INTO THIS troubled midst, strode -- nay, sprinted -- David Helfgott. He provided, if little else, the catharsis and diversion of righteous indignation. Everyone in the business, it seemed, was preoccupied, wanting to know where everyone else stood, feeling superior to most.
"What should I say to my students, who have been told that the way to get ahead in this field is through diligence, hard work and patience?" a conservatory professor asked. Tell them that life is unfair, perhaps. (Although Mr. Helfgott has some tales to tell along those lines, too.)
Critics could decry the exploitation of this disturbed individual and the lack of sophistication of audiences of which they were ashamed to be a part. Helfgott spokespeople and audience members could heap scorn on the critics, who were, after all, always intent on spoiling a good thing. ("Mean-spirited" was the term heard most often in the aisles of Avery Fisher Hall.) Helfgott "publicists" went a step farther, doing their best, after the discouraging early returns, to see that the concerts were not written about in certain quarters.
Even The Times of London got into the act. "The critics' attacks probably reflected an irritation that the musical agenda has been set by a non-American film," wrote Quentin Letts, a New York correspondent. (That's it, of course: American critics would have preferred a musical agenda set by "Mr. Holland's Opus," with its soupy popification of classical music.)
"Given some of the discordant drivel their fraternity has endorsed," Mr. Letts went on, "it is hard to resist a frisson of satisfaction at seeing their game spoilt."
The Helfgott hype included facile and absurd comparisons. Vladimir Horowitz, it was noted, retired from the stage from 1953 to 1965 because of nervous strain; and in fact, Horowitz played wretchedly at times in the 1980's while under heavy medication. Glenn Gould, it was noted, was also eccentric, and he groaned along with his performances more or less the way Mr. Helfgott did; and in fact, Gould was more seriously disturbed than has widely been thought, to judge from a book due next month, "Glenn Gould: The Ecstasy and Tragedy of Genius," by Peter F. Ostwald, who was a psychiatrist and a friend of Gould's.
But such comparisons overlook an obvious difference: both Horowitz and Gould established themselves as brilliant performers in maturity. For all the loose talk of "prodigy" and "genius," Mr. Helfgott was nothing more than a promising student at the Royal College of Music in London before his first breakdown. Afterward, there was little reason to expect greatness of him.
A more accurate analogy might be to Erwin Nyiregyhazi, a pianist born in Budapest in 1903. Nyiregyhazi (pronounced NEAR-edge-hah-zee) failed to realize his prodigious youthful potential and fell into poverty in Los Angeles, where he died in 1987. Some "comeback" recordings he made in the 70's, however, reveal a genuinely developed and reasonably coherent artistic temperament, something the 49-year-old Mr. Helfgott has yet to show.
Still, more than any of these, the pianist who kept coming to mind in the way Mr. Helfgott skated over musical surfaces, and especially in the kind of breathless adulation he drew from uncritical listeners, was, of all people, Liberace. Mr. Helfgott may have found his proper level on the Academy Awards telecast. Even though he got lost in his signature piece, "The Flight of the Bumblebee," he came off sounding better than Madonna.
Rejoice, the music world is told. Think of all the potential new listeners who are being reached by the film, the concerts, the recordings. ("Brilliantissimo," a disk of solo performances by Mr. Helfgott, is due next month from RCA.) It is indeed possible that a Helfgott experience will provide a first, intriguing exposure to classical music for some listeners. As those of us who came to music late can attest, you have to start somewhere. But it would be hopelessly unrealistic to expect great throngs of new listeners to arise from any these sensations.
ISN'T IT TIME THAT CLASSICAL music stops looking for great throngs in any case? Its problems did not arise overnight, and they will not be solved overnight. In fact, much of what is happening among musical institutions, self-destructive urges aside, may be part of a long-term evolution: a normalization of sorts after the booming growth of recent decades, a retrenchment that may not be altogether unhealthy.
For the attempt to make classical music a mass medium has essentially failed. The turnout for the likes of David Helfgott and the Three Tenors has little effect on the day-to-day operations of musical institutions beyond encouraging them to chase chimeras. Making classical music available to everyone is one thing; trying to create an endlessly expanding market for it is another.
True, the attempt at popularization was made largely out of noble motives. Four decades ago, most musicians in this country genuinely had it bad. Orchestral players were browbeaten by conductors, grossly underpaid in relation to other highly skilled professions and rarely employed year-round. Spurred by toughening unions, the orchestras set out to change all that, extending seasons and instituting summer festivals, chamber programs and other events to provide fuller and more lucrative employment. Old institutions were puffed up and new ones created.
Orchestral players were given big wage increases and other benefits, to bring them into line with comparable professions. But human nature being what it is, this catch-up mode soon came to be seen by its beneficiaries as the norm. For the players, leapfrogging ahead of their peers from one contract to the next became an end in itself. Although most now have it good in relation to the general population, they have been slow to acknowledge that such increases cannot go on forever -- indeed, for very long at all. Their continuing demands, along with the high fees of music directors, put tremendous strain on the finances of even the largest orchestras.
Thus the pressure to fill every seat, and the ascendance of marketing. To most marketers, maximizing audiences means performing familiar, well loved repertory and hiring glitzy soloists and guest conductors. It might be easy to dismiss the Helfgott tour as an aberration that had little to do with hard-core musical activity were Mr. Helfgott not returning in August to play the Rach 3 with the Hollywood Bowl Orchestra, an adjunct of the Los Angeles Philharmonic. The wonder in the current, panicked climate is that other orchestras have not (yet) leapt at him and his box-office power.
Glitzy soloists are hugely expensive, some able to draw more than $50,000 for a single performance. A few may be worth it, in terms of artistry as well as drawing power. Still, the returns are seldom more than marginal, and costs and ticket prices keep spiraling upward.
So the mandate to reach the masses with great music, which arose partly for good reasons, is kept in place chiefly for a bad one: to sustain an unstable economy. Classical music is saddled with oversize, overpriced institutions, and the only way it can keep them going, seemingly, is to feed the celebrity culture that has done it so much harm in the first place.
It is a perilous time. Some institutions, wisely, have begun to re-examine their missions and to take creative approaches to maintaining a solid audience base. Others may perish. Yet even there, some good is possible. If, for example, as seems likely, a regional orchestra were to die here and there, there might be a heightened demand for the great American orchestras to tour the United States rather than running off to play Beethoven in Japan year after year. There might -- wonder of wonders -- be a heightened demand for the great orchestras on radio and even on records.
It may be that we have seen the future, and it is the leaner and meaner past. Classical music thrived for centuries as a minority interest, loved passionately by a relative few. Unless the radio stations and record companies leave only scorched earth behind, it is likely to do so again.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jenny Lind was a great singer, but her talent probably mattered less to her American promoter, P. T. Barnum, than her marketability; now, the Australian promoters of David Helfgott, left, have outdone Barnum. (Alice Curtis Desmond Collection at the Barnum Museum)(pg. 1); Mature Brilliance Vladimir Horowitz at the White House in 1979--When nervous strain interrupted his career, he was an established artist. (The New York Times); Uncritical AdulationLiberace in 1954--He skated over musical surfaces the way David Helfgott did in his recitals. (Guild Films); Auspicious Beginning P. T. Barnum, center, introduces Jenny Lind to Ossian E. Dodge, a Boston singer and the purchaser of the first ticket for her first concert. (Alice Curtis Desmond Collection at the Barnum Museum)(pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SHINE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; MOTION PICTURES KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); FILM (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (66%); 

PERSON: OESTREICH, JAMES R; HELFGOTT, DAVID AVERY FISHER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



559 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 2; Page 25; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: How to Keep Faith After an Idol Proves to Have Been a Monster

BYLINE: By DAVID HAY; David Hay, a frequent contributor to the Sydney Morning Herald, lives in Los Angeles.

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia

 BODY:
WHEN PETER DUNCAN was growing up in the affluent suburbs of Sydney, his ailing grandfather, a member of the Communist Party, came home to live with the family.
The time was the early 1970's, and the demonic nature of Stalin's character and policies were by then well known. Yet even in the face of such evidence, and until he died in 1979, Mr. Duncan's grandfather remained steadfast in his political faith. 
 As the years went by, Peter Duncan remained intrigued by how a true believer carries on, even after a belief system is proved so completely false.
"How do you, late in life, say, 'Well, something I've donated a lot of life, my energy and my being to has turned out not only to be a mistake but actually something quite pernicious?' " Mr. Duncan, now a film director, asked. "Do you actually say a mea culpa for your whole life? Or do you dig in and go into a rigid state of denial? And we're not talking about moronic victims of blind faith here. We're talking about intelligent people like my grandfather."
Mr. Duncan, now 32, turned this question into the primary conceit of his first feature film, "Children of the Revolution," which opens in the United States on Thursday, May Day. The Australian comedy stars Judy Davis as Joan, a hysterically strident Communist, and Geoffrey Rush, who just won an Oscar for his role in "Shine," as her mostly neglected suitor.
The action begins in 1949 with Joan writing weekly letters to her idol, Joseph Stalin (played by F. Murray Abraham). Her devotion pays off, first with an invitation to Moscow and then with a drunken and unexpectedly intimate evening with the dictator himself. When Joan returns to Australia, however, she discovers she's pregnant.
The movie then charts the coming of age of her son, aptly named Joe. Honoring his father's legacy, Joan indoctrinates her son as a true poster boy of the left. When Joe becomes a powerful right-wing unionist, his mother is horrified. Joe's leadership is so successful -- perhaps because wielding power comes so easily to him -- that by the end of the film when Communist Governments are shown toppling all around the world, young Joe is poised to assume near dictatorial powers in his homeland.
"Children of the Revolution" had only a modest run in Australia, where it opened last December, but it created a stir because of its distinctive comic style and controversial subject matter. It was nominated for 11 Australian Oscars, and, although "Shine" dominated the field, Mr. Duncan's film picked up an award for Ms. Davis as best actress.
"It was such a relief to see an Australian film that was funny and yet wasn't quirky, a term used to describe almost every Australian feel-good comedy," said Jane Mills, head of screenwriting at the Australian Film, Television and Radio School in Sydney. "Duncan exhibits such deft judgment and such confidence, having fun with an audience's usual preconceptions about both history and cinema."
Mr. Duncan lives in one floor of a Victorian terrace house in Kings Cross, a lively area near the harbor here. On this day, he greeted a visitor barefoot, despite his dress shirt and formal gray slacks. Pale and slightly pudgy, with curly, light brown hair swept back off his forehead, Mr. Duncan speaks like the lawyer he was trained to be, yet he loves to indulge in playful overstatement and genuine whimsy. For instance, he calls his new film, "A Little Bit of Soul," which will star Mr. Rush and finish shooting in August, a "Faustian satire of politics, economics, immortality and chickens."
Mr. Duncan got his first taste of comedy directing revues at, of all places, the Sydney University Law School, from which he graduated in 1989. After practicing for a year and realizing that the law was not for him, he enrolled in the Australian Film, Television and Radio School, where he made a splash with his short movie "A Bit of a Tiff With the Lord." And even before he started to write "Children of the Revolution," Mr. Duncan knew that he wanted to have fun with lofty personages.
"I sat down to write a short story about a Christian to whom the nonexistence of God was proven," he said. "Of course, I couldn't get it to work with the existence of God being an article of faith and not a fact." He then turned his attention to some "20th-century deities," which led him to Uncle Joe, his grandfather and a screenplay that ran to 250 pages, nearly twice the normal length. He spent a year paring it down.
Mr. Duncan realized, of course, that in poking fun at Australia's longstanding leftist traditions he was shining a spotlight on a part of Australian history that was ripe for satire. The Communist Party of Australia, now disbanded, was just one of many political movements here that grew out of militant trade unionism and was affected by 60's idealism.
Mr. Duncan said that after World War II the Australian Communist Party, blinded by what he described as the "tyranny of distance," transformed itself into a pillar of orthodoxy. In The Tribune, the party's newspaper in Australia, "Stalin was written of as a man of complete and perfect wisdom," he said.
FOR THEM, STALIN WAS not only the harbinger of peace but was credited with all sorts of biological and scientific treatises," Mr. Duncan continued. "Anything that was new and good, Stalin was its inventor -- and there were generations who believed it."
In "Children of the Revolution," Joan is shown watching television and seeing Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev confer at a 1986 summit conference in Reykjavik, Iceland. "McDonald's in Red Square!" she yelps. "It's the end of civilization as we know it!"
Mr. Duncan's satirical portrait has been harshly criticized here over its depiction of this country's Communist movement. "The most interesting thing about the Communist Party of Australia," said Terry Smith, a professor of contemporary art at the University of Sydney and one of the country's leading cultural critics, "was that it was the first such organization to voluntarily put itself out of existence, years before the so-called Velvet Revolution." Mr. Smith maintains that "true Stalinists were never more than a tiny minority in a party that was more truly independent than a majority of its counterparts around the world."
Satirizing his country's doctrinaire leftists was only part of Mr. Duncan's agenda in "Children of the Revolution." He also drew upon other family experiences. One was the fact that despite his grandfather's political beliefs, both Mr. Duncan's mother and his aunt married prosperous businessmen.
"They adopted very bourgeois, middle-class, capitalist life styles," Mr. Duncan said. "Which led me to ask, how did this happen? What must the parent who has injected their dogma and faith into a child now think? They're asking themselves 'Where did I go wrong' "
Once he embarked on creating a character whose father was Stalin, Mr. Duncan knew he was entering even more fertile territory.
"It opened up a whole can of worms about how we become who we are: is it environment or is it genetic?" he asked with a smile. "Or, as Joe says in the film, 'How does someone become a monster?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Duncan, the director of "Children of the Revolution." (Philip Le Masurier/Miramax); F. Murray Abraham as Stalin and Judy Davis in "Children of the Revolution"--Satirizing the left. (Philip Le Masurier/Miramax)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: CHILDREN OF THE REVOLUTION (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); FILM DIRECTORS (68%); 

PERSON: HAY, DAVID; DUNCAN, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



560 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Mental Health Experts Fill a School Gap

BYLINE: By MERYL SPIEGEL 

 BODY:
BECAUSE of shrinking special education budgets and the lack of mental health resources geared especially for children and adolescents on the East End, many children with neurologic disorders and behavioral problems in the area are apparently falling through the cracks, their special needs not being adequately addressed.
Whether children are born with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder or have developed anxiety, depression or simple phobias, parents and professionals say there are few practitioners in the area who are attuned to the latest developments in the field. 
 In fact, there is only one part-time child psychiatrist in the area who is not affiliated with any of the region's three hospitals, said Dr. John J. Ferry Jr., president of Southampton Hospital.
Therefore, Dr. Ferry has teamed up with Paul Strassfield, the district social worker for the Sag Harbor Schools, to provide continuing mental health education to East End educators, therapists, physicians and parents.
Called the Team Learning Center, the thrust of the program is to bring mental health experts from teaching hospitals. like Dr. Gabrielle A. Carlson, the chief of child and adolescent psychiatry at the State University at Stony Brook, and Dr. Harold S. Koplewicz, chief of child and adolescent psychiatry and New York University Medical Center, to the local community for free professional lectures and forums as well as paid one-on-one consultations.
Early this month Dr. Koplewicz spoke about child and adolescent anxiety to 135 professionals at a dinner conference in Noyack followed by a presentation on the same topic the next morning at the Bay Street Theater in Sag Harbor.Since last October when the first conference was held, the topics discussed at various South Fork venues have included attention deficit disorder, depression and autism.
Through the learning process and by creating connections between the many professionals who care or come in contact with a particular child or adolescent, the organizers hope to develop a team approach to helping these children and their families cope with the disorders.
"There are up to 20 adults who deal with one child," explained Mr. Strassfield, and they include the student's teacher, guidance counselor, sports coach, pediatrician, therapist and Boy and Girl Scout leaders. "The more educated they are about the child's needs, the safer the child will feel," he said, adding that a secure environment leads to a child's greater success both academically and socially.
Dr. Ferry added that it was important that all these people "speak the same language" and handle a given disorder with consistency.
At his recent talk, Dr. Koplewicz summed up the objective of the program: "Every year we learn more and more about the brain's effect on behavior, and with the advances in pediatric psychopharmacology and partnerships with teachers educators are becoming more sophisticated on picking up which kids are in trouble and how to identify those kids, so we're able to do things today that we never dreamed possible."
In many cases, the most difficult task is to identify and correctly diagnose the problem, said Dr. Ferry. When "people who aren't in the know" and do not have the information to match behavior with the correct disorder, he explained, "there is a tendency to be dismissive."
The brainchild of Mr. Strassfield, T.L.C. is being sponsored by Southampton Hospital, which is providing matching funds of up to $50,000 to school districts that participate by making a contribution. So far, two districts, Sag Harbor and Southampton, have pledged $5,000 each and many of the other districts on the North and South Forks have shown an interest and are considering an expenditure of $2,500 to $5,000 from their 1997-98 budgets.
Private donations of $6,000 have also been raised. And, State Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele Jr . appropriated $5,000 from the 1996 state budget towards the project. According to Mr. Strassfield, the legislator has indicated that he plans to obtain more this year.
Both Dr. Ferry and Mr. Strassfield believe that the East End tends to produce slightly more children with problems stemming from anxiety or depression than other communities because of the seasonal nature of the business climate in the resort area.
"Winters are tough and there are more family stresses here because it is not a year-round economy," explained Dr. Ferry. Also, when the children are out of school in the summer and on weekends and look forward to time with their families, parents work and many tend to overwork because it is when they earn the bulk of their annual income, he added.
On the East End, said Dr. Ferry, who was trained as a pediatrician, about 15 percent of all children suffer from "some kind of peculiarity," ranging from problems like biting other children and repeatedly banging their heads to phobias, like a fear of heights and closed spaces, to mental dysfunctions like attention deficit and autism.
For the general population, Mr. Strassfield estimated that 10 to 12 percent of children and adolescents have a mental disorder that produces impairment.
In an interview Mr. Thiele cited the "transient" lifestyle of some families on the East End as another possible explanation for increased stress.
With the advent of fax machines and computers, he said, more and more urbanites are migrating to the area, causing school enrollment to swell. However, "a lot of what you will see is maybe Dad will be in the city Monday through Thursday, Mom is out all the time, so you have that situation where families are in two places."
Praising the program, he also said that "education and mental health are two disciplines that seem to be isolated from one another and this is the first attempt in my experience where two things that are very much related, children's mental health and behavior and the education process are melded together."
"The school districts around here are so small compared with the rest of the state, that none of them could afford to do this by themselves," he continued. "By bringing all the districts together, I think you can bring services to the community in a collective manner working with the hospitals and the school districts."
John E. Barnes, the Superintendent of Sag Harbor Schools, added in a phone interview that "by making available the expertise of Dr. Koplewicz and Dr. Carlson to the school system, it offers the connection for some very frustrated parents, particularly for parents of a A.D.H.D. child who do not understand what's going on."
Mr. Barnes went on to say that the talk on anxiety, which included information about medication, was helpful to several staff members from his district, including the superintendent himself and a guidance counselor who attended.
"It keeps you up on the latest things going on" and "puts you in touch with people that have answers that you don't," he explained.
The afternoon before the conference, the superintendent said his staff was dealing with an anxiety-stress disorder regarding a student who was "school phobic." In other words, she was afraid to go to school. "There were specific things talked about that night that were applicable to the case." The next morning the parents of that child attended the free talk on anxiety.
Of the 764 student attending the Sag Harbor Schools, Mr. Barnes estimated that 15 percent can directly benefit from the program. "If we can prevent just one suicide, then it's worth it," he said.
While the program was developed specifically for the East End, Mr. Strassfield and Dr. Ferry hope to share the T.L.C. concept with other communities in need in the future by possibly acting as consultants. Assemblyman Thiele also can envision applications of the program in other geographically remote regions of the state.
"But, what is unique here is you've got Stony Brook and a number of the large medical institutions in the city. For instance, Dr. Koplewicz has a second home in Sag Harbor. Those resources are there and New York City is so close by. Whether that works in Oneonta, N.Y., I don't know," he said.
Meanwhile, T.L.C. organizers continue to fund raise and develop conferences. Earlier this month, Mr. Strassfield attended a White House conference on early childhood, sponsored by Hillary Rodham Clinton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH MENTAL HEALTH (93%); CHILDREN (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); PEDIATRICS (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); DEPRESSION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (77%); AUTISM (77%); PHOBIAS (77%); DISABLED PERSONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); 

PERSON: SPIEGEL, MERYL MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



561 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Razing and Raising: New Market in Lower Fairfield

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
PURCHASING a house only to tear it down and build a new one in its place has not been a common practice. But because of a steadily diminishing amount of vacant land in lower Fairfield County, an occasional occurrence has become a newly defined market.
People are willing to pay full price for a desirable property, demolish the house and build a bigger one in its stead. And fortified with Wall Street bonuses, are undaunted by the cost. 
 But "scraping," the British term for tearing down and building new, is not necessarily more costly than extensive renovation of an existing house, or the purchase of a house that fulfills the buyer's wish list, and it will probably cost less than building from scratch on vacant land.
Peter Cadoux, a Westport architect, finds that teardowns now account for 20 percent of his business. One reason, he said, is that "the price of vacant lots has been skyrocketing in Westport."
"Two acres are going for $600,000," Mr. Cadoux said. "One lot with river frontage on two acres is being marketed at $1.6 million."
He noted that when it comes to teardowns versus remodeling "you will always get more for your dollar in new construction than in a renovation," adding that "there are too many unforeseen problems that can't be determined until you start taking the house apart."
Demolition, he estimated, is fairly inexpensive at around $20,000 for a 3,000-square-foot house and new construction at around $150 to $200 a square foot, brings the cost of a 4,000-square-foot house to $600,000 to $800,000.
The trick is to find a reasonably priced property to begin with, and one that will accommodate a house that is within town zoning regulations. Westport allows 25 percent coverage of the land by the house, outbuildings, driveway, pool and tennis court combined.
Among the county's Gold Coast towns, Darien and Westport have the least vacant land available for residential development and are therefore ripe for the most razing. "We are 90 percent developed," said Cathy Barnard, Westport's town planner, "with only 350 acres left for housing." At least two permits a month are being issued by the town's Buildings Department for demolition and new construction on the same site.
"We did a land update in 1995 that showed we were 95 percent developed," said Ray Nurmi, the Town Planner in Darien. "Now it's up to 97 or 98 percent. We find it amazing that people don't blink at buying a property for $700,000, tearing down the house and building a new house for over a million. There have been 16 scrapings in Darien since the beginning of 1996."
Custom builders who once relied on architects and developers for jobs have moved aggressively into the scraping market by forming relationships with realtors. "Very often builders will come to us," said Marta Flavin, a residential broker with Riverside-Shavell Realty in Westport, "and say, 'If you see a good opportunity, let us know.' They are looking for little houses on good pieces of land."
WHEN a property is found, the builder buys it, demolishes the house and builds the new house on speculation, taking advantage of the maximum allowable size.
The house is usually sold during construction after having been listed by the broker who sold it to the builder. Brian McHugh, a builder in Westport, is concerned that builders competing for the same properties are driving up prices.
The banks, recognizing the phenomenon, "have been pretty receptive to this kind of loan," said Paul Hughes, president of Sterling Capital, mortgage brokers in Stamford.
"Razing is very popular in Fairfield County," he added, "and the recent small increase in rates has been an impetus for buyers. We work with the William Pitt brokers and about 40 lenders, and our first quarter is up overall by 55 percent from the same period last year."
Chase Bank has provided construction loans to a small, narrowly focused custom builder specializing in teardown situations. Named for its original owner, Penny Glassmeyer, PG Properties of Darien has been in business since 1987 when it was doing renovations in Norwalk. Maryann Jones became a partner in 1992.
"The people at Chase were cautious at first," said Ms. Glassmeyer, "but now they don't even come to the sites anymore. We have a nice relationship."
Every morning the two women don work clothes and boots and head for another 12- to 13-hour day in their construction trailer, directing and consulting with the men who have worked for them for years. They maintain no other office and they have no project manager. "We are it," said Ms. Glassmeyer, "hands-on. One or both of us is always here."
They have made Darien, where they both live with their husbands and children, their field of operation since the early 90's, working with Kelly Associates Real Estate and keeping an eye out for properties on their own. "I've knocked on doors asking owners if they want to sell," said Ms. Jones, "and sometimes had the door slammed in my face."
"What we do is a labor of love ," said Ms. Glassmeyer, "being creative down to the last detail. We don't work for anybody but ourselves."
They will make changes requested by a buyer while the house is being built, but they will talk the buyer out of changes they consider inappropriate.
In addition to a faithful construction crew they have at their disposal a cadre of highly skilled artists and artisans who do exceptional wall finishes, hand-painted decorative work, woodwork and tiling.
PG homes contain space for an elevator shaft because "more and more people want them for aging parents or mere convenience," said Ms. Jones, plus attic cedar closets, built-in safes, wine cellars, custom-designed doors, floorings, paneled libraries, commodious family kitchens and bathrooms that rival luxurious spas.
UNUSUALLY configured ceilings and room shapes, kitchen pantries, huge airy playrooms, special nooks and "flow -- so that as soon as you enter, wherever you look there is something to lead you on," as their architect George Van Geldern of Fishkill, N.Y., put it, are elements that give the houses character and charm.
Profits are smaller than might be expected. With only one or two houses a year under construction it is not economically feasible to carry an unsold house, nor is it wise to price a house beyond what the neighborhood will bear. Consequently PG houses sell at or slightly above a comparable Darien market of around $1 million to $4 million.
A large colonial built by PG Properties on Pembroke Road replaced a nondescript ranch that was incongruous in the neighborhood. They paid $550,000 for it and sold the new house to Deborah and James Coley for $1.6 million a year ago.
"It sounds like a lot," said Ms. Glassmeyer, "but you would not believe what we spent on it." As builders they take pride in having rid the neighborhood of an eyesore and thus improved real estate values.
In New Canaan, which has more vacant land than Darien or Westport, the Buildings Department is also issuing one or two permits a month for teardowns.
"We have half a dozen large pieces of up to about 40 acres," said Dan Foley, the town planner, "and excess land in some five-acre backyards that people will sell because it's so valuable."
Still, "knocking down a small house and putting up a bigger one is on the increase," said Nick Tangorro, a New Canaan building inspector.

GRAPHIC: Photo: PG Properties demolished the nondescript ranch, above, on Pembroke Road in Darien that it bought for $550,000 and replaced it with large colonial at right, which it sold for $1.6 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRFIELD (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ZONING (67%); TENNIS (61%); SPORTS (61%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



562 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: A Bridgeport Neighborhood Beginning the Road Back1

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE 

 BODY:
ON a recent midweek evening, St. Charles Borromeo Church on the East Side of Bridgeport was the site of an Interfaith Service for Public Safety, a call by local clergy for action against violence, drugs and community decay. Indeed, in recent months a coalition of neighborhood groups and city agencies has made some gains in taking back control of the streets.
During the church service, one after another, men and women of different faiths called on scripture and drew on their moral authority to demand that the city government pass an ordinance restricting the sale of guns in residential zones, and to restore the Recreation Department disbanded several years ago as a result of Bridgeport's budget troubles. 
 "We people of faith are called on to do more than complain," said Msgr. Joseph D. Potter, the pastor of St. Charles Borromeo, to the several hundred people who attended the service.
Monsignor Potter said an ordinance against gun sales near homes would not solve the problem, but that it would be a step toward a solution. Applause rose as he demanded that the city "re-establish a recreation department like we enjoyed when we were growing up in the city of Bridgeport."
Then, beginning with the Rev. Guido Montanaro, priests, ministers and rabbis took turns reading the names of homicide victims from recent years. Most were in their 20's, but one of the most recent was an 8-year-old shot a few weeks before by her 10-year-old sister who was playing with a pistol left unattended in their apartment. A former mayor of Bridgeport who attended the service, Leonard S. Paoletta, estimated a recreation department would cost about $150,000, and he said he thought that the city could afford it. "It's the Mianus River Bridge before the collapse," Mr. Paoletta said. "We have to have a crisis. We didn't have money for the Mianus Bridge until it fell down."
In fact, a shooting incident in 1994 did cause enough outrage in the community to create a focus for neighborhood revitalization efforts.
Mr. Paoletta, Father Montanaro, State Representative Christopher Caruso and a parishioner, Frank Matera, were among a group locking up at Holy Rosary Roman Catholic Church minutes before midnight on Sept. 16, 1994.
Suddenly, Mr. Paoletta remembers, "We heard two shots, and somebody said, 'That's gun fire, let's get out of here.' I got up to move and was hit."
The bullet went into his leg, where it remains lodged near his hip. The bullet nicked an artery, causing a sudden, large loss of blood that sent the former mayor into shock. "They said I had no pulse and no blood pressure," he recalled. He credits quick work by the ambulance crew and treatment at Bridgeport Hospital for saving his life.
Mr. Matera and Father Montanaro were also wounded, though less seriously.
No one has been arrested, and Mr. Paoletta said no one has found out what the shooting was about.
The incident caused neighborhood anger toward criminals to boil over. It also had a dramatic effect on Mr. Caruso, who was standing next to Mr. Paoletta when he was hit. Although the East Side is not his district, Mr. Caruso grew up there and he decided something positive had to be done; he helped create the East Side Strike Force, a committee representing municipal agencies, civic groups and redevelopment organizations. The strike force would then work to coordinate all the economic development, building code enforcement, and law enforcement efforts aimed at the East Side.
"For a community effort like this to be successful, you have to have a buy-in by the folks who live there," noted Bridgeport's Director of Planning and Economic Development, Michael Freimuth, a strike force member.
A plan, named for the intersection of William Street and Barnum Avenue where it was first focused, was developed. Three other parts of the East Side have since been identified as focal points for action. Mr. Freimuth said the strike force decided on a narrow focus out of the conviction that concentrating resources would be more effective than spreading them out.
"It's a better approach than going into a large area," because it is possible to eliminate all the housing problems at once, said Mr. Caruso. Leaving some blight allows it to continue to affect neighboring properties, he explained.
The city backed up the strike force with its condemnation powers, which were needed to cut through the legal encumbrances left on properties after foreclosures and bankruptcies.
In some cases, condemned buildings are to be restored. The George Hotel is being rebuilt as a six-unit apartment building. Around the block on Harriet Street, a string of row houses (from which the shots were fired in the 1994 incident) are also scheduled for restoration. The work is being financed by Federal grants and private sources.
In other instances, land will be cleared for pocket parks and neighborhood parking, lowering neighborhood density to take pressure off city services as well as reducing congestion.
Much effort will be aimed at increasing the proportion of owner-occupied property. Mr. Freimuth said home ownership is a powerful weapon against neighborhood blight. Owner-occupiers have too much invested to walk away. "We want to create a more stable area with a higher level of home ownership than in the past," he said.
Neighborhood residents speak with hope about the strike force's plan and new leadership is emerging from among the residents. The latter has prompted Mr. Caruso to announce that he is stepping aside as the head of the strike force, though he said he would continue to be involved.
Paul T. Barnum -- an East Side resident who denies being related to the circus impresario -- noted at a neighborhood meeting "You could have nightmares if you've seen what I've seen." But, he said, stolen-car chases, gun battles and menacing drug dealers seem to be things of the past. "We have a neighborhood again; people don't live in fear anymore."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former Mayor Leonard S. Paoletta, Representative Christopher Caruso and the Rev. Guido Montanaro at the church where a shooting angered many; work begins on hotel, left. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: VIOLENCE; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RELIGION (95%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); CITIES (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); GUN CONTROL (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TRENDS (66%); HOMICIDE (65%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (62%); 

PERSON: MUSANTE, FRED MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



563 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 15; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Preschoolers Face Program Losses

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG 

 BODY:
LIKE most preschoolers, 4-year-old Mary Kate Heubel enjoys her days at nursery school, playing with friends and receiving gentle encouragement from teachers at the Alcott Montessori School in Ardsley, in preparation for entering kindergarten in September.
But under a series of changes in the financing and management of preschool special education programs, Mary Kate -- and 50,000 eligible 3- and 4-year-olds in the state -- may not receive services that previously would have been available for Down syndrome children like her. Under New York State's stricter requirements for summer programming eligibility, a child has to be considered at risk of losing skills that she has gained in special education rather than simply being provided with services to sustain progress. 
 "Academically, she has really blossomed," her mother, Meg Heubel of Yonkers, said. "Her teacher feels that she will lose skills if she doesn't get the summer program, but whether the school district feels the same way I don't know. I'm anxious. With her entering kindergarten, I want her to go with as many skills as she can."
Many parents and care providers are concerned with the impact of how changes in state policy are affecting preschool special education programs. To many observers, the changes reflect the current state and national debate over special education in general. For example, Richard Mills, State Commissioner of Education, has proposed reforms to curtail the increase in special education enrollment by shifting the way school districts will be compensated. At the elementary and secondary school level, districts are evaluating the cost of their special education programs. And even as districts are bringing more special education students into regular classrooms, there is a backlash from parents of nonspecial education students who feel that their children may not be receiving adequate attention or resources.
"Nationally and statewide, there's a great and growing concern about the integrity, need and cost of special education," said Pamela Madeiros, counsel for the New York State Alliance for Children with Special Needs, a nonprofit advocacy group representing about 170 program providers, parents and staff members in Albany.
"People on the national level are looking at special education programs and reassessing whether they are necessary and if they are cost effective."
In the 1994-95 school year, the total cost of providing special education to the state's eligible 3-and 4-year-olds was $580 million. Counties pay for the preschool programs, which are free to parents, and then receive reimbursement of up to 59.5 percent from the state.
"There are people who think that if the school districts have to pay for preschool special education, they wouldn't classify as many children," said Dr. Donald R. Kusel, Superintendent of the public schools of the Tarrytowns. "Our committees for preschool special education are very, very responsible, and that's a fallacious assumption."
After last year's legislative directive, preschool special education providers are required to submit a business plan explaining how they will shift 25 percent of the children from a full-day program to a less segregated classroom within the next two years. Under Federal mandates for special education, students are supposed to be placed in the least restrictive setting possible. This means that, whenever possible, students would be placed in regular classrooms and receive the appropriate special education services.
"The intent is to have providers serve a greater number of children in more integrated settings," said Michael Plotzker, coordinator for preschool special education at the State Department of Education. "We're trying to move the system so that fewer children would be in segregated settings and more children would be in typical settings like day care, Head Start or at home receiving services. This is not a cut. We're asking providers to redirect their services. New York has one of the most segregated preschool programs in the country. We feel we can serve more children in less costly and more integrated settings."
Still, for providers of preschool special education programs, complying with the new state requirements while trying to meet the needs of the children has proved to be a delicate balancing act.
"It makes it difficult for programs to make ends meet," said JoAnn Doherty, special education coordinator for the Alcott School. "When you have a 25 percent reduction in center-based enrollment, our fixed costs haven't changed. When you serve fewer children, it costs more to service each child."
Others who work with special education children are concerned about how changes from the state are affecting their assessments and evaluations. "It's a negative focus," said Helen Rubel, a clinical social worker at the Alcott School in Ardsley. "For example, the regulation for getting summer services has changed to significant regression. Instead of focusing on the positive, we have to look at a child's loss of skills and prove regression. You're not looking at progress. It's a problem."
The state has already frozen the rates at which the programs are reimbursed. The Southern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services will close its special education preschool program this summer. Mamaroneck had been on the verge of closing its program, which runs at a deficit of more than a $150,000 a year, but recently that district decided to extend it for another year.
"We are going to maintain it for an additional year and are convening a committee to examine alternative sources of funding," said Dr. Sherry King, the Mamaroneck School Superintendent. "We have a strong belief that the program is so strong that in the long run it will save the district some money and save parents a great deal. With early intervention, you may mitigate the need for services later on."
What worries many people is the sense that economics rather than education is motivating the shifts.
Bruce Nathanson, founder of a parents' advocacy group called Little Kids/Special Needs, said that Gov. George E. Pataki "is determined to cut costs."
"This will affect new kids coming into the system," he added. "Some programs may reduce the number of kids in their programs, and finding spots is tough now. Every parent wishes for the day when his child can be mainstreamed, but getting preschoolers into mainstream settings before they are ready is setting them up for failure."
Ms. Madeiros said, "You're going to have children who have nowhere to go."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HANDICAPPED; SPECIAL EDUCATION (HANDICAPPED); EDUCATION (PRE-SCHOOL) SPECIAL EDUCATION (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MONTESSORI SCHOOLS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MENTAL RETARDATION (76%); PARENTS (75%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (70%); DOWN SYNDROME (55%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, MERRI

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



564 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 16; Column 3; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Appalachia

 BODY:

To the Editor: I was pleased to see beautiful Breaks Interstate Park featured in "Trailing Lonesome Pines," about traveling in Appalachia (April 6). Having grown up 30 miles east of the Breaks when it was changing from a picnic spot to a state park complete with swimming pool and other amenities, I find it good to see national recognition of all that work. The beauty of southern and central Appalachia is attracting visitors at a time when local leaders are refocusing on the forest economy and leaving coal behind.
 Visitors from the north may want to use an alternative route reached by Interstate 81. At the Christiansburg, Va., exit, they can visit the New River Valley and skirt high mountain country on four-lane U.S. 460. From Bluefield, U.S. 19, also four lanes, leads southwest through the Clinch River Valley, whose landmarks include Clinch Mountain, forming a long high border to the southeast, and Paint Lick and House and Barn, originally one mountain. 
 Route 19 meets U.S. 80 in Russell County, 35 miles from Breaks Park. A good two-lane road leads over Big A Mountain, with outstanding views. On the other side, the road leads directly to the Breaks.
Your writer correctly mentions how few really good restaurants exist in the Clinch and Powell Valleys. One exception, on U.S. 19 in Pounding Mill, is Cuz's, in a renovated dairy barn and silo. The happy combination of gourmet Southern cooking and French-Vietnamese cuisine has created a New York-class hangout, complete with a wine and beer list and country music on the weekend.
 
NANCY ALBERT WOLF
 Brooklyn

GRAPHIC: Photo: Breaks Interstate Park. (Michael Geissinger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN REGION; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS MOUNTAINS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STATE PARKS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); WRITERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); COUNTRY MUSIC (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

PERSON: WOLF, NANCY ALBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



565 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 63; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: FOOD;
Keepers of the Flame

BYLINE: By Molly O'Neill 

 BODY:
Carol field says that every italian hasa nonna story. These are stories of waking up to the scent of nonna frying dough or nonna baking bread. They are stories of how grandma would fill a thimble with chestnut paste and toast it over an open fire for a snack. They are stories of nonna's backbreaking labor and blind obedience to fate.
 Even as the Italian economy changes, and small-town living gives way to big-city life, Italians cling to their memories of nonna with the same tenacity that French people cling to their daily baguette. Italian life has long been centered in the kitchen -- indeed, "cucina," the Italian word for kitchen, also means house in Tuscan. To tell and retell grandmother stories is to reaffirm one's continuity with the past. 
 By collecting dozens of these anecdotes, as well as the recipes from "la cucina della nonna," Carol Field has preserved this sliver of Italian culture in her latest book, "In Nonna's Kitchen." Cucina della nonna (grandmother cooking) is a cuisine based on simplicity and need. It is an assortment of dishes put together with whatever the earth and the sea can provide. It is about coaxing intense flavors from humble ingredients.
 Most Italian grandmothers learned to cook before there were refrigerators or modern stoves. They took whatever was growing in the kitchen garden, stored in the pantry or harvested fresh from the field and, with imagination, frugality and an intimate knowledge of local ingredients, created an entire cuisine of lusty stews and hearty soups, of pasta, polenta and risotti that would give their families the energy they needed to work hard all day.
 Field's previous books, particularly "Celebrating Italy" and "The Italian Baker," have placed her in the rare pantheon of cookbook writers who are erudite anthropologists as well. Living in California, with a nonna of her own, she understands that heartfelt regional cooking -- dishes like pasta with tuna and anchovies prepared by a nonna in Palermo for her family of palombari (deep-sea divers) -- can have a tranquilizing effect on the modern palate. Certainly, the lamb cooked in green olives and the insalata di coniglio (a sensational rabbit salad served by a Sicilian housewife after her husband returns from hunting) taste of a certain time and place. And yet, the intent of these dishes and the heart and soul that went into their careful construction make them timeless and enduring.
Field quotes one nonna who claims, "we were better off when we were worse off," while another said, "even though we worked hard all the time, we had fun." These memories, of course, may be little more than nostalgia Italian-style, although it is fairly safe to say that there is nothing like a good meal to turn back the hands of time.
 
 Pasta with tuna, anchovies, pine nuts and currants
 (all recipes Adapted from "In Nonna's Kitchen," by Carol Field, HARPERCOLLINS, 1997.)
 
 1 whole garlic clove, peeled and crushed in one piece
 1 small onion, finely chopped
 3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, plus additional if needed
 6 anchovy fillets (or 3 whole anchovies preserved in salt, well rinsed, bone removed), mashed
 1 cup fresh tomatoes, peeled, seeded and chopped (or 1 cup canned tomatoes, pressed through a food mill or sieve to remove seeds)
2 tablespoons pine nuts
 2 tablespoons currants
 salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
 4 quarts water
 1 tablespoon coarse sea salt
 1 pound thin pappardelle or tagliatelle
 12 ounces canned albacore tuna packed in olive oil, rinsed and drained
 3 tablespoons finely minced flat-leaf parsley
 1/2cup toasted bread crumbs.
 1. In a heavy skillet saute the garlic and onion in the olive oil over medium heat until they are pale golden, about 10 to 12 minutes. Remove the garlic. Add the mashed anchovies and, stirring with a wooden spoon, let them melt over the heat, dissolving in the oil. Stir in the tomatoes, pine nuts, currants, salt and pepper and cook over medium heat for 7 to 10 minutes. Set this mixture aside.
 2. Bring the water to a boil in a large pot, add the sea salt and cook the pappardelle until it is al dente. Reserve some cooking water in case you need it to thin the sauce.
 3. Flake the tuna with a fork, add it to the anchovy-tomato sauce and mix it in well. Toss the pasta with most of the sauce, add 1 to 2 tablespoons of extra-virgin olive oil if needed and pour the remainder of the sauce over the top. Serve immediately sprinkled with the parsley and toasted bread crumbs.
 Yield: Six first-course or four main-course servings.
 
 Lamb braised with green olives
 
 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
 2 sprigs rosemary, needles stripped from the branches and minced
 2 cloves garlic, minced
 1/8 teaspoon red-pepper flakes
 3 pounds lamb shank, trimmed of fat and cut into 2-inch cubes
 1 cup dry white wine
 1/2 cube chicken bouillon or cup chicken broth
 1 large ripe tomato (about pound), peeled, seeded and chopped
 3/4 cup green olives in brine, drained, rinsed and pitted
 salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.
 1. Warm the oil in a large heavy skillet or Dutch oven, and saute the rosemary, garlic and red-pepper flakes over low-medium heat for 4 or 5 minutes, until the garlic begins to turn golden. Add enough lamb to fit comfortably in the pan, and saute, turning several times, until it is evenly browned. Transfer it to a platter. Repeat until all the lamb is cooked, adding oil as needed.
 2. Add the wine and the bouillon cube or broth to the skillet and cook over medium-high heat until the liquid has reduced by about half. Return the lamb to the pan, add the tomato, cover and cook over very low heat for about 1 hours, until the lamb is easily pierced with the tip of a knife.
 3. Let the lamb sit for a few hours or overnight and reheat it. Skim off any fat, cover and simmer for half an hour, stirring in the olives during the last 5 to 10 minutes. Adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper and serve.
 Yield: Four to six servings.
 
Rabbit salad
 
 1 medium-size hare or rabbit, 2i to 2 pounds, skinned and cleaned
 1 lemon, cut in half
 2 or 3 bay leaves
 1 rib celery, chopped
 2 onions, chopped
 2 carrots, chopped
 1 medium potato, quartered
 1/2 cup coarsely chopped flat-leaf parsley, plus more for garnish
 3 fresh tomatoes, roughly chopped
 2 teaspoons coarse salt
 pinch red-pepper flakes
 1/4 to 1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil.
 1. Put the rabbit into a large pot, cover it with cold water, add the lemon and bay leaves and bring to a boil. pour off the water and set the rabbit aside. Clean the pot. Return the rabbit to the pot and cover it with 2 inches of fresh cold water.
 2. Add the celery, onions, carrots, potato, parsley and tomatoes, partly cover and slowly simmer, turning the rabbit once or twice, until the meat flakes with a fork, about 1 hour. Drain, saving the broth. Press the vegetables through a sieve or food mill and return to the broth. You should have about 8 cups.
 3. Let the rabbit cool. Whisk together the salt, red-pepper flakes, and olive oil and toss the rabbit meat with it. Garnish with parsley.
 Yield: Six first-course or four main-course servings.
 
Raisin-and-nut-studded biscotti
 
 1/3 cup dark raisins
 1 tablespoon Curacao or cognac
 5 1/2tablespoons unsalted butter or best-quality lard, or half of each, plus butter for greasing
 2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting work surface
 1 cup sugar
 1 1/2teaspoons baking powder
 1/4 teaspoon salt
 3 egg yolks
 cup milk
 2 tablespoons pine nuts
 1/2cup raw almonds, toasted and roughly chopped
 2 tablespoons candied orange peel
 1/4 teaspoon aniseeds
 The egg wash:
 1 large egg beaten with a little water.
 1. Soak the raisins in the liquor for 30 minutes. Drain, reserving the liquid. Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Lightly grease and flour 2 cookie sheets.
 2. If you are making the biscotti by hand, sift together the flour, sugar, baking powder and salt. With your fingers, rub in the butter until the mixture has the texture of coarse cornmeal. Place them in a mixing bowl, making a well in the center. Beat together the egg yolks, reserved liquor and the milk and pour them into the well. Gradually draw the dry ingredients into the egg mixture, turning the bowl and working from the outside toward the center. When the dough is evenly mixed, scrape it onto a lightly floured work surface and flatten it into a rectangle. Scatter half the raisins, pine nuts, almonds, candied orange peel and aniseeds over the dough, and fold the dough over on itself several times to distribute them evenly. Add more flour to the work surface if necessary to keep the dough from sticking, and repeat the process with the remaining raisins, pine nuts, almond, orange peel and aniseeds.
 3. If you are using an electric mixer, combine the flour, baking powder and salt and set aside. In the mixing bowl, cream the butter and sugar and beat for about 3 minutes, until light and creamy. Add the yolks, one at a time, incorporating each fully before adding another. Stir in the liquor and the milk. Sift the flour mixture over the top and fold in at the lowest speed. Add the remaining ingredients by hand.
 4. Lightly flour the work surface and your hands and shape the dough into 6 equal 9-by-2-inch logs. If the dough is too soft to roll, cover and refrigerate it for 1 to 2 hours. Transfer the logs to the cookie sheets, setting them at least 2 inches apart. Flatten the tops and brush with the egg wash.
 5. Bake until pale golden and barely firm, about 20 minutes. Remove the logs from the cookie sheets, let them cool until you can handle them, about 10 minutes, then cut each one on the diagonal at -inch intervals. Set the slices on their edges on the cookie sheets, leaving i-inch space between them, and bake until golden and firm, about 15 to 18 minutes. Alternatively, you can lay the slices on their sides and turn them after 7 minutes. Cool on a rack.
 Yield: Six dozen.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (91%); UNITED STATES (77%); FRANCE (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; ITALY (91%); UNITED STATES (77%); FRANCE (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; RECIPES COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); CITIES (56%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, MOLLY; FIELD, CAROL

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



566 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 32; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2880 words

HEADLINE: Learning Poverty Firsthand

BYLINE: By Jason DeParle; Jason DeParle is a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
If buildings could shiver, this Camden, N.J., tenement would have the shakes. It is a February morning too cold for words. The parking lot is a moonscape of craters and ice, and what was once a buzzer is now another crevice for the Arctic wind to exploit. That leaves Kathryn Edin stranded below a kitchen window, announcing her arrival with a shout.
 She is indefatigably cheerful. 
 A Puerto Rican woman in purple sweat pants cracks the door, and Edin is all chitchat and smiles as she follows her down a dim hallway. On the surface, they are a study in contrasts. One is a welfare mother. The other is a college professor. One lives in poverty; the other studies it. But Edin makes herself at home, offering candy to the kids and compliments to the cat. She gushes over the spillproof cups lying on the floor. "Our younger daughter started using them while she was still in foster care!"
 While she was still in foster care? It's an unconventional way to break the ice, but in a field of poverty experts who rarely meet the poor, Edin usefully defies convention. She spends the next 90 minutes gabbing with her host as though they were old friends. The woman in sweat pants complains she had to evict her boyfriend to get him to take a job. ("I felt so desperate, you know -- the rent and the electric bills backed up.") Edin, who is white, lets it drop that she has two adopted daughters, one who is African-American ("I didn't know how to cornrow when I got her") and one who is half African-American and half Puerto Rican. The women promise to bring their children together to play.
 At 34, Edin has been conducting such intimate conversations for nearly a decade, in cities as diverse as Chicago; Boston; Charleston, S.C., and San Antonio, and her efforts have produced a pioneering account of what might be called the home economics of welfare. In a research world heavy on theory, Edin's inquiries are endearingly concrete. She wants to know how much money welfare families really have, where they get it and how they spend it. A national mythology has flourished around these questions, with the high life of the welfare queen denounced by everyone from Ronald Reagan on down. But until Edin began knocking on doors, there weren't many data.
 In at least one technical sense, it turns out that Reagan was right: virtually everyone cheats. In "Making Ends Meet," to be published next month by the Russell Sage Foundation, Edin (with a co-author, Laura Lein) reports that all but one of the 214 welfare mothers she interviewed had unreported income. They turned to boyfriends, relatives and under-the-table jobs, and on occasion to prostitution or drugs. Edin even found a mother running her own private lottery, raffling off counterfeit bus passes. The one woman who tried to live on only her benefits failed to feed her son so often that her neighbors considered reporting her for neglect.
 But even the most creative hustling (a private lottery!) goes only so far. The deeper message of Edin's book concerns the material hardships that most welfare families still endure. Eight in 10 had severe housing problems. One in six had recently been homeless. One-third had run out of food sometime in the previous year. And conditions didn't really improve for those who appear to have moved up one step to an entry-level job. In examining the budgets of 165 working mothers, Edin found them even more likely than those on welfare to be unable to pay their bills. "I thought they might be the same, but not worse," she says.
 Edin's study is sure to be plumbed for what it says about the landmark new welfare law, which seeks to move millions of mothers into the labor market she finds so unrewarding. But the book might also be plumbed for what it says about the state of poverty research. The experts have known for decades that the official data on poor people's incomes were highly flawed. Why did it take an unconventional woman from rural Minnesota to get at the real story?
 "The Price is Right" is on the television as Edin makes an effusive entrance. "Well, this is a precious baby!" she says, cradling a 2-week-old boy. The child's mother has just returned from the welfare office, where, she complains, her caseworker had no end of questions. "They ask you about the baby's father!" she says. "They ask, 'Do you have any stocks and bonds?' Like, would I be here if I did, you know?"
 Edin is all empathy. "It was just like that when we looked into buying a house," she says. "They want to look into your underwear!"
 It is a credit to Edin's skill that she can pry so pleasantly -- complaining about people who ask questions, while coming to ask them herself. She got started in graduate school when her mentor, the sociologist Christopher Jencks, now at Harvard, hired her to re-interview some mothers he had contacted by phone. Jencks and Edin were struck by a mystery that most researchers had ignored. The average welfare check was only about $370 a month; rent alone cost that much in most cities. How, then, do families survive?
 "Making Ends Meet" offers some answers. Its fastidious detail gives it the same appeal to welfare wonks that box scores hold for baseball fans. Ever wonder what the average welfare mother gets in covert child support? (It's $33 a month.) How much she allots for cigarettes and alcohol? (It's $22, or 2 percent of her income.) Beyond the intriguing asides, Edin emphasizes three points:
 The poor simply can't survive on welfare alone. When everything is tallied, the typical welfare household spends $876 a month -- not a lot, perhaps, but $311 more than the average package of welfare and food stamps. That leaves a typical mother raising one-third of her income through off-the-books stratagems. These include donations from friends and family ($62); contributions from men ($95) and earnings, mostly from under the table ($128). About 8 percent acknowledged raising money from an illegal activity like prostitution or drugs. Virtually all this income goes unreported since caseworkers would cut the women's checks.
 Do they really need $876 a month to survive? With the data on display, readers can draw their own conclusions, but Edin defends the women against suspicions of profligacy. Only 7 percent of the average budget went to items she ranked as inessential, like movies and eating out, and in her racially representative sample, black and Hispanic women spend even less than white women. Edin takes particular delight in challenging the perception of inner-city men as chronic freeloaders, living off their girlfriends' checks. She says most welfare mothers cast off men who do not contribute. "I just love it that the women are too smart to be used," she says.
 Life at the bottom is hard. Even the search for something as basic as clothing requires constant innovation. One woman cut herself back to a meal a day to buy her son a pair of $50 sneakers. Others hired professional shoplifters. One in eight said they had kept their children home from school because they lacked winter clothes. And clothes come much easier than housing. Unless welfare families live in public housing (and nationwide, only about one-quarter do), they are almost certain to be doubled up, stuck in severely deteriorated buildings, living in war zones or some combination of the three.
 Edin attempts to quantify such miseries with an index of material hardship, assigning weighted values to conditions like hunger and homelessness. The surprise here is the lack of surprise. The cities with the highest benefits (Chicago and Boston) had the lowest level of hardship. The cities with the lowest benefits (Charleston and San Antonio) had the highest. "It's totally obvious: hardships go up when benefits go down," Edin says.
 But in fact it's not obvious at all. The recent dismantling of the welfare system has relied on the opposite assertion -- that welfare does more harm than good, and ending it will actually help the poor. In the long run, who knows? In the short run, Edin's book offers a useful reminder that welfare, discredited as it is, often puts needed food on the table. What is a surprise is her third discovery:
 Working mothers with comparable skills and education -- in her study at least -- fare even worse than those on welfare. Ostensibly, work brought more money -- 42 percent more, or $1,243 a month. But virtually all the gain was eaten up by work-related expenses like clothing, child care and transportation. In addition, 40 percent of the working mothers lacked health insurance, while women on welfare receive Medicaid. Applying her scale to the working mothers, Edin found them even more prone to hardship, a little less likely to go hungry, but much more likely to go without needed medical care. In fact, the working mothers had to raise even more money from second jobs, boyfriends, relatives and absent fathers. Oddly enough, Edin argues it takes an element of relative privilege to hold a job -- it takes a sister to baby-sit or a mother to help with car bills. "The folks who were making it at work had a private safety net," she says.
 The implications for the new welfare law run in several worrisome directions. Those still on the rolls may be unable to sustain further cuts without suffering. And those leaving the rolls may need larger and more lasting subsidies than most policy makers envision.
 What's strangely hopeful about Edin's discouraging statistics is that so many poor women do work, even though it doesn't seem to pay. She found scarcely anyone, even long-term recipients, who hadn't at some point held a job. An optimistic view might be that for all the legitimate worries about underclass culture, many poor families still retain a drive for self-support. "The women on welfare are not isolated from the world of work," Edin says. "They're already working --that's the shocker."
 Settling into a puerto rican luncheonette, Edin recalls her most harrowing encounter as a poverty researcher. "Chitlins!" she says. "Ughh -- I almost vomited." She had been interviewing a Charleston crack addict who kept pressing her for money, saying, "I don't have anything to feed my baby except chitlins and you know how rude those things are." Edin demanded a taste. "She proved her point," she says.
 Edin once did an interview in a housing project with an armed gang member guarding the door. She has seen a crack addict take the $20 she offers for an interview and spend it to get high in a nearby room. Leaving one interview, she returned to her car to find her husband, Tim Nelson, handing a $20 bill to a half-naked, strung-out woman. Nelson had been waiting in the car when the woman climbed in and demanded money for her children. To prove she really had children, she squirted breast milk on the dashboard. Why don't more experts do this kind of research? "It's too much work!" she said.
 Indeed, one of the striking things about the nation's poverty experts is how few of them bother to talk to the poor. The reasons are complex, but the pattern was set more than three decades ago, when poverty re-emerged as a pressing national concern for the first time since the Depression. A power struggle ensued between the practitioners of so-called hard science, mostly economists, and those of the softer traditions of ethnography and social work. The short version is that the economists won: money and prestige flowed toward the analysis of large files of data, and the prototypical poverty expert became a computer whiz sifting through the numbers. Regression analysis was in. Street corners were out.
 The downside is a lingering suspicion that the experts are out of touch, liberal and conservative alike. The conservative writer Charles Murray made his famous case for abolishing welfare partly by showing how the dole had ruined an average American couple, Harold and Phyllis. There was one catch. Harold and Phyllis didn't exist. Murray made them up, to illustrate trends he thought he spotted in census data. The Democrats that President Clinton assembled to write his bill were scarcely more grounded. They included some of the most prestigious names in poverty research. But until a field trip to Tennessee, some had never seen an outhouse.
 Edin herself is an unlikely envoy to the ghetto. She grew up in rural Staples, Minn., where, as she tells it, "I had glasses that were an inch thick when I was in the fourth grade, and I was one of the richest kids in town." Then again, it's not a rich town: her father ran a consortium of technical schools, her mother is an artist and both instilled a Lutheran commitment to good works. They made Edin wear jeans from J. C. Penney because Levi's cost $4 more, and she spent part of her early adolescence in trailer parks, seeking recruits for Sunday school. "I was always interested in differentness," she says.
 After graduating from North Park College in Chicago, Edin spent a year as a social worker, then won a scholarship to Northwestern and attended graduate school on a lark. "It paid more than social work," says Edin, who is leaving her job at Rutgers to teach at the University of Pennsylvania. "I never thought I'd be an academic." But she has immersed herself in the lives of poor single mothers with a passion that borders on obsession. "What I do absolutely fascinates me," she says. "I can't imagine doing anything else. Ever."
 It has literally overtaken her life. Five years ago, an overwhelmed African-American woman in Charleston asked Edin to take one of her four children. She kept the toddler for about a week, until the child's father appeared at her door. "He grabbed her and disappeared into the piney woods," she says. "It was the worst day of my life." Though Edin had not been trying to bear a child, the idea of adoption took hold, particularly an interracial one. Her husband, who is also a sociologist, was studying a local black church and the two were immersed in the neighborhood's social life. "Once you've been around all these beautiful little African-American girls, you start thinking, 'O.K., yeah, we can do that,' " she says. She goes so far as to say that white children at times began to look "homely."
 Edin spread the word that she was looking to adopt, and a distraught young African-American mother soon contacted her. Edin and Nelson, who has an adopted sister from Korea, adopted Kaitlin at birth (she is now 4), and the family recently added Marisa, a 2-year-old who had been in foster care since infancy. Raising an interracial family is not only "the most fun thing we've ever done"; Edin says it also makes her a better sociologist. "It makes interviewing great. Everybody's like: 'You got a black kid! Cool!' " As for the sideways looks she gets in grocery stores, Edin says that helps her understand how her subjects feel, as perpetual outsiders in a prosperous, predominantly white society. "It makes the familiar seem strange, which is the purpose of sociology," she said.
 It is at once familiar and strange to watch Edin working on her next project, a study of inner-city attitudes toward marriage and children. The project has her living half the week in Camden, talking her way into poor women's homes and ever deeper into their lives. "Now I get to ask you my favorite question," Edin says, her eyes as bright as 100-watt bulbs as she deposes the woman in sweat pants. "What would your life be like without your kids?" Though the woman says she grew up picturing "the perfect husband" and a "house with a white picket fence," two children in a tenement seems as close as she's able to get. "I can't even picture my life without them," she says.
 Edin's question may well be the most fundamental one to rise from her mounds of data. The book will surely be scrutinized on technical grounds. (Are her samples representative? Have labor markets begun to change?) But hairsplitting over the numbers obscures the bigger point. If the study shows anything, it's that most unskilled women can't adequately support a family no matter what combination of welfare and work they choose. Why, then, don't more of them wait and marry? Why do so many raise children on their own? After all, with tax credits, two workers even at the minimum wage would bring home $25,000 a year. "Those are exactly the questions social science should be asking!" Edin says.
 And by afternoon she is asking them again. Edin has found a 23-year-old day-care worker about to have her second child, and she is as eager to talk as Edin is to listen. She recounts a childhood spent in foster homes, fistfights with a boyfriend on drugs, a baby, a second pregnancy, an appointment at an abortion clinic ("It was $290 if you see it, and $390 if they knock you out") and a last-minute decision to proceed with the pregnancy. "I guess I've always been searching for the perfect family," the Camden woman says. Then she says it again. "The perfect family."
 The sociologist and her subject have each brought their 2-year-olds, and the children play while the women talk. Edin's face is frozen in a look of delight. "I've always just felt an overwhelming affinity with the people I interview," she says later on. "I always felt, 'Wow, they're not that much different from me.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kathyrn Edin, here with her daughters, has spent almost a decade inside the lives of poor single mothers.; Real people behind the data: Edin interviews a married, working mother in Camden, N.J. (Eve Fowler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (71%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; LABOR POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); CHILDREN (75%); FAMILY (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); ADOPTION (68%); INTERVIEWS (62%); WRITERS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; EDIN, KATHRYN RONALD REAGAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



567 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 8; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
Retraining for a Job, But What Kind of a Job?

BYLINE: By BARBARA STEWART 

 BODY:
At the end of the year, 364 workers at Mueller's noodle factory in Jersey City will be grappling with a problem as common as it is traumatic. The factory is moving to Columbia, S.C., where labor is cheaper and unions are rare. Workers here will be laid off. To get another good job, they will probably have to go back to school. People in their 40's and 50's, people who have bought houses and supported children with good union wages, must face the job interviewers as shaky, inexperienced novices, competing with young people fresh out of college.
Over the past 30 years, some 500,000 New Jersey workers have lived this story, the story of the disappearance of blue-collar union manufacturing jobs and with them, the security and prosperity of a huge class of Americans. Camden ship-builders, Paterson garment-workers and Mercer County spacecraft manufacturers -- all know the story well. 
 That's where job training kicks in, although union leaders express a lot of skepticism about the amount of money that the government devotes to the training and the amount a retrained worker can expect to earn at the other side.
To receive unemployment compensation, workers must attend a counseling session, where they learn about money available to attend community colleges and trade schools.
Currently some 4,000 laid-off workers are training for new careers, according to the New Jersey Employment and Training Commission. Most will study for less than a year. Seventy percent will land new jobs.
But labor leaders question the usefulness of job-training. Some doubt that a year's training is enough to become proficient in a new skill. And labor leaders and state job-training administrators agree that the new jobs will almost certainly pay less, though they disagree on how much less.
"What will they be learning?" said Bruce Herman, president of Garment Industry Development Corporation, a partnership of the union, New York City, and the industry. "An intro to Windows 95? Basic knowledge or really training to make them employable and desirable employees?
"The training system is very fragmented, not coordinated, and resource poor. To make noodle factory workers into computer programmers would take a very significant amount of training."
Susan Cowell, a vice president of Unite, the garment-industry union, said: "The track record is that most workers end up working for significantly less money. They get non-union jobs with no pension or health insurance or benefits. Older workers into their 50's stand to lose substantially."
Job-training administrators say that initial wages may be lower but eventually workers will be move up.
"The next job's wages may not meet with their expectations," said Paulette Laubsch, assistant commissioner for employment, security and job training in the Labor Department. "It's a new career track. But in a few years they can expect to be promoted."
Job training can "really give workers the boost they need to get back into the market," said Henry Plotkin, executive director of the New Jersey Employment and Training Commission. "But it depends on who's talking -- on their level of knowledge. Do they just need to get their skill sharpened? Do they need basic computer skills? What is their level of literacy? In the United States, there has never been a purer correlation between skills and money."
Not that New Jersey, the second richest state in the country, lacks for jobs.
The current unemployment rate is 5.5 percent, down from 6.2 last year; the national average last month was 5.2 percent. Last year 50,000 new jobs were created. True, service jobs like store clerking have risen significantly -- jobs with low pay, no benefits and no future. But there is also steady growth in solid jobs -- jobs in the computer, pharmaceutical, real estate, finance and insurance industries.
"We're certainly not creating only hamburger-flipping," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Public Policy at Rutgers.
But these optimistic outlooks omit huge number of blue-collar workers. "The economy is moving to a new level, but it's not a nice and smooth transition," said Mr. Hughes. "Good new jobs demand computer skills and higher education. The process of change produces a lot of casualties -- the 50-year-old white man who's worked at the factory 20, 30 years."
The obvious applies. The greater the knowledge -- specialized and general -- a worker has, the higher the chances of succeeding in a new career.
Other factors matter, too.
Of the 1,040 people enrolled in the state Workforce Development Partnership Program, nearly half are between 40 and 54.
"There's the human factor," said Connie O. Hughes, director of Workforce, adding that denial was common with older workers who must turn their minds from planning for retirement and planning to new-career studies.
"And there's never enough money for training," Mrs. Hughes added.
Nor are there enough good jobs for unskilled or moderately skilled workers. Many unemployed factory workers will be -- and have been -- left behind, without much hope of regaining financial security.
"Communities are becoming polarized. Not just cities -- it's spreading to the suburbs," he said. "Not Short Hills, but suburbs like Union -- middle-class suburbs. Eventually we will wind up with wealthy suburbs surrounded by a sea of bankrupt communities. This will put a tremendous strain on the fabric of all the communities."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Connie Horshey, a counselor at the State Employment and Training Commission in Newark, talking with Arceora Horsley, a client. (Lenore Victoria Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES; VOCATIONAL TRAINING EMPLOYMENT (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (73%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: STEWART, BARBARA ANN LIVERMORE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



568 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 10; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Fishing, For Love and Money, On the Tournament Trail

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: NORTH CALDWELL

 BODY:
LIKE many who have answered the call, Tony Adessa was the first person in his family to fish.
His parents owned a boarding house in Long Branch when he was growing up and he began by fishing in the surf, catching a 41-pound striped bass by the time he was 11 years old. Soon he was selling blackfish at 5 cents apiece and mussels at 5 cents a pound to the summer people on Ocean Avenue. He also got a taste of freshwater fishing from the many times his father, a plumber by trade, drove the family from their home in Newark to Lake Hopatcong for a day in the country. The elder Adessa did not fish but watched his three sons enjoy the sport. 
 From those beginnings, in the sunlit surf along the New Jersey shore and amid the sylvan solititude of its cool woods, he developed a lifelong love of fishing, especially for largemouth bass. It continued through his years as an Army aviator in Korea, Vietnam, West Germany and the United States.
A retired colonel, Mr. Adessa is 65 years old now, still finding joy in recreational fishing but also getting involved in tournament fishing, a growing phenomenon in New Jersey and the rest of the country in which the prizes can range from a rod and reel to hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Half his basement and part of his den are dedicated to fishing: shelves of fishing newsletters and magazines (nine different ones dedicated to bass fishing alone) and racks of fishing rods: 42 freshwater and 7 saltwater plus 31 reels and countless lures. Amid these artifacts, he speaks of priorities.
"God and my family come as one, first above everything, and of course the military," Mr. Adessa says.
"And bass fishing."
His wife, Susie, whom he took fishing even on their honeymoon, appears thankful, in the good-natured way of most fishing wives, to be ranked so highly.
Under two mounted bass, one 13 pounds, 4 ounces, the other 10 pounds, eight ounces, that he caught 20 years ago before he began releasing his catches, she has hung a plaque that reads: "When I die, bury me in the lake so my husband will fish for me."
The United States Fish and Wildlife Service puts the number of licensed anglers at 30 million to 35 million, the greatest majority being freshwater fishermen. Of these, said Dave Waddington, an economist for the agency, the largest percentage by far, 43 percent, fish for bass, which can be found in every state except Alaska.
Many tomes have been written about the attraction of fishing, about man struggling with nature while trying to become one with it. But increasingly, the image of man pursuing his own standard of excellence in a contest with fish has been transformed by organized angling competitions.
"I think the nature of fishing has become less of a solitary sport and more of a competitive one," says Jim Stabile, a New Jersey-based outdoors writer. "Now you have a guy in a $24,000 bass boat zipping around a lake trying to outdo 199 other fishermen trying to outdo him."
The prizes vary, he says, from an $800 paint job once offered by a body shop in a Rockaway trout competition to up to a million dollars in the "Mid-Atlantic $500,000," a salt-water contest in Cape May billed as the world's largest cash purse.
For Tony Adessa, there is no contradiction between recreational and competition fishing. He does both more for the fun and camaraderie than for money, he says. His club, the North Jersey Bass Anglers, whose 16 members meet in West Milford, sponsors about 10 tournaments a year.
"Just about every time, you're fishing with someone else," he says. "New experiences to share, new fishing techniques."
His is one of 56 chapters in the New Jersey Bass Federation, which has a total of 800 to 950 club members, according to its president Tony Going, The federation, which works to educate young fishermen and raises money for terminally ill children, is affiliated with the Bass Anglers Sportsman Society or BASS, which has an estimated 35,000 members in New Jersey.
At tournaments sponsored by Mr. Adessa's club, the fishermen compete mainly among themselves for small cash prizes generated by $35 entrance fees. And after the fish are weighed, they are released.
Mr. Adessa's Ford Explorer has a ceiling rack that carries seven rods, each different in some way with different lures, and he will bring six onto a boat -- one rigged for straight worm fishing, one for jake fishing, one for spinner bait, etc. -- and change rods like some fishermen change lures.
In New Jersey, fishermen go after bass, trout and saltwater fish in about 200 tournaments a year, says Walter Murawski, supervising biologist for the State Division of Fish, Game and Wildlife. Their growth has been so great that last year New Jersey instituted permits to regulate tournaments on waters that the state manages, he says.
Yet, fishing basically remains a sport that can bring a sense of serenity. What attracted Mr. Adessa as a boy and still nourishes his soul is "the quiet."
"It's just quiet," he says, speaking poetically of a reservoir where he fishes. "I've seen coyote come down on the banks there. I've seen two bear already, two small bear come down. Deer galore every morning up there and nobody bothering them. It's just a beautiful, beautiful setting. And no telephone. I don't even take my mobile phone when I go. Just quiet and good. It's sort of like stopping and smelling the roses for awhile, which we all need to do."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Going Fishing"
For general information about fishing in New Jersey, there is an education office. The phone number is 908-637-4125.
 
A license is required for fishers 14-69 years old and can typically be purchased at any boating and fishing store.
It costs $16.50 for state residents. A junior/senior license, for 14- and 15-year-olds and people aged 65-69 is $7.75.
A trout stamp, required for trout fishing, is an additional $7.75.
 
This year, for the first time, there are size limits for trout caught in state waters. Trout must be seven inches long to be taken from state waters. In most areas, there is a limit of 6 trout a day until June 1. The limit falls to 4 fish a day on June 1.
 
The state stocks trout and a 24-hour phone number (for touch-tone phones) provides the week's schedule of stocking. The phone number is: 609-633-6765.
 
Fishing is not allowed until 5 P.M. in areas stocked that day.
 
The state issues advisories on the safety of fish caught throughout the state. Fish caught in the Newark Bay Complex and the Camden Bay Area are generally considered unsafe. Bass and pickerel throughout the state are considered unsafe to eat in large quantities because of the accumulation of mercury. Likewise, in saltwater fishing, it is considered unsafe to eat shark more than two times a month, and swordfish three times a month. Any questions can be directed to the New Jersey Department of Health and Senior Services, (609) 588-3123.

A listing by species of the state's record catches is available by sending a self-addressed stamped envelope to: Record Fish, CN 400, Trenton, NJ 08625-0400.
 
Drawing: New Jersey State Fish: The Brook Trout.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (55%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, SPORT SPORT FISHING (90%); FISHES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); TOURNAMENTS (87%); WILDLIFE (78%); LAKES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



569 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 2; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: F.Y.I.

BYLINE: By DANIEL B. SCHNEIDER

 BODY:

The Power of One
 
Q. Does Con Ed supply the electricity for every building in New York City, or are there still a few holdouts generating their own power?
 
A. There's at least one, in Brooklyn. 
 In the engine room in the East Building at the Pratt Institute, three gleaming, dark-red reciprocating steam engines are still generating 120 volts of direct electrical current, which is used to power several of the college's elevators. The engines, which burn No. 6 oil, also provide the heat and hot water for the campus.
"We have been making electricity here for 110 years," Conrad Milster, Pratt's chief engineer, said over the gentle chunka-chunka of the pistons. "I know of no one else in the country that's been making electricity in the same spot as long as we have."
The Pratt engine room opened in 1887, only five years after Thomas Edison opened the city's first electrical power plant at 257 Pearl Street in Manhattan. The steam engines now used at Pratt were built at the Ames Iron Works in Oswego, and installed in 1900, and -- like Edison's early power station -- they produce only direct current. Alternating current -- the kind that Con Ed now provides -- eventually replaced direct current because it can be transmitted more economically over greater distances using more efficient equipment.
"It's an obsolete technology," Mr. Milster said of his beloved steam engines, each of which powers a 75-kilowatt generator. "The last equipment of this kind was installed in the 1920's, in hospitals, hotels and factory complexes where all you had were incandescent lights and a few simple motors. In the 1950's and 60's, hundreds of buildings that used to make their own power gave up and went over to Con Ed."
 
Going Blink in the Night
 
Q. Atop one tower of the George Washington Bridge is a red, rotating beacon, more like those used at airports than the blinking red lights you see on tall buildings. Does this light serve some special function?
 
A. Not anymore. But in the early days of aviation, the Will Rogers-Wiley Post Memorial Beacon, as it was called, was used by aviators as a means of navigation.
The George Washington Bridge was completed in 1931. The humorist Will Rogers and the aviator Wiley Post were killed in an airplane crash when they got lost en route to Point Barrow, Alaska, on Aug. 15, 1935, and in the frenzy of grief that followed, the memorial beacon was installed that same year.
On the north end of the New York tower, the 1,000-watt beacon, focused skyward, swivels about 600 feet above the river. Records show that the beacon originally served as a visual marker for airplane pilots navigating the Hudson River flight corridor in the 1930's and 40's, according to Terry Benczik, a Port Authority spokeswoman. When the first air routes were established in the 1920's, such beacons served as "electric bonfires," and were placed every 10 to 20 miles to provide direct visual guidance. The W.P.A. Guide to New York City, published in 1939, notes how, at night, "the bridge fades into a fantasy of blinking and twinkling lights above the Hudson, while atop the eastern tower the million-candlepower Rogers-Post Memorial Beacon sweeps its reassuring light across fifty miles of darkened sky."
Since the introduction of sophisticated navigational aids, the beacon is no longer needed by pilots for point-to-point orientation. It is still maintained by the Port Authority, however, and now serves as a rather flamboyant red obstruction light.
 
The Dish on Soap
 
Q. Does Port Ivory, on Staten Island, take its name from roaming elephants, or is there another reason?
 
A. Yes. Ivory soap. When the Procter & Gamble Company built a sprawling 77-acre factory in 1907 on the island's northwest corner, where the Kill van Kull meets the Arthur Kill, the area took the name of the company's most popular soap bar -- Ivory -- which was manufactured there. Initially about 400 employees produced soap bars, chips and granules in the 11-building complex, but at its zenith in the 1920's, the plant employed 1,500. When it stopped production in 1991, the plant was producing such sudsy favorites as Coast soap, Bold and Solo detergents, and Mr. Clean and Top Job liquid cleaners, as well as the famous floating bar. DANIEL B. SCHNEIDER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (66%); AIRPORTS (66%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



570 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Partner Benefits Have a Surprising Lack of Takers

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER 

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH businesses are increasingly offering health benefits to the partners of unmarried employees, few workers are taking advantage of the plans.
Participation was expected to be about 3 percent to 4 percent of the work force where such coverage was available, but it has turned out to range from half of a percent to 1 percent, said Andrew D. Sherman, a vice president in Boston for the Segal Company, an international benefits consulting firm that has worked with many companies on their plans. 
 Generally, the fight for such benefits has been led by gay activists. But unmarried heterosexual couples can also qualify under some of these company policies.
Hewitt Associates, a benefits consulting firm in Lincolnshire, Ill., has seen similar participation rates for partner policies, although it found that when heterosexual couples were included, the rate sometimes reached the expected 3 percent to 4 percent.
An estimated 500 companies, including I.B.M., Apple Computer, Walt Disney and Levi Strauss, as well as many colleges, universities, states and municipalities, now offer health and other benefits to domestic partners. By all accounts, the number has grown rapidly over the last two years. According to Hewitt, about 20 percent to 30 percent of these plans include both same-sex and heterosexual couples.
At Apple, participation has run well below the 5 percent predicted when the benefits program was first offered, in mid-1992. Gustavo De La Torre, director of multicultural programs there, said that only about 45 of the company's nearly 9,600 employees were using the program.
Xerox, which offers employees $1,000 to buy health insurance on their own for a partner or dependent, said that only 200 of about 47,000 employees, or four-tenths of 1 percent, had signed up for that program. About half the participants are domestic partners.
So companies are finding that even though the benefits can be controversial, angering some conservative groups, they are not terribly expensive.
Why aren't more employees persuaded to take the benefits? In part, because both partners in the relationships tend to have jobs and access to health insurance on their own. That, Mr. De La Torre said, appeared to be the case at Apple.
Elizabeth Birch, executive director of the Human Rights Campaign, a Washington lobbying group on gay and lesbian issues, said there were several deterrents as well: unmarried employees generally have to pay tax on the value of their partner's benefits and lesbian and gay employees may be wary about revealing their sexual orientation to an employer out of fear of discrimination.
CLEARLY, cost is a big factor. The Internal Revenue Service considers benefits awarded to an unmarried partner as taxable compensation unless the partner qualifies as a "dependent," meaning that the employee provides more than half of the partner's financial support. Married couples do not owe taxes on such benefits.
"The income tax implications are a big disincentive," said Mr. Sherman, of Segal.
Jenifa Johnson, an employee of Apple Computer for 10 years, said she took advantage of Apple's health benefits for her partner for one year before canceling.
"I did not know how big the taxes were going to be," said Ms. Johnson, a project manager with a team that is developing software for Apple's Powerbook. "It ended up being about $1,200 taken out of my paycheck," she said, in taxes based on the $2,500 value the I.R.S. put on her partner's benefits.
The taxes were deducted quarterly, meaning a hit of $300 every three months.
Her partner, Bertina Bryant, now receives her own health insurance and other benefits as a high school English teacher, but she preferred the health coverage at Apple. Ms. Johnson said her Apple coverage allows her to visit the doctor of her choice and covers chiropractic care, among other things. Ms. Bryant's school policy requires her to use a health maintenance organization; the plan does not include vision care, and her dental benefits are half those of Apple's plan.
Because the dental plan was available separately at Apple, Ms. Johnson has continued that coverage for Ms. Bryant at a cost of about $350 a year in additional taxes.
Taxes are not the only cost barrier. Some employees have found their companies' domestic-benefit premiums to be too expensive.
Lauren Black, who manages hardware testing and evaluation at Macworld magazine in San Francisco, found that health insurance for her partner would cost more through her company, the International Data Group, than from the outside. Her partner, Meredith Steiner, was unemployed, having been laid off from her job with a group raising funds to combat AIDS.
Through the company, the cost would have been $76 a month, Ms. Black said, with an additional $46 a month in taxes. The co-payment for each doctor's visit would have been $5. But they found virtually the same coverage directly from a health maintenance organization for $59 a month, with a $15 co-payment for each doctor's visit.
Besides cost, there was another factor. Ms. Black said she would have had to change her choice of insurance provider because the domestic partner benefits were available only through a different provider.
But she remains a believer in the concept. "If I was looking to change jobs or go to another company, I'd look for a company that offers domestic partner benefits," she said.
Some supporters of such benefits complain that the tax burden creates an inequitable situation in the workplace.
"It's a matter of equal pay for work," said Richard Jennings, executive director of Hollywood Supports, a group focusing on issues confronting gay people in the entertainment business. "Until the Federal Government starts recognizing where companies are today, people are not going to be able to take advantage of these benefits as heterosexuals can."
The disparity between married and unmarried couples is made more glaring because employers can treat their payments for health insurance as deductible business-related expenses, no matter the employee's relationship to the insured.
The Human Rights Campaign is studying the tax code to decide whether to mount some kind of challenge. "I think it would take Congressional action," Ms. Birch said.
For many employees, like Ms. Johnson and Ms. Bryant, the real value of partners' benefits is as a safety net if one of them loses a job.
Leslie Wright, a flavor analyst at the Coors Brewing Company and a co-chairwoman of an employee group called the Lesbian and Gay Employee Resource, helped push the company to provide benefits to domestic partners, but she doesn't use them.
"My partner has full benefits with her company," Ms. Wright said. "If my partner wanted to change jobs, if I wanted to go back to school, I could feel more comfortable," because of the possibility of adding a partner to the health plan -- and perhaps passing the dependency test to be exempt from taxes.
Still, deciding whether to add a partner to a benefits plan is not just a question of dollars and cents. Ms. Birch and others say many gay and lesbian couples do not take advantage of the workplace benefits for their partners because they are afraid of employer discrimination.
"There have to be basic workplace protections at the Federal level," Ms. Birch said. "Today, you can be fired in 41 states simply because you're gay, lesbian or bisexual."
To make gay and lesbian workers feel more comfortable about applying for partners' benefits, Ms. Birch said, Congress needs to pass the Employment Nondiscrimination Act, which would add workplace protections for gay and lesbian employees.
Still, advocates of such measures say that adding benefits for unmarried partners is an important milestone, even if it is lightly used.
"Ten years ago if anyone had said to me I would be in a position where I could offer my partner benefits, I would have been surprised," said Robert L. Williams, co-chairman of the gay and lesbian employees group at Disney. "It's one step at a time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lauren Black, left, found that health insurance for her partner, Meredith Steiner, would cost more through her company, the International Data Group, than from the outside. (Anne Dowie for The New York Times); Jenifa Johnson, an employee of Apple Computer, took advantage of Apple's health benefits for her partner for only one year because of the high taxes. (Audrey Shehyn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (92%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (92%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (72%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (92%); SEGAL CO (72%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE; FRINGE BENEFITS; LABOR; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; HOMOSEXUALITY HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COHABITATION (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); INCOME TAX (83%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); LGBT RIGHTS (75%); MARRIAGE (75%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



571 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1901 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
A Grand Old Guru Still Favors Emerging Markets

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.

 BODY:
JOHN M. TEMPLETON is known variously as a dean, a knight and a near saint, not always in that order.
But he was certainly a dean first. The dean, that is, of international investing. Since beginning his first mutual fund, Templeton Growth, in 1954, Mr. Templeton has forged a reputation as one of the premier value investors -- one who has looked abroad for bargains earlier and more successfully than many of his peers. 
 Mr. Templeton, now 84, retired from professional money management in 1992, when he sold his firm to Franklin Resources Inc. for $913 million. But his words still move markets. After he uttered the phrase "bear market" at an investment conference earlier this month, the Dow recoiled. When asked for his investment ideas after a charity event here, he said that United States stocks are very high-priced and that he sees more value in Treasury bonds. Abroad, though, he sees stock markets with promise.
A native of Tennessee, Mr. Templeton moved to the Bahamas in the early 1960's, became a British citizen in 1967 and became Sir John in 1987, in recognition of his religious philanthropy. Mr. Templeton, a devout Presbyterian, endowed the Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion, now worth about $1.2 million a year, in 1972. Past recipients include Mother Teresa and Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.
Instead of managing money, Mr. Templeton now spends most of his time managing more than 60 charities. He made time to answer some market-related questions recently after speaking to the Palm Beach Round Table, a civic group, in conjunction with a high school essay contest sponsored by the Round Table, Northwood University and the John Templeton Foundation.
Q. Where are you putting your money these days?
A. Because I'm spending my time on 60 different religion projects, I select mutual fund managers I admire and put the money with them.
Q. Can you tell us which funds look especially good to you these days?
A. The ones that I've invested in have been outside America and they have been small operations, where I own maybe 40 percent. Among the ones that would be listed here is the Templeton China fund. There's also the Regent Ukraine fund, managed by Regent Pacific Group of Hong Kong and London.
Q. I understand you're investing in Treasuries, too. Why?
A. Throughout a large part of my investment career, particularly during World War II, no Treasury bond ever yielded over 2 1/2 percent. So when I see Treasury bonds yielding 7 1/2 percent, I think that's very good. Also, at that time there was great worry about inflation. Now our worry about inflation is less, so Treasuries should yield less, not more.
It's clear that the Federal Reserve wants to have high interest rates on Treasury bonds and everything else to prevent excess enthusiasm in the business boom, which is fine. It's the right thing to do. But it does put the Treasury bonds at too high a yield. So sooner or later, maybe a year or two, I think Treasuries will yield no more than 5 percent, maybe less. If they yield 5 percent, the price of long-term Treasuries would go up 30 percent.
Inflation has been a worry in 90 percent of the nations 90 percent of the time. But it's less of a worry now than it was most of this century. My best guess is that it would take inflation 30 years to double the cost of living. On that basis, you would still have earnings of 5 percent net after inflation on Treasuries you bought today.
In 1947 one of my major clients offered to bet me even money that no U.S. Treasury bond would ever yield over 2 1/2 percent.
Q. Did you take the bet?
A. I didn't because I didn't want to offend my client.
Q. I understand that you may be investing more in real estate these days. Is that right?
A. A year ago that was right. I was buying some real estate investment trusts because real estate had not gone up as much as it had in other nations.
Q. Is that opportunity still out there?
A. No, those issues have gone up quite a lot in the last 12 months.
Q. You've cautioned investors not to be surprised if any stock market in the world drops 50 percent. Does that apply to U.S. markets as well?
A. No. I'd be surprised if the U.S. market again goes down 50 percent. There are more regulations in America. There are many more security analysts who keep things from getting too far out of line. So I would think we don't have to worry about more than a 40 percent decline.
Q. What do you see for the stock market over the next two or three years?
A. The chances are more than even that two or three years from now, it won't be any higher than now.
Q. Looking at the financial landscape over the last few years, what general changes would you say have been most significant?
A. Probably the most important, and not yet written about, is the increase in the number of shareholders. Until recent years, no nation had ever handed out shares to all its adult population. Now, it's been done in Poland and Russia and several other nations. So there are vastly larger numbers of shareholders.
In America alone, there are 10 times as many shareholders as there were when I went into business. And the more shareholders you have, the more people understand the virtues of free enterprise and the less likely they are to do silly or socialistic things.
So I think that the business cycles will be smaller than they have been. The international competition will be greater. The standard of living will double more quickly than it ever did before. The level of world share prices will double more quickly.
Q. What's the most important investing lesson you learned in the latter part of your career?
A. Probably what we call the point of maximum pessimism. I started out one of the very few people in America who was advising Americans on how to invest worldwide. And I started out fairly young saying that I was going to buy based on value rather than trend, or price, that I was searching for good values instead of seeing what was going to move up or down.
Common sense will tell you that the only time you can get something for a small fraction of what it's worth is when other people are despondently selling. So it's been a new theory of mine, the theory of maximum pessimism. If you want to succeed in selecting investments, look for the points of maximum pessimism.
Q. Many foreign markets seem to be moving in tandem with United States markets. Does that make diversification less important these days?
A. Yes, but it's a very small trend. If you go back and put down the world's large markets, it's very rare to have more than two of them going in the same direction. It's amazing. We've drawn charts like that, and most of the time, out of 15 markets, there will be only 1 or 2 that are at all-time highs. At the same time, two or three are at all-time lows.
Q. Do you still think that emerging markets offer better opportunities than the developed world?
A. Yes, I do. There are still lots of emerging markets in the world where prices are modest: China, India, New Zealand, Korea.
Q. What are your feelings on Russia?
A. It's certainly not the bargain it was a year and a half ago. Many of the funds that specialize in Russia have gone up 150 percent in just 18 months. But Russia is a big nation, the people are intelligent, they are getting better organized and the Government is continuing to favor freedom, or free enterprise. All of those would indicate that even at today's prices it'll prove to be one of the best markets if you hold for five years.
Q. What about the rest of Eastern Europe?
A. Well, there are even better bargains in Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Turkey.
But the best bargains of all, now, are in Ukraine. You can buy shares -- in the few companies that trade -- at an average of only four or five times earnings.
Q. Which emerging markets do you think are overpriced these days?
A. Share prices are much higher than in other nations now in Malaysia, with a price-earnings ratio of 23, the Philippines, with a P.E. of 21, and Taiwan, with a P.E. of 33.
Q. With regard to more developed countries, where are you seeing the most important opportunities these days?
A. There aren't many points of maximum pessimism in the developed markets. The closest I could come would be New Zealand as a developed market. And I'd put Chile in that area.
Q. Though it's certainly not an emerging market, what do you think about Japan?
A. Over half of my clients' money was in Japan at one time, but no longer. When the bargains were there, we paid an average of only four times that year's earnings for stocks. Then they went up to 100 times earnings. They're still about 50 times earnings. So it's cheaper than it was, but I have not started to buy more. I would buy in Japan at 15 times earnings.
Q. What about currency risk?
A. Generally speaking, currency risks are the smallest they've been in 60 years, because there's less war, there's less revolution, there's less socialism.
But there is still currency risk, particularly in those places with no stock market. If you'd limit me to the places with stock markets, currency risk is great in Turkey, Thailand and Brazil.
Q. What's your sense of the money management business today?
A. People who have not lived through a severe bear market don't worry enough; they don't understand it enough. So those people who've only been in Wall Street less than eight years are underestimating how bad it can get.
Some are worried, but in general all the Wall Street operatives are not as worried as they ought to be. They ought, for example, to look at Japan. After the highest prices were passed in Japan, the market went down about 60 percent. The mutual funds lost half of their shareholders.
Q. Which particular sectors in the United States look attractive to you right now?
A. There aren't any common stocks that I'd put in that category at present in this country.
Q. I know you don't like to predict what's going to happen in the markets, but what's the one thing investors should keep their eyes on in the next year?
A. I would advise people not to buy a stock whose price-earnings ratio is higher than the average ratio for that same company for the last 10 years. What happens in a period like this is more and more enthusiasm builds up and stocks that used to sell for 10 times earnings now sell for 20 times earnings. And that's the main source of people losing money in the market.
Q. You've put most of your time recently into various charities. What's the overarching goal of the Templeton Foundation?
A. In general, more than other foundations, we focus on removing the causes of troubles in the world rather than on alleviating the results. Most foundations focus on feeding the poor, or healing the sick. We focus more on who is inventing a method so you don't get sick in the first place or a farming technique that will help feed the poor.
Q. Do you have an example in mind?
A. Our program in medical schools. There are 126 four-year graduate schools of medicine in America. One of my foundations paid for a survey two and a half years ago and couldn't find a single medical school offering a course in spiritual healing. By offering small cash awards to the teacher and the school, 30 schools are going to offer a course next year in spiritual healing. I think that's absolutely marvelous.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Templeton says his theory on investing is to "look for the points of maximum pessimism" in the world's stock markets. (John Ricksen for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Up and Down" shows yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond; annual figures plotted every February since 1954. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; A History of Interest Rates,by Sidney Homer and Richard Sylla)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: BEN (NYSE) (71%); 0575 (HKSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (52%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); UKRAINE (75%); HONG KONG (71%); BAHAMAS (55%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (71%); REGENT PACIFIC GROUP LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); UKRAINE (75%); HONG KONG (71%); BAHAMAS (55%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); RELIGION (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); FUNDRAISING (77%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); CITIZENSHIP (55%); WORLD WAR II (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: TEMPLETON, JOHN MARKS (SIR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



572 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Has the Brew Pub Business Gone Flat?

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
THE news has been bad for brew pubs, those combination restaurant-breweries that have sprouted throughout the city in the last few years. Zip City Brewery, at five years old the granddaddy of them all, closed this month. One closed last year, and another has become a rock club.
So why on earth did Craig Montano, the brewmaster at Neptune Brewing in Chelsea, and three partners open Village Bistro and Brewing at 92 Seventh Avenue South in Greenwich Village last week? "This is not the death knell of the brew pub business," Mr. Montano said. "Besides, we have a few tricks up our sleeve." 
 The brew pub trend, which took root on the West Coast a decade ago, came late to New York, but in the last couple of years it took off with a vengeance, with at least a dozen brew pubs opening. The current troubles, though, indicate a weeding-out process, with those unable to negotiate the tricky currents of real estate, high start-up costs and fickle public falling by the wayside.
Kirby Shyer, owner of Zip City, attributed his brew pub's demise to the severe winter of 1995-96. "Zip City was five years old and had its day in the sun," he said.
Jon Bloostein, owner of Heartland Brewery, one of New York's successful brew pubs, says that the weaker places have probably already closed, and that he believes the rest will adapt and thrive. "I wouldn't be opening up a new brew pub in midtown if I thought this whole thing was a fad," he said. The new business, an offshoot of Heartland, a two-year-old pub at 35 Union Square West, is to open in September in the Paine Webber building at 1285 Avenue of the Americas, near 51st Street.
While the economics of brew pubs can be a problem, Jerome Noll, a lawyer who has helped open three brew pubs, sees a more fundamental problem in New York: bad beer. "Some of the beer out there is literally undrinkable," Mr. Noll said.
Stephen Hindy, president of Brooklyn Brewery, estimates that there are up to 75 brewmasters in the metropolitan region, but "only a very small percentage are restaurant-quality brewers."
Nonetheless, entrepreneurs have been flocking to the brew pub business. The New Brewer, a beer-industry trade magazine based in Boulder, Colo., counted 764 brew pubs in the nation as of last month, up from only 100 in 1995. Sales of beer in brew pubs totaled more than 548,000 barrels, up from 112,000 barrels just five years before.
"Nationwide, the brew pub business is doing very well," said Richard Backus, editor in chief of The New Brewer. "If done correctly, a brew pub is a glorified restaurant with an extra hook, i.e. fresh beer."
But America is not New York, and brew pub entrepreneurs and others in the beer business say New York is an especially treacherous market.
Mr. Hindy of Brooklyn Brewery, a regional brewery, said that several times he had "gone to the brink" of buying a brew pub but that the cost of breaking even, let alone making a profit, was simply too high. Even with a large restaurant of, say, 5,000 square feet, beer-brewing equipment and the kitchen would occupy nearly a third of the space. Brewing equipment can cost several hundred thousand dollars. The remaining space would have to be 75 percent full at lunch and dinner virtually every day, he said. "That's just not a reasonable thing to expect."
Alexander J. Gordon opened his A. J. Gordon Brewing Company last year and quickly found that he had misjudged his starting costs, his menu and, above all, his location.
What he thought was an ideal location, 212 West 79th Street, for his 100-seat brew pub turned out to be a no man's land between the 20-somethings of Amsterdam Avenue and the more mature clientele of Broadway. He opened in May, meaning that he had little reserve revenue before the slow summer months when many West Siders go to the Hamptons or other vacation areas. And his menu of entrees costing $18 to $32 proved too expensive for the neighborhood.
"We had severe financial difficulties in the beginning," Mr. Gordon said. He started out with capital of $500,000 and, in retrospect, says he should have set aside $1 million. Now a large cigar lounge and a cheaper menu, offering, for example, all the Maryland blue crabs you can eat for $12.95, are drawing new customers. "We found out the hard way that beer is not the only thing in a brew pub," Mr. Gordon said.
The owners of Village Bistro say they know the pitfalls. "The numbers scared us," said Edward A. Rodriguez, one partner, who also owns Greenwich Brewing and Hasta La Pasta, 70-seat restaurants at the Avenue of the Americas and Ninth Street.
With Village Bistro, the partners are able to save on the high equipment costs and huge space for the usual brew pub because Mr. Montano's Neptune Brewery is just a few blocks away at 448 West 16th Street. So they will serve Neptune's fresh beer in their smaller 70-seat, 1,500-square-foot restaurant. Technically, this would make Village Bistro not a brew pub at all, a fact underscored by the additional offerings of scores of bottled beers, bourbon and mash whisky and an extensive single-malt Scotch list.
But what the partners hope will be the key difference is David Honeysett, a chef who once worked at Tompkins 131 and Le Refuge, to lure customers with a menu of entrees for $15.50 to $21.50. "What we noticed in other restaurants is that top-quality beer was not accompanied by top-quality food," Mr. Rodriguez said. "Without the brewing equipment on premises, we hope to offer a lot in a little space."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roberto Yaryura, Craig Montano and Robert Dell' Aquila, from left, three of four partners in Village Bistro and Brewing. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Status Report: Not Always Beer and Skittles"
Here are some of the brewpubs that opened in New York City over the last few years.

BREWERY	WHEN	STATUS		OPENED	 	A.J. Gordon's	Aug. 1996	Slow start, picking up	212 West 79th St.	 	 	Commonwealth Brewing Co.	July 1996	May open in old	10 Rockefeller Plaza		Delmonico's	Times Square Brewery	June 1996	Hired new brewer	160 West 42d St.	 	 	Highlander Brewery	June 1996	Now a rock club	190 Third Ave.	 	 	Typhoon Brewery	May 1996	Thai food destination	22 East 54th St.	 	 	Chelsea Brewing Co.	April 1996	Strong after-work crowd	Chelsea Piers	 	 	Nacho Mama's Brewery	Nov. 1995	Closed Oct. 1996	40-42 Thompson St.	 	 	(formerly Manhattan Brewing Co.)	 	 	Carnegie Hill Brewing Co.	July 1995	Busy local pub	1600 Third Ave.	 	 	Heartland Brewery	April 1995	Opening midtown branch	35 Union Square West	 	 	Yorkville Brewery	October	Busy local pub	1359 First Ave.	1994	 	Park Slope Brewing Co.	Aug. 1994	Opened satellite branch	356 Sixth Ave., Brooklyn		in Brooklyn Heights	Westside Brewing Co.	Nov. 1993	Excellent location	340 Amsterdam Avenue	 	 	Zip City Brewery	Nov. 1991	Closed April 5th	3 West 18th St.	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); WEST USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: HEARTLAND BREWERY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); WEST USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: BARS DRINKING PLACES (93%); BREWERIES (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (66%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



573 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: GREENWICH VILLAGE;
A Couple of Murrays Battle in a Schmear Campaign

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
File this one in the appetizing department.
When Anna Pomerantz gave birth to a son 62 years ago on the Lower East Side, she wanted to call him Morris. But at the prodding of her daughter, who insisted on something more modern, the name Murray prevailed. Last November, when Murray Pomerantz's two sons opened a bagel store on the Avenue of the Americas near 12th Street, they thought that calling it Murray's Bagels would be the perfect way to honor their unemployed father and an even better way to move their product. 
 "I mean, look at this guy," said Adam Pomerantz, 29, the other day, gesturing to the full-size man at the shop's register. "My father's face just says 'bagel.' "
According to a lawsuit filed last month in civil court, however, Murray also says "cheese." The name Murray may belong to Murray Pomerantz, but Robert Kaufelt, the proprietor of Murray's Cheese Shop on Bleecker and Cornelia Streets, says it doesn't belong to any other business selling food in Greenwich Village.
"It's confusing my customers," said Mr. Kaufelt, 49, who bought the store six years ago. "People have been coming in and complaining about the lousy service they got at my bagel store. It's very aggravating."
Mr. Pomerantz laughed at charges of substandard service and called Mr. Kaufelt a "big bully with a swelled head."
In a city that considers noshing both a high art and an inalienable right, the battle over Murray's has divided Village residents and tested loyalties. When Mr. Kaufelt wedged a petition between the Goudas and the Havartis recently, he got more than 100 signatures from patrons proclaiming their outrage that someone would piggyback on the 60-year-old cheese shop's good name. And outside the bagel store last week, customers there were just as adamant.
"Give me a break," said Miriam Shoenfeld, 58, waving a pumpernickel bagel with a scallion cream cheese schmear. "There's room enough in this city for two Murray's."
Not so, says Jeffrey A. Mitchell, the cheese shop's attorney. Under New York's trademark laws, a plaintiff has only to show customer confusion to prevail in court.
"Just because two guys are called Ben and Jerry, doesn't mean they can sell ice cream using their names," Mr. Mitchell said. "Why can't they just call the place 'Dad's Bagels' or 'Pop's Bagels?' That seems like a nice way to honor their father. Anyway, I think by now Mr. Pomerantz has gotten the point that they want to honor him."
The case, it seems, is not so clear cut. In a hearing on April 16, Justice Harold Tompkins admitted that he was having a hard time making a decision. "It's going to be a very close call on this one," he said, adding that he hoped the two parties could work out their differences outside the courtroom.
So far, all attempts to negotiate a settlement have failed. Sanford Talkin, who is defending the Pomerantz family, says Mr. Kaufelt rejected a compromise that would have changed the name to Murray Pomerantz's Bagels. "This is a total injustice," Mr. Talkin said, standing beside the store's oven. "It would be one thing if there was no Murray, but look, there he is."
As he spoke, Mr. Pomerantz, taking a break from the register, shrugged his shoulders, bewildered that his given name was causing such a ruckus. "I would have used my middle name," he said sheepishly, "but my parents couldn't afford one." ANDREW JACOBS

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Kaufelt, above, the owner of Murray's Cheese Shop, is suing Murray's Bagels, whose owners named the shop after their father, Murray Pomerantz, top. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: MURRAY' CHEESE SHOP (NYC); MURRAY'S BAGELS (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: MURRAY' CHEESE SHOP (NYC); MURRAY'S BAGELS (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL; SUITS AND LITIGATION RETAIL BAKERIES (90%); CHEESE SHOPS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); PETITIONS (79%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); RETAILERS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); ICE CREAM (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); TRADEMARK LAW (50%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



574 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
A Good Quarter for Short-Sellers, but Risks Remain

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRUSH 

 BODY:
WHILE many investment styles have produced losses this year, one has come roaring back after a half decade of moribund performance: short-selling.
Money managers who bet that stocks will decline in value, known as short-sellers, gained 14 percent on average in the first three months of the year, according to Harry Strunk, a Palm Beach, Fla., investment consultant who tracks hedge funds. That compares with a total return of less than 3 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, including reinvested dividends. 
 It was the best quarter since 1990 for the beleaguered short-sellers, who borrow shares from brokers and then sell them at today's prices in the hope of replacing them later at a lower price. Over the last six years, many of them posted stunning losses -- and their ranks thinned from about 20 to less than a dozen, Mr. Strunk said.
Although market trackers caution against expecting a repeat performance in the second quarter, they say the conditions are right for more gains. "Because of the huge run-up in the markets over the last couple of years, there is definitely a pretty long list of companies at price levels that will be difficult to maintain," said Paul McEntire, the chairman and managing director of Skye Investment Advisors, based in Palo Alto, Calif., whose Skye Short-Selling Fund gained 8.98 percent in the first quarter.
The other factor fueling short-sellers' hopes is the possibility that the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates at least once, if not twice, before the end of the summer. That would put downward pressure on stocks.
A main tactic of the short-sellers is to aim at companies whose stock prices have been driven up beyond levels they feel are justified by earnings and sales growth potential. Many Internet and technology stocks were pushed to such heights last year. Several short-sellers agreed to talk about these and other stocks, but it should be noted that they stand to benefit financially from any price decline after their comments.
A technology stock that resulted in some handsome profits for short-sellers in the first quarter was U.S. Robotics. Money managers who had shorted the stock, like Mr. McEntire, did not have qualms about U.S. Robotics' computer modems. Instead, they felt that investors had become overly enthusiastic, driving up the stock's price to 37 times reported earnings.
"Their product is more or less a commodity, and we didn't think there was enough of a brand name to stop competitors," Mr. McEntire said. "U.S. Robotics was symptomatic of the companies that just got driven to prices that were not sustainable, given their actual performance."
Kathleen Behos, a spokeswoman for U.S. Robotics, said: "The suggestion that we are in a commodity business is inconsistent with what we have been able to achieve with our operating performance. Gross margins increased from 42 percent last year to 49 percent this year."
The company reassured investors at the end of last week by posting better-than-expected earnings, and its stock rose a bit. Still, its shares, trading at $46.125 each or about 19 times expected earnings, are well off their high of more than $100 a year ago. (The 3Com Corporation announced an accord in February to acquire U.S. Robotics.)
Short-sellers do more than just focus on stocks that look pricey because they have been bid up by momentum investors, who jump on issues with rapidly rising earnings and sales.
William Fleckenstein, president of Fleckenstein Capital, a money management firm in Seattle specializing in short positions, likes to see big earnings gains that have attracted investor attention and that may be hard to sustain. Good examples can be found right now, he said, in makers of technology "commodities," like semiconductors, disk drives and personal computers.
Solid profit margins at many of these companies have driven up their stock prices. But those margins will be under pressure as competitors come in and as growth in the personal computer business slows, predicted Mr. Fleckenstein, whose RTM investment fund, a limited partnership, was up 10 percent in March alone.
Mr. Fleckenstein also likes to short companies whose shares are concentrated in the hands of a few institutional investors. A good example is Maxim Integrated Products, an integrated circuit producer in Sunnyvale, Calif., which is about 35 percent owned by mutual funds at Fidelity, T. Rowe Price, Putnam and Seligman, according to recent filings. "This is risky," he said, "because if things go wrong, who are they going to sell to? When things go wrong, these stocks absolutely cascade."
Two other characteristics make Maxim a prime short candidate to Mr. Fleckenstein. Inventories are growing while sales are slowing, and insiders have been selling shares. "There has been some of the chunkiest insider selling of any of the stocks that I follow," he said. The stock is now trading at $47.25, or 25 times expected earnings.
"I don't see why the stock trades north of $30," Mr. Fleckenstein said. "This is a business priced as a pure monopoly with a huge backlog of orders, and it has neither of those characteristics."
Michael Byrd, chief financial officer of Maxim, said that "Mr. Fleckenstein is in a minority," that inventories are at industry levels, that sales rose last quarter after a decline and that insider selling constituted a fraction of management's holdings.
Some short-sellers work as financial sleuths, digging for business flaws in income statements. A sign of trouble, according to David Rocker of Rocker Partners, is when accounts receivable and inventories rise faster than sales. But a dead giveaway is when a company reports earnings despite a negative cash flow. Then he takes a close look at the business plan. (His hedge fund gained 24.6 percent in the first quarter, largely because of short positions.)
A company that he said fails on several counts is Boston Chicken, the restaurant chain. "Boston Chicken is really not a restaurant company but a finance company," Mr. Rocker said. "The only earnings they have are earnings from royalty fees and interest payments from these very same franchises. So if the franchises cannot meet the finance payments in the future, the whole house of cards falls in on itself."
Boston Chicken countered that company-operated stores generated 32 percent of total revenue last year and that interest income accounted for less than 25 percent.
Mr. Rocker also looks for expensive companies that have recently missed earnings targets or that appear likely to do so. An example, he said, is Fastenal, a Winona, Minn., retailer of fasteners and tools.
"The stock trades at an incredible 43 times trailing earnings and 11 times book value," Mr. Rocker said. "But the company has missed earnings estimates in the last five quarters, and its growth seems questionable." The chain is running out of places to put new stores, and competition is increasing, he said.
Fastenal had 484 stores at the end of the year and sees the potential for 1,500 stores in the United States. At its current price of $38.75, the stock is trading at 35 times its expected earnings.
Anyone drawn to short-selling by its recent success should keep in mind that investment advisers discourage such speculation. For individual investors, they say, shorting is best used as insurance against potential losses. At most, short positions should be 10 percent to 20 percent of a portfolio, Mr. Strunk advised. In part, that is because an uncovered short position, in which an investor has borrowed shares from a broker, can result in unlimited losses if the stock price keeps rising.
Most funds that short heavily are limited partnerships, open to investors with a net worth of $5 million. Among the handful of mutual funds that emphasize short-selling is the aptly named Prudent Bear, down 13.7 percent in 1996 and up 2.8 percent this year.
Perhaps the most important consideration is that shorting is going against the tide.
"A person has to have the stomach for this because on most days stocks are rising," Mr. Rocker said. "The declines are sharp but brief. Most days you are losing money."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Thinking Negative Makes a Comeback" shows average annual returns of the short-sellers from 1985-1997 (through March). (Source: Harry Strunk investment consultants)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (72%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SHORT SELLING INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); COMMODITIES TRADING (69%); MODEMS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BRUSH, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



575 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
A 'C' Is Great, if An 'F' Was Expected

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
It is too bad that the children of America don't have parents who are as understanding about grades as Wall Street is about corporate earnings.
The following conversation between Jimmy, a high school student, and his father, a portfolio manager, is strictly imaginary. 
 Dad: Jimmy, your report card shows three C's and two D's. I'm thrilled. And I'm raising your allowance.
Jimmy: You're what? At the beginning of the semester, I promised things would get better. I told you I'd get A's and B's. But it didn't happen.
Dad: That's true. But a month ago you said that C's were all I could hope for. And last week you said you might fail two classes. So, compared with what I had expected, you did very well. Maybe I should get you that car you've been wanting.
Jimmy: Gosh, thanks.
On Wall Street, the initial wave of earnings announcements for the first quarter has been viewed as very good. The average company, it is said, has exceeded earnings expectations for the 17th consecutive quarter. And it is true. Companies by and large did do better than was expected on the eve of their earnings reports. Just like Jimmy.
They did not, however, do better than was expected at the beginning of the quarter. Or better than was expected after the quarter was a month old. As Jimmy did, companies first talked down expectations and then exceeded them.
Paine Webber keeps track of such things by checking consensus earnings estimates for more than 300 major companies at the end of the first month of the quarter, and then comparing them with the actual report. If the real number is at least 10 percent better than the forecast, it is seen as a positive surprise. And the opposite if reality is 10 percent or more below the forecast.
So far, reports Tom Doerflinger, an investment strategist at Paine Webber, 19 percent of the companies have produced positive surprises. And 23 percent have produced negative ones.
As these things go, such figures are not bad. But in no way is the current earnings scene similar to the one that existed in late 1994 and early 1995, when many more companies were exceeding estimates than were falling short. "It is a solid quarter, but not like we had during the earnings boom," Mr. Doerflinger says. The biggest disappointments, he says, have been in companies selling commodities like chemicals, papers and metals. So much, we might add, for inflation fears.
Just before the earnings season began, when the stock market was nearing the end of its one-month swoon, one portfolio manager offered an explanation of why a rally was near. A lot of companies, he said, were itching to resume share buybacks, and would do so once their numbers were out and buying would not smack of using inside information. He looks smart now.
As share prices have zoomed in recent years, there has been a lot of speculation on what would finally slay the bull. Higher interest rates did not do it in 1994, and it is looking increasingly likely that they won't do it this year. Investors really do believe that the stock market is the only good long-term investment, and it may take a recession to shake that belief.
When that happens, no amount of estimate revision will be able to conceal earnings disappointments. Until then, however, the market may get choppier and more volatile, but it is unlikely to really plunge.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "More Disappointments" shows the percentage of companies beating or trailing quarter estimates, 1994-97.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIS (AMEX) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486910 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); SIC4613 REFINED PETROLEUM PIPELINES (68%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TRUE COS (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (60%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (60%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (60%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



576 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: Economic Growth Doesn't Need a Cure

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Norbert Walter ("The Cure for Growth" Op-Ed, April 21) advises U.S. policy makers to brake growth to fight inflation by cutting the budget instead of raising interest rates. Business investment will be greater, he says, blessing the economy with higher productivity in the long run. 
 He accepts uncritically the dubious premise that present growth is something we need to cure one way or another. He disregards a third way to cut demand, reduce budget deficits and fight inflation. This is to raise taxes. Mr. Walter to the contrary, tax cuts appear inevitable in 2002 budget-balancing plans, tightening the squeeze on outlays.
For all Mr. Walter knows, the expenditure he encourages Congress to cut may be more valuable to the nation than marginal consumption spending of taxpayers, on gasoline and tobacco, for example. For all he knows, public investments in education, science, health, infrastructure and environment are worth more to future Americans than the private investments his lower interest rates might encourage.
 
JAMES TOBIN
New Haven, April 22, 1997
 
The writer is Sterling Professor of Economics emeritus at Yale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); TAX RELIEF (74%); TAX LAW (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CONSUMPTION (73%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: WALTER, NORBERT JAMES R TOBIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



577 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Two Cheers For Charity

BYLINE: By Mario M. Cuomo; Mario M. Cuomo, the former Governor of New York, is a partner in the law firm of Willkie Farr & Gallagher.

 BODY:
What a dazzling array of ideas and proposals make up today's extravaganza in Philadelphia called the Presidents' Summit for America's Future!
Americans helping Americans out of a deep compassion for the disadvantaged, especially the 15 million children at risk. "A new way of doing business" (in the words of the summit meeting's organizers) that will, by the year 2000, give at least two million of these children better health, better education, a better chance at a good job, safer places to live and work and even better relationships with their parents or mentors. 
 No one will be taxed to pay for any part of it, nor will there be any grubby partisan politics. Whatever political benefits may develop will redound to both major parties because they are both well-represented among the leading organizers. Altogether, the latest in ultimate volunteerism. And maybe most appealing of all, on the outside of the brightly wrapped package for all to see, these words are emblazoned: "The Era of Big Government Is Over."
There is no doubt that the Philadelphia gathering will be well-received by the American people and that it will do some good. The idea of volunteerism is an irradicably American tradition.
Americans have been marvelously generous with their own time, ideas and resources for more than 200 years. Think of the countless groups already at work: religious organizations, foundations, corporations, not-for-profits like the American Red Cross, Volunteers of America and Mentoring USA -- not to mention volunteer firemen who risk their lives for their neighbors simply because it's a good thing to do.
Indeed, for more than most of our history, much of what we now call social services were provided by private charities. Long before welfare, unemployment insurance, Medicaid, Medicare or even a public school system, people in need were helped by charities or not at all.
So a well-organized, highly motivated bipartisan effort to stimulate further our instinct for mutual aid and community activity is an intelligent and useful appeal to the better angels of our nature. It will brighten the soul of the nation and provide a welcome respite from the less inspiring political skirmishing to which we've become so accustomed. Sounds almost perfect.
Almost.
But there is the danger we will feel so good about being good to one another privately that we will be tempted to believe government does not need to do anything more. The summiteers' own statements make appallingly clear how great the need for assistance is. They mention millions of children at risk and 40 million poor people in America. They mention the need for better education and skills training. There are estimates that just to repair public school buildings around the nation we will need nearly $100 billion. This does not even consider the shortages of books, transportation and modern technology, nor the inappropriate shortness of the school year.
The summiteers mention better health: More than 40 million Americans are without health care insurance. Both Democrats and Republicans in Congress admit that the life of many children will be ruined unless they are provided with access to early and regular health care.
The summit meeting is a good thing, if we regard it as helpful to deal with these enormous problems but refuse to delude ourselves into thinking it is a substitute for government.
The reason America went from almost purely private social services to welfare, food stamps, unemployment insurance, Medicaid, Medicare, public schools and a highway system was not because we stopped being charitable. It was because the size of our population, the density of its gathering and the nature of the problems of industrialization created greater needs than private charity alone could meet.
 Private effort should come before we use government to serve a need: Government is best used only where private effort is inadequate. But private effort is clearly inadequate to do what we have to do to make any real progress in dealing with the vast, complicated, rooted problems associated with poverty.
Ask John Cardinal O'Connor in New York. Ask the leaders of the United Jewish Federation. Ask the operators of the soup kitchen at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. Ask the Ohio Hunger Task Force, which feeds 10,000 Americans each year. They will tell you the truth: Of course, the summit is a good thing; of course, we will profit from the encouragement and even from a little prodding. But American charities, at their very best, can build a bridge only a short part of the way across the chasm.
The rest must be done by the real ultimate form of volunteerism, our government, which after all is not something apart from the people, but is rather the coming together of Americans to decide how best to handle common problems with common resources.
If both parties in Congress can agree to waste $50 billion on so-called corporate welfare; if our Congress says we can afford hundreds of billions of dollars in tax cuts; and if we can afford to give our richest Americans Social Security and Medicare payments they don't need, how can we refuse to build the bridge all the way from here to decency?
Go to the summit: But remember the whole truth!

GRAPHIC: Drawing (M. K. Mabry)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN RED CROSS (54%); VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA (54%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (54%); VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (54%); VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA (54%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (54%); VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; VOLUNTEERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PHILANTHROPY CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); MILLENNIUM (76%); VOLUNTEERS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); MEDICAID (72%); POLITICS (69%); MEDICARE (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



578 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

TODAY
The Newspaper Association of America convention opens in Chicago. Speakers include Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, and Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater prosecutor.
The finance ministers of the Group of Seven industrial nations meet in Washington.
 
MONDAY
The Commerce Department reports new-home sales for March.
Earnings reports are expected from Boeing, Safeco and Tyson Foods.
 
TUESDAY
The Commerce Department reports on durable-goods orders for March.
The Labor Department releases the employment cost index for the first quarter.
The Conference Board releases its consumer confidence index for April.
Earnings reports are expected from Newmont Mining, Pepsico, Tenneco and Textron.
 
WEDNESDAY
The Purchasing Management Association releases its manufacturing index for April.
The Commerce Department releases its initial estimate of first-quarter growth.
Earnings reports are expected from Cigna and Columbia/HCA.
 
THURSDAY
The Commerce Department reports on construction spending for March.
The Commerce Department reports on personal income and spending for March.
 
FRIDAY
The University of Michigan releases its April index of consumer sentiment.
The Labor Department reports on April unemployment.
The Conference Board releases the leading economic indicators for March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); TSN (NYSE) (57%); NEM (NYSE) (57%); CI (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (57%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (57%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); PEPSICO INC (57%); TYSON FOODS INC (57%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (57%); CIGNA CORP (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); NEW HOME SALES (87%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (87%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); REAL ESTATE (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (71%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (70%); DURABLE GOODS (70%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



579 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 32; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Logic In All the Wrong Places

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Why Both Bulls and Bears Can Act So Bird-Brained" (March 30): 
 Indeed, the irrationality of some investors in the markets today poses a puzzle for our behavioral scientists.
However, the problem is not so much with the individual investor as with first cause. One need only look at the market's behavior a day or two after pronouncements have come down from the heights of well-known market analysts and other "pundits."
If someone on "Wall Street Week," for example, drops a remark about a stock or a trend, the market will see action the next trading day -- rational or irrational.
Or, if The Wall Street Journal hints at a corporation's future actions, investors (including professional managers) may take it as a signal to buy, or sell, even though the hint may come to nothing.
Even though the Federal Reserve's recent raising of interest rates had been anticipated for a long time, it took the market two days to really react -- irrationally, in some views -- with a tumble in stock prices.
Individual investors don't have the time to monitor the market that the professionals have, so they act impulsively after reading their actions in the newspaper.

YVONNE R. FREUND
Bellevue, Wash., March 30

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); WASHINGTON, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BONDS (77%); TRENDS (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (72%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: FREUND, YVONNE R MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



580 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Worldbeaters;
Puffed Up by Prosperity, U.S. Struts Its Stuff

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
NOT so long ago, Americans were envious of Japan. Its products seemed so superior, its corporate practices so effective. Western Europe, too, spawned juggernaut industrial economies. And looking abroad, Americans were caught up in self-criticism. For all the wealth of their own giant system, it seemed pitiful and helpless. And they turned to emulation.
The mood has flipped, of course. Triumph and self-satisfaction are the rising American themes. Profits are strong, unemployment low, jobs multiplying, inflation inconsequential, the stock market booming, product quality much improved. Japan, by comparison, is digging itself out of a stock market crash and a collapse in real estate prices. And almost everywhere in Western Europe, sluggish economies and high unemployment make for something less than paradise. 
 It is corporate America that now demands emulation. After years of travail, this country has finally fielded the right formula for generating wealth and prosperity in the highly competitive global economy. Or so the argument goes. And just as Americans once spoke of emulation, there is talk now in Japan, Germany and France of emulating the United States. Some companies are even doing so.
 
'Let Us Celebrate'
 The self-congratulation emerging from this comparison is exuberant. "We are the most flexible, adaptable economy on earth," declared Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch & Company. "Let us celebrate an American triumph," wrote Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the real estate developer and publisher, in an editorial in U.S. News & World Report, which he owns. "The mantra," he added, "is privatize, deregulate and do not interfere with the market."
But real life is more complicated. Despite the triumphalism, various statistics measuring national wealth do not show conclusively that the American model is the best. What's more, the American edge today might be cyclical. While the United States is in the seventh year of a recovery, Japan and Western Europe are just beginning to emerge from years of recession or weak economic growth. The roles can reverse.
Then, too, some of Europe's problems seem temporary. Rebuilding eastern Germany has dragged down Germany as a whole. And the steps being taken to bring about European union and a common currency have been a drag on national economies. Once they disappear, so could the American lead, along with the claim that it is the enduring result of a better formula for doing business. The jury, in sum, is still out.
 "We must take a longer perspective," said Dani Rodrik, an expert in international economics at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. "Our triumphalism is actually an obstacle because it prevents us from seeing problems that in fact need to be addressed."
The essence of the American formula, as described by its corporate boosters, is this: Business must be free to innovate, restructure, relocate. Those are necessary ingredients for baking an ever larger pie, however distasteful the downsizing and wage inequality that are part of the process. Only Britain, closer to the American model than the others, escapes some of the malaise.
By comparison, in this view, the Japanese and Europeans, constrained by custom and law, field a faulty model. They are held back by uniform pay scales, strong unions, generous unemployment insurance, costly benefits, and anti-efficient regulations that limit shopping hours, for example, or prevent entrepreneurs from rapidly establishing new ventures. That makes industry too rigid to flourish in this era of rapidly changing technology.
The accuracy of this formulation is of enormous importance to millions of Americans.
In the name of a successful, laissez faire formula for generating prosperity, most corporate executives justify the painful upheavals that result from income inequality, restructuring, downsizing and relocation to cheaper labor markets. These are necessary steps, they say, en route to a richer economy that will eventually help everyone.
Others, including the Clinton Administration, would not tamper with the formula, but would repair the damage after the fact, through tax policies that redistribute income to the working poor. The earned income tax credit is an example of this approach. So is the cry for more training, so the unskilled can move to the higher end of the unequal pay system.
But is the American formula really the best model? The most comprehensive measure of success is national income per capita; that is, gross domestic product -- the value of all the goods and services produced in a country in a given year -- divided by the population. By that standard, according to the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Organization for Economic Development and Cooperation, the United States has been the world's wealthiest country ever since World War II. No question on that score.
But from 1960 until the early 1980's, Japan and Western Europe closed the gap. Their per capita national incomes grew faster than that of the United States. Since then, no country has gained on another, or lost ground. And in this standoff, each side in this debate sees victory.
Listen to William Lewis, director of the Global Institute at McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm. Mr. Lewis, a former Carter Administration official, has published more than one long study critical of what he describes as market obstacles in Japan, Germany and France -- studies that Robert M. Solow, a Nobel laureate in economics, and other prominent economists have publicly endorsed. In the most recent, issued last month, Mr. Lewis urged, among other things, that France and Germany move toward greater deregulation and a lowering of their "comparatively high minimum wages." Income distribution, he said, should be handled through tax policies, not mandated pay scales.
 
The Path of Deregulation
 Western Europe and Japan, Mr. Lewis said in an interview, stopped gaining ground on the United States in per capita national income because America has moved steadily since the Carter Administration toward deregulation and unrestricted business practices, which "weed out firms that are unable to get better." He added: "The reason there is higher competitive intensity in the United States is that there are fewer restrictions on the ways businesses can organize and compete."
Such reasoning incenses Richard Freeman, a Harvard labor economist. The Japanese and Western Europeans may no longer be closing the income-per-capita gap with the United States, he says, but Americans are working longer hours to keep their lead, while the others, being more productive, are working fewer hours without losing ground. "What you don't see in national income per capita is leisure time," Mr. Freeman said. "That gap is closing. You don't even hear anymore that the Japanese are overworked."
There are in fact flaws in all the models. The United States creates millions of new jobs, and unemployment is very low. But the highest-paid people take home growing chunks of the national income while wages at the lower end have fallen in recent years, when adjusted for inflation. No other industrial nation has had that experience.
 
Out of Work
 The income spread is far smaller in Western Europe, but unemployment in most countries there has grown from low levels 15 years ago to double the American rate, or more. Various subsidies keep the unemployed afloat, but the young are particularly hard-hit, stunting their skills, and even in Western Europe, benefits eventually run out for those without work long enough.
The Japanese, like the Western Europeans, manage to keep wages rising across the board and more evenly distributed than the United States does. Unlike Western Europe, Japan has a low unemployment rate. That is partly because of the Japanese resistance to layoffs and partly because most women stay out of the labor force, or drop out in hard times, while men in their 50's are often forced into retirement in greater numbers than in the West.
Given cultural and political differences, none of these labor models seem likely to change much in the foreseeable future. Protests in France, for example, stopped the Government in 1994 from lowering the minimum wage for people under 25. And in the United States, the practice of tying pay to profits or to what an employer decides a worker's performance is worth is a spreading, not a shrinking, phenomenon.
Still, deregulation is gaining ground in Japan and Western Europe -- not to mimic the United States, but to move toward some middle ground. "There is a very strong feeling that something is wrong, that the cost structure is too high," said Shuzo Nakamura, chief representative in New York of the Japanese Finance Ministry. "Some people believe we have to emulate the United States but most feel we have to find our own way."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (75%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); RELOCATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



581 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Nationalists In Croatia Turn Away From West

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

DATELINE: ZAGREB, Croatia, April 26

 BODY:
Fueled by its triumph in recent elections, the nationalist party that rules Croatia is scuttling American-led initiatives to rebuild the region and is defying Western pressure to allow the return of Serb refugees and to prosecute indicted war criminals, Western diplomats say.
These diplomats have begun to speak disparagingly of the country's future integration into Europe and its position as a military and economic partner. 
 "At this point there is not one issue that is important to us that the Croatian Government seems willing to implement," a senior Western diplomat said.
At the start of the war for independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, President Franjo Tudjman had worked hard to win the good will of the West. But in 1995, as the final phases of the war drove nearly the entire ethnic Serbian population into exile, the governing party began to defy its Western partners.
The Croatian Democratic Union, following its sweeping election victory announced on Thursday, looks set to dominate Croatian political life for several more years.
With moderate opposition parties now locked out of office, there seems little way left to get Zagreb to alter its course.
The United States officials are increasingly frustrated by Croatia's refusal to honor a subpoena and extradition request for Zlatko Aleksovski issued by the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague. The United States is planning to block a pending $486 million international loan to Croatia if it does not turn him over by early May, diplomats said.
Because of Croatia's failure to cooperate with the tribunal, the United States abstained earlier this year from an International Monetary Fund vote approving an economic-reform loan for Croatia.
Mr. Aleksovski, who was indicted for Croat militia atrocities against Muslim civilians in Bosnia's war in 1993, was arrested in Croatia almost a year ago and now lives in Split. But Croatia has refused to send him to the tribunal in The Hague, saying he is ill.
United States officials, including Assistant Secretary of State John C. Kornblum, met recently with Mr. Tudjman and asked him to carry out The Hague's request for the extradition and to comply with the war crimes tribunal's subpoena, issued in January, for documents related to the wartime activities of the Croat commander Tihomir Blaskic, currently imprisoned in The Hague.
But so far the Croats have refused.
Western diplomats are also embroiled in two other disputes with the Croatian Government. The first is the Government's maneuvering to keep 200,000 ethnic Serbs driven from their homes in Croatia from returning, as called for in the Dayton peace accords that ended the Balkan war. The other is Croatia's decision to boycott an American-led regional program, the Southeast European Cooperative Initiative.
The Croats, for their part, have attacked the initiative as a thinly disguised attempt by the Americans to tie Croatia to the former Yugoslav republics. They said the subpoena request was not "legal."
The American Ambassador, Peter W. Galbraith, has made several public calls in the last few days for the ethnic Serbs from the southern Krajina region and an area known as Western Slavonia to return home. The ethnic Serbs fled these two enclaves when Croatian forces seized them in 1995 from rebel Serbs.
Croatia has begun to pack the abandoned Serb homes in the southern Krajina region with displaced ethnic Croats from Bosnia and Serbia. It has driven out the few dozen Serbs who have been allowed to return.
Croatia's defiant stance has only been compounded by the refusal of the ethnic Croats in Bosnia, who take their orders from Zagreb, to cooperate with the federation set up with the Bosnian Muslims. The Bosnian Croats have also continued a campaign of forced evictions of the few hundred Muslims who remain in the Croat-controlled western part of the Bosnian city of Mostar.
Western diplomats and United Nations officials are also smoldering over what they say was an attempt by Croatian authorities to sabotage the voting on April 13 for local councils by 120,000 ethnic Serbs who live in the United Nations-administered enclave of Eastern Slavonia, which is scheduled to be turned over to Zagreb in July. Western diplomats said they expected at least half of those Serbs to leave once the Croats take charge.
The elections were part of the contest for municipal and county assemblies and the upper House of Counties of the Croatian Parliament.
The final returns gave the governing party control in the Zagreb city assembly, a serious blow to the fractured opposition, a coalition of comparatively moderate parties that had hoped to hang on to the capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CROATIA (99%); NETHERLANDS (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); EUROPE (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); SERBIA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (78%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA; BOSNIA; UNITED STATES (99%); CROATIA (99%); NETHERLANDS (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); EUROPE (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); SERBIA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (78%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CROATIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; FOREIGN AID; EXTRADITION ; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); EXTRADITION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); POLITICS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); SUBPOENAS (87%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); BOYCOTTS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); ARRESTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); FOREIGN LENDING (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS; ALEKSOVSKI, ZLATKO DAVID DAVIS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



582 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
The Other Boris

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
He speaks English well, in a quiet, deferential tone. His age is 37. He is slim, dark-eyed and telegenic.
He is a trained physicist drawn into politics by his opposition to a nuclear power station, who won a seat in the last Soviet parliament as an anti-Communist dissident. After standing with Boris Yeltsin against coup plotters in 1991, he was rewarded with appointment as Governor of the Nizhny Novgorod region -- including the notorious closed city of Gorky, where the troublesome were sent into internal exile. 
 He wore sweaters and jeans to the office and was early in denouncing the war in Chechnya. In privatizing state-owned businesses, he followed the economic policies of the reformist Grigory Yavlinsky rather than the apparat-pleasing methods of Anatoly Chubais; in so doing, he gained the confidence of the World Bank and turned his region into the reform center of Russia. In 1995, he was elected easily.
Boris Nemtsov was plucked out of the blue two months ago by the resuscitated President Yeltsin to serve, along with Chubais, as First Deputy Prime Minister.
That thrust Nemtsov into a snakepit of intrigue. Chubais is seeking to oust the wealthy Viktor Chernomyrdin, who was made Prime Minister when Yeltsin needed the financial support of the ex-Communist bankers and industrialists who have been stealing Russia blind. Chubais, a renegade reformer despised for his insider compromises by purer democrats, is blamed by most Russians for privatization giveaways and could not be elected wolfcatcher.
But neither could the stolid Chernomyrdin, whose only loyal constituent is Al Gore. Both unpopular Yeltsin appointees had reached a standoff last week, as red ink overflowed, about control of the richest jewel in the Kremlin crown: the oil-gas-power monopolies, the oligopoly that is the source of Chernomyrdin's strength.
Then Yeltsin pulled one his famous fast ones. Instead of letting either of the two control the resources, he crossed up both by appointing Nemtsov, still wet behind his Kremlin ears, to run the crucial "natural" monopolies.
This was pleasing to the people, who have vaulted Nemtsov to the top of the personal popularity polls, largely because of his opening stunt in stripping bureaucrats of perks and demanding all government limos be Russian-made.
It also pleased Yavlinsky, the only reformer building a grass-roots political party for the long haul, who hailed his protege as "Deputy Czar for Revolutions," a mock-title formerly applied to himself. Yavlinsky, with his Yabloko Party supportive of today's policy but still independent of the regime, pledged to supply Nemtsov with expert staff and recommendations to decentralize economic power and bust up the stagnating monopolies.
How long does the new man's writ run? Yeltsin is a past master at dividing opponents and riding others' popularities. His last horse was Gen. Aleksandr Lebed, whom he pushed forward with TV exposure at election time to split the nationalist vote, appointed to a high post with much fanfare, then jettisoned when he acted uppity. Lebed suddenly finds himself tied for "most trusted" in polls with Yeltsin's new favorite, the other Boris.
Curiously, in a country where Jews are a tiny minority and anti-Semitism is widespread, Nemtsov's Jewish roots have not hurt him politically. Perhaps that's because he has plenty of company in government: the loony Vladimir Zhirinovsky tries to hide his Jewish ancestry, while Yavlinsky does not. Chubais is rumored to have a Jewish parent, but says nothing, and the spymaster now Foreign Minister changed his name from Finkelstein to Primakov (Ukrainian for "stepson") to conceal his background.
Could the Pushkinesque Nemtsov make it all the way? Western pundits interviewing him during his yearly visits to the World Economic Forum can attest he has a real talent for shyly working a room. But he has been gutsy in his opinions, and will surely knock the socks off American television viewers.
Maybe he is being set up by Yeltsin and Chubais for a wild ride and a sharp fall. The job could be too big for any one man with derivative power. At the same time, when his friend Yavlinsky warned him against joining "a whole detachment of well-fixed kamikazes," Nemtsov smiled and replied, "A kamikaze can live for a very long time."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: NIZHNY NOVGOROD, RUSSIA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIZHNY NOVGOROD, RUSSIA (70%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ENERGY AND POWER POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COUPS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CARTELS (63%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; NOVGOROD, NIZHNY (DEPUTY PRIME MIN); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



583 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Sugar's Sweet Deal

 BODY:
An unlikely Congressional pair -- Charles Schumer, a liberal New York Democrat, and Dan Miller, a conservative Florida Republican -- has begun a fresh effort to phase out America's archaic sugar price support program. The program has enriched domestic sugar growers at the expense of ordinary consumers and, in some cases, the environment. Scientists believe that the Florida sugar cane industry's rapid growth over the last 30 years, underwritten in part by the support program, has damaged the ecology of central and southern Florida, including Everglades National Park and Florida Bay, by interrupting the natural flow of clean water.
The present sugar support program was written into law in 1981. In simplest terms, it uses a combination of price supports, special loans and restrictions on imports to prop up the cost of sugar. The domestic raw sugar price of 21 cents a pound is about double the world price. This translates into high retail prices that, according to the General Accounting Office, cost consumers $1 billion a year. The Miller-Schumer bill would reduce the price support in stages and end it altogether in 2003. It would also encourage heavier imports. A similar bill was narrowly defeated in the House last year after ferocious lobbying by the industry. 
 The support program has kept some marginal producers in business while producing big profits for more efficient companies. The most conspicuous example of the latter is Flo-Sun, a huge operation north of the Everglades controlled by two brothers, Alfonso and Jose Fanjul, Cuban exiles who fled Castro and rebuilt their sugar empire in Florida with help from Washington's price supports. The G.A.O. estimates that in one year the sugar subsidy sent about $65 million directly to the Fanjuls' bottom line. Given their obvious interest in keeping the subsidy program alive, the Fanjuls are lavish contributors to politicians in both parties -- giving as much as $3 million since 1979, by one estimate.
The industry has already begun its counterattack on Miller-Schumer. It calls the bill "a bullet in the brain," and warns that if the subsidy disappears, so will domestic producers and the thousands of workers they employ. The Florida cane growers' most energetic spokesman, Robert Buker of U.S. Sugar, Flo-Sun's biggest rival, argues that nobody can compete with foreign governments that dump sugar on world markets at artificially low prices.
But many independent economists think the industry exaggerates the potential damage. For one thing, Miller-Schumer's gradual phase-out will allow time for adjustments. Second, during the phase-out, and even after the price supports disappear completely, the Federal Government will still have powerful tools under existing trade laws to prevent dumping or unfair foreign competition.
The industry is right that there will be casualties. Operations in Hawaii, California and Texas that barely survive now will probably go out of business. Florida companies, the most efficient cane growers, may find some of their poorer lands are no longer profitable and take them out of production.
Environmentally, that could be beneficial. Economists estimate that perhaps one-fifth of the 450,000 acres now under cultivation might be at risk when the subsidy disappears. As it happens, that is about the same number of acres that the Federal Government and the state of Florida would like to buy to use as storage areas to replenish the water-starved Everglades and as water-treatment areas to clean up polluted runoff from the cane fields.
Ending the sugar subsidy will not kill the sugar industry. It will, however, continue to speed the process begun in last year's farm bill of moving American agriculture to a free market. It is also likely to give South Florida's beleaguered environment a happier future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUGAR; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) SUGAR FARMING (92%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); LOBBYING (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); 

PERSON: SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); MILLER, DAN (REPR) CHARLES SCHUMER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



584 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
The New World Order

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
If by any miracle you still remember the campaign of '96, you may recall the poignant soap opera of Bob Dole trying to escape from the Christian Coalition. Every time Mr. Dole stepped toward the center where he might win the election -- accepting a contribution from gay Republicans, inserting the word "tolerance" in the platform's abortion plank -- Pat Robertson and Ralph Reed yanked him violently to the right again as surely as Al Pacino got sucked back into the Mafia in "Godfather III."
Now we have the final evidence that Mr. Dole was no fool to view the religious right as an albatross likely to drive away the centrist voters who elect Presidents: Mr. Reed, as shrewd and ambitious a politician as his generation can boast, has himself started to separate from the religious right by announcing his resignation as the Christian Coalition's executive director. Mr. Reed seems to know that if he wants national office someday, it will do him no more good than it did Mr. Dole to stay under Mr. Robertson's thumb. 
 In speaking to Republican politicos both conservative and moderate on a not-for-attribution basis after Mr. Reed's announcement, I found near unanimity of opinion. Few believe that the Christian Coalition will find a new front man with the same extraordinary talent for putting a happy, unthreatening face on a religious-right constituency that embraces a constitutional amendment outlawing abortion, Pat Buchanan's anti-immigrant nativism and fierce opposition to gay civil rights.
Mr. Reed was even reasonably successful in deflecting attention from a Robertson best seller, "The New World Order," in which Farrakhan-esque conspiracy theories about Jewish bankers intermingled with paranoid ramblings about the Council on Foreign Relations of the sort beloved by our better-armed militias. The most successful Reed technique for intimidating the secular mainstream press was to play the victimization card and accuse any critics of Christian bashing. As proof, he repeatedly cited a single dunderheaded 1993 Washington Post article (which the Post had immediately corrected) labeling evangelicals "poor, uneducated and easy to command."
With Mr. Reed no longer spinning, a more naked religious right may now scare still more voters away from the G.O.P., especially if Mr. Robertson, who is even capable of injecting apocalyptic musings into discussions of entitlement reform, is more visible. "The religious right could become a loose cannon once again," said one economic conservative. "Robertson is a millennialist and I expect the Christian Coalition to get loonier as we approach the end of the millennium."
George Stephanopoulos echoed some Republicans when he argued that Mr. Reed's resignation could hasten the G.O.P.'s inevitable civil war: "Ralph was one of the few who could bridge the divide between the social conservatives and the party's establishment."
In his new role as paid consultant and someday candidate himself, Mr. Reed seems poised to join that establishment and soft-pedal the religious right's most extremist views. He's more likely to be in George W. Bush's camp in 2000 than Pat Buchanan's. Even last year, Mr. Reed pragmatically edged away from his organization's rank and file; he not only covertly favored Mr. Dole over Pitchfork Pat at the pivotal primary moment (South Carolina) but also gingerly tried, until Phyllis Schlafly and company laid down the law, to secure a slightly less Draconian abortion plank. Mr. Reed avoids homophobic rhetoric; his fledgling efforts to reach out to poor black Americans, however politically opportune, seem motivated by a sincere desire to atone for conservative hostility to the 60's civil-rights movement.
Depending on how high he's aiming, Mr. Reed could yet move more toward the center. ("Join the rest of America! Come on in! The water's fine!," says Mr. Stephanopoulos, who understands "totally" why a 35-year-old might leave a job as acolyte to a political titan.) One moderate G.O.P. operative, awed by Mr. Reed's "Machiavellian" ability to reinvent himself in pursuit of power, goes so far as to predict that "in three years, people won't remember he was part of the Christian Coalition." The polarized Republican Party Mr. Reed has left in his wake should only have it so good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN COALITION CHRISTIAN COALITION (94%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION CHRISTIAN COALITION (94%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RELIGION (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); CHURCH & STATE (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (72%); ABORTION (71%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); CIVIL WAR (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); IMMIGRATION (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; REED, RALPH; ROBERTSON, PAT FRANK RICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



585 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Spotlight Is On, but Democrats Enjoy the Sunshine

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 26

 BODY:
Big givers to the Democratic Party unloaded their golf clubs and tennis racquets at the Doral Golf Resort and Spa here this weekend for a three-day getaway with elected officials and party potentates.
Members of the Democratic Business Council, whose members have given the party $10,000 or more, gathered at this somewhat dowdy old resort near Miami International Airport to rub elbows with officials from Washington and be briefed on the party's agenda. 
 Just like old times. Almost.
While the ostensible topics were weighty policy issues and political strategy, public and private conversations centered on the fund-raising scandals preoccupying the Democrats and the suffocating financial problems the party faces in repaying debts of $14 million from the 1996 election and covering its mounting legal bills because of questions over fund-raising.
The 120 contributors attending the retreat are the party's true loyalists, those who continue to give even though their gifts -- and motives -- are under scrutiny as never before.
One of the donors, Jayant S. Kalotra, spoke about the party's money-raising problems and the focus on efforts of Asian-Americans to become more involved in the American political game.
Mr. Kalotra, an international business consultant from McLean, Va., said that Republicans and the media were trying to impose collective guilt on Americans of Asian descent. And, he said, he resents it.
Mr. Kalotra, a Sikh who immigrated to the United States 13 years ago from India, said that some Asian-American donors had skirted the law in trying to make their voices heard in Washington. He said that the amount of money in American politics inevitably leads to corruption -- as it does everywhere in the world.
But that should not taint him or other foreign-born American citizens, he said.
"In the end, we are all individuals," said Mr. Kalotra, wearing a maroon turban and munching a piece of matzoh. "If I make a mistake, it doesn't mean all Sikhs in the world made a mistake."
Mr. Kalotra contributed $10,000 to the Democratic National Committee this year, entitling him to receive periodic mailings from the party and to attend gatherings such as this weekend's conference. He said the money came from personal funds and he offered no apologies.
"If you have nothing to hide, then why should you be worried about where the money comes from?" he asked.
The Doral retreat is the first major donor event the party has sponsored since the questions about fund-raising practices were raised last fall. And it is the first ever to permit attendance by reporters.
Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado, the new Democratic National Committee general chairman, reasoned that the party's best defense against questions about its fund-raising practices was to bathe them in sunshine and klieg lights.
"Since I came in, I've been trying to run it as openly as I can," Mr. Romer said in an interview. "It's healthy for the press to witness this. There's a system in this country for how you raise money and we have to use it until we get something better."
His calculation in opening the affair to the press apparently proved correct. Only four newspapers and two television networks sent correspondents, far fewer than probably would have come had the party tried to keep reporters away.
Party officials tried to prepare its contributors here for the unaccustomed presence of the press. In a memo to donors attending the conference, the party's communications director, Amy Weiss Tobe, cautioned that while most of the session was to be off the record, attendees should be prepared to see anything they say in print. The paper gave suggested answers to anticipated questions and urged those being questioned to turn the conversation to important Democratic initiatives and the record of the Clinton Administration.
"You can pivot off these questions and talk about why you, as a business or labor leader, feel this party and President has been good for the U.S. economy, good for working men and women, good for business, and is the right Party to lead this nation into the 21st century," she said in the memo.
Reuven Bloch, a contributor from Baltimore who came to the United States from Russia in 1975, said that he considered it his duty as a loyal Democrat to attend the conference and to speak openly of his allegiance to the party.
"Why are we here?" asked Mr. Bloch, an exporter of used clothing. "Because we're troopers. When you're a soldier, you're a soldier."
He said his 1996 contribution earned him an invitation to one of the White House coffees President Clinton held last year for major donors, although he was unable to attend because he was traveling.
Mr. Bloch said he gave money to the party "purely on a pragmatic basis" but that he expected nothing concrete in return.
He added: "I don't see anything illegal about it. I consider it part of the ambiance of living in a capitalistic society."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Democratic lawmakers got together with some of the party's biggest contributors at the Doral Golf Resort and Spa in Miami this weekend. Senator Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey spoke at a meeting on Saturday. Jayant S. Kalotra objected to the scrutiny of Asian-Americans. (Photographs by Susan Greenwood for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MIAMI INTERNATIONAL FORWARDERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ASIAN-AMERICANS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RESORTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMMIGRATION (76%); CORRUPTION (75%); SCANDALS (75%); AIRPORTS (56%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; KALOTRA, JAYANT S

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



586 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: For Some Little Pieces of Land, Big Dreams at Work

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
"I take my way along the island's edge, venting a heavy heart," wrote that old Brooklynite Walt Whitman in "Leaves of Grass." It was a sentiment that might now reflect the forlorn state of dozens of islands in New York City, the nation's largest urban archipelago.
Two of its islands may soon have their fates decided -- or at least their ownership -- at the highest levels of the Federal Government: the United States Supreme Court must decide whether to divide Ellis Island between New York and New Jersey, and President Clinton has offered to help transfer Governors Island from the Coast Guard to New York if a plan is prepared for its public use. New York University has expressed interest in buying part of it. 
 But beyond the headlines surrounding those two large islands are 34 others dotting the waters of New York Harbor, Arthur Kill off Staten Island, the East River and elsewhere in a city built as a vortex of maritime industry and transportation.
The islands were once a far more vital part of the urban economy, supporting such diverse enterprise as shipbuilding, military training, summer resorts and mental health institutions. But now, most are abandoned and off-limits to the public. Several are blighted by once-grand, now-derelict, 19th-century buildings.
"These islands are an urban resource that has been all but forgotten," said Alice Blank, a Manhattan architect who has spent three years researching the islands in a project supported by the New York State Council on the Arts. She has relied on resources like faded navigational charts and has canoed to islands that have no means of public access.
Among Ms. Blank's findings is that almost as many islands have disappeared from the city's waterways as currently exist. Disappeared is not quite the right word: most of the lost islands were used as depositories for landfill dug up from construction of the city's subway system or other large projects, and were, in the process, merged with other nearby islands or masses of land.
A similar process -- this time using material dredged from the bottom of the harbor -- has been recommended by the Army Corps of Engineers to create a huge new island off Brighton Beach or Staten Island.
The Corps outlined its plan to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey late last year as one option to dispose of vast amounts of dredge materials that are now being deposited at a site in the Atlantic Ocean six miles offshore. Federal restrictions will put an end to dumping in the offshore "mud-hole" on Sept. 1. So much material will need to be dredged from the harbor that the new island could be up to 2,000 acres.
The Corps has asked city and state officials to decide within two months: if the project receives that approval, it will require public review and is expected to provoke opposition from environmentalists.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "A PRIMER: Lost and Found: Islands of New York City"
New York City and State will decide within two months whether a proposal to create an island in the waters between Brooklyn and Staten Island should get initial approval. But meanwhile, most of the city's other islands remain suspended in time, isolation and abandonment.
 "Most people are not even aware they are out there," said Alice Blank, who has researched the city's islands for three years. This is a rendering of her findings. Chart/map provides a rendering of her findings, showing the locations of 67 lost and existing islands, along with possible sites for a future island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (62%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (62%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK HARBOR; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ISLANDS; HISTORY; LANDFILL ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (74%); MARINE SHIPPING (74%); ARMIES (74%); COASTAL AREAS (74%); RIVERS (73%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (73%); RESORTS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MILITARY TRAINING (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (67%); SHIPBUILDING (67%); ENGINEERING (67%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (64%); LANDFILLS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (56%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



587 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: Urban Volunteers Strain to Reach Fragile Lives

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 23

 BODY:
Ever since George Sydnor 2d, a single father, moved to the struggling north Philadelphia neighborhood of Logan six weeks ago, he has been trying to find a safe and stimulating place for his three children to go after school.
The stakes are high for Mr. Sydnor, 42, who is going blind from glaucoma and who cares for his children alone because their mothers once had crack cocaine habits and don't come around much now. He wants to protect his children, ages 7, 10 and 13, from the worst parts of Logan, where blocks are stunted with abandoned houses, teen-agers have been seduced into drugs or petty crimes and, just last week, two youths were hospitalized after a street brawl erupted between black and Asian teen-agers. 
 This week, Mr. Sydnor got lucky. He found the Logan Youth Project, a group set up two years ago to run field trips, after-school workshops and other activities to keep children off the streets.
It is just the sort of grass-roots effort that will be celebrated and encouraged by the swarm of political dignitaries, corporate sponsors and children's advocates who have descended on Philadelphia for the highly publicized event called the Presidents' Summit on America's Future. Organizers of the summit, which runs for three days beginning on Sunday, hope to harness the persuasive powers of figures like President Clinton and Gen. Colin L. Powell to rally people as volunteers to help vulnerable and disadvantaged children across the country.
But as the summit swirls with ceremonies at Independence Hall, workshops and a one-day tree planting and graffiti clean-up brigade that will pass about a mile west of Logan, the experience of the Logan Youth Project may be worth a closer look.
In one sense, the fledgling group's ability, with mostly volunteer labor, to make a dent in the day-to-day desperation of families like the Sydnors shows that a dedicated group can be a godsend for those it reaches.
At the same time, in a neighborhood where community leaders point out sweatshops and crack houses, where the high school is one of the city's worst and where last year a 10-year-old girl was raped on her way home from school, such groups can do only so much.
"It's something like icing on the cake when you look at the housing problems and the education problems," said the Rev. Edward B. Jones, the pastor of Holy Trinity-Bethlehem Presbyterian Church, who helped set up the Logan Youth Project and gives it office space in his church and help from his staff. "I'm not so sure that a program like the Logan Youth Project can do a whole lot except for the kids who are interested in having something done. We can't do anything about the kids hanging out on the corners."
And though the group seems to have become a refuge for dozens of youths, its status is far from secure. The Federal grant that started the project, enabling it to hire a part-time director and give thousands of dollars to neighborhood groups like the football team and the tutoring program, ran out in December.
"We were almost dead," said Bridget Jamison, the church secretary and a Youth Project leader. "We wrote a letter telling the community we were out of money. But we still kept getting kids stopping by and asking when was our next field trip."
For the last few months, the project's director, Paula Cooper, is still working a full week but without pay, collecting unemployment instead of a salary. When that runs out, she may have less time to volunteer.
In the meantime, the group has raised $500 through a raffle and is planning a candy bar sale. Ms. Cooper, a pharmacy technician by training, is learning the painstaking process of applying for grants from any program or corporation she can find.
She has persuaded a local bank to sponsor a workshop on savings accounts and is seeking money from an anti-smoking group.
"Volunteering is really good, but people need to have a program to volunteer for, and in order to do that, you have to have dollars," said Kelli Polyak, director of programs for Campus Boulevard Corporation, a nonprofit organization that arranged for the initial Youth Project grant. "It's been really hard for the Logan Youth Project because they have to divert their energy to raising money when they want to devote it to things they want to do."
Logan is a neighborhood crying out for youth programs. A square-mile patchwork of both decaying row houses and neatly kept middle-class homes, it is not the city's poorest section. Many more people work than receive welfare.
But Logan has more children than almost any other Philadelphia neighborhood -- more than a third of its 40,000 residents are under 18. Nearly half of the children live in poverty.
Community leaders say the neighborhood is teeming with children partly because there is plenty of room for them in the once-grand pre-World War I houses that are cheap to live in these days. Property values have been plummeting for 15 years, ever since houses in a 17-block triangle of Logan began slowly sinking into the ash and cinder landfill beneath them.
Now, many of those blocks are pocked with abandoned houses and rubble-strewn vacant lots, magnets for vandals, squatters and drug dealers.
"There's a lot of bad seeds," said David Daniels, 16, whose younger brother has gotten mixed up in everything from graffiti to gambling. "There's nowhere for kids to go in Logan except out on the street."
A beacon in the neighborhood is the Gothic gray Holy Trinity-Bethlehem church. Mr. Jones, 68, who has led the church for 33 years and whom everybody calls Doc Jones, has watched other churches and synagogues flee and his own Sunday attendance drop to 100 from 1,600. But he and his church have stayed, throwing open meeting rooms to dozens of community groups and giving over the basement basketball court to the Police Athletic League.
For places like Logan, the Presidents' Summit seems a bit "naive," Doc Jones said. "You have to have a certain expertise amongst the volunteers, and in communities like Logan, people don't have the expertise."
Volunteers, moreover, are hard to come by in the neediest parts of Logan, he and others said. "People want to isolate themselves because it is somewhat of a scary place to live," Ms. Polyak said.
Asked what was needed, Doc Jones sighed. Government assistance was not necessarily the answer, he said, saying Federal money had rolled in in the 1970's and then dried up, leaving little tangible improvement.
Corporate investment would be nice but Logan has been unable to attract many fast-food chains or large businesses.
Korean, Cambodian and Vietnamese immigrants have opened small shops, but when they can afford to live elsewhere, many move.
Doc Jones said he was hoping for a strong leader with the expertise to organize the community and generate the political pressure that might bring in money and jobs.
In the meantime, the Logan Youth Project has made small strides. With its own programs, a newsletter and financial support, it has promoted other clubs and teams that had been struggling for money or children to participate.
It is an uphill battle.
Last summer, the project packed 30 youths into a sheriff's bus and took them to visit the juvenile detention center for a tough, firsthand look at what jail was like. One of the boys ended up back there a little while later -- charged with breaking into a house and stealing video games, Ms. Cooper said.
This week, Ms. Cooper, 40, a wiry woman wearing sneakers under her silky blue dress, swept into the streets as the schools were letting out, buttonholing teen-agers with orange and yellow fliers advertising that afternoon's workshop on date rape and sexual abuse.
"It's free and we have refreshments," Ms. Cooper trumpeted, whenever her pitch on the merits seemed to fall flat.
Out of the corner of her eye, she caught sight of a commotion down the street and raced to help break up a fight between a boy and a girl. It was pointless, she decided, to hand out fliers to those children and the crowd around them.
But then Steven Alston, 15, walked up to Ms. Cooper and asked her to come to a school meeting about the fight between black and Asian teen-agers.
"There's a very big need for the Youth Project in this neighborhood," Steven said. "If it wasn't there, I'd be getting into trouble, I guess."
About 25 youths showed up for the date rape and sexual abuse workshop, given free by staff from nearby Einstein Medical Center.
George Sydnor who had recently moved to a house in Logan because his eye problems made it difficult to navigate around a high-rise housing project in another neighborhood, was there with his three children.
He had happened to see the flier that afternoon, coming from from the library where he had borrowed educational videotapes on subjects like sexual abuse and dating.
"I've been trying," said Mr. Sydnor, "to find a way to talk to my girls about these things."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paula Cooper leads a volunteer group that is trying to help a troubled neighborhood in Philadelphia. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Sydnor family, Bernicesha, 7, left, father George Sydnor 2d, Tawania, 10, and George Sydnor 3d, 13, live in Logan, a Philadelphia neighborhood where the Logan Youth Project is helping keep children off the streets. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; VOLUNTEERS; URBAN AREAS YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILD ABUSE (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); COCAINE (76%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (72%); GLAUCOMA (72%); CHILD WELFARE (72%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); VOLUNTEERS (69%); SPONSORSHIP (66%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



588 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1693 words

HEADLINE: Legacy of Los Angeles Riots: Divisions Amid the Renewal

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 25

 BODY:
In the cramped aisles of Tom's Liquor store at the corner of Florence and Normandie Avenues in South-Central the other day, all was quiet and normal. Bottles of motor oil sat next to bars of Ivory soap on the tidy shelves of what passes for a corner grocery, and customers bought fruity wine coolers and cans of malt liquor to go.
But diagonally across the street, the boarded-up husk of a Shell station stands as a silent reminder that five years ago next Tuesday, this intersection was the flash point of the worst riots in modern American history. Its chain-link fence is covered with crude advertisements on plywood sheets for plumbing services and junk cars, and a forlorn sign mocks "Merry Xmas" in the April sun. 
 "Why bring up bad memories?" asks Keith Maxie, the 27-year-old security guard at Tom's, mopping his forehead with the back of his hand on the spot where Reginald O. Denny, a white truck driver, was pulled from his cab and beaten senseless by a group of blacks enraged at the acquittal of four white police officers in the beating of a black motorist, Rodney King. "Let sleeping dogs lie. What was did was did. It's still the same."
Five years after the explosion of anger and violence that left 55 people dead and 2,300 injured, and destroyed or damaged more than 1,000 buildings at an estimated loss of $1 billion, things are still the same in Los Angeles, and everything is different.
On the streets of South-Central, where smoky fires smudged the sky for days and looters picked the shelves of liquor stores and swap-meets clean, vacant lots still dot block after block. But so do newly built groceries, fast-food restaurants, strip malls and sturdy iron security fences -- spurred in part by nearly $900 million in government investment and nearly half again as much from the private sector. In all, about 85 percent of the damaged properties have been repaired or rebuilt, according to the official organization responsible for coordinating recovery efforts.
But rents for commercial office space in the downtown areas on the fringes of the riots are roughly half the rates for space on the west side of town where the riots did not reach, and vacancy rates are twice as high.
On artsy La Brea Avenue, where looters rampaged north into Hollywood, chic restaurants and funky antique stores are thriving. But in the adjoining old-money enclave of Hancock Park, some fearful white residents now sleep with short-barreled shotguns close at hand, and real estate agents warn buyers of the high-water marks of the violence with pinpoint precision.
Richard J. Riordan, the Republican lawyer-businessman who ended decades of Democratic rule in 1993, just won easy re-election as Mayor, with a new coalition that included overwhelming support from Hispanic voters, who for the first time edged out blacks as a percentage of the electorate. But Mr. Riordan made virtually no inroads with blacks, who remain perhaps more disaffected than ever by the city establishment.
The annual report of the county's Human Relations Commission this week found a 25 percent increase in hate crimes in 1996, but it said the figures were not a cause for alarm and attributed them to better reporting and heightened awareness of violence against minorities -- and to increasing integration of neighborhoods that were once all white.
A handful of new research organizations have sprung up to study the region in the wake of the violence, and new community groups sponsor programs in cross-cultural understanding. A recent poll by the Center for the Study of Los Angeles at Loyola Marymount University found that nearly half of residents thought the city had made improvements in race relations since 1992, but 6 in 10 said race and ethnic relations were "not good," and a like number believed that riots and other disturbances would recur in the next five years.
And in this most polyglot of cities, Angelenos cannot even agree what to call the series of events that began on the evening of April 29, 1992. The accepted neutral term of government and academia appears to be "civil unrest." Some blacks prefer "uprising" or "rebellion." Hispanic residents may say los quemazones, or the great burnings, while Korean-Americans follow the Korean national tradition of naming watershed events for their dates, and simply say sa-i-ku -- literally 4-2-9.
Paradoxically, an awareness of such differences may itself be the riots' most enduring legacy.
"People in L.A. are now very aware that there's another part of town than the West Side or the Hollywood Hills, even if it's a part they don't understand or are afraid of," said Joel Kotkin, a fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy in Malibu. "If there's a positive to come out of the riots, it's that we understand there's a problem."
At the same time, Mr. Kotkin said, the city's overall economic recovery in the last five years, while not spectacular, has greatly exceeded expectations, with rates of small business growth and job creation better than in most American cities. Last year, unemployment in Los Angeles County dropped 15 percent.
But critics warn that many of the high-paying aerospace industry jobs lost in the late '80's and early '90's have been replaced by lower-wage jobs in manufacturing and the garment industry,, and that growth cannot be sustained without better public education and job training efforts in the inner city.
And the growth has its limits. Sixty blocks north of South-Central, in the Oxford Center Mini-Mall in Koreatown, empty parking spaces pockmark a lot that used to be full at midday.
"Now, it's O.K.," said Seung Choi, owner of the Korean Soup restaurant in the mall, who recalls the "terrible, really scary" days of April 1992. "But business never came back up."
Paul In, the owner of the 20-20 Super Optical shop across the parking lot, also says business has never reached its pre-riot levels, and he grimaces when asked about those days. "Oh, I don't even want to think about that time," said Mr. In, who slept on a bench in the front window of his shop for 20 days to keep would-be looters at bay. "We don't even understand what cause it."
Indeed, even now experts are at some pains to parse the origins of the violence that engulfed the city as tensions that had simmered for nearly 30 years since the Watts riots of 1965 spilled over. Black outrage at the acquittal of the white officers in the King beating was indisputably the spark, but over the ensuing days, unrest spread to other neighborhoods, and at the end of six days of arrests, just over 50 percent of the 5,000 people charged were of Hispanic origin. Korean-American businesses sustained nearly half of all the property damage.
Edward J. W. Park, an assistant professor of sociology at the University of Southern California and an authority on the Korean-American community in Los Angeles, recently wrote that the first step toward understanding the causes and consequences of the riots is "to recognize that this event marked the transition of the United States from a biracial to a multiracial society: the spectators have now taken center stage."
Black frustration at nonblack business ownership, and lack of such vital commercial services as groceries, in South-Central, helped fuel the looting. But in the short term, residents agree, the violence only made conditions worse, and no one argues that the rebuilding efforts have done much more than return conditions in South-Central to pre-riot levels.
"When that day happened, it made it much worse for us," said Pam Gray, who is now the first assistant manager of a new Parts USA auto parts store built by the Pep Boys chain at Florence and Normandie as part of the recovery effort; five years ago she was nursing a newborn baby. "You had to drive a million miles to get to a grocery store."
Now, Ms. Gray said of the corner, "It's calmed down quite a bit; if I feel safe here, I think anybody would."
Mike Ford, a 24-year-old student at El Camino community college who wants to be a welder, had just left Ms. Gray's store the other day after buying some black spray paint. He stopped to recall how he happily bought stolen merchandise looted by friends from area shops five years ago. Asked if anything had changed since then, Mr. Ford replied, "I think the police are a little bit more cautious about what they do to people, not so quick to harass you."
Michael Dear, director of the Southern California Studies Center, established at U.S.C. after the riots, said the 1992 violence proved that the community "didn't learn the lessons of the Watts riots too well, because the same basic underlying structural tensions which we experienced in the region hadn't been addressed."
In the years since, Mr. Dear added, "What we have learned is that we really do have to get along with one another, and there are efforts being made to redefine the social contract that binds Southern Californians together, and if we can't do it here, then we're unlikely to be able to do it anywhere else in the country."
In fact, public dialogue on the issues raised by the riots has remained fairly constant. "Which Way L.A.?" -- a round-table discussion program created in the wake of the riots -- has become a permanent feature on KCRW-FM, the Santa Monica public radio station.
But public division has remained equally strong. The O. J. Simpson case, and more recently the debate over the future of Willie Williams, the black police chief brought from Philadelphia in an effort to heal divisions after the riots, have only exacerbated racial differences. After a protracted public debate that broke along black-white lines, the city recently decided not to renew Chief Williams's contract.
"On a collective basis, I'm not sure our city has heeded the lessons very well," said John Mack, the head of the Los Angeles branch of the Urban League. "There are some individual, spectacular examples of progress. But there's been too much of a tendency to make it a spectator sport.
"L.A. can become America's Bosnia, or it can become America's example in democracy. We've all got to extend ourselves a little."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The hulks of burned-out cars, above, littered the lot of a radiator shop at the intersection of Florence and Normandie Avenues in Los Angeles after rioting in April 1992. Today, an auto parts store occupies the lot where the shop once stood, part of a resurgence of business in the devastated neighborhood. About 85 percent of the damaged properties have been repaired or rebuilt, though many empty lots remain. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 24)
 
Map: "Charting the Destruction" shows sites of buildings that were damaged or destroyed during the Los Angeles riots in 1992. (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RENTING AND LEASING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL RIOTS (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); REAL ESTATE (87%); RETAILERS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); TRENDS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FAST FOOD (73%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (73%); HISTORY (70%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); CITIES (65%); MAYORS (65%); CITY LIFE (60%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



589 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1840 words

HEADLINE: U.S. IS CONSIDERING CURBS ON MEXICANS TIED TO NARCOTICS

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN 

 BODY:
Searching for a new weapon in the United States' most important drug battle abroad, the Clinton Administration has been quietly debating proposals to impose stringent economic penalties against Mexico's biggest traffickers.
The measures under consideration include freezing the American assets of suspected drug smugglers and their associates, barring the traffickers' legitimate commercial ventures from doing business in the United States and blocking the traffickers' access to American banks. 
 Such sanctions have been imposed in the last 18 months against the most powerful cocaine producers in Colombia and several hundred of their associates. While the effect is only starting to be felt, United States officials have praised the effort as a major new front in the fight against drugs.
But the Administration has been circumspect about taking similar action against Mexicans, in part because of the extent to which the traffickers have enmeshed themselves in an economy that American officials describe as being of vital strategic importance to the United States.
There are, the officials said, a growing number of American intelligence reports suggesting that Mexican smugglers have invested some of their booming profits in banks, ports and other enterprises that have been sold off by the Mexican Government in recent years.
"If you start going after stuff they've privatized, you are going into a minefield," an official opposed to the sanctions said. "You have to weigh how much this would really hurt the traffickers against what it could do to a lot of innocents -- and what it could do to the Mexican economy as a whole."
The continuing debate, as described by officials in Washington involved in the deliberations, has brought the economic and law-enforcement aims of American policies toward Mexico into unusually clear conflict.
To some officials in the White House, the State Department and the Drug Enforcement Administration, such strong measures could be more effective in Mexico than in Colombia because of the greater importance of the United States for Mexican businesses.
But Justice Department officials question whether they could defend penalties against the Mexican traffickers in court. And the Treasury Department opposes the idea more strongly, officials said, warning that the sanctions might even undermine investor confidence in the Mexican economy.
"Mexico is our third-largest trading partner," a White House official cautioned. "Something like this would involve so many businesses, entities and individuals there -- it's just a much more complicated task than with Colombia."
 
Good for Colombia, But Not for Mexico
A former senior law-enforcement official who took part in discussions about the sanctions and spoke about them on the condition that he not be identified, explained the Administration's reticence differently.
"This is one more case of selective application of the rules," he said. "What is fine for Colombia is not O.K. for Mexico."
Other officials gave some weight to both views. As a practical obstacle, they noted that the United States Government had much less specific information about the front companies and legitimate holdings of drug smugglers in Mexico than it did about those of Colombians.
At the same time, the officials noted that the United States agency responsible for imposing the sanctions, the Treasury Department, had been the most insistent voice within the Government warning that they might pose a danger for legitimate business interests in Mexico.
President Clinton announced the crackdown on Colombian traffickers with considerable fanfare, in an October 1995 speech marking the 50th anniversary of the United Nations. "We must not allow them to wash the blood off profits from the sale of drugs," he said.
Since then, the effort has received little public attention in the United States. In Colombia, however, each new development in the program referred to as "the Clinton list" and "the American blockade" has been front-page news.
The sanctions were levied under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, which authorizes penalties in case of an "unusual and extraordinary threat to national security." The same authority was invoked to stop Americans from doing businesses with the Panamanian leadership of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, and to freeze Iranian assets after Americans were taken hostage in Teheran.
 
The Practical Results Of Freezing Assets
The executive order issued for Colombia allows the Government to freeze any assets under United States jurisdiction that belong wholly or in part to four principal figures in the Cali cocaine cartel or to nearly 300 of their relatives and associates who have been named on a list of "specially designated narcotics traffickers."
Because the traffickers are thought to have few identifiable properties in the United States, the main effect of the program comes from its secondary provisions. Those make it illegal for American citizens and companies to do business with the 126 Colombian companies -- from poultry farms to cosmetics manufacturers -- that have been explicitly linked to the cartel. Violators risk prison terms as long as 10 years and fines of $500,000 for corporations and $250,000 for individuals.
None of the cases brought against the traffickers have yet been tested in court. But American and Colombian officials pointed to signs that the hundreds of warning letters sent to American companies by the Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control have at least disrupted the traffickers' business empires.
The sanctions "have had a profound impact" on the cartel leaders, the head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, Thomas A. Constantine, told Congress last year, limiting "their ability to conduct business in both the national and international marketplaces."
Colombian banks, threatened with the loss of access to the United States financial system, have closed some accounts tied to the traffickers and tightened some regulations. The Colombian Attorney General's office and the Colombian equivalent of the Securities and Exchange Commission have opened investigations into some of the businesses cited by the Treasury Department.
Colombian companies like Drogas La Rebaja, a huge chain of discount drugstores owned by relatives of the jailed cartel leader Miguel Rodriguez Orejuela, have lost both bankers and wholesale suppliers. And though subsidiaries of some American manufacturers have continued to feed the blacklisted companies through intermediaries, the pressure has been sufficient to bring relatives of the traffickers out of the shadows to complain.
 
Unbearable Tension In Being a Rodriguez
"Being a Rodriguez these days is worse than having AIDS," Mr. Rodriguez's oldest son, William, told a Colombian newsmagazine last year.
The executive director of the Colombian-American Chamber of Commerce, Joseph A. Finnin, said in a telephone interview from Bogota that since the sanctions, major Colombian companies, as well as American ones, are being careful about whom they deal with. "They don't want their names alongside those on the list," Mr. Finnin said.
There is some evidence that the sanctions have essentially become a kind of tax on the traffickers' aboveboard holdings -- an inconvenience rather than a serious threat.
Greg Passic, a special agent at the Treasury Department's money-laundering intelligence center, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, said the threat of sanctions had prompted Cali operatives to get rid of some of their holdings. But he said that with other assets, they had changed their ownership, at least on paper.
The director of the Treasury's foreign assets office, R. Richard Newcomb, acknowledged as much. "But those new companies are not mainstream; they are underground," he said in an interview. "It gets more and more raggedy, and as they do that, we will identify the new front companies they set up and put them on the list."
American officials are generally less sanguine in assessing the potential of similar sanctions against major traffickers in Mexico. Mr. Newcomb declined to address the subject at all. Other officials said the problem of intelligence information loomed especially large.
The actions taken against Colombian traffickers, their associates and their businesses may not have been challenged in court because they have unusually strong evidence backing them up: Law-enforcement officials said the sanctions were largely based on thousands of documents and computer files captured in the long series of raids that landed most of the cartel leaders in prison in the summer of 1995.
By contrast, officials said, United States law-enforcement and intelligence agencies know far less about the aboveboard holdings of traffickers in Mexico. Much of what the agencies do have, they added, is information that government lawyers would be loath to present in court -- either because it is only partly corroborated or because it could expose the methods used to collect it.

Scant Data on Mexicans Limit Enforcement
 Miguel Rodriguez and his brother, Gilberto, in particular, also went to great lengths to set up their children and other relatives in legitimate business. Mexican traffickers are often more circumspect about their place in society, hiding their assets in labyrinths of lawyers, front companies and phantom associates.
The expected nomination of Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts, an Assistant Attorney General in charge of the criminal division in the Reagan Administration, as the next Ambassador to Mexico is seen by some analysts as a boost for cooperative investigative operations.
Nevertheless, "determining who is inside the circle and who is outside -- through court records, business records and everything else, is a lot tougher in Mexico," said a former senior law-enforcement official who has conducted investigations there. "There are just so many cutouts."
Senior Clinton Administration officials worried recently that even the symbolic refusal to certify Mexico as cooperative in fighting drugs could imperil the Mexican economic recovery, to which President Clinton has committed billions of dollars in credit and considerable political capital.
Yet some officials predicted that as the Administration focused more closely on the traffickers' growing economic power in Mexico, it would become harder and harder to avoid doing there as it has done in Colombia.
Mexico's traffickers, they noted, are more dependent on the United States economy and thus potentially more vulnerable. They are more closely tied to the American financial system. They like to keep homes in areas like San Diego and south Texas.
"There is a lot of evidence out there that these people are extremely wealthy, extremely influential, and enough of a threat to the United States for the President to include them on the list," a senior law-enforcement official said. "It's a natural extension of the policy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (95%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (95%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; BANKS AND BANKING; COCAINE; FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNTS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); COCAINE (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



590 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-13
 
U.S. Debates New Threats To Mexican Traffickers
The Clinton Administration is debating proposals to impose stringent economic penalties on Mexico's biggest drug traffickers. The measures include freezing the American assets of suspected drug smugglers and blocking their access to American banks. Such sanctions have been imposed against Colombians. 1
 
Calamity in North Korea
As famine spreads in secretive North Korea, it is hard to gauge the full dimensions of the disaster. But farmlands are plainly parched and yield almost nothing. Rural people have grown accustomed to eating grass and bark. And now even those are falling into short supply. 3 

Mobutu's Last Line of Defense
Zaire's Presidential Guards, loyal to Mobutu Sese Seko, rushed to defend the last sizable city standing between the rebels and the capital. But diplomats say the capital could come under assault within days. 6
 
Turkish Government Totters
The first Government in modern Turkey led by someone from an Islamic party was shaken by two Cabinet resignations and could fall. 4
 
Major Battles On
With elections on Thursday, Prime Minister John Major urged British voters to consider the "irreversible" damage he said Labor could cause to their economic welfare. 8
 
New Pollution Fears in Japan
Concern is growing in Japan about diseases linked to dioxin, including cancer and skin ailments. Much dioxin comes from the incineration of garbage, particularly plastics, and Japan burns an extremely large amount of it. 10
 
NATIONAL 18-32
 
Republicans Seek Role In Filling Judgeships
Senate Republicans are moving quickly on a series of far-reaching measures intended to bolster their influence in selecting Federal judges and to inhibit President Clinton from naming anyone not to their liking. 1

Reassessing Motherhood
The announcement that a 63-year-old woman has given birth has ethicists asking fundamental question about the technology that made it possible. 20

Injustice for a Gene?
One of the first genes linked to colon cancer may not be a culprit in the disease, a study has found. 31

A 'Chemical Castration' State
Hoping to save money on prisons, Montana has become the second state to approve the use of "chemical castration" to reduce the sexual drive of sexual offenders who are about to be released from prison. 32

Florida Sues Over Welfare
Florida has become the first state to sue the Federal Government to prevent the loss of $300 million a year in welfare benefits to the state's legal immigrants, many of them elderly or disabled. 26
 
Return of the Grizzly
The timber industry and labor are actively supporting a controversial proposal to reintroduce grizzly bears into a huge chunk of western Montana and eastern Idaho, and that has muddled the traditional battle lines: for years, those groups have bitterly opposed environmentalists on most issues, particularly those that involve endangered species. The compromise agreement could chart a new course for the management of endangered species. 30

NEW YORK/REGION 33-39
 
In Queens, Leaders Ask, 'What Took So Long?'
After a fire raced through an illegal boarding house in Queens and claimed four lives last week, the Giuliani administration unveiled an ambitious crackdown on landlords who carve houses into cheap, dangerous warrens. But throughout Queens -- where illegal apartments have become a problem facing dozens of neighborhoods -- civic leaders, City Council members and even the inspectors charged with uncovering those dangerous conditions have angrily asked why the city has waited so long to act. 1
 
A Dearth of Information
A long list of community and advocacy groups, public officials, news organizations and even ordinary citizens have been finding that they are unable to obtain information about the workings of city government under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Some of the requests come from the Mayor's political opponents, or from groups that have been critical of him in the past; others have no apparent political content. All are linked by a desire to learn more about the city than the generally rosy picture disseminated by the Mayor and his top aides. 33
 
OBITUARIES 40-41

Nancy Claster
The teacher on television's "Romper Room" who, as Miss Nancy, entertained and educated a generation of children. She was 82. 41
 
Rose Bigman
Walter Winchell's "girl Friday" who worked seven days a week shielding the columnist from enemies, fending off his friends and serving him with slavish devotion for more than three decades, was 87. 40
 
Weather 42
 
Cong. Vote 36

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); TURKEY (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); TURKEY (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MONTANA, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CANCER (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRISONS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); ETHICS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); JUDGES (72%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (71%); FAMINE (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); COLORECTAL CANCER (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); MAMMALS (62%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (55%); RELIGION (53%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



591 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 2332 words

HEADLINE: Urban Youths Start Over, on a Kibbutz;
Taking Responsibility 5,000 Miles From Distractions of Home

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: KIBBUTZ NETIV HALAMED HE, Israel

 BODY:
With its corrugated tin milking barns, sloping avocado orchards and feathery pink almond trees, this communal farm on the lip of the Jerusalem forest is a serene and simple place.
Roosters crow at 3 o'clock in the morning, cows are milked an hour later, and each day, 9,000 chicken eggs are rinsed, sorted and stamped. Everyone works Sunday through Friday, lives in a modest house and eats in the dining hall. Nobody needs money on the kibbutz, and no one owns a car. 
 But within this routine-rested, half-a-century-old enclave, an unusual experiment is unfolding, catapulted all the way from the New York City public schools.
Fourteen New York City teen-agers shaped by the harshest of urban crucibles -- their families torn by drugs, abuse or violence, their adolescence spent cutting school, caught up in the life of the streets -- have come to the kibbutz for the spring.
There is Sharlene McIntosh, who says she was paddled with pots and high-heeled shoes by her stepmother, ran away from home at 13, and slept on the Staten Island ferry and the cold stoops of housing projects until child welfare authorities placed her in a group home.
There is Abdul Halim Johnson, who says he once threw an iron bolt at a science teacher, was suspended because of an incident involving a gun in school, and drank so seriously that his book bag held "no books, just bottles of liquor."
There is Jason Brito, convicted of selling drugs at 14; Danny Cedeno, 16, whose father was stabbed to death coming home from work; and Dante Green, 16, whose father died of a crack overdose and who began hanging out on the streets at age 11 and was arrested for assault at 15.
They and the others -- teen-agers from Harlem, the Bronx and Brooklyn -- are students at West Side High School in Manhattan, an alternative public school considered a last chance for those who do not make it at other schools.
"A lot of people think it's not worth investing in these kids anymore," said Ayala Donchin, executive director of Youthworks, the nonprofit organization that runs the Israel program, which is sponsored by the New York City Board of Education. "They're too old. They've been through on average 2.6 high schools before West Side. They are one step away from becoming statistics. But we feel this is the best chance most of them will have to learn how to succeed -- in high school, in college, in a job, in a community."
In Israel, the teen-agers are exposed to discipline and daily responsibilities, but they also have a chance to be 5,000 miles away from the destructive influences that puncture their lives in the city. The idea is that the concrete accomplishment of working at a job, with the sense of trust and consistency that comes from being part of a close-knit community, will help give the youths confidence and determination to stay in school, cope with ruptured families and build productive lives.
So far, the results are encouraging for the program, started in 1989 by a Brooklyn high school teacher who spent a sabbatical on a kibbutz and thought that troubled city students might benefit from the environment that seemed to make Israeli teen-agers so responsible and self-confident.
Of 125 students who went through the program, 103 have graduated from high school. As of last fall, three students were in jail and one had been murdered. Of the 60 students who stayed in contact with Youthworks, 13 went to college, 24 had jobs and 12 were finishing high school.
Now, Youthworks, which is privately financed, hopes to be a national model that can squeeze results out of youths others have given up on. Los Angeles has copied the program and Detroit is interested, Ms. Donchin said. Next year, Youthworks plans to expand its New York program to three high schools and three different kibbutzim.
But the process is far from smooth.
"Some kids can't make it," said Ms. Donchin, who said youths had been sent home from at least half the trips. Last year, a boy was thrown out for stealing and for videotaping girls in their underwear. A girl was sent home for hurling a space heater at a boy.

Coming Close To Self-Destruction
This year, two teen-agers were kicked out before the group left for Israel -- one for missing pre-trip classes, the other for using drugs.
Then, in a tense, explosive encounter just two weeks after the group arrived in Israel, Youthworks leaders nearly sent all 14 teen-agers home because 13 of them had been drinking and 4 had smoked marijuana they brought from New York.
Only when each youth confessed did the leaders say they could stay. But they imposed penalties: a curfew, phone calls to tell parents about drug use, adult chaperones at the kibbutz disco, a moratorium on visits to the kibbutz canteen.
"On the realistic side, they all have question marks over their heads," Ms. Donchin said. "On the idealistic side, you'd like to think they'll all make it. Sometimes, just when things are going really well, they'll do something to sabotage themselves."
Still, there have already been victories, some subtle, some striking.
Jackie Febo, 17, who lives in a Manhattan group home because her mother was in prison for five years and her father was shot dead, has been caring for children in the kibbutz day care center with a consistency she seldom saw as a child.
Orlando Rymer, 18, gets up at 3 A.M. for his cowshed job, where he has been promoted to "second milker."
And Abdul not only resisted alcohol and drugs, but also helped persuade the others to admit they had used them.
"Out here there's temptations, but I'm more at peace with myself," said Abdul, 17. "I figure if I can do something good, if I can resist something everybody else does, it just makes me stronger. I didn't do anything, but I was going to be sent home, 'cause it's a group thing. So I told them, ' 'Fess up, man. Just come clean.' "
The program receives about $250,000 a year in donations from foundations and individuals, including the owners of Zabar's, several executives at Bear Stearns, Charlie Ward, who plays for the New York Knicks, and Jonathan Tisch, chief executive of Loew's Hotels.
Students get course credit for the nine-month program, which includes a class on the Middle East before the 10-week trip and a summer internship afterward. They also receive college and career counseling.
For the New York City teen-agers, the kibbutz, a placid commune in the middle of one of world's most violent regions, turns their idea of danger on its face. Here, the threat is not drug-deal cross-fire or friends shooting each other over sneakers. In Israel, the threat is larger, and largely from the outside.

Threat of Violence Turns International
In the group's first few weeks in Israel, seven girls from a school in Beit Shemesh, the nearest city to the kibbutz, were gunned down by a Jordanian soldier while they were on a field trip. While two of the New York boys were visiting Tel Aviv with kibbutz families, a bomb went off there, killing three women.
Still, the youths seem relieved they have left a city where they feel they often cannot trust even family and friends, and have come to a community where people have little choice but to depend on each other.
"In New York, people are all out for money," Sharlene said. "Here, you don't have to worry about no competition or about how you look. They look so free, man. I don't hear arguments. They don't fight. It's amazing they can be like that in a country where they're always at war."
The youths find the kibbutz work ethic demanding, and their Spartan bunkhouses and slow-paced routine can feel dull and confining. But nobody seems to care about the race, economic status or religion of the teen-agers, all of them black or Hispanic. In turn, there is no trace of anti-Semitism from the youths, who willingly participate in the few Jewish rituals observed on the mostly secular kibbutz: a Sabbath meal and celebrations of holidays like Passover and Purim.
Kibbutz members, some of whom say they would be less comfortable with troubled youths from their own culture, see the New York teen-agers as foreigners in need of help. The Israelis ask little about the behavior problems and family hardships that many of the youths feel shame and stigmatize them in New York.
"I'm not really used to having a person trust me," said Jason, 18, of the Bronx. "And having them care about me so much."
Individually, most have had trying adjustments.
A boy had a shouting match with the chicken coop supervisor and was dismissed from a job sorting eggs. A girl yelled curses at an Israeli tour guide on the group's first trip off kibbutz grounds. Two boys grabbed the microphone in the disco, called the Bomb Shelter, and performed insulting raps about two girls.
Youthworks leaders, well aware that the youths are used to handling even minor problems by running away, throwing tantrums, or beating each other up, confront episodes like this immediately. The leaders often impose group punishments to encourage the teen-agers to take responsibility for each other, and they convene long, passion-charged emergency meetings, often stretching well after midnight.
Youthworks takes care to select teen-agers who show promise that they can benefit from the program's intensive approach.
It took Yecenia Cotto three years to get in.
"Ayala said I wasn't ready," Yecenia, 19, said. "I thought everything was a joke."
This year, Yecenia had another problem: an arrest for intimidating a witness during a drug raid on her cousin's boyfriend's house. Abdul also faced criminal charges from a Harlem drug sweep over the summer. Both were told they could not go to Israel unless their cases were cleared.
Youthworks leaders went to court with Abdul and Yecenia, to show that they were part of a promising program. Abdul's charges were dismissed two weeks before the trip. Yecenia's case was resolved two days before, when she was put on probation for six months.

Working to Maintain A Delicate Relationship
Youthworks has ample reason to be careful. The relationship with a kibbutz, where members give up everything they own or earn and get back according to their needs, is a sensitive one.
The program started on another kibbutz, but moved last year, feeling that the previous kibbutz had lost interest. Youthworks then signed a three-year contract with Netiv Halamed He (pronounced neh-TEEV ha-LAH-med hey), a relatively poor kibbutz 40 miles southwest of Jerusalem, which grows wheat, corn, chick peas and other crops on 1,000 acres and also has a water-filter factory. Youthworks agreed to pay $12,000 the first year, $14,000 the second, $16,000 the third, with the increasing amounts intended to keep the kibbutz committed.
Last year was not easy. Early on, the youths stole motor bikes, groceries, a necklace. Teen-agers in the chicken house did so little work that the supervisor kicked them off the job within a week.
"None of us, not the kibbutz, not the program, were prepared for it," said Tseela Yoffe, last year's kibbutz secretary.
In response, Youthworks expanded its two-month pre-trip program to include a daily class about Israel, Catskill weekends to practice being away, teamwork activities like rock climbing, and a mentor program with minority professionals.
Ms. Donchin, 27, an American whose parents are Israeli, decided to accompany the students to Israel, partly to interpret language and culture. The other leaders are Emma Record, 25, a teacher at West Side, David Owen, 28, a former Central Park rock-climbing instructor, and Opal McCalla, 24, who herself was a student in the Israel program.
"This year, we see the difference," said Avi Aharonson, the kibbutz's current secretary.
But nothing is ever calm. Almost every day, a teen-ager has a volatile outburst, dissolves in crushing vulnerability, or displays troubling behavior.
Jason, who last year finished probation for his drug conviction, smoked marijuana on the kibbutz with three other boys, but refused to admit it. Then, in an angry, tear-filled group meeting, it became clear to Jason that if he and others did not confess, the whole group would return to New York.
"It's not going to surprise anyone that we're going home," Ms. Donchin told them. "People in New York think that we're going to fail anyway."
Jason and the others told the truth.
"I was scared, but I'm relieved that it's all out," he said. "I'm not doing this just for me. I'm doing it for my family. I don't want my little brother to look up to me as a bad guy, a drug dealer or a thief. I want him to look up to me as a hard worker."
For Sharlene, the challenges are different. She has been on her own a long time. At 11, she left her mother in her native Guyana when her father asked her to join him on Staten Island. Once there, she said, she would get into trouble for such transgressions as rolling down her Catholic-school knee socks. At 13, she took out the garbage one night and did not go back.
Contact with her father is still very strained. After he told Sharlene he had lost her Guyanese passport, she had to wait until she turned 18 and could sign her own papers, Ms. Donchin said, causing her to leave for Israel two days after the others. Tall and graceful, Sharlene said she was always told, " 'You're not gonna be nothing.' "
In Israel, Sharlene has found a family she can trust, her kibbutz host parents, Haim and Tzela Chechik. They have welcomed her at dinner, a family wedding and playtime with their three children, who try to teach her Hebrew.
"I want to give her the feeling that I'm really her mother," said Ms. Chechik, 42, the kibbutz nurse.
"They said she had a very hard life. That she did not keep in touch with her parents. Scary at her age. I want her to go away with a lot of trust and believing that life is still good things."
One night, Sharlene fell asleep on the Chechiks' couch, and awoke amazed: "My host mother," she said, "put a blanket on me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: LABOR -- Sharlene McIntosh, above, stamps some of the 9,000 eggs produced daily. The teen-agers got permission to play compact disks to ease the work's monotony; LEVITY -- Orlando Rymer, right, jokes with his Israeli co-workers by trying to ride a cow on a break at the cowshed, where he has been promoted to "second milker;" (Photographs by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) (pg. 33); Students in the Youthworks program pose for pictures before boarding the bus to the airport to fly to Israel. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. 36)
 
 
Chart: "A New Yorker on the Kibbutz"
 
3 A.M. -- Orlando Rymer wakes for his job as "second milker" in the cowshed.
 
4 A.M. -- Orlando brings in the cows, in groups of 250, in to be milked. He checks them for infections and hooks them to milking machines.
 
8 A.M. -- Breakfast at the dining hall, where some of the New York City youths working: washing dishes, cutting vegetables, mopping floors.
 
9 A.M. -- Back to work.
 
12 P.M. -- Lunch.
 
1 P.M. -- More work.
 
4 P.M. -- Their shifts over, Orlando and the other teen-agers usually hang out at their bunkhouse or visit their kibbutz host families.
 
6 P.M. -- Dinner.
 
8 P.M. -- Many nights, the teen-agers must attend group meetings, crowding into a bunkhouse room the girls have decorated with sticky magazine perfume ads and the covers of Essence, Jive and Allure. The meetings are intense and emotional, all about how the teenagers are behaving, and getting along with each other and their hosts.
 
10:30 P.M. -- Nightly curfew, imposed after four teen-agers used marijuana. Before, most of the youths were up much of the night, hanging out with kibbutz teenagers. (pg. 33)
 
 
Map of Israel shows the location of the Kibbutz Netiv Halamed He: Fourteen New York City students are spending the spring in Israel. (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%); 

COMPANY: ZABAR'S (DELICATESSEN); BEAR STEARNS & CO ; YOUTHWORKS (ORGN); KIBBUTZ NETIV HALAMED HE (ISRAEL) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZABAR'S (DELICATESSEN); BEAR STEARNS & CO ; YOUTHWORKS (ORGN); KIBBUTZ NETIV HALAMED HE (ISRAEL)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ISRAEL; UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (96%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WEST SIDE SPRING FESTIVAL; KIBBUTZ MOVEMENT ; AGRICULTURE ADOLESCENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); MAMMALS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (74%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); FAMILY (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%); DEATHS (64%); FESTIVALS (60%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (58%); STEPPARENTS (52%); FERRIES (52%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (51%); CHILD WELFARE (51%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: DONCHIN, AYALA; BELLUCK, PAM; TISCH, JONATHAN; WARD, CHARLIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



592 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Good Catch

BYLINE: By SUSAN JO KELLER 

DATELINE: PALISADES PARK

 BODY:
DAN RIEMANN sells bait and tackle. That's what pays the bills at The Outdoorsmen Ltd.
But customers drop by to do more than buy sandworms ($4.25 a dozen) and have their reels restrung. The shop is also an intelligence center where people trade tips about what's biting where; the big news last weekend was that three keepers had been caught at Ross's Dock in Englewood as striped bass headed up the Hudson River to spawn in "that big orgy up north." 
 It's a place where grown men -- and women -- dreamily roam the aisles like kids in a candy store, fingering this lure and that reel. And it's a place to hang out with people who understand the thrill of having a big fish hit the end of the line and the magic of watching the moon rise over the Jersey shore, trading tales that may or may not be true about the ones that got away.
Dan Riemann used to fish. "It's killing me not to," he said on a recent Saturday when the skies were gray and damp -- perfect fishing weather, he noted wistfully.
But now he has made a deliberate decision to keep his rods and reels in storage most of the year while he pursues a different dream: spending more than 80 hours a week trying to make a success of the store that he purchased three years ago next month.
The market is out there: an estimated 500,000 freshwater anglers and 1 million marine fishers last year, state officials say. (Almost 250,000 people bought New Jersey fishing licenses last year, but that doesn't mean the rest were fishing illegally. The salt-water anglers aren't required to have them; nor or freshwater fishers who are younger than 14 or older than 69).
Selling these fishers what they need -- bait and tackle, gasoline, food and drink -- brought almost $631 million into the New Jersey economy, according to an analysis by the Sport Fishing Institute, based on 1991 data from the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Those sales sustained 16,750 jobs, producing $402 million in salaries and wages, $50.3 million in state tax revenue and $46.4 million in Federal income tax.
The shelves at The Outdoorsmen are stocked with all kinds of products that practically guarantee to do everything but bring a fish home and cook it for you. For trout fishermen, there is Berkley Power Bait Power Chow -- "dough bait that simulates hatchery food for trout" in original and cheese flavors for $4.59. People going after striped bass can invest $9.49 in a Talking 2-ounce Striper Swiper by Atom, maker of "Top Lures for Tough Fish." "Bait Butter," at $6.49 per container, promises "real scent from the real thing -- real bait," adding "true scent in thick paste paste form keeps scent on lures, jibs, spoons, spinners and hoochies for hours. Contains bite stimulant that fish bite like crazy. Guide-tested and proven."
Do these things work?
Speaking diplomatically as both a businessman and a fisherman, Mr. Riemann puts it this way: "Presentation of bait to any type of fish is important."
He does note that manufacturing fishing gear is a big business, quoting an industry maxim about what makes new products succeed: "Seventy-percent is presentation to the fisherman, 30 percent is presentation to the fish."
The Outdoorsmen Ltd. sells equipment for both freshwater and saltwater fishing, but Mr. Riemann says the majority of his customers fish the Hudson River. (In his "spare" time, Mr. Riemann is active in the Hudson River Fishermen's Association, which sponsors a variety of events including an annual fishing contest and shad bake that is taking place today at the Alpine Boat Basin at Palisades Interstate Park.)
In sizing up a customer who has come in to his store for the first time, Mr. Riemann says he asks one key question: "How much do you fish?" "I don't judge them by how they look," he said. "They could be wearing rags, they could be wearing a three-piece suit. The important thing is how much they plan to go out."
On this day, none of the customers look like they are headed for a board meeting.
Michael Rasch brings in some reels to be restrung, preparing for a new season of surf casting down at the shore. "I need to hear the sound of the waves," he said, talking about the tranquility of being alone on a beach when it's cold, windy and drizzly -- "a perfect day for fish."
Just about the only thing that can ruin his day when he's out on the beach is an encounter with a somebody who is not a fisherman who thinks he must be lonely and tries to strike up a conversation. "The only person you really want to talk to is another fisherman with a rod in his hand," he said.
Another customer, stopping by for some worms, tells Mr. Riemann about "three guys who caught 116 flounder between them." Where? "In all due respect," the customer says, "the last time I talked to a writer, 100 guys showed up at the spot the next week. Never again."
A bit later three friends come in lugging a pail of catfish to be weighed in for the annual catfish contest. The prize, a Shakespeare rod and reel, will go to the biggest fish brought in, dead or alive. Fishing the Hudson River Ross's Dock in Englewood, Allen Peduto and Herman Irizarry each landed three pounders -- "It's the first day so we're in first place," Mr. Peduto says happily, knowing that he'll probably have to haul in something bigger to keep that spot when the contest ends May 31. Last year's winner weighed six-and-a- half pounds.
That is smaller than the first fish that Mr. Riemann ever caught, an eight-pound bluefish that he landed on his very first fishing outing, as an eight-year-old down at Sandy Hook. He was hooked. "I love fishing and I love seeing others catch fish," he says, recounting the career path that took him from the deli business to insurance to a store that sold all kinds of sporting goods to his own bait-and-tackle shop.
A new generation of fishing Riemanns is already being groomed. Mr. Riemann's son, Marc, who will be four in August, got his first pole, a spin-cast road, when he was two and a half. He immediately landed a snapper. That did the trick, Mr. Riemann said. "He's a nut already." It's too soon to tell about Marc's sister, Melissa, who just turned 2.
And what does Mr. Riemann's wife, Virginia, think about fishing?
"She'll go," he said.
While Mr. Riemann is talking, the phone at The Outdoorsmen rings every couple of minutes, with people asking about tide times, about what people are catching where, about whether it's worth going fishing that day. "If it's one of the only days you can go, then go," Mr. Riemann tells the caller. The advice is a variation on his basic philosophy: "When is the best time to go fishing? Whenever you can."
And, P.S., he will go out when he can, sometime this fall, when the stripers are running down at the shore. Because, besides his store, he is still pursuing his other dream: "a 50-pounder for the wall."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 4, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, the front-page Jersey column on April 27 omitted a final line. The column, about Russell Kucinski, a Rutgers University student who was arrested because the police thought his art project looked like a bomb, should have ended with this quotation from Kathy Kucinski, his mother: "Everybody's talking about it around here, that's for sure."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Barnegat Bay, a fisherman heads home with mackerel. He and a friend had a good day, hauling in 500 fish. The lucky angler typifies a small part of the vast, multimillion-dollar sport-fishing industry. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Dan Riemann, owner of The Outdoorsmen Ltd., looks over a rod with Bob Purelli. Richard Coty, owner of Coty Marine, sells another kind of equipment, for the fisherman who doesn't want to be confined to the shore. (Dith Pran and Dan Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; PALISADES PARK (NJ); ; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, SPORT SPORT FISHING (89%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (89%); FISHES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); AQUACULTURE (76%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); FOOD ADDITIVES (70%); WILDLIFE (68%); CHEESE (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); INCOME TAX (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); 

PERSON: KELLER, SUSAN JO; RIEMANN, DAN

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



593 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3400 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
Why U.P.S. Is Flying A New Package Deal

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky.

 BODY:
BIG and brown like a United Parcel Service truck, and about as boring, N946UP touched down on the runway here just after 4 on a recent Friday morning, completing another week of work, another leg on its endless run to and from Memphis, 66 minutes away. Night after night, this plane, a 30-year-old Boeing 727, hauls eight containers of boxes, overnight letters and occasional bits of cargo in its bare aluminum cabin.
But then came a transformation worthy of Cinderella. When the jet took off a few hours later, the old workhorse had become a spotless, bright passenger plane, carrying 103 vacationers to Cancun, Mexico, for a long weekend. Like the people it carried, it would be back in the workaday grind the next Monday, changing back into a pumpkin. 
 The three-engine jet, which started as a passenger plane with Eastern Airlines in 1967 and later did cargo duty for Fedex before U.P.S. bought it seven years ago, used to lead a vampire's existence, flying only at night. But since late March, it is one of three that the company, in an uncharacteristic fling, is using to dip its toe into the passenger market.
Passengers joke about it: Will they have to carry boxes on their laps, they ask, or wear bar codes on their foreheads?
The lead flight attendant, Amy Biddle, said that when she took the job, a friend predicted that instead of offering coffee or tea, she would be "walking down the aisle and asking the packages, 'Would you like string or tape?' "
Thomas Weidemeyer, president of UPS Airlines, mustered some huffiness about the jokes. Anyone who thinks the airline would make passengers sit on boxes "doesn't understand our corporate culture," he said in an interview, adding: "In our business, every package is an honored guest. We would never let anyone sit on an honored guest."
But after the containers were pulled out of No. 946, it was time for new guests, and some quick-change interior decorating. Three trailers rolled up, filled with everything a passenger plane has that a cargo plane doesn't: seats, overhead bins, galleys, even well-thumbed magazines. Then a loading machine, the same one used for cargo containers, began moving in the furnishings.
Just after 6, workers rolled in the overhead bins, on padded carts. The bins all look the same but are not interchangeable; among other differences, they carry the signs with the seat numbers.
Two workers picked up each bin, hung it from hooks at the back and then attached the front to supports in the plane's ceiling. They fumbled a little with the pins that attach the supports to the bins, but by 7 A.M. they were finished.
Then came the seats, a dozen at a time, two rows of six with an aisle in the middle, all arranged precisely on pallets. These attached firmly to hardware previously installed in the floor. Galleys arrived on similar pallets. By 7:45, they were done, and two mechanics began testing the flight attendant call buttons and other parts of the bins..
The total time, including testing: a little over three hours. "When we get going and we don't have as much management up here," said Felix M. Domena, a licensed mechanic, "we'll knock it out in 2 hours, or an hour and a half." The conversion is now also cluttered by trainees, so that multiple teams will be ready to convert multiple planes.
It cost U.P.S. a year of planning and about $2.5 million per plane to buy the hardware and prepare the aircraft, but conversion now requires just two mechanics, who are on the payroll anyway, and five ramp workers. The labor cost is well under $1,000 to turn the pumpkin into the coach, and less than that to convert it back.
These flights are all charters, but U.P.S. officials hint that they might start scheduled service, sell tickets directly and maybe even fly passengers across the Atlantic. It would take a large-scale operation to have a big effect on the bottom line, since U.P.S., one of the nation's largest employee-owned companies, took in more than $22 billion last year, but a successful charter operation could certainly shake up the charter business.
"Depending on the routes they're flying, it could have a very, very big impact on the passenger business," said Ethan Simon, a spokesman for Woodside Travel Trust, a big travel agency chain in Bethesda, Md. "This is completely out of left field. Who'd have thunk it?"
This instant passenger cabin was more comfortable and met stricter safety requirements than those on most full-time passenger jets. The rows were 33 inches apart, compared with 29 to 30 inches for coach class on most airlines, and they hold their shape against 16 times the force of gravity, a Federal Aviation Administration requirement for new or refurbished aircraft, compared with 9 for typical seats. And the UPS Airlines seats, conforming with another new F.A.A. rule, do not give off toxic smoke if they catch fire.
The plane was configured for 113 passengers, instead of the standard 125, but carried four flight attendants, not the usual three. Those are among the ways the company is out to shake up the charter business, U.P.S. officials said.
The plane looks ordinary when it is totally a freighter or totally a passenger liner, but in between it looks like a half-built Hollywood set. Cargo planes have huge doors that swing up and away from the fuselage, but the door on No. 946 now was adorned with call buttons and reading lights, glowing in the morning dimness. Airline officials do not dwell on how odd all this is, but William G. Gabay, a mechanic, standing on the ramp and looking up at the open door, said, "What a weird sight."
Even at the low price in time and labor, the economics are unproved, given the high initial cost. But U.P.S. says the experiment will demonstrate a solution to a problem: its planes do not work hard enough. Nearly all 59 of the company's 727's are like the proverbial little old lady's cars, which are driven only on Sunday afternoons, except that the planes fly only at night, and generally for only a two- or three-hour round trip. They fly only Monday through Thursday, because U.P.S.'s Next Day Air service does not include Saturdays, and a package sent on Friday can easily make a Monday deadline by truck, at lower cost.
While U.P.S. clocks 12 hours or less a week on some planes, passenger airlines fly the same models that many hours in a day. And Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday are hot days in the charter market.
The possibility of double use for the planes has been obvious for years, but seemed out of character for U.P.S., which is determined not to let anything interfere with its core business. As a result, no one thought seriously about it until about 18 months ago, when an "asset utilization group" raised the idea.
IT was an exercise in "thinking outside the box," said Douglas R. Kuelpman, a vice president of UPS Airlines who manages marketing. His parent company, 90 years old, is so stodgy that its middle name, "Parcel," is a word that has almost dropped out of the language. But the company, he stressed, does try new things.
In the 1970's, when U.P.S. first hired other operators to fly planes painted in its colors, it never thought it would become an airline. But it became one in 1982, and today is the ninth largest in North America, as measured by number of planes.
"We said we would never buy a new aircraft," said Mr. Kuelpman, but U.P.S. became the first customer for the cargo version of the Boeing 757. U.P.S. also said it would never advertise, feeling that its trucks' presence on the streets was enough, but it has been advertising aggressively since 1986 in the face of new competition.
Before any expansion, however, the company has a few tricks to learn; one is which parts to stock. U.P.S. has plenty of engine and cockpit parts available, but hardly any spares for passenger items, like coffee makers, which would become a problem for the Louisville-Cancun trip.
There have been some glitches, but UPS Airlines has picked up all the accoutrements of an airline, right down to ticket jackets, emergency procedure cards that show a 727 painted in the company colors, and even airsickness bags in the seat-back pockets.
Passengers who fill out evaluation cards are promised a luggage tag embossed with their name and address, with the U.P.S. logo on the back.
Other, subtler traits are still pure U.P.S. Just as its trucks are stripped of exterior logos that say Mack or Ford or Chevrolet, the planes' exteriors do not say Boeing or McDonnell Douglas. They are simply U.P.S. The company has always done it that way, initially considering its trucks as its advertising.
Passengers may not have guessed it, but U.P.S. hates any plane to be late. Mechanics found a problem with the batteries that would run the emergency exit lights on No. 946 if the main electrical system failed, and as the 64 passengers waited in the terminal, the captain, Leon Johnson, decided that he should personally tell them why. So at 10:30 on this Friday morning, an hour after the scheduled takeoff, Captain Johnson -- his chocolate-brown uniform enhanced with a bit of gold braid on the sleeves -- picked up the microphone in the airport boarding lounge to explain the delay.
While such announcements are usually curt, and made by a gate agent, the captain went into lengthy detail about what UPS Airlines was doing to fix the problem, including asking the F.A.A. for one-time permission to fly without the system, and looking for replacement parts that could be flown in by Lear jet. (Two company executives, showcasing the flight, looked unhappier about the delay than the passengers did. And another 39 passengers were waiting for the flight in Cincinnati, its intermediate stop.)
The Lear jet solution, which the company eventually chose, almost certainly wiped out any profit from the flight, but U.P.S. says it is prepared to let the experiment run for months before making judgments.
THE company's newer, bigger planes fly day and night, as part of its two-day air system, but it has a special reason for wanting to keep aloft as many of its 727's as it can. A 30-year-old plane is not usually a high-cost asset, but U.P.S. has invested heavily. It put new Rolls-Royce engines on 51 of them, at a total cost of $510 million, to cut noise and be a better neighbor in the airports that it calls on every night. (It is the first big airline to meet the noise standards that take effect in December.)
And to make life simpler for pilots and standardize the cockpits of its 727's, all of which were built years before U.P.S. became an airline, it ripped out the old, mechanical displays and replaced them with computer displays. That system, called "glass cockpit" -- a reference to the screens that supplanted the old, round gauges -- is common to newer planes but unusual on 727's. In all, it invested $15 million a plane.
Most of U.P.S.'s bigger planes lack windows, and even passenger doors. But UPS Airlines has 51 Boeing 727's with windows, plumbing and the other features that make them eligible for conversion.
The company already has a huge cadre of qualified pilots, big stocks of spare parts, and the economies of scale that come from size, like buying 300,000 gallons of fuel daily for its hub here, which bustles with 86 flights every night. It has smaller hubs around the world.
It has something else that might escape most outsiders' notice: an on-time performance rate of more than 85 percent in most months, which is higher than for most passenger airlines, and flights only rarely canceled for mechanical reasons. As Michael J. Moody, manager of the package-sorting shop that was loading containers for Memphis, mused in the predawn hours about a vacation to Cancun, "If I had a choice of aircraft, dependability-wise, I know I'd take ours."
The airline also has huge resources, including spare planes, to dispel the idea that it is some fly-by-night operator -- even though it is, strictly speaking. When all five are ready for quick conversion, it plans to hold one back as a spare.
"It's pretty unheard of to have one spare for five planes," said Kevin A. Hernandez, president of Vacation Express, which had chartered the 727 to Cancun. That means better value for the tour operator, he said. Mr. Hernandez and UPS Airlines said the charge for the plane was $4,000 to $5,000 per hour of travel, counting from the time it pushes back from the gate.
When U.P.S. started in the business, it thought it would do most of its work with cruise operators, flying passengers to and from port cities, but Vacation Express, which arranges air-and-land packages in Mexico and the Caribbean, has been one of its biggest customers.
UPS Airlines has other assets, too, like a reputation for safety. When Jackie Sarvis, a travel agent from Vincennes, Ind., arranged a trip for herself and her husband, Sam, to Cancun, the first thing her husband asked was, "Have you ever heard of a U.P.S. plane going down?" (None have.)
What the airline doesn't have is extensive experience about what goes into a passenger plane, as was demonstrated at about 7:45. The blankets were in the overhead racks, the F.A.A.-required emergency slide had been attached to the galley door, and even the curtain over the galley entrance had been hung, but somehow, there were no coffee makers. The mechanics debated.
"It's a charter; we could serve them booze instead," Mr. Domena, the mechanic, said completely seriously.
But Paul J. Harjes, a mechanic who once worked for Continental Airlines, had a more U.P.S.-type solution. "I wouldn't be surprised if they put two on a Lear jet and fly them in," he said.
IN fact, UPS Airlines decided to do neither, figuring it could load plastic coffee urns on the plane instead. But by the time the plane actually departed, at 12:40 P.M. -- a little more than two hours late -- Mr. Domena turned out to be right. Most passengers had stopped at the airport bar, and no longer seemed in the mood for coffee.
The airline did learn something else from the incident: It had predicted a long delay and let the passengers leave the gate area. When it fixed the battery problem unexpectedly early, some passengers were nowhere to be found, which lengthened the delay.
While the company learns more about coffee makers and emergency lighting batteries, though, it points out that cargo planes have few mechanical differences from passenger models, and all the required changes have been approved by the F.A.A.
One is the method for assuring that the landing gear is down if the signal lights on the control panel don't light; in a passenger 727, the first officer walks to the middle of the plane, peels back a carpet square and looks down a periscope. But on No. 946, the periscope is blocked by the floor pallets, so it relies on a second set of lights in the cockpit.
Passenger planes have a more sophisticated anti-collision radar that is not required on cargo planes, but it has been installed on these.
Pilots are trained and certified the same way for all 727's, cargo or passenger. "I've flown passengers and I've flown cargo," said Captain Paul A. Darby, another UPS Airlines pilot. "Once this door closes" between cockpit and cabin, he said, "it's the same job."
The only differences: remembering to announce departures and arrivals, and trying to avoid arriving early, when gates may not be ready.
The mechanics do see some differences in stepping onto a plane full of passengers, instead of cargo. "You look to the right and you see the people staring at you," he said. "Then you start stuttering to the captain; you forget what you were going to say."
Still, he said, the importance of avoiding delays was the same. "When I take a delay on a cargo flight, I don't see the people involved. But there's people behind the boxes" -- people relying on their timely arrival.
For the three-person cockpit crew of a UPS Airlines 727, the main difference is a choice between flying weekday nights or weekend days. The captain on the Cancun flight, Mr. Johnson, has seniority, but his first officer and engineer were both fairly junior in the system, and surprised and happy to get the daytime assignment.
In fact, in the terminal at 11 A.M., Ken Robbeloth, the flight engineer, said that if word got around how pleasant the assignment is, more senior people would take his job and "I'll be back flying packages at 4:30 in the morning."
Beginning late last year, U.P.S. sent No. 946, and eventually four others, to Pemco Aeroflex Inc., of Dothan, Ala., which installed two permanent lavatories in the rear and upgraded the one in the front. (Short-haul cargo planes often carry nothing more than a campground-style chemical toilet.) The company built removable overhead bins, complete with reading lights, flight attendant call buttons, air vents and no-smoking lights, and emergency oxygen masks. It installed wiring for the lights and piping for the vents, and hooks and brackets for the bins. It installed ceiling lighting, a public address system and a chime system.
Also, of course, there were blankets, pillows, emergency rafts, a megaphone, first-aid kits, the dummy masks and seat belts the flight attendants use in the safety pantomimes.
Just before each flight, a team of cleaners, called "buff and fluff," on contract from American Airlines' parent company, the AMR Corporation, comes through at the last minute to assure that all is ready.
By the time the buff-and-fluff crew was done, the mechanics got the emergency lights working and had the plane taxied from the freight area to a Northwest Airlines gate, where the passengers were waiting. Just as No. 946 took off, Captain Johnson told the passengers that they could look out the window and see the Lear jet with fresh batteries landing. It turned out the batteries were unnecessary, for the mechanics had found another solution: rearranging the existing batteries to produce enough voltage.
UPS Airlines is not alone in converting planes: Lufthansa, Aloha and Alaska Airlines, among others, yank the seats out of some of their passenger planes at night to fly a load of cargo. The overhead bins and "passenger service units," with emergency oxygen and reading lights, are harder to install and remove, though, and only UPS Airlines does a full conversion.
Passengers liked the results. "It's nicer than most of the USAir flights I take," said Brett Boas, an engineer at Cummins Diesel here, who was flying to Cancun with his wife, Kelly, to celebrate their fifth wedding anniversary. When the travel agent said the flight would be on UPS Airlines, he said, "I expected to see aluminum floors."
If companies like Vacation Express attract enough customers like the Boases, who paid $930 for air fare and hotel lodging on Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights, U.P.S. may convert many more of its 727's. Mr. Kuelpman, the marketing vice president, has other plans. People who live in northern Europe often fly charters to meet cruise ships in the Mediterranean, and an American operator, Carnival, recently bought a major European cruise ship operator, Costa Cruises. If U.P.S. can make money flying people from Northern cities to Southern cruise ports in North America, he said, it can probably do the same in Europe.
And just as the peaks differ over the course of a week, they differ over the course of a year, he said, with heavy cargo demand in the run-up to Christmas, but cargo jets are getting harder to lease at that time of year. Maybe the company could buy a bigger plane, like a 757, and run it as a passenger plane from January to November and a cargo plane in the weeks before Christmas, he said.
For now, though, there is the testing stage of learning the dance of a passenger line. There are a few odd touches, like the rack that holds two-month-old copies of Woman's Day and Runner's World magazines, even though the airline is only a month old. "Some of the other airlines gave them to us to get us started," explained Dennis Oberski, who helped manage the conversion project.
But if U.P.S. seems to borrow from other airlines, there are some services it performs in its own inimitable way. After the first charter flight, for example, as workers took the seats out and turned the coach back into a pumpkin, they found a woman's purse, complete with identification. "We Next-Day-Aired it to her," Mr. Oberski said.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 4, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the passenger flights begun by the United Parcel Service omitted the attribution of a comment. It was Paul J. Harjes, a mechanic, who noted differences between cargo and passenger flights but the importance of avoiding delays on both. "When I take a delay on a cargo flight, I don't see the people involved," Mr. Harjes said. "But there's people behind the boxes," who rely on the packages' timely arrival.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MIDNIGHT -- The nightly rush hour at the Louisville, Ky., hub of U.P.S., where workers frantically sort the freight brought in by 86 planes, including No. 946, so the aircraft can make the next legs of their journeys; 2:30 A.M. -- The interior of No. 946 after unloading, moments before it was reloaded with Memphis-bound packages, as seen looking back from the cockpit; 5:45 A.M. -- No. 946 returns to Louisville, with its last batch of containers, and workers prepare it for its change-over to a passenger plane; 6:13 A.M. -- Ramp workers begin installing the overhead bins, complete with oxygen masks and reading lights; 7 A.M. -- The seats arrive, two rows at a time. The rows are 33 inches apart, versus 29 to 30 inches for coach class on most airlines; 12:30 P.M. -- Passengers are finally seated, three hours after the scheduled departure time because of a battery problem. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE; UPS AIRLINES UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%); BOEING CO (58%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE; UPS AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CORPORATE CULTURE (63%); INTERIOR DECORATING (61%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; WEIDEMEYER, THOMAS

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



594 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 20; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Never the Twain Shall Meet

BYLINE: By David S. Reynolds; David S. Reynolds is Distinguished Professor of English at Baruch College and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. His latest book is "Walt Whitman's America: A Cultural Biography."

 BODY:

INVENTING MARK TWAIN
 The Lives of Samuel Langhorne Clemens.
 By Andrew Hoffman.
 Illustrated. 572 pp. New York:
 William Morrow & Company. $30. 
 DID Mark Twain come to be hated by the man who invented him? This is one of the provocative ideas behind Andrew Hoffman's well-written biography of America's most famous literary icon. Although biographers have long distinguished between Samuel Langhorne Clemens the man and Mark Twain the pen name, "Inventing Mark Twain" delves farther than previous biographies into the evolving relationship between the two.
Mr. Hoffman, a novelist and visiting scholar at Brown University, argues that the jovial, democratic humorist most readers identify as Mark Twain was often just a clown mask for the real-life Clemens, who could be insecure, brooding, even reactionary and racist. Although Mr. Hoffman's book at times overemphasizes Clemens's dark side, it is generally evenhanded and convincing, supported by an imposing body of evidence, some of it never tapped before.
Clemens's insecurities, Mr. Hoffman shows, stemmed from an early life marked by severe anxiety. Growing up by the Mississippi River in the small port town of Hannibal, Mo., he faced economic hardship and personal loss. He had an uneasy relationship with his taciturn father, a respected but ill-starred justice of the peace who failed as a shopkeeper and land speculator. Sam felt close to his lively, quirky mother but lacked deep kinship with his unimaginative, conventional brothers and sisters.
Mr. Hoffman skillfully describes the gloomy shades of Clemens's childhood. He tells a chilling story about Sam stumbling upon the bloody corpse of a murdered man who had been dragged into his father's office, and another about a local doctor's grisly experiment involving the body of a dead girl in a glass-lined cylinder that hung in a cave where Sam and his friends played.
Even more disturbing than such external horrors, according to Mr. Hoffman, were the private demons that seemed to haunt the boy, who lost a brother, a sister and his father before he was 12 years old. Mr. Hoffman notes that Clemens felt a deep-seated, irrational guilt over these deaths, establishing an obsessive lifelong sense of personal responsibility for family tragedies. Another legacy from childhood, Mr. Hoffman points out, was an ambivalence about racial issues. Sam's father owned a slave, and an uncle, John Quarles, owned several. Clemens voted for a pro-slavery Presidential candidate in 1860 and served briefly in the Confederate Army. On the other hand, he befriended several blacks, particularly a kindly slave in the Quarles household, Uncle Dan. The dual nature of his experience with race relations extended into adulthood. He sometimes seemed highly conservative, as when he opposed suffrage for blacks, and elsewhere progressive, as when he publicly praised Frederick Douglass or when he made the loving bond between a white boy and a black man the moral center of "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn."
Mr. Hoffman suggests that not long after adopting his pen name Clemens showed signs of discomfort with his new persona. Mark Twain, the name he first publicly used in a humorous tale of 1863, was everything Clemens could be in his finest moments: funny, brash, expansive, defiant. The trouble was, Clemens often found it difficult to fill the affable funnyman role the public demanded of him. As early as 1871, in a depressed moment, he sneered at "my hated nom de plume (for I do loathe the very sight of it)." Over the next three decades, what Mr. Hoffman calls "this disjunction between his public and private selves" intensified to the degree that Clemens donned his Mark Twain role with growing reluctance, mainly at times when he needed money or a psychological lift.
Part of Clemens's problems lay within his family circle. His marriage in 1870 to the subdued, frail millionaire's daughter Olivia Langdon, in many ways his temperamental opposite, has led a number of commentators to conclude that this unlikely union repressed his exuberant imagination. Mr. Hoffman demonstrates that Livy was in fact one of the few constants in his life, supportive yet helpfully critical, and a principal architect of the Mark Twain persona.
But the marriage felt the strain of a series of tragedies. Early on, the Clemenses lost a sickly 19-month-old son; later, the oldest of their three daughters, Susy, died of spinal meningitis after a period of mental delusion. The family rode a financial roller coaster of speculation, bust and more speculation, as Clemens poured his enormous book royalties into businesses and technological inventions that failed with alarming frequency. Numbed by these shocks, Livy developed heart trouble and became emotionally distanced from her husband. She died in 1904, and was followed five years later by another daughter, Jean, an epileptic who drowned when she had a seizure in the bathtub.
Perhaps in the interest of keeping his narrative flowing, Mr. Hoffman does not pause long to analyze Mark Twain's fiction. This is a pity, especially in the case of "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn," a central work in American literary history. Mr. Hoffman briefly argues that the humanistic, morally affirmative aspects of this novel reflect the buoyant Mark Twain, whereas the book's less attractive features, like its disappointing ending, stem from the unstable Sam Clemens. This is an interesting point, but one wishes Mr. Hoffman had used his ample knowledge of Clemens's life to illuminate other issues in the novel more extensively.
Also, Mr. Hoffman makes some historical errors, as when he states that the Compromise of 1850 "gave new states the right to determine by vote whether to permit slavery" and allowed "armed hooligans" to intimidate abolitionist voters in Kansas -- events that did not occur until several years later, after passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854. He speculates about the tenuous evidence that Clemens may have engaged in homosexual activity, but he does not cite the rich body of recent work on 19th-century romantic friendships, which, most historians agree, were often passionate but rarely sexual.
Nonetheless, Mr. Hoffman deepens our appreciation of Mark Twain by bringing into full view the complex vulnerability of his creator.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: INVENTING MARK TWAIN (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (70%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAM MORROW & CO INC (91%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (70%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); RACE & RACISM (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); SLAVERY (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%); 

PERSON: REYNOLDS, DAVID S; HOFFMAN, ANDREW; CLEMENS, SAMUEL LANGHORNE (MARK TWAIN) (1835-1910)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



595 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 8; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Beltway but Out of the Loop

BYLINE: By Evan Thomas; Evan Thomas is an assistant managing editor at Newsweek. His most recent book is "The Very Best Men."

 BODY:

LOCKED IN THE CABINET
 By Robert B. Reich.
 338 pp. New York:
 Alfred A. Knopf. $25. 
 We know by now that Bill Clinton suffers from purple rages, that the White House is chaotic and that Dick Morris was Rasputin with polls. Since so many "inside" accounts have already been written about Mr. Clinton's first term, do we really need another, especially from an out-of-the-loop Labor Secretary? Robert B. Reich, a certified Friend of Bill who held the Labor post until after Mr. Clinton's re-election, indicates that he didn't really intend to write a memoir, just jotted down some notes late at night. Yet his book is arriving in the stores less than six months after he left Washington. Could it be payback time? Another attempt to cash in by telling all?
Actually, "Locked in the Cabinet" is delightful. Mr. Reich has no real secrets to spill, but he is a clever and observant diarist. He is ruefully funny about Washington, even more so about himself. There is a Thurberesque side to him that wasn't immediately apparent in his first six books, worthy tomes on political economy.
Before he officially began work in 1993, he was mysteriously summoned to the Labor Department by an aide who wouldn't explain why. Mr. Reich became Walter Mitty as he walked down the drab corridors, imagining that "directly beneath the Labor Department, 20 feet underground, lies a secret bunker which becomes the real seat of government in the event of a nuclear attack. . . . Who would ever suspect a Command Center under the Labor Department? . . . When the nuclear attack begins, the Secretary of Labor is the first into the Command Center. The President and Vice President arrive as quickly as possible. In the event that they are immobilized, the Secretary of Labor must assume control. This procedure is code-named 'Operation Haig.' " It turned out that Mr. Reich had been secretly summoned to a basement laboratory to give a urine sample; even Cabinet secretaries must take the employee drug test.
Mr. Reich has a fine ear for double-speak; throughout the book, he translates what people are saying into what they actually mean. Bruce Lindsey, the President's confidential assistant, casually asks him during the baseball strike, "You guys doing anything about this baseball thing?" (Translation: "The President wants to know if you're on top of this.") "Been following it, Bruce," says Mr. Reich. (Translation: "No.")
He captures strange local rituals, like preparing for a Senate confirmation hearing. ("Practice saying it," commands the lawyer who is rehearsing Mr. Reich. "I don't know, Senator," intones the secretary-to-be. "Good! Again!" orders the lawyer.) He learns that "every memorandum will leak" and "every memorandum marked 'confidential' will leak even faster," that "even a sincere non-spin is received as a spin, and duly counterspun," and that Cabinet meetings are a waste of time.
He laughs at craven posturing, including his own. His first Cabinet meeting turns into a Top This! show of symbolic frugality. "I've reduced our fleet of limousines from five to two," proclaims one Cabinet secretary. "I've got rid of them all!" cries another. "I've closed the executive dining room," boasts a third. ("Damn," mutters Mr. Reich. "That was what I was going to brag about.") The self-flagellation ends only when Lloyd Bentsen, the Treasury Secretary, balks at Mr. Reich's suggestion that they should fly coach. "Coach?" sniffs the lordly Texan. "I don't believe that would be appropriate."
This is not a mean book. Just about the only really rough treatment is reserved for Lane Kirkland, for almost two decades the head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and thereby the Labor Secretary's most important constituent. Mr. Kirkland poses as a European intellectual but to Mr. Reich he's a profane bully. (There is a wonderful dinner party scene at the union leader's elegant Washington house, at which Mr. Reich commits a faux pas by trying to put mint jelly on his foie gras. "No!" cries his hostess; the other A-list guests stare in disapproving horror; Mr. Reich knows he'll never be invited back.) Mr. Kirkland, says Mr. Reich, is a member of one of Washington's two real political parties, the "Save the Jobs" party, which wants to hang on to the status quo. (The other group he calls the "Let 'Em Drown" party.) Mr. Kirkland can't quite understand why labor is slowly sinking on his watch, and bitterly mumbles "Beware treachery" before he is finally ousted from his post.
Mr. Reich's own cause is to close the growing gap between rich and poor. During his 1992 campaign, Bill Clinton, borrowing liberally from Mr. Reich's writings, promised to invest in job training and education. But once in office he fell under the sway of the deficit hawks -- especially Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, described by Mr. Reich as the "most powerful man in the world." Too much Federal spending, the deficit hawks argued, could cause the bond brokers on Wall Street to lose confidence, which would drive up interest rates, which could choke off the economy -- which could cost Mr. Clinton his re-election. Since cutting middle-class entitlement programs would be political suicide, the poor (who don't vote) must take the hit. Hence, no money for Mr. Reich's programs to retrain out-of-work Americans.
Unable to break this closed circuit, Mr. Reich was reduced to hanging around the parking lot between the West Wing and the Old Executive Office Building, seeing if he could pick up any gossip about the important decisions being made inside. Finally, he found a back channel in his old friend Hillary Clinton, who told him to write down his ideas on unmarked stationery. But then the wicked Morris came along to steal the President's brain. (The President's conscience, for most of Mr. Reich's tale, is not much in evidence.) The Democratic-controlled Congress was no help. "We're owned by them. Business," Representative Marty Sabo, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, matter-of-factly explains. "That's where the campaign money comes from now. In the 1980's we gave up on the little guys."
Mr. Reich skillfully reconstructs conversations and meetings, but perhaps a little too artfully. Anyone who has ever read an actual transcript of a White House gathering has been lost in a maze of unclear antecedents, unfinished sentences and incoherent logic. Mr. Reich's scenes read like polished scripts. He himself can be a bit of a noodge, and one begins to sympathize with Mr. Clinton as he glazes over at Mr. Reich's umpteenth insistence that the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting shafted. It's probably a good thing the President tuned out Mr. Reich's more draconian solutions. The worst is a punitive tax on businesses that fail to exercise "corporate responsibility" by more equably sharing their profits with workers.
Still, Mr. Reich is humble about his own hubris. He recognizes that he can be a "middle-aged loose cannon." When some workers are killed at a Bridgestone tire plant in Oklahoma City, he decides to go himself to slap on a fine and dramatically seek a court order to fix the unsafe machinery. As he arrives with his team on a drizzly morning, he imagines "the scene on the evening news: barely visible through the mist, the silhouettes of America's runty but courageous Secretary of Labor leading his small battalion of gallant men to their fates, as they take on Industrial Evil." To Mr. Reich's dismay, Bridgestone responds by threatening simply to close down the plant -- at a cost of 1,100 jobs. Under attack from the local press for Federal meddling, he sheepishly backs off. His grandstanding, he knows, has backfired.
Despite his feistiness, Mr. Reich has a kind of endearing vulnerability. There is a moment, early in the book, when he, his two sons and his wife embrace, all weeping over his imminent departure to Washington. The scene could be mawkish, but Mr. Reich is so genuine, and so obviously attached to his family, that readers will be moved. In truth, Robert B. Reich never really belonged in the upper reaches of the Clinton Administration; he is too ingenuous.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LOCKED IN THE CABINET (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); POLITICS (75%); LITERATURE (69%); DRUG TESTING (61%); LAWYERS (60%); BASEBALL (60%); 

PERSON: THOMAS, EVAN; REICH, ROBERT B BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



596 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: FROM THE DESK OF;
For the Young, Hong Kong Is the Home of Opportunity

BYLINE: By AMY WU; Amy Wu is a reporter/researcher for Time magazine in Hong Kong.

DATELINE: HONG KONG

 BODY:
AS we approach July 1, that fateful day when Hong Kong will be placed back in the hands of motherland China, my grandfather in Toronto is increasingly talking politics -- even at the dinner table, where it had always been a forbidden topic. Relatives tell me that when the stock market falls here, he blames it on Deng's ghost, curses the island state's colonial rulers as wimpy, and swears he will never return to this homeland he left five years ago. He doesn't understand how Hong Kong could have gotten itself into this fix -- or why my two cousins and I have chosen to stake our futures here.
But we have, and so have many other young people who, despite the uncertainty, have been flocking here. To us, Hong Kong is a gold mine, not a sinking ship. It represents the answer to our dreams of blossoming bank accounts, BMW's, penthouse apartments and yacht club memberships. 
 My two cousins, both in their 20's, are returning to Hong Kong just in time for the changeover -- and nearly eight years after their family left for Toronto out of fear of China's looming presence. One cousin arrived two weeks ago with an engineering job at a big phone company; his sister will come in June, after graduating with a degree in economics. Unlike in Canada, my cousins will find they are appreciated here: their overseas college education is coveted; they are already familiar with the culture and they speak Cantonese, the local dialect. The Government estimates that at least 12 percent of the people who emigrated in the decade before 1994 have returned to Hong Kong, and it says almost 41,000 entry visas were issued for employment last year, compared with just over 31,000 in 1990.
Last November -- five months after I graduated from New York University with a degree in history -- I came to Hong Kong to build a career. The opportunity came as I was bouncing between an internship and temporary work and was waiting for applications for real jobs to be answered. My friends and I faced a job market overshadowed by corporate downsizing.
In Hong Kong, I keep bumping into young people newly arrived from New York, San Francisco and elsewhere, most just out of college, who left after they couldn't find jobs in the States. Starving young journalists, it seems, have been particularly quick to come here. One young colleague, who used to work at small American newspapers, stumbled onto a good job at a large publication and is working on articles that, she says, make her friends back home drool.
Instead of fearing the changeover, young people are feeding on the opportunities. My American-born Chinese friends who, like me, speak Mandarin, are in demand at companies hungry to do business with the mainland Chinese. The tourism business is booming, creating good management jobs for young people, native or foreign. I recently interviewed a man in his early 30's, born in Hong Kong, who is making a fortune after opening a restaurant that caters to the tastes of Chinese mainlanders.
Newspapers are filled with ads placed by ambitious young people willing to teach English. One friend from the United States, who came here after graduating from college two years ago, is now a reporter by day and an English tutor by night. "It's sad that there's so much opportunity and too little time," she recently told me with a sigh.
TO young Horatio Alger wannabes, Hong Kong is also a bridge to more opportunity in Singapore, Japan, Indonesia and, especially, China. A friend who recently visited Beijing said it was crawling with college students, recent graduates and young go-getters from the West who were starting publications, serving as marketing consultants or teaching English.
The help-wanted ads here are as thick as London fog, and the jobs often don't require a college degree. A young family friend opened a purse store here a few years ago and now, without a college diploma, makes as much money as my father, a tenured medical professor in New York. When I arrived here, my landlady -- who came to Hong Kong from Taiwan and runs a real estate business, a hair salon and a laundromat -- lectured me on making the most of the opportunities. "I came 20 years ago and look where I am now," she said.
There's no question that young people are ready to take advantage of every opportunity. A colleague of mine in her late 20's has changed companies six times in three years. Each time, she moves up the ladder; she follows the money and has no guilt. "It's typical for young people to follow whatever job offers you more bucks," she said.
Several friends who spent their college years studying accounting, business or even liberal arts are already making six-figure incomes -- among them the purse-store owner, a 25-year-old stockbroker and others in good jobs with big investment companies.
As for myself, I have found a job where I am happy and productive. I have traded general misery about my future for the chance to develop new ideas about starting magazines, meet interesting people and, not least important, start climbing the career ladder.
As for my cousins, they, too, are hungry to sample Asia's rich table. Dozens of their friends are already making piles of cash, some working two jobs and investing what they don't spend on shiny cars and expensive clothes. My cousin coming in June hopes she won't be too late to join the party.
Will the party change come July? At the moment, it's hard for young people like me to see beyond the good fortune we have had in coming here. And there is much to suggest that, from a business view, the changes will only encourage a need for our services. To us, as long as the paychecks go up and we are satisfied with our lives, then whatever flag we are under doesn't seem to matter.
Recently, a friend called from New York and seemed stunned when I told her I didn't miss the States and would be very happy to spend the rest of my life working here. She didn't understand how I could say that about a place about to be taken over by Communist China. "What about freedom?" she asked, referring, in the least, to the possibility of severe press censorship.
"What about freedom?" I wanted to ask her. Here in Asia, my friends and I have more freedom to develop our careers and fulfill our dreams than in the States. It's a shame so many others are missing out.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (98%); CHINA (94%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; CHINA; HONG KONG (98%); CHINA (94%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; FOREIGN LABOR HISTORY (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (65%); ASIAN AMERICANS (60%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: WU, AMY

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997



597 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: CONNECTIONS;
Will the future be a technological paradise or just more 'Baywatch' reruns?

BYLINE: By Edward Rothstein 

 BODY:
THERE is no escaping the Future. I do not mean the ordinary future, the one that is constantly slipping through the present into the past, but the Future of a technological utopia in which everything is smaller, faster and easier. Wherever we look, the Future looms; celebrating it and predicting it have become obsessions.
This season, it is also seeping into book form. "What Will Be" (HarperCollins) is the confident book title from Michael Dertouzos, the director of the M.I.T. Laboratory for Computer Science. "Probable Tomorrows" (St. Martin's Press) are being promised in a forthcoming book with that name by Marvin Cetron, president of Forecasting International, and Owen Davies, a science writer. "The Next 50 Years of Computing" is the subtitle of a new anthology of predictions, "Beyond Calculation" (Copernicus), edited by Peter J. Denning and Robert M. Metcalfe, which grew out of a provocative conference earlier this year on the future, presented by the Association for Computing Machinery in San Jose, Calif. (Video selections can be sampled at http:// www.acm.org/acm97). 
 For those of a less rigorous bent, there is a Future Studies Home Page (http://www.csudh.edu/globaloptions), which provides a quick survey of what may be the future field of future studies, with references to the World Future Society, the World Futures Studies Federation, the Minnesota Futurists and the promise of a future "Future Generations University" in Australia. Even ordinary objects seem to get into the act as harbingers of the Future; mini-cellular phones and hand-held personal computers promise still more mini-objects providing ever more maxi-pleasures. The rest of our world may seem to have no future, but the Future clearly does: It is the only place progress exists.
The question is, of course, what does this world look like? Will police officers wear bulletproof vests, as Mr. Cetron and Mr. Davies envision, woven under their skin by robots smaller than a cell? Will the PC screen that Mr. Dertouzos sees on a bedroom dresser automatically suggest different outfits suitable for a morning business meeting? Will we be equipped with what the Denning-Metcalfe anthology imagines will be a "Body Net" computer that will "record, index and retrieve everything we've read, heard and seen"? Will Mr. Dertouzos's smell generators create odors in virtual worlds? And if this is all possible, are these things anybody would want?
That is the real problem of the Future: The more particular the prophecies, the more they just seem like exaggerations of today's fantasies. The main allure of the technological Future seems to be its promise of effortless service and magical ease, a kind of regal world in which every need or want is anticipated and satisfied by artificial objects. There will be no need to dial a phone, or even find one; it will be embedded in one's glasses and respond to voice commands. There will be no need to go to a doctor's office; one's vital signs will be transmitted electronically. Cars will have navigation systems and may take over some of the driving.
Some of these inventions may even come to pass; some may even have great use. Indeed, there are medical miracles hinted at in "Probable Tomorrows" -- artificial organs, computerized eyesight -- that only a Luddite would scorn.
But Futuristic inventions are mostly strangely isolating fantasies of convenience and power, many of which have remained unchanged since the days of Tom Swift. And despite utopian expectations, they are likely to leave much of the rest of the world as we know it. Death and taxes will remain certainties; love will retain its mystery; virtual reality will still require physical reality as a home base no matter how much digital equipment we use. Futurism, properly viewed, should encourage cynicism.
Still, the best of these Futurists already know that; they mix skepticism with their fantasy. Mr. Detrouzos points out how often computers create more problems than they fix. Mr. Cetron and Mr. Davies note that even if something is possible, it must also be economical. And the authors of the Denning-Metcalfe anthology temper their anticipation with careful extrapolations from experience. The real effect of their speculations is not in the future inventions they too eagerly describe but the way in which they ultimately must throw up their hands at prophecy itself. The greatest changes in society and technology may not be anticipated at all.
This is because the one prediction all technological Futurists share is that the processing of information will become faster and take place in smaller spaces and at lower costs than we can fully imagine. One veteran speculator, Gordon Bell, who spent 23 years at the Digital Equipment Corporation in charge of research and development, predicted in 1975 that a $1 million, eight megabyte, time-shared computer system would sell for $8,000 in 1997. Of course, it costs even less. In the Denning-Metcalfe anthology, he and a colleague suggest that if computer evolution continues at the current rate, the computers of 2047 will be 10 billion times more powerful than those of today.
That may even be several orders of magnitude off the mark without changing the principle. The change in speed will be a change in kind -- something that is as beyond extrapolation as the Internet is from the abacus. What inspires so many Futurists to flights of technological fantasy is that this added ability is also unspecified. It is not like the promise that there will be vast improvements say, in the power of a car engine, or in the ability to build tall buildings. It is an open-ended promise: that any kind of information can be manipulated with a speed and agility we have yet to experience outside of the human brain.
This transformation is almost pure possibility, unsullied by particulars. It is form without content, a bit like the ability to transmit information using electromagnetic waves, which led to both "Baywatch" and space travel. This kind of open promise is one of the things that lures one into prophecy -- and hope. Who knows? Someday even the Future will become obsolete.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); AUSTRALIA (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION FOR COMPUTING MACHINERY (55%); ASSOCIATION FOR COMPUTING MACHINERY (55%); WORLD FUTURE SOCIETY (54%); WORLD FUTURE SOCIETY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR COMPUTING MACHINERY (55%); ASSOCIATION FOR COMPUTING MACHINERY (55%); WORLD FUTURE SOCIETY (54%); WORLD FUTURE SOCIETY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); AUSTRALIA (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY BOOK REVIEWS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); WRITERS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (50%); VIRTUAL REALITY (50%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997



598 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1842 words

HEADLINE: Opera Enjoys Its Charmed Life;
Devotees Grow in Numbers as They Grow Younger, Too

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 26

 BODY:
This is a city of regulated routine. It does not usually teem: not with dignitaries, like those about to assemble at the Presidents' Summit for America's Future, and certainly not with opera.
Until Friday, that is, when Opera Fest Philadelphia started. It is a two-week event celebrating the 400th anniversary of the birth of the art form, in Italy, and this city's legacy as the birthplace of American opera, with the anonymous publication here of Andrew Barton's two-act comedy, 'The Disappointment," in 1767. The festival offers performances of Verdi's "Falstaff" by the Opera Company of Philadelphia, Cavalli's "Ormindo" by the Curtis Institute of Music, John Duffy's "Black Water" by the American Music Theater Festival and Richard Wargo's "Chekhov Trilogy" by the Academy of Vocal Arts. Everything, alas, but "The Disappointment." 
 The festival has also attracted to the city the 27th annual conference of Opera America, a service organization for North American opera companies. General sessions start on Monday at the Doubletree Hotel, across from the historic Academy of Music, and run through Wednesday.
The conference is in danger of turning into a party. Such affairs usually project a certain forced cheeriness, however drab or dire the workaday realities. But here there is ample cause for optimism. Indeed, at a time of perceived crisis in the American classical-music world, opera seems somehow exempt, living a charmed life.
"Opera's audience is growing, and it is also growing younger," Marc A. Scorca, the president of Opera America, said on Wednesday from the organization's headquarters in Washington.
Opera America's latest overall attendance figure for opera performances in the United States and Canada, 7.1 million for the 1994-95 season, represented approximately a 10 percent increase over the previous season. And figures from the National Endowment for the Arts show an increase of almost 25 percent in the American opera audience from 1982 to 1992. All of this during a period in which it has increasingly been asserted (though usually without proof) that audiences for classical music in America are aging and declining.
True, there have always been some people eager to read opera out of the normal run of classical music, often for unsympathetic reasons. "To write a successful opera a knowledge of harmony and counterpoint is not enough," H. L. Mencken wrote in 1920. "One must also be a sort of Barnum." He added, "An opera may have plenty of good music in it and fail, but if it has a good enough show it will succeed."
In some ways the show, if not always the singing, may be better than ever just now, with greater attention paid to theatrical values. And at a time when even traditionally staid classical-music institutions are beginning to grasp at Barnum, when multimedia is king in the culture at large, opera comes with a broad appeal built in.
"The art form has some intrinsic resonance with the popular music videos that the young people are watching," Mr. Scorca said. "When I have sat down to watch some music videos, I have been struck by the mixture of music and words and visual images, not in a specific marriage of image to word and word to music but in a large, sweeping fusion of these elements into a big emotional message."
Opera's appeal to the youth market is indeed anomalous, as figures compiled by the National Endowment in 1992 confirm. Opera, they show, was the only one of the traditional performing arts to have grown in attendance in the age group 18 to 24 over the previous decade: an 18 percent increase despite a 16 percent decline in the individuals in that group.
Mr. Scorca's recourse to pop music itself illustrates what he called a "huge demystification" of the medium. Perhaps the biggest factor in demystifying opera has been the use of titles for works in foreign languages and even in English.
"They've changed the experience of opera, and I think most of that change is for the good," said Paul Kellogg, who directed the Glimmerglass Opera in Cooperstown, N.Y., for 18 years and is now the managing director of the New York City Opera. "I really believe that the development of supertitles is in large measure responsible for the development of the audience currently coming to the opera. The coincidence is too great."
For good or ill, demystification takes other forms as well. As a matter of course nowadays, opera is ripped from the headlines, often with a sensationalist tinge. Recent examples have included John Adams's "Death of Klinghoffer," Stewart Wallace's "Harvey Milk" and Michael Daugherty's "Jackie O." "Black Water," a work by Mr. Duffy and the novelist Joyce Carol Oates loosely based on the 1969 drowning incident at Chappaquiddick, Mass., is receiving its premiere production here this week. (It is probably not a stop on the Presidents' tour.)
In addition, the medium has more or less infiltrated popular culture, in everything from Three Tenors concerts to operatically scaled musicals. A recent production of Puccini's "Boheme" at the San Francisco Opera seems to confirm what the current Broadway rock hit "Rent" suggests, that the work is a particular favorite of young audiences. In fact, especially outside major cities, the current operatic surge is rooted in the standard European warhorses: the very thing orchestras are now lambasted for resorting to.
As often as not in commercials, opera is a foil, roundly mocked for its stereotypical absurdities. But at least its name is spelled right.
"There is a whole new climate" for opera in this country, two panelists said in identical terms at a recent forum, "The Fat Lady Sings On: Behind the Opera Boom," at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts. The panelists agreed on little else except to lament the byproducts of heightened commercialization in, for example, the "manufactured career" of the young French tenor Roberto Alagna.
North America, to be sure, has been experiencing an opera boom for some time. More than half of Opera America's 123 professional member organizations, Mr. Scorca said, have entered the organization since 1970, more than two-thirds since 1960.
"Opera is still new in this country," Mr. Scorca said, Philadelphia's early start notwithstanding. "The growth in audience is a result, for one thing, of access to live-performance opportunities that may not have existed 5 or 10 years ago."
It is worth recalling that American orchestras enjoyed a similar boom for 25 years or so, until harder times set in a decade ago. And it is also true that even in boom times, nothing is ever easy in the arts. Long-range growth and a fresh wave of excitement do not necessarily translate directly into dollars.
In any discussion of finances among American opera companies, it should be recognized, as Opera America does in some of its statistics, that there is the Metropolitan Opera, with its annual budget of $160 million and an endowment of $145 million, and there is everyone else.
"It's almost an oxymoron to talk about economic well-being in opera, because there really is no such thing," said Mr. Kellogg, with a current annual budget of $27 million and no endowment at the City Opera. "The Met, of course, doesn't have any problem at all. But most opera companies in the country have problems, perhaps not constant but certainly periodic, because it's just so expensive. In today's funding climate, there's no way of avoiding crisis from time to time. It's the nature of the game."
Joseph Volpe, the general manager of the Met, disagrees about his "problemless" operation. And at the City Opera, crisis has been more constant than periodic over the last decade, but Mr. Kellogg announced with pride that the company would end its current year with a balanced budget. An even larger outlay is in the offing, he said, "to beef up artistic standards."
Mr. Scorca spoke for the rest of the country: "By and large, opera companies are doing fairly well financially. Now, 'fairly well' is relative. Every year, roughly half of the companies incur a deficit, and roughly half incur a surplus. The fact that the companies are surviving and growing is an indication that the same ones aren't incurring those deficits year after year."
Opera America figures show that its member companies derive just over half of their income from the box office and other sources of revenue. The rest must be raised through contributions, some 40 percent of that money coming from individuals.
Several company directors cited the stock market boom as a major factor in the current fund-raising climate. Despite cutbacks by public agencies and heightened competition from social and humanitarian causes, the financial situation remains basically healthy for opera.
"Given the number of opera companies in the world today and the number of symphony orchestras," Mr. Volpe of the Met said, "if you boil it all down, I guess people are finding it easier to fund-raise for opera companies than for symphonies, because why else would there be a discrepancy? And I think it's because the people enjoy the product more. People get much more excited in an opera house than in a concert hall, and that's why they're here. It's as simple as that."
Even in better days of the National Endowment for the Arts, the awards were valuable as much for cachet as for the piddling amounts involved. Most opera companies have weathered the reduction or elimination of grants in financial terms.
Matters are different in Europe, where arts institutions are dependent on far larger subsidies, which are in many cases being drastically reduced. The Scottish National Opera recently lost 90 percent of its grant from the Arts Council of Britain, and the Royal Opera has canceled plans for some new productions.
As the London retrenchment illustrates, the very complexity of opera presentation that makes for such an unwieldy financial situation in the first place also allows for a certain flexibility in times of crisis. Every area of expenditure is an area for potential cutbacks. Productions may be scuttled, simplified or carried out with other houses. Only the largest companies retain fixed bodies of instrumentalists and choristers, so the musical scale may be altered.
But stopgaps carry their own risks. And here is where opera may be separating itself from the rest of the classical-music world.
"The problem is the theory that if things are bad, you have to cut back," Mr. Volpe said from his comfortable position at the Met. "The Met used to do that, too, canceling productions. You can't cut back on your product. You have to keep raising the money and doing more.
"People in the symphonic world are setting up an atmosphere that's not very exciting, and I think that has a lot to do with their problems. Ticket buyers don't want to hear that there's a financial crisis, and they'll get less than they expected. They want more than they expected."
To judge from recent past results and immediate prospects, operagoers have been getting just that.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Opera's "big emotional message" is attracting audiences. Fans waiting to buy standing-room tickets at the Met recently. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Healthy Times For Opera" lists some figures for the 123 member companies of Operal America, a service organization, in the U.S. and Canada. (Source: San Francisco Opera)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (87%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: OPERA AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OPERA AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (87%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; OPERA FEST PHILADELPHIA; FESTIVALS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL OPERA (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); THEATER (75%); THEATER & DRAMA (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: OESTREICH, JAMES R

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997



599 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: John Gunther, 71; Lobbied for Urban Residents

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
John Joseph Gunther, a longtime lobbyist for urban dwellers and big-town city halls across the country, died on April 14 in a hospital near Algarve, Portugal, where he had a vacation home. He was 71 and lived in Sun Valley, Idaho, having moved there permanently from Washington in retirement.
The cause was congestive heart failure, according to the United States Conference of Mayors, which he served as executive director from 1958 to 1987. 
 As such Mr. Gunther, a lawyer by training, dealt with the Government at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue on a broad variety of subjects. Basically, his job, and that of his organization, was to insure that the cities got as large a piece of the Federal budget pie as their statistics, charts and suasion could slice.
He headed the conference through several administrations and helped put it on a solid foundation. In doing so he built a reputation as an architect of its urban policies and for keeping the cities' interests on the national agenda.
He often teamed with the National League of Cities, a companion alliance, to speak before Congress and executive agencies on matters ranging from air pollution to mass transit to public-service jobs, from unemployment to gun control. The conference, founded in 1932, gives voice to larger cities, speaking through their mayors, while the league is a federation of municipalities joining forces at the state level.
Their memberships tend to overlap as the conference lends a platform to share for the chief executives of the more than 1,000 cities with at least 30,000 people apiece in the country. The league is more broadly based in that it admits mayors as well as city councils.
One of Mr. Gunther's most taxing experiences arose from the fiscal crisis that had New York City teetering on the brink of bankruptcy in 1975. His calendar then was crowded with hearings and meetings all over Washington, Albany and the beleaguered city itself.
He was born in Leavenworth, Kan., and graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1947. He also received a master's of public administration that year at the University of Kansas and earned his law degree at George Washington University in 1954.
He was in private practice until 1958 when he joined the Conference of Mayors as general counsel. He served under President John F. Kennedy as chairman of the District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency.
Over the years he led delegations of mayors to cities all over the world. Just after retiring he published "Federal-City Relations in the United States," giving his perspective on the roles mayors played in shaping a Federal-city agenda. It remains in print from the University of Delaware Press.
Mr. Gunther is survived by his wife of 33 years, Rita Xavier Gunther, and a daughter, Rita St. John Gunther of Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PORTUGAL (90%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (52%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (55%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (55%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PORTUGAL (90%); IDAHO, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); LOBBYING (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); BUDGETS (69%); GUN CONTROL (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (57%); HEART DISEASE (57%); AIR POLLUTION (52%); 

PERSON: GUNTHER, JOHN J; SAXON, WOLFGANG JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997



600 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Strong Growth in PC Industry, Reports Say

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 27

 BODY:
Despite Wall Street anxieties about the market for home computers, the personal computer industry over all continues to show strong growth, according to two reports to be issued on Monday.
Figures from both Dataquest Inc. and the International Data Corporation indicate that the personal computer industry grew by about 16 percent worldwide during this year's first quarter, compared with last year's period. 
 And while Compaq Computer remains the world leader in PC sales, the latest figures show that struggling Apple Computer has fallen from the global top five PC makers for the first time. International Data reported that the top five computer makers for the quarter on a worldwide basis were Compaq, I.B.M., Dell, Packard Bell-NEC and Toshiba.
The two market research firms differed, however, in their assessment of the strength of the United States market. International Data said that the United States market grew by 20 percent in the quarter, the fastest of any region in the world. But Dataquest put the national growth rate at only 15.2 percent in the United States, slower than the overall global market.
While the first quarter of each year is normally the most sluggish for personal computer sales, buying in this year's first period has been stimulated by new, lower-price PC's and new technologies like Intel's MMX multimedia microprocessors.
Both research firms noted the remarkable strength of Dell Computer, which does not sell through retail sales channels as do other leading computer makers like Compaq, I.B.M., and Packard Bell-NEC. Dell has traditionally sold personal computers only via telephone, mail order and directly to corporations, and, in the last year, the computer maker has been one of the most aggressive to develop the World Wide Web as a method of selling directly to Internet-savvy consumers.
Dataquest reported that Dell has been able to record a 50 percent growth rate for five consecutive quarters based on its direct-sale business model. And International Data indicated that Dell is increasingly becoming a global force, with strong sales in Japan in particular.
Both reports indicate that Dell is now the nation's third-largest computer maker behind Compaq and I.B.M. with shipments of about 570,000 systems in the United States during the first quarter.
Both in the United States and worldwide, Compaq remained the leading vendor. Dataquest reported that the company shipped 1.87 million computers worldwide for the quarter for a 10 percent market share and a 17.7 percent growth rate.
In addition to Dell, however, both I.B.M. and the Toshiba Corporation grew more quickly than Compaq during the quarter, according to Dataquest. Worldwide, I.B.M. shipped 1.6 million computers in the quarter, giving it an 8.5 percent market share and a 37.2 percent growth rate compared with the first quarter in 1996.
For Apple, slipping from the global top five personal computer market is a further sign of the problems that have dogged the company for several years. The company has said that it shipped about 600,000 computers worldwide during the first quarter of 1997.
But Dataquest researchers have said they believe that Apple will rebound strongly during the next two quarters because the company is now entering a strong upgrade phase that should drive sales as existing owners replace their machines.
Indeed, a number of analysts have indicated that Apple's fortunes may improve because the company's product line is now in its strongest position in recent years.
"On the bright side for Apple is that they have a good product lineup across the board," said Eric Lewis, International Data's manager of personal systems research. "They are doing well in education and on the commercial side they have fastest processor speeds in the market."
Apple has recently received positive reviews for the portable Powerbook 3400 it introduced earlier this year, after several disappointing years in which the company lost its formerly commanding lead in the portable PC marketplace.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Market Leaders" lists the world's top five personal computer companies for the first quarter of this year when 18.3 million PC's were sold, compared with the same period las year, when 15.8 million PC's sold. (Source: Internationl Data Corporation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); TOS (LSE) (83%); 6502 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DATAQUEST INC; INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP; APPLE COMPUTER INC HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (92%); DATAQUEST INC (91%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (84%); INTEL CORP (83%); TOSHIBA CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DATAQUEST INC; INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP; APPLE COMPUTER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (67%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS PERSONAL COMPUTERS (99%); COMPUTER MAKERS (94%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (71%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); MICROPROCESSORS (65%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997

 
