

201 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1710 words

HEADLINE: Hey! Get a Load of Long Island City

BYLINE: By JEFF VANDAM

 BODY:
IT'S got sushi bars. A teahouse. An upscale grocery store. A cocktail lounge where the word ''mixologist'' could reasonably be uttered. Multiple options for doggy day care. It's one stop from Manhattan, the views are fabulous, and, joy to the world, there are no alternate-side parking rules. 
 With all that and more, has Long Island City, 30 years after it was first labeled ''hot,'' finally become a self-sustaining neighborhood? 
 The evidence that this semi-industrial section of Queens is approaching some kind of critical mass is growing. More than a dozen new and converted condominium developments have opened in recent years, and several are sold out. And while thousands of housing units have appeared, a huge number of others -- 5,000 or more -- are due to be delivered by both public and private enterprises in the coming years. 
 Prices are rising, too, having mostly recovered from a dip during the Lehman Brothers slump. Though values for condos have not approached the levels of those in sister neighborhoods across the river in Manhattan, it's not uncommon to pay more than $700 a square foot in Long Island City. Rentals in new buildings aren't cheap, either; monthly lease rates in some ascend to heights of $3,000 and beyond (but come with unfettered vistas of Midtown, of course).
 Perhaps more important for the new residents paying those prices, the list of local amenities is far longer than it was five years ago. Psychic changes are afoot, too.
 Consider the great McDonald's scare of 2010, wherein the blog liQcity.com posted an item about the Golden Arches' landing a spot on Vernon Boulevard, the main drag. The response was swift and, tellingly, of the type you might expect in a place like Park Slope or Northside Williamsburg. 
 ''Be prepared for fat lazy people discarding their burger wrappers on the street as they leave the restaurant,'' one commenter wrote.
 ''Please let this be a joke,'' said another, repeating the thought three times for emphasis. 
 It was indeed a joke -- the blogger, Nancy Verma, quickly informed her readers that they were all April fools. But back in 1980, when New York magazine labeled Long Island City the city's ''next hot neighborhood,'' it would have been impossible to conceive of coordinated neighborhood scorn for fast food. Heavy industry was the rule then, with residents mostly living in town houses and small apartment buildings. 
 Longtimers like the Cerbone family, which runs the well-known Italian restaurant Manducatis on Jackson Avenue, now share the neighborhood with the still-growing crop of condos. It's difficult to turn a corner without seeing a new building like the Solarium on 48th Avenue or the Murano on Borden Avenue. 
 The Citylights co-op tower, which sat alone on the waterfront for years, now has a cadre of sleek, glassy neighbors. At the base of one of those buildings, you can buy $13.79 teriyaki swordfish kabobs and truffled Gouda for $25.99 a pound at Foodcellar & Company, a Whole Foods-like grocer that opened in August 2008. (It was followed by a Duane Reade next door, with $23 shampoos and Belgian ales on display.) 
 ''Five years ago when we moved here, all around us it was just, like, warehouses and fields,'' said Yulia Oleinik, who lives in the Arris Lofts building with her husband, Logi Bragason, and works for Unicef across the river. ''Now there is all this variety of buildings and the infrastructure is coming big time. I just feel that the neighborhood is very much alive, and growing.''
 Ms. Oleinik has tapped into the active artistic community that predates the condos, often taking in plays at underground theaters and shows at small art galleries. She and Mr. Bragason sample cuisine at the annual Taste of Long Island City event and loll by the waterfront in Gantry Plaza State Park, which continues to expand northward along the East River.
 Yet like others in L.I.C., Ms. Oleinik is worried about the events of the past two years. Around the time of the Lehman Brothers crash, businesses along Vernon Boulevard started to close, prompting residents to wonder whether they were living in a bubble that was about to burst.
 ''We go through major amenity cycles,'' said Ms. Verma, who has lived in the area several years. ''The fall is always an upswing for retail, but in the winter there's always a little decline. The year before last, I feel like 10 businesses went under.''
 Today, an empty retail space at the foot of a new residential building is a common sight, as are ''coming soon'' signs, like the one on the waterfront advertising a library that remains a vacant lot for lack of financing. Other basic services are missing, as well. 
 ''The most mandatory thing we need here on the boulevard more than anything is a butcher, and a hardware store,'' said Gianna Cerbone-Teoli, who grew up in the neighborhood and owns the restaurant Manducatis Rustica on Vernon. ''And a good bread man, a bakery,'' she added.
 Still, as some lights go out, others go on. A space on Jackson Avenue at 11th Street is to become Natural Frontier Market, a health food store. Over on Center Boulevard, the brothers who run the Michelin-anointed restaurant Shi are planning a Mexican place called Skinny's Cantina across the street. 
 ''It's not a neighborhood to move to if you like the status quo,'' said Jake Atwood, a charter resident of the Citylights building who runs the Web site QueensWest.com. ''It is constantly evolving, in fits and starts. There are times when it looks like buildings are being built every five minutes.''
 The price of entry has come up some, but not quite back to the highs of the pre-Lehman era. Eric Benaim, the president of the real estate firm Modern Spaces and a partner in the new comfort-food restaurant El Ay Si, said that prices began to rise around March 2009, when they had a starting point of around $500 per square foot. Today they have moved into the $600s and $700s. 
 What is more, the concessions and incentives that buildings were offering to new buyers in late 2008 and early 2009 have been scaled back.
 ''Before, they were really throwing everything at you,'' Mr. Benaim said. ''Now it's not as many as last year. People are out there now. We do have a lot of real buyers, and it's busy.'' 
 In terms of actual prices, listings with Nest Seekers International for the Vere condominium, farther from the waterfront on Jackson, range from $389,000, for a junior one-bedroom, to $1.199 million for a two-bedroom penthouse with two terraces. Units at the Powerhouse, a converted factory on Fifth Street, range from $475,000, for a studio, to $1.325 million for a two-bedroom two-bath corner apartment. 
 The finishes there, as in other buildings, tend toward the luxurious.
 ''It was like, 'Oh, was there a fire sale on Bosch washers and dryers?' '' said Todd Smith, who was impressed by the amenities at the buildings he surveyed with his partner, Ethan Jones. They settled on the Powerhouse and moved there from Riverdale in the Bronx earlier this spring.
 Some of the newer buildings have sold out completely, like 5th Street Lofts, a Toll Brothers development that sold the last of 118 units in winter 2009. Prices started in the upper $300,000 range for a studio; a unit with 1,600 square feet of space went for around $1.5 million, according to Scott Avram, a senior project manager at the company. Sales started in February 2007. And at the Arris Lofts, where sales have been completed, Hanifa Scully of Corcoran Realty closed a deal for a three-bedroom in March for $1,275,000. 
 ''I've never been so busy,'' said Ms. Scully, who also lives at the Arris and said she had seen some prices pass $800 a square foot. ''Since last September, I've seen a tremendous change. It's very hot.''
 There are plenty of new rentals, too, with prices to match. At 47-05 Center Boulevard, built and marketed by the Rockrose Development Corporation, one-bedroom units start at $2,600 per month; a studio with 490 square feet of space across the street at 47-20 Center, marketed by TF Cornerstone, rents for $1,925. 
 Brian Hennessey, who moved into the 5th Street Lofts in 2008 with his wife, Verena Arnabal, and their new daughter, Maya, made the jump to Long Island City from Murray Hill and hasn't looked back. The couple shop at the Queens Costco when Foodcellar gets too pricey, and on weekends they hang out with a laptop at the teahouse, Communitea, on Vernon Boulevard. 
 ''They just have the right recipe for success here,'' he said. ''It's very easy to get to Manhattan. It's at the right price point. It's got all the luxury amenities that people want in the yuppie crowd, and it's got a good community feel to it.''
 Still, Mr. Hennessey is clear-eyed about what the neighborhood needs. Parking is a problem: when friends come to dinner, he has to help them find spots. The service interruptions on the No. 7 train are annoying. He wonders if facilities for dogs will ever come to be, as they aren't allowed in most of Gantry Plaza State Park and there are few other places to take them.
 Those issues may intensify in the coming years. The city's Economic Development Corporation plans to develop up to 5,000 waterfront units at Hunters Point South, 60 percent of them as middle-income housing; construction should begin next year, said Gayle Baron, the president of the Long Island City Business Development Corporation. And Rockrose, which has already built several waterfront towers, has the rights and plans to build several more. 
 ''I can only imagine that we're going to wish these days would never end,'' Mr. Hennessey said. ''When the people come, I can imagine this becoming a very busy part of town.''
 Standing over a cappuccino at her restaurant's counter, Ms. Cerbone-Teoli is circumspect. Some of her regulars are old-timers, but some are new arrivals, and business is good. 
 As the neighborhood continues to find its way, she hopes that some kind of centralized planning will prevent overdevelopment and disorganized growth. But leaving all that aside, she's tired of hearing that her home is becoming a happening place to be.
 ''People think it was just discovered,'' she said reprovingly. ''But Long Island City was always a great community. It didn't just now become great.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ACROSS THE RIVER: Long Island City's changing skyline, top, as seen from Midtown Manhattan. Far left, coming-soon signs are common in Long Island City. Center, Gantry Plaza State Park on the East River, with its green grass and view of Manhattan, is a favorite destination. Above, dog walkers congregate in front of the upscale Foodcellar & Company. (PHOTOGRAPHS FAR LEFT, CENTER AND ABOVE, CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TOP, BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
IN PLACE: Nancy Verma, right, blogs about Long Island City at liQcity.com. Below, Logi Bragason and Yulia Oleinik, residents of the Arris Lofts, frequent the area's small theaters and galleries. Bottom, Brian Hennessey and Verena Arnabal and their daughter, Maya, of the 5th Street Lofts. Mr. Hennessey says L.I.C. has ''the right recipe for success.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGELA JIMENEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ABOVE AND BELOW, JULIE GLASSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
AROUND TOWN: From left: an unfinished if inviting section of Gantry Plaza State Park
cyclists in the shadow of the L Haus, a condo
 and a graffiti-friendly exhibit space. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (74%); PET CARE SERVICES (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



202 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Uncertainty vs. Risk

BYLINE: By NIALL FERGUSON. 
Niall Ferguson is the Laurence A. Tisch professor of history at Harvard University and the William Ziegler professor at Harvard Business School. His latest book is ''High Financier: The Lives and Time of Siegmund Warburg.''

 BODY:
THE CRISIS OF CAPITALIST DEMOCRACY
 By Richard A. Posner
 402 pp. Harvard University Press. $25.95
 It is three years since the failure of two Bear Stearns hedge funds signaled the start of the biggest financial crisis since the Great Depression, and the air is thick with the sound of stable doors being shut long after the horses bolted. At some point this year a vast new picket fence will be built around the entire ranch, in the form of a new financial regulation act.
 At the time of writing, two bills exist. The measure devised by Representative Barney Frank and passed by the House last December would (among other things) set up a consumer financial protection agency and regulate the market for exotic financial contracts known as derivatives. It would also empower regulators to prohibit forms of compensation for financial executives that are deemed to encourage excessive risk-taking, and create a new resolution authority to manage bankruptcies of large financial institutions, backed with a $150 billion contingency fund.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd's bill, unveiled in March, would also create a new entity to protect consumers, but it would leave the issue of executive compensation to bank shareholders. And its resolution contingency fund would be one-third the size of the one envisaged by the House bill. 
 Both these measures recall the old British sitcom ''Yes Minister,'' in which all crises elicited the following response from the clueless politician Jim Hacker: ''Something must be done. This is something. Therefore we must do it.'' As Richard A. Posner argues in ''The Crisis of Capitalist Democracy,'' Congress is rushing to devise remedies for a crisis we have not yet properly understood. Indeed, the House bill explicitly commissions studies of the causes of the crisis while at the same time legislating to prevent its recurrence.
 Posner is a man for all crises. Although he made his reputation as a specialist in antitrust law (he is a judge in the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit and a senior lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School), he wrote extensively on the subject of terrorism and other catastrophic threats in the wake of the 9/11 attacks. His indefatigable intellect has been equally engaged by this new crisis. He has written one book, ''A Failure of Capitalism,'' at least 10 articles and umpteen blog posts on the subject. This latest volume is a plea for us to understand first and pass legislation later.
 In Posner's eyes, we are living through a second depression. The root causes were a failure of monetary policy (the Fed kept its short-term interest rate too low between 2001 and 2004), a failure of regulatory oversight (the Federal Reserve and the S.E.C. were ''asleep at the switch'') and a failure of intellectual rigor (economists claimed that the enlightened self-interest of bankers and shareholders would suffice to prevent such a crisis).
 After the crisis began, matters were made much worse by the ''colossal blunder'' of allowing Lehman Brothers to fail. Happily, successive administrations responded by running huge fiscal deficits, a Keynesian remedy of which Posner wholeheartedly approves. Unhappily, the public became distracted by ''demagoguery about executive salaries and perks,'' which were not themselves a cause of the crisis. Worse, Congress began prematurely legislating to increase financial regulation, forgetting that ''anything that limits the rights of creditors causes them to raise interest rates, thereby reducing economic activity.''
 By directing their fire at bankers, Posner suggests, legislators want us to forget that among ''the major culprits in our present economic distress'' have been ''government officials.'' Moreover, the new regulations being discussed in Congress are tending to increase uncertainty in financial markets, another drag on recovery. More and more, the question is whether or not the United States is actually ''governable'' -- hence ''the crisis of capitalist democracy.''
 A born-again Keynesian who remains an ardent opponent of big government, Posner may remind some readers of the two-headed pushmi-pullyu in the Doctor Dolittle books. On the wickedness of Greenspan and the greatness of Keynes he sounds like Paul Krugman's doppelganger. But facing the other way on the fallibility of regulators is Posner's free-market Chicago head, which is scathing about attempts to police executive compensation, skeptical about the value of a new consumer protection agency and anxious about spiraling fiscal deficits and the risk of future inflation. For Posner, the American system of government is ''cumbersome, clotted, competence-challenged, even rather shady.'' He confesses himself ''perplexed by how government . . . has managed to escape most of the blame for our current economic state.'' Well, maybe because his fellow Keynesians have relentlessly lauded government as the solution.
 In his defense, Posner can cite Keynes's letter to President Roosevelt, published in December 1933, which explicitly warned that ''even wise and necessary reform may, in some respects, impede and complicate recovery. For it will upset the confidence of the business world and weaken their existing motives to action, before you have had time to put other motives in their place.'' This is the essence of Posner's argument here. ''Ambitious reforms are premature,'' he concludes, ''pending a rigorous inquiry into the causes of the depression.'' Rather than hastily drafted thousand-page-long legislative measures, he would like to see an executive commission similar to the 9/11 commission to establish what those causes were.
 Otherwise, we should apply lessons that have already been learned in the realm of counterterrorism. We need more rotation of senior personnel among government financial agencies; better funding of those agencies; more pooling of intelligence between those agencies.
 ''The Crisis of Capitalist Democracy'' has been written in haste, and it shows. Characteristically, Posner has not just one but two blogs and too much of this book reads as if it first saw the light of day online. But the trouble with blogging is that the more you blog, the less you read. Since he is not an economist, Posner cannot afford to take as many shortcuts as he does. The result is that confusions occasionally creep in, for example about what exactly constitutes a bank's capital and how exactly bank leverage (the ratio of liabilities to capital) was regulated before the crisis.
 Most perplexing of all, the small- government Keynesian calls for a flurry of reforms as half-baked as anything in the current bills before Congress: end the S.E.C. certification of certain credit rating agencies as ''Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Agencies''; tie bank capital requirements to the business cycle, so that they rise in good times; and restore the Glass-Steagall Act that separated commercial and investment banking during the Depression. This last suggestion is especially strange as Posner must know that the preservation of Glass-Steagall would have done nothing whatever to alter the behavior of the men running Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers or A.I.G.
 Posner makes it clear that he understands the risks the United States now faces as the crisis of private finance continues its metamorphosis into a crisis of public finance: an exploding debt relative to gross domestic product; larger risk premiums as investors prepare for higher inflation or a weaker dollar; rising interest rates; a greater share of tax revenues going for interest payments; a diminishing share of resources available for national security as opposed to Social Security. ''As an economic power,'' Posner concludes, ''we may go the way of the British Empire.'' Indeed. It seems not to have struck the judge that British decline and the rise of Keynesianism went hand in hand.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKEL JASO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); LAWYERS (63%); MONETARY POLICY (62%); JUDGES (61%); TERRORISM (60%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (54%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

TITLE: Crisis of Capitalist Democracy, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



203 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Root Canal Politics

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN. 
Maureen Dowd is off today.

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
 DEATH NOTICE:The Tooth Fairy died last night of complications related to obesity. Born Jan. 1, 1946, the Tooth Fairy is survived by 400 million children living largely in North America and Western Europe, known collectively as ''The Baby Boomers.'' ''We'll certainly miss the Tooth Fairy,'' one of them said following her death, which coincided with the 2010 British elections and rioting in Greece. The Tooth Fairy had only one surviving sibling who will now look after her offspring alone: Mr. Bond Market of Wall Street and the City of London.
 Sitting in America, it's hard to grasp the importance of the British elections and the Greek riots. Nothing to do with us, right? Well, I'd pay attention to the drama playing out here. It may be coming to a theater near you. 
 The meta-story behind the British election, the Greek meltdown and our own Tea Party is this: Our parents were ''The Greatest Generation,'' and they earned that title by making enormous sacrifices and investments to build us a world of abundance. My generation, ''The Baby Boomers,'' turned out to be what the writer Kurt Andersen called ''The Grasshopper Generation.'' We've eaten through all that abundance like hungry locusts.
 Now we and our kids together need to become ''The Regeneration'' -- one that raises incomes anew but in a way that is financially and ecologically sustainable. It will take a big adjustment. 
 We baby boomers in America and Western Europe were raised to believe there really was a Tooth Fairy, whose magic would allow conservatives to cut taxes without cutting services and liberals to expand services without raising taxes. The Tooth Fairy did it by printing money, by bogus accounting and by deluding us into thinking that by borrowing from China or Germany, or against our rising home values, or by creating exotic financial instruments to trade with each other, we were actually creating wealth. 
 Greece, for instance, became the General Motors of countries. Like G.M.'s management, Greek politicians used the easy money and subsidies that came with European Union membership not to make themselves more competitive in a flat world, but more corrupt, less willing to collect taxes and uncompetitive. Under Greek law, anyone in certain ''hazardous'' jobs could retire with full pension at 50 for women and 55 for men -- including hairdressers who use a lot of chemical dyes and shampoos. In Britain, everyone over 60 gets an annual allowance to pay heating bills and can ride any local bus for free. That's really sweet -- if you can afford it. But Britain, where 25 percent of the government's budget is now borrowed, can't anymore. 
 Britain and Greece are today's poster children for the wrenching new post-Tooth Fairy politics, where baby boomers will have to accept deep cuts to their benefits and pensions today so their kids can have jobs and not be saddled with debts tomorrow. Otherwise, we're headed for intergenerational conflict throughout the West.
 David Willetts, a British Conservative candidate and the author of a new book, ''The Pinch: How the baby boomers took their children's future -- and how they can give it back,'' told me that the Tories' most effective campaign ad was a poster showing a newborn baby under the headline: ''Dad's eyes, Mum's nose, Gordon Brown's debt.'' Beneath was the caption: ''Labour's debt crisis: Every child in Britain is born owing $:17,000. They deserve better.''
 What is most striking about the British election, said John Micklethwait, editor in chief of The Economist, was that it may be the first Western election ''based on pain.'' All the leading candidates warned voters that ''cuts are coming,'' but none were even close to honest about how deep. 
 Here is how The Financial Times described it on April 26: ''The next government will have to cut public sector pay, freeze benefits, slash jobs, abolish a range of welfare entitlements and take the ax to programs such as school building and road maintenance.'' Too bad no party won a majority mandate in the British elections to do this job. 
 After 65 years in which politics in the West was, mostly, about giving things away to voters, it's now going to be, mostly, about taking things away. Goodbye Tooth Fairy politics, hello Root Canal politics. 
 It's no fun. Just ask Greek parliamentarians, who, in the wake of announcing radical austerity measures, found their Parliament besieged by rioting anti-austerity protestors reportedly chanting, ''Burn it down! That brothel Parliament!''
 My takeaway is that U.S. and European politicians -- please don't laugh -- are going to have to get a lot smarter and more honest.
 To be the Regeneration, they'll have to figure out how to raise some taxes to increase revenues, while cutting other taxes to stimulate growth; they'll have to cut some services to save money, while investing in new infrastructure to grow economic capacity. We have got to use every dollar wisely now. Because we've eaten through our reserves, because the lords of discipline, the Electronic Herd of bond traders, are back with a vengeance -- and because that Tooth Fairy, she be dead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); BUDGETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (75%); BONDS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); WRITERS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); HOME PRICES (61%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%); SYNTHETIC DYES & PIGMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) GREECE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



204 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: How His Garden Grows

 BODY:
MY grandfather started our mail-order company 100 years ago. In the early 1950s, customers were driving to Randolph, northeast of Madison, to see what they were purchasing by mail from us, and my dad saw an opportunity to start a local garden center. 
 One of my first jobs was to take the orders for shrubs from the garden center to a storage area and to take the shrubs to the customer. I was 11. I also hoed the weeds and detassled corn. 
 In the 1990s, the two branches of our family split the business. The Jungs received Jung Seed Genetics, which sells agronomic seeds to farmers, and the Zondags got the catalog division and the garden centers.
 I'm 6-foot-7. Because of my height, I made the basketball team at Hope College in Holland, Mich. When I transferred to the University of Wisconsin my junior year, I rowed on the crew team. A turning point came just before the start of senior year, when, on the way to school, I was in a serious car accident involving a milk truck. I spent 10 days in shock in the regional hospital. Then I moved to a hospital in Madison, where doctors reconstructed my face. They told me that my athletic career was over. 
 I missed an entire semester. When I returned to school, my fraternity brothers helped me get to class. It took an extra year to finish school, but I lettered in rowing that year.
 It taught me that you can do almost anything you set your mind to. You might get knocked down, but you can get back up. I also had a strong family behind me.
 I never planned to work in the family business, but one summer during college I worked at Longwood Gardens, in Pennsylvania; it changed my outlook. I developed an appreciation for the science behind horticulture and realized that it's not just hoeing. After that, I decided to get a master's degree in floriculture and ornamental horticulture from Cornell.
 I teach some master gardener classes, and I give gardening tips on a weekly radio show. In the spring, I also appear as a guest on ''Garden Talk'' on Wisconsin Public Radio. The questions keep me sharp. Once, a caller complained about rabbits eating the vegetables in her garden. I suggested that she put carrots in a trap to catch them and then drive them out to the country and release them.
 About six calls later, an irate woman reamed me out. She said she lived in the country and she didn't want them, either. 
 I don't have a secretary, and I answer my own phone because we try to run as lean as we can. We're a fairly large operation, but, being so seasonal, we have to watch our expenses.
 We have nine catalogs, most of which we've acquired from other companies. One catalog has only tomatoes. Another offers seeds that were popular 100 years ago. We also have five garden centers now. During our busy season, we fill 5,000 to 7,000 mail orders a day. Some years, it's a challenge to find enough seasonal employees.
 Gardening, especially vegetable gardening, has lost favor in the last few decades. You have to weed and fertilize to get a reasonable amount of produce. It's easier to go to the grocery store. But we've seen an increase in orders in this economy. 
 I get buyout offers, but I'm not interested. I have a good life. I teach Sunday school, and my wife and I read the Bible at night. Four generations of our family have worked here.
 My main job now is training my son so he will be able to take over the business. There aren't a lot of these businesses still operating that were started by past generations. I make enough money; I don't need to be a multimillionaire. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DICK ZONDAG: President, C.E.O., J.W. Jung Seed Company, Randolph, Wis. AGE: 64. FAVORITE SUMMER: ACTIVITY Going to Milwaukee Brewers games. HOBBY: Tending his roses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAIL ORDER RETAILING (91%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (90%); HORTICULTURE (89%); GARDENING (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); FAMILY (77%); AGRICULTURE (75%); AGRONOMY (75%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (72%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (72%); BASEBALL (69%); BASKETBALL (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (67%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (65%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (60%); PUBLIC RADIO (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MILWAUKEE BREWERS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



205 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Greek Debt Woes Ripple Outward, From Asia to U.S.

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and ERIC DASH; James Kanter contributed from Brussels.

 BODY:
The fear that began in Athens, raced through Europe and finally shook the stock market in the United States is now affecting the broader global economy, from the ability of Asian corporations to raise money to the outlook for money-market funds where American savers park their cash.
 What was once a local worry about the debt burden of one of Europe's smallest economies has quickly gone global. Already, jittery investors have forced Brazil to scale back bond sales as interest rates soared and caused currencies in Asia like the Korean won to weaken. Ten companies around the world that had planned to issue stock delayed their offerings, the most in a single week since October 2008.
 The increased global anxiety threatens to slow the recovery in the United States, where job growth has finally picked up after the deepest recession since the Great Depression. It could also inhibit consumer spending as stock portfolios shrink and loans are harder to come by.
 ''It's not just a European problem, it's the U.S., Japan and the U.K. right now,'' said Ian Kelson, a bond fund manager in London with T. Rowe Price. ''It's across the board.'' 
 The crisis is so perilous for Europe that the leaders of the 16 countries that use the euro worked into the early morning Saturday on a proposal to create a so-called stabilization mechanism intended to reassure the markets. On Sunday, finance ministers from all 27 European Union states are expected to gather in Brussels to discuss and possibly approve the proposal. 
 The mechanism would probably be a way for the states to guarantee loans taken out by the European Commission, the bloc's executive body, to support ailing economies. European leaders including the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, said Saturday morning that the union should be ready to activate the mechanism by Monday morning if needed.
 In Spain Saturday, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. underscored the importance of the issue after meeting with Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. ''We agreed on the importance of a resolute European action to strengthen the European economy and to build confidence in the markets,'' Mr. Biden said. ''And I conveyed the support of the United States of America toward those efforts.''
 Beyond Europe, the crisis has sent waves of fear through global stock exchanges. 
 A decade ago, it took more than a year for the chain reaction that began with the devaluation of the Thai currency to spread beyond Asia to Russia, which defaulted on its debt, and eventually caused the near-collapse of a giant American hedge fund, Long-Term Capital Management.
 This crisis, by contrast, seemed to ricochet from country to country in seconds, as traders simultaneously abandoned everything from Portuguese bonds to American blue chips. On Wall Street on Thursday afternoon, televised images of rioting in Athens to protest austerity measures only amplified the anxiety as the stock market briefly plunged nearly 1,000 points. 
 ''Up until last week there was this confidence that nothing could upset the apple cart as long as the economy and jobs growth was positive,'' said William H. Gross, managing director of Pimco, the bond manager. ''Now, fear is back in play.''
 While the immediate causes for worry are Greece's ballooning budget deficit and the risk that other fragile countries like Spain and Portugal might default, the turmoil also exposed deeper fears that government borrowing in bigger nations like Britain, Germany and even the United States is unsustainable.
 ''Greece may just be an early warning signal,'' said Byron Wien, a prominent Wall Street strategist who is vice chairman of Blackstone Advisory Partners. ''The U.S. is a long way from being where Greece is, but the developed world has been living beyond its means and is now being called to account.''
 If the anxiety spreads, American banks could return to the posture they adopted after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in the fall of 2008, when they cut back sharply on mortgages, auto financing, credit card lending and small business loans. That could stymie job growth and halt the recovery now gaining traction.
 Some American companies are facing higher costs to finance their debt, while big exporters are seeing their edge over European rivals shrink as the dollar strengthens. Riskier assets, like stocks, are suddenly out of favor, while cash has streamed into the safest of all investments, gold.
 Just as Greece is being forced to pay more to borrow, more risky American companies are being forced to pay up, too. Some issuers of new junk bonds in the consumer sector are likely to have to pay roughly 9 percent on new bonds, up from about 8.5 percent before this week's volatility, said Kevin Cassidy, senior credit officer with Moody's.
 To be sure, not all of the consequences are negative. Though the situation is perilous for Europe, the United States economy does still enjoy some favorable tailwinds. Interest rates have dropped, benefiting homebuyers seeking mortgages and other borrowers. New data released Friday showed the economy added 290,000 jobs in April, the best monthly showing in four years.
 Further, crude oil prices fell last week on fears of a slowdown, which should bring lower prices at the pump within weeks. Meanwhile, the dollar gained ground against the euro, reaching its highest level in 14 months.
 While that makes European vacations more affordable for American tourists and could improve the fortunes of European companies, it could hurt profits at their American rivals. A stronger dollar makes American goods less affordable for buyers overseas, a one-two punch for American exporters if Europe falls back into recession. Excluding oil, the 16 countries that make up the euro zone buy about 14 percent of American exports.
 For the largest American companies, which have benefited from the weak dollar in recent years, the pain could be more acute. More than a quarter of the profits of companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index come from abroad, with Europe forming the largest component, according to Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup's chief United States equity strategist. All this could mean the difference between an economy that grows fast enough to bring down unemployment, and one that is more stagnant. 
 The direct exposure of American banks to Greece is small, but below the surface, there are signs of other fissures. Even the strongest banks in Germany and France have heavy exposure to more troubled economies on the periphery of the Continent, and these big banks in turn are closely intertwined with their American counterparts. 
 Over all, United States banks have $3.6 trillion in exposure to European banks, according to the Bank for International Settlements. That includes more than a trillion dollars in loans to France and Germany, and nearly $200 billion to Spain.
 What is more, American money-market investors are already feeling nervous about hundreds of billions of dollars in short-term loans to big European banks and other financial institutions. ''Apparently systemic risk is still alive and well,'' wrote Alex Roever, a J.P. Morgan credit analyst in a research note published Friday. With so much uncertainty about Europe and the euro, managers of these ultra-safe investment vehicles are demanding that European borrowers pay higher rates.
 These funds provide the lifeblood of the international banking system. If worries about the safety of European banks intensify, they could push up their borrowing costs and push down the value of more than $500 billion in short-term debt held by American money-market funds. 
 Uncertainty about the stability of assets in money market funds signaled a tipping point that accelerated the downward spiral of the credit crisis in 2008, and ultimately prompted banks to briefly halt lending to one other.
 Now, as Europe teeters, the dangers to the American economy -- and the broader financial system -- are becoming increasingly evident. ''It seems like only yesterday that European policy makers were gleefully watching the U.S. get its economic comeuppance, not appreciating the massive tidal wave coming at them across the Atlantic,'' said Kenneth Rogoff, a Harvard professor of international finance who also served as the chief economist of the International Monetary Fund. ''We should not make the same mistake.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Nicolas Sarkozy of France on Friday in Brussels. Leaders of the 16 countries that use the euro worked over the weekend on a plan to reassure the markets when they open Monday. (POOL PHOTO BY MICHEL EULER) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BOND FUNDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); DEVALUATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); APPROVALS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (65%); INTEREST RATES (56%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (58%); JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (94%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



206 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: An Expatriate Filipino Writes of a Parallel Life

BYLINE: By JOYCE HOR-CHUNG LAU

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The story begins with the death of Crispin Salvador, an expatriate Filipino author living in New York, whose body is found floating in the Hudson River. He had been scathingly critical of his home country before his mysterious demise.
 It is part of a novel, a satire of the chaos and violence of Philippine politics called ''Ilustrado,'' the first book by Miguel Syjuco, an expatriate Filipino author living in Montreal. And -- if the book was not clear enough in its theme that art reflects life -- the fictional narrator and Salvador's protege is also named Miguel Syjuco.
 The real-life Mr. Syjuco, a dapper 33-year-old, has been promoting ''Ilustrado,'' which won the 2008 Man Asian Literary Prize, on a tour through the United States and Britain, where it will be released in coming months. 
 Sipping tea amid the wood paneling of the Hong Kong Foreign Correspondents Club -- in a camel blazer with matching red pocket square and red cuff links -- he looked the part of a gentleman from a good Philippine family. Mr. Syjuco, who once held entry-level jobs at The New Yorker and other magazines before deciding to devote himself full time to writing, is clearly from the educated upper classes that he skewers in his book. 
 ''My family, my friends, my colleagues -- we are the elites,'' he said. ''We are a wealthy, beautiful country, and we've screwed it up so badly. The majority of wealth is controlled by a minority. And we don't know when enough is enough. The elite don't want one mansion; they want three.'' 
 Like his fictional counterpart in the book, Mr. Syjuco came from a political family but declined to enter the business himself. 
 His real-life father, Augusto Syjuco Jr., known as Boboy, stepped down from a cabinet post in the government of President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo to run for Congress in national elections on Monday. So far, nearly three dozen people have been killed in attacks linked to those elections. While Mr. Syjuco is disparaging of the violence, he says he is not overly worried about his father. 
 ''He knows what he's doing,'' Mr. Syjuco said. ''He's with Gloria Arroyo -- in her party. He is entrenched in his district, and he has his bodyguards. So he is more protected than candidates from grass-roots parties.'' 
 Mr. Syjuco said he did not want to draw too close a comparison between his own life and the book, but the parallels -- the fictional Miguel Syjuco, an orphan, disappoints his doting grandparents when he fails to live up to their political ambitions -- are obvious. 
 ''My dad wanted me to be a lawyer, a politician, the president of his country,'' Mr. Syjuco said. ''I have two sisters and three brothers, and not a politician among any of them. I was my dad's great last hope.'' 
 Mr. Syjuco was unheard of before ''Ilustrado'' won the Man Asian Literary Prize, which shares a sponsor with the Man Booker Prize and recognizes the best Asian novel written or translated into English. Outside of the Philippines, he could not even get short stories published in journals. 
 ''I got rejected left and right,'' he said. ''I wallpapered my wall with rejection slips, the way F. Scott Fitzgerald was said to have done.'' 
 In fact, when ''Ilustrado'' won the award, it was still an unedited draft with no publisher. 
 Understandably, Mr. Syjuco had almost no expectation of winning. ''I just wanted to get on the long list so agents would pay attention to me,'' he said. 
 ''I remember sitting in front of my computer, waiting for midnight -- since the long list would be announced at that moment -- and hitting the refresh button over and over. I did the same thing when the short list was announced. When I flew out to Hong Kong for the awards dinner, I thought I'd just eat a lot of Chinese food and get drunk.'' 
 Miguel Syjuco was born in the Philippines to a Chinese-Filipino father and a Spanish-Filipino mother, into a family whose wealth was anchored in a soft-drink bottling company. 
 His parents moved abroad during the Marcos era, and Mr. Syjuco spent much of his childhood in Vancouver, British Columbia. ''The first thing I wrote was in grade five. I tried to write a sequel to 'Lord of the Rings,' '' he said. 
 He returned to the Philippines for high school and college and, as he says, ''got onto the right path when I flunked out of economics in university.'' 
 He and some friends put together Local Vibe, an entertainment Web site. But he could not free himself of family ties and expectations, so he decided to move back overseas. 
 He knocked around the United States, Canada and Australia, studying, writing and trying to stay financially afloat. He had entry-level jobs at The New Yorker, Esquire and The Paris Review, and earned a master's degree in creative writing from Columbia University. He is finishing a Ph.D. at the University of Adelaide, in Australia. 
 ''Ilustrado'' starts off as a murder mystery. When Salvador dies, the draft of a politically biting masterpiece he had been working on disappears. The book then moves into what are, for the Philippines, complicated and interwoven issues of sex and poverty, migration and work, religion and governance. 
 Its short chapters come in a cacophony of fonts and voices. There are excerpts from the two main characters' own writing, plus e-mail messages, newspaper articles, blog comments, flashbacks and dream sequences. 
 The style is postmodern (or, as some prefix-happy critics call it, post-postmodern) right down to the faux footnotes. The novel is short, sharp and funny, though some critics have called it overwritten. (''Yet it was the internecine intensities of the local literati that gossiped Salvador's life into chimerical proportions.'') 
 ''I don't particularly like the postmodern tag,'' Mr. Syjuco said. ''It's a novel of today, a contemporary novel. The way we consume information is fragmented.'' 
 Mr. Syjuco explained that ''Ilustrado,'' which means ''enlightened'' in Spanish, refers to a period in the late 1800s when the Philippines was a Spanish colony and Filipinos traveled to Europe to be educated in the arts, sciences and politics. 
 ''These young men, the 'enlightened,' returned home to aid in the 1896 revolution that ousted Spanish control,'' Mr. Syjuco said. ''There are 8.1 million Filipinos abroad now. They have the potential to be the new 'ilustrado' class. But of those 8.1 million, only 500,000 are registered to vote in the upcoming elections. Maybe they have turned their back on the democratic process.'' 
 Mr. Syjuco, who has already sold a second book to a North American publisher, identifies himself as a Filipino author but says that overseas life gave him the distance needed to see his country's problems. 
 ''I don't know if I could have written this if I had stayed in the Philippines,'' he said. 
 He declined to predict what would happen in the coming elections. 
 ''My book asks some tough questions, but it's not the Great Philippine Novel,'' he said. ''I'm 33. I don't have all the answers. If I did, I'd be running for president.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Miguel Syjuco's first novel, ''Ilustrado,'' won the Man Asian Literary Prize in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE JOHNSTON FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%)

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) PHILIPPINES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Ilustrado (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



207 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Simplicity for Shoppers

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THE Internet can help simplify many financial transactions, though not always when it comes to home mortgages. Those who sign up for information at mortgage Web sites have found themselves receiving a flood of calls and e-mail messages from brokers and lenders soliciting business. 
 But that trend seems to be changing. Refinance.com, which made its debut early this year, promises to simplify the process for those refinancing their mortgages, by connecting each borrower with just one lender, and says it plans eventually to extend the service to all mortgage borrowers. 
 Now Google is offering a similar service. The company's new mortgage search feature, which has been in limited testing since 2009, expanded last month to serve New York and New Jersey borrowers (though people may have trouble accessing the site during the testing period). It now serves Web users in 38 states, though not yet Connecticut.
 For now, by bookmarking https://www.google.com/comparisonads/mortgages, borrowers will see a list of various lenders and mortgage products with current rates and costs. The page lists loan offers -- including closing costs -- from several lenders, along with their fees and the monthly payment that would be required. Borrowers can quickly tailor that page to their own qualifications -- like down payment, credit rating and loan type -- and the loan offers change almost instantly.
 The chief difference between Google's mortgage search service and many others is that, at this point, borrowers can choose to receive an offer from a single lender, which does not have the borrower's direct contact information. 
 The loan offer is semibinding for the lender. As long as the borrower's information does not change all that much from that shown on the original screen, Google will hold the lender accountable for the terms shown, said Paul Todd, a director of product management for Google.
 In some cases, the final loan terms will differ from those initially shown. For instance, on a refinance, if a home's value was officially appraised for less than what the borrower initially estimated, lenders would be free to change the loan terms. 
 To minimize the chances of that, Mr. Todd said, Google uses estimates from Intellireal, a company that provides informal property appraisals to lenders. 
 Brad Strothkamp, an analyst with Forrester Research, a technology consultant in Cambridge, Mass., called the service consumer-friendly. 
 ''The simplicity of finding mortgage rates and fees with this is great,'' he said, ''and there's real power in being able to compare all key rates and fees in a very simple format.''
 Mr. Strothkamp said that Google's service had one flaw: Well-known lenders are not yet listed. ''But my assumption is that will come,'' he said. 
 Mr. Todd said Google was in discussions with major lenders and was hopeful they would join. For now, though, he said dozens of lenders sell loans through the service, and the range of mortgage products includes the most frequently requested products, like conventional loans and mortgages from the Federal Housing Administration and the Veterans' Administration.
 Phillip Baltazar, the chief executive of America Funding, a mortgage bank in San Diego, which has participated in the Google mortgage search service since last year, says the lenders with the lowest interest rates do not necessarily top the search results, because lenders pay Google for the right to present their offers. 
 Still, he said, borrowers can be confident that they are seeing highly competitive rates. 
 ''The market is so competitive,'' Mr. Baltazar said, ''that even if the top search result isn't the lowest rate, chances are great that the other rates will reflect the best of what's out there.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (87%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (87%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (87%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



208 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; CONSUMED; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Just Priceless

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
On Jan. 28, while on a business trip to Chicago, Terence Spies used his iPhone to monitor an eBay auction. He was trying to outbid a couple of rivals to win a black plastic box that was at the time on display at an art gallery in Seattle. Spies had read about ''A Tool to Deceive and Slaughter,'' as the piece is called, on a Reuters financial blog. That's a strange-enough place for a collector to learn about art, but Spies's interest seems even more curious given that the blogger Felix Salmon's write-up of the piece's sale was titled ''The Uncollectible Artwork.'' Even if Spies won the object, created by a young artist named Caleb Larsen, his ownership would be tentative: the technical innards of ''A Tool to Deceive and Slaughter'' carried a program that would relist the thing on eBay every week, forever. Indeed, the terms and conditions for submitting a bid clearly stipulated that the device must be connected to the Internet, constantly trying to resell itself at a higher price to someone else. 
 The minimum bid was $2,500. Spies won with a bid of $6,350. ''A Tool to Deceive and Slaughter'' had generated a fair amount of buzz online when it first went up for sale as part of a show of Larsen's work at Seattle's Lawrimore Project gallery. And I understood why people found the concept compelling (or annoying) enough to write about it. But I wanted to know why somebody would find it compelling enough to spend thousands of real dollars to sort of own that concept.
Spies, who is the chief technology officer at Voltage Security in Palo Alto, Calif., describes himself as a collector of ''baffling contemporary art.'' (He mentions the almost monochrome panels of Anne Appleby and Molly Springfield's meticulous drawings of photocopies.) He says another collector once advised him to buy art that ''people have a reaction to -- good or bad.'' And ''A Tool to Deceive and Slaughter'' has elicited reactions ranging from ''You're really crazy'' to ''You're slightly crazy.'' He's O.K. with that. It ''sets people off,'' he continues, ''because it's not even clear what you own.''
 Larsen, who recently finished his M.F.A. at the Rhode Island School of Design, often produces work that plays with technology, and with the value of art objects. An interesting feature of ''A Tool to Deceive and Slaughter'' is that if it continues to sell, the artist gets a 15 percent cut of the profit every time. A work that's programmed to escape ownership suggests an ambivalence, or even tension, about the role collectors and the marketplace play in sorting out what art is ''worth.''
 And that places Larsen's creation in an established tradition. Marcel Duchamp's infamous gesture of signing a mass-produced urinal and declaring it art occurred in 1917. But it reverberates even today, with ''unauthorized urinals,'' as The Economist recently put it, supposedly passed off as real Duchamp ready-mades. (The original ''Fountain'' was judged so worthless that it was thrown away; Duchamp happily produced a batch of replicas in the 1950s and 1960s. One of these official stand-ins traded hands for $1.8 million in 1999.) While market value is often considered solely in the context of the collector's mind-set, many artists have a point of view about who acquires their work and why. In fact, a recent high-profile lawsuit by a Miami art collector included the assertion that he'd been blacklisted by an artist who disapproved of his buying and selling habits.
 Part of what Spies found compelling about ''A Tool to Deceive and Slaughter'' was how it encapsulated not simply the way people feel about the value of art specifically but also about value in general. ''Things have become much more virtual and much more detached,'' he says. ''We're in the middle of a financial crisis caused by computer-based trading of derivatives on derivatives. Nobody can point to what they're actually buying.'' Larsen's piece ''kind of says something about the way people buy and sell things now,'' he continues. ''We live in a world where you can build a successful billion-dollar Silicon Valley company selling imaginary cows to people.''
 Scott Lawrimore, the gallerist who mounted Larsen's show, adds an interesting point to this, suggesting that if the same piece had gone on sale in, say, 2007, it might have been read as a comment on go-go spending in the art market and everywhere else. Perhaps any artwork -- perhaps any object -- means whatever we project upon it, given the circumstances. In any case, Lawrimore continues, it takes an ''ambitious'' collector to ante up for this sort work, and he was thrilled that an experienced art buyer like Spies bought it.
 The new opening minimum bid is calculated to cover shipping and other overhead, so the seller won't lose money, but this setup also limits how much the seller can make should the piece appreciate in value over time. And of course it's possible Spies can own the piece indefinitely -- if it fails to become more valuable. ''It was totally not an investment,'' he says, cheerfully. That's good, because as of this writing, ''A Tool to Deceive and Slaughter,'' priced at $6,858, has attracted no bidders. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM TOP: OLIVER LANG/AFP/GETTY IMAGES
EBAY.COM
SASHA/GETTY IMAGES
 CALEB LARSEN.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART COLLECTING (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ART DEALERS (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



209 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; GREENTECH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1718 words

HEADLINE: Off the Well, if Only for One Week

BYLINE: By DEXTER FORD

 BODY:
Manhattan Beach, Calif.
 TO many people, the notion of living without oil -- at least the various forms of oil sloshing around in their cars and S.U.V.'s -- is a scratchy-shirt, nuts-and-twigs kind of idea. But with electric vehicles of various degrees -- pure battery, hybrids and plug-in hybrids -- on the way from major automakers, more drivers will be finding out how scratchy that shirt might be. 
 As the wide variety of designs poised for delivery indicates, there is no general agreement bouncing through the drivosphere over which technology will be the one to deliver us onto a squeaky-clean, chirping-bird Electric Avenue. For many, myself included, the answer seems simple. Plug-in hybrids are here -- well, almost -- now. 
 While it is true that a lot of coal stands to be burned recharging the batteries of these cars, let me point out that they can also wring many of their miles from cheap, potentially carbon-free energy sources -- like those 36 sparkly blue photovoltaic panels on the roof of my Southern California home. 
 Typically, the plug-in hybrids on their way to showrooms will enable the first 10, 20 or even 50 miles of a trip to be electron-based, which in my case would be spotlessly solar-powered. Effectively these would be electric cars for most of my driving -- short around-town errands -- yet retain the useful range of a gas-powered vehicle for those few times a year when I pack up the family and head over the river and through the wood to Grandmother's house. 
 A plug-in car, of course, is optimized for neither type of trip. The weight of its gas engine cuts into the distance it can drive in battery-only mode, and the mass of the extra batteries squanders some petroleum when the engine is providing the drive power. 
 On the balance, though, a plug-in makes sense for my situation. And thanks to the solar array that generates enough electricity to power this 3,200-square-foot home -- our family is close to being ''off the grid'' for a Los Angeles residence -- I would also come closer to being freed from oil dependency.
 Toyota, which has the biggest footprint on the hybrid field, is promising to sell a conservative plug-in Prius to the public in 2012. The Chevrolet Volt, which General Motors says will drive 40 miles on its battery pack before a gas-powered generator takes over, is poised to hum off the assembly line late in 2010, hungry for available wattage. The Fisker Karma, an $88,000 plug-in luxury sedan, is also scheduled for delivery late this year. And last week Volkswagen announced that the Blue-E-Motion, based on the Golf, would be offered in the United States in 2013.
 A number of independent companies already offer conversions that transform existing hybrids into plug-ins with the addition of battery packs and associated power control hardware. A converted car can fuel up from a wall outlet, topping off its batteries with electricity from the utility grid, or in my case, power that is homegrown. 
 To learn whether this was more theory than reality, I spent a week driving a 2005 Toyota Prius converted by Plug-In Solutions of San Juan Capistrano, Calif., which offers a system designed to allow electric-only driving as far as 50 miles at up to 52 miles per hour. By virtue of sheer numbers, the 2004-9 Prius is the popular basis for conversions: in those four calendar years, nearly 750,000 were sold in the United States, according to J. D. Power & Associates. 
 The Plug-In conversion uses all of the factory-installed Toyota electrical parts, mechanical parts and software, with some additional tricks. A 300-pound bank of lithium-iron-phosphate batteries, made by China Aviation Lithium Battery, is stowed in the compartment behind the rear seat, over the spare-tire cavity but under the floor. To accommodate the extra weight, stiffer rear springs are installed. 
 A 110-volt charger goes underneath the battery pack in the now-empty spare-tire cubby (an aerosol inflator replaces the spare), where it also warms the batteries in cold weather. A discreet plug in the rear bumper provides the electrical connection. 
 As built by Toyota, the nickel-metal-hydride battery of this second generation Prius has an electrical capacity of about 1.3 kilowatt hours -- the power equivalent of 13 100-watt bulbs left on for an hour in your teenager's bedroom. In the interest of battery life, the Prius's control software limits how deeply the battery can be charged and discharged. Less than half of its 1.3 kilowatt hours is available to move the car, Toyota says. 
 The conversion by Plug-In adds 10 kilowatt-hours to the overall electrical capacity. An owner whose daily commute is less than 25 miles each way and does not include freeways or steep hills could theoretically get through the work week without burning any gasoline or having to recharge at the office. 
 How much will it cost to refill the battery pack? At the average cost of electricity in the United States, about 11 cents per kilowatt hour, it's just over a dollar a fill-up -- about 2 cents a mile. In California, electricity averages about 16 cent per kilowatt hour, making the cost slightly over 3 cents a mile. 
 The converted Prius has three driving modes: all-electric, blended and standard Prius. Selecting the all-electric mode with the tiny toggle on the top of the dashboard limits the top speed and acceleration. Only the 76-horsepower electric motor is moving the car in this mode, so the initial acceleration is best described as eventual. 
 On my first outings in stoplight-to-stoplight traffic, I often found myself tapping my fingers on the steering wheel. As speed gathers, the Prius does a reasonable job of keeping pace with the flow up to its 52-m.p.h limit. 
 Because of a quirk in the software marriage between the stock Prius and the plug-in system, it is necessary to stop completely, shut off the car and reboot out of all-electric mode should you want to go, say, 53 m.p.h. On most local trips this is not a big problem; you just have to know where you are going, as you would for any daily trip. Even the archeological pace of initial acceleration soon becomes routine. 
 Blended mode, activated by a rocker switch illuminated in red just left of the steering column, feels like driving any other second-generation Prius, but with an added 25-50 m.p.g. showing on the LCD mileage display. The system uses as much battery power as possible, delaying the signal to spin up the gasoline engine until absolutely necessary. Plug-In Solutions says that blended mode can yield more than 100 m.p.g. and that the car can run this way for up to 100 miles. 
 My results differed. Keeping up with traffic on Interstates 5 and 405 required speeds of 75-80 m.p.h. on the 56-mile trip between my home and Plug-In's headquarters. And relatively little of my mileage was spent at slower urban speeds. Final mileage was 67.2 mpg for the full tank (nearly 700 miles), but I routinely saw readings over 80 m.p.g. on the dashboard display. 
 When the auxiliary battery pack starts to run low -- the 50-mile range seemed plausible based on my week of varied driving -- the car switches over to the native Prius mode, relying more on the gas engine. The gasoline engine-generator cannot recharge the auxiliary battery pack; you'll have to plug into a 110-volt outlet for that, a 10-hour process when the battery is depleted. 
 Driving on the batteries alone requires a modicum of practice. I managed to run the rolling Pacific Coast Highway north of Malibu in the all-electric setting for about 35 miles, after burning a significant part of the auxiliary battery's charge in blended mode on the way north from Los Angeles. The speed limitation of 52 m.p.h on battery power gave me just enough margin to stay with traffic.
 The full 10-kilowatt-hour system in the car I tested costs $11,995 with the battery pack, or $6,995 without batteries. A 4-kilowatt-hour system is $6,995 with batteries, $3,200 without. Estimates for installation from several of the 20 dealer-installers around the country started at $1,000. The systems carry a three-year warranty, which does not cover the batteries (those are warranted by the battery maker).
 The company says that because the system does not alter the Toyota hybrid components, it should not affect the car's factory warranty. This is not a clear-cut matter, though. A Toyota spokeswoman, Jana Hartline, said that the company's policy calls for a case-by-case evaluation of whether a modification has caused a particular failure. 
 The I.R.S. allows a tax credit equal to 10 percent of the cost of converting a vehicle to a qualified plug-in electric-drive motor vehicle. The maximum credit, which runs through 2011, is $4,000. Some states have game-changing tax credits as well. Colorado offers an 85 percent credit, up to $6,000, for conversions. 
 What makes the most sense to me is choosing the 4-kilowatt-hour system that Plug-In Solutions sells, as the major benefits of a plug-in hybrid system accrue in the first 10-15 miles of each trip. Converting the car your family uses for the most frequent, shortest-distance trips -- to mall, school or market -- offers the best value. 
 Remember those solar panels on my roof? Since the system was installed about three years ago, our electric bill has averaged $166. A year. We make virtually all the power we consume -- and that's in a house with two adults, two teenagers, four flat-screen HDTVs, seven computers -- you get the idea. 
 The cost? After I factored in second-mortgage-interest, tax writeoffs and inflation over the 40-year projected life of the system, it looks like we'll save about $78,000 compared with the cost of buying electricity from the utility. And prices of systems have plunged since we took the plunge: our 6 kilowatt system that cost about $39,000 three years ago is about $28,000 today. 
 Is it worth it to convert your existing Prius when plug-in hybrids from established automakers seem just around the corner? It depends on your Prius. If you already have one you love -- ideally, one that happens to be out of warranty -- it just might make sense. Or, for a little more than $6,000 you could turn a $15,000 used Toyota into a near-zero carbon conveyance that's still capable of taking off for Burning Man when the spirit moves. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FORERUNNER: The Plug-In Solutions Prius can drive up to 50 miles (but not quickly) on battery power alone.
NO CARBON: Solar panels on the roof of the author's home charged the Prius. (AU1)
 CONVERT: The added battery pack is under the rear floor, entirely out of sight. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEXTER FORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); SEDANS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: VOW3 (FRA) (84%); VKW (LSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



210 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Star-Spangled Story

BYLINE: By LAUREL THATCHER ULRICH. 
Laurel Thatcher Ulrich is a professor at Harvard and the author, most recently, of ''Well-Behaved Women Seldom Make History.''

 BODY:
BETSY ROSS AND THE MAKING OF AMERICA
 By Marla R. Miller
 Illustrated. 467 pp. Henry Holt & Company. $30
 Most historians dismiss the story about Betsy Ross making the first American flag. Yet despite a century of debunking, the legend endures. Across the country, schoolchildren still cut out five-pointed stars using the pattern that Ross, a Philadelphia flag maker, supposedly invented. The legend endures because publishers, souvenir sellers and patriotic boosters find it useful and because it fills a void in the American epic. Nations need heroines. Betsy Ross gives women a place in the national pantheon without disrupting our dominant myths. 
 Buried beneath the legend was a real woman, Elizabeth Griscom Ross Ashburn Claypoole. Born in 1752, she married and buried three husbands before her own death in 1836. Her first husband, the upholsterer John Ross, introduced her to Revolutionary politics. The second, a mariner named Joseph Ashburn, died in a British prison after being captured as a privateer toward the end of the Revolutionary War. John Claypoole, whom she married in 1783, was the father of all but one of her surviving children. In fact, for most of her adult life, she was known as ''Mrs. Claypoole.'' That is the name that her grandson, William Canby, used in 1870 when he first began to tell the story about the flag. Only later, as the story took off, did she become the beautiful and patriotic ''Betsy Ross.''
 Marla R. Miller, who teaches American history at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, believes that Claypoole ''planted the seeds of her own mythology in the 1820s and '30s as she regaled her children and grandchildren with tales from her youth, her work, and of life in Revolutionary Philadelphia.'' In an engaging biography, Miller shows that even though the flag story is riddled with improbabilities, the life of the woman who came to be known as Betsy Ross is worth recovering. Piecing together shards of evidence from ''newspaper advertisements, household receipts, meeting minutes, treasurer's reports, shop accounts and ledgers, probate records, tools and artifacts . . . and oral traditions,'' Miller connects her heroine with most of the major events in Philadelphia's early history, from the building of the city in the years when Elizabeth's great-grandfather was establishing himself as a master carpenter to the yellow fever epidemic that in 1793 killed her parents.
 Through skillful use of small details, Miller sustains her repeated assertion that the future Betsy Ross was often ''only a handshake away'' from the men who made the Revolution. Although her first husband was not part of any Revolutionary committee, his uncle was, and the house he and Betsy rented contained a pair of maps, hot off the press, portraying American and British entrenchments during the siege of Boston. Like other patriotic women, Betsy packed cartridges for the American Army during the war, stuffing a thousand paper tubes with musket balls and powder in January 1779. She apparently did not participate in the effort begun in 1780 by Benjamin Franklin's daughter, Sarah Bache, to provide shirts for the army, but she did, it appears, make flags. 
 Miller situates Ross within a community of Philadelphia upholsterers, needlewomen, painters and glaziers who took up the work of making flags and other military stores when their domestic work was disrupted by pre-Revolutionary boycotts of British goods and then by the war. Although only one surviving document refers to Ross's flag-making during the Revolution, a receipt for making ''standards'' for the Pennsylvania navy, she may well have constructed others. For her, as for other artisans, flag-making was not so much a patriotic duty as a craft, a way of making a living in hard times. As Miller writes: ''Many people helped form the national emblem we recognize today. That Betsy Ross was not alone does not diminish her contribution among them. The flag, like the Revolution it represents, was the work of many hands.'' 
 Miller's admiring biography will warm the hearts of those who love the Betsy Ross legend. It may also convince skeptics (Miller refers to them as ''naysayers'') that there is something in the flag stories worth considering. Unfortunately, Miller's affection for her subject sometimes gets in the way of her otherwise careful scholarship. Nowhere is this more obvious than in her attempt to elaborate on 19th-century stories about how young Elizabeth Griscom worked in the shop of a fashionable Philadelphia upholsterer named John Webster. Webster's work is documented in account books with Philadelphia grandees like John Cadwalader and Benjamin Chew, and while these accounts never mention Griscom, a handful mention payments to her future husband John Ross.
 Miller is not content with noting these connections or with telling her readers what sort of work a young woman may have done in such a shop. She turns inferences into facts and then embellishes the facts with fiction, telling us that Betsy spent ''five or six years between 1768 and 1773 working for John Webster'' and that during those years, she made ''among many other things, the fabulous accoutrements for the Cadwalader home.'' She somehow magically knows that ''when Cadwalader strolled into Webster's shop late in May 1771, Betsy Griscom and everyone else inside snapped to attention'' and that Betsy and John ''for five years . . . worked alongside each other, flirted, bickered and generally sized each other up as potential partners in the life ahead.'' 
 In passages like these, Miller adopts the style of sentimental fiction that has, for more than a century, affected the credibility of the Betsy Ross narrative. This weakens her own historical prose, which is strong enough to stand on its own. It also defeats the ultimate purpose of her book, which is to rediscover the woman behind the legend. Surprisingly, Miller devotes only 50 pages of her 362-page text to the last 40 years of Claypoole's life. Yet as Miller herself explains, these were not only among the best documented decades of her life but the years when the flag stories took form. Thanks to government records, we can know what kind of flags Claypoole and her daughters made in the early 19th century and what they were paid, as well as whom they worked with, and what sort of competition they faced. Among those competitors was Rebecca Young, who eventually moved to Baltimore, where she and her daughter Mary Pickersgill crafted the immense ''stars and stripes'' that inspired the poem Francis Scott Key wrote during the siege of Fort McHenry in the War of 1812. Surely, it wasn't just her experiences as a young woman that shaped Claypoole's stories, but this intense period of flag-making after the war, a period in which the rapid production of five-pointed stars had much more relevance than in the era of the Revolution, when they were in fact rare.
 By the time William Canby knew his grandmother, her life as a flag maker had probably ended, and the artisan culture that had nourished her was being threatened by an expanding national economy and new modes of production. But her imaginative life was flourishing. Elizabeth Claypoole may or may not have been a supreme flag maker, but she was without question a consummate storyteller, and she passed that talent on to her descendants. Throughout the book, Miller winks at the improbabilities in the family lore while appropriating the bitsand pieces that suit her narrative, but she never fully confronts the creation of the Betsy Ross legend. To do so would have meant undermining a cherished American story. It would also have meant shifting the emphasis from the Revolutionary period.
 In the end, the legend overwhelms the woman. Perhaps that is what Claypoole would have wanted. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); GRANDPARENTS (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Betsy Ross and the Making of America (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



211 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: That Nagging Question Of Mutual Fund Fees

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
PAUL SAMUELSON, the late Nobel laureate in economics, compared mutual funds to a saloon. 
 ''I decided that there was only one place to make money in the mutual fund business, as there is only one place for a temperate man to be in a saloon: behind the bar and not in front of it,'' he told Congress in 1967. It made sense to invest in mutual fund companies, Mr. Samuelson said, but not in mutual funds. 
 Then, as now, mutual fund management companies received handsome fees from people who often had no idea whether they were getting a good deal. For the most part, Mr. Samuelson suggested, they were not getting one. 
 Countless details have changed since Mr. Samuelson made those observations. For one, mutual funds have become far more popular. In 1965 in the United States, total fund assets were about $35 billion; in 2009 they exceeded $11 trillion, according to the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund industry group.
 And with the decline of traditional pensions, Americans are relying on mutual funds more than ever: 87 million people owned them last year. What's more, many studies have shown that fund expenses predict performance better than any other indicator -- low fees are generally linked to high returns -- so fees have a direct bearing on the financial well-being of millions of people. 
 But the core of Mr. Samuelson's critique is still on the mark for much of the industry, according to some critics, who say investors are paying far too much for mutual funds, especially those that are actively managed and run by publicly traded companies. A recent Supreme Court ruling may help matters a bit, said John C. Bogle, the Vanguard founder, but in his view the court did not go nearly far enough in setting guidelines for mutual fund fees. 
 ''I suppose the decision is a help, but it's not all that much of one,'' said Mr. Bogle, creator of the first index mutual funds and perhaps the pre-eminent advocate of low-cost investing. ''The court decision just isn't very coherent.''
 On the positive side, he said, the ruling on March 30 in Jones v. Harris gave the Supreme Court's imprimatur to a benchmark for fees that has long been opposed by the mutual fund industry. In a unanimous decision written by Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., the court said that when retail mutual fund directors bargained with advisers to set rates, they should make comparisons with ''relevant'' fees paid by ''different types of clients'' -- including institutional investors like pension funds, as well as independent mutual funds. 
 Harris Associates, the Chicago investment adviser, was the defendant in the case, which has been sent back to lower courts for adjudication. Harris said that comparisons between pension funds and mutual funds were invalid. In a brief filed in support of Harris, Fidelity Management and Research derided attempts to make ''apples-to-oranges comparisons between fees paid by mutual funds and those paid by institutional clients, such as pension funds.''
 The I.C.I., representing the industry, has taken that position for many years, citing research supporting its position, but the court rejected it. 
 The plaintiffs -- investors in Oakmark funds advised by Harris -- pointed to research finding that pension funds typically pay about half the rate charged to retail mutual funds for equivalent services. 
 Even when mutual funds are much larger than individual pension funds and when portfolios set up for the two types of funds are ''essentially the same,'' economies of scale are not passed along sufficiently to the retail consumer, said Mr. Bogle, who filed a brief supporting the plaintiffs. The disparity between institutional and retail fees is even greater in sheer dollars than when measured by the expense ratios or basis points that the asset management business typically prefers.
 One study, for example, compared public pension funds with mutual funds using similar investment strategies. The mutual funds had average assets of $1.3 billion, compared with $443 million for the pension funds, yet the mutual funds paid investment advisory fees of 0.56 percent, twice that of the pension funds. In raw dollars, the mutual funds paid six times as much, on average -- $7.28 million compared with $1.2 million. 
 ''We're just talking about the investment advisory fees paid by the two types of funds, not about fees for mailings of brochures, or phone calls, or anything else, so they are directly comparable,'' said John P. Freeman, professor emeritus at the University of South Carolina and a co-author of that study.
 In its ruling, however, the Supreme Court did not acknowledge the significance of the total dollars paid to advisers. Furthermore, it upheld a series of principles enshrined more than 20 years ago that set a very high bar for investors.
 Under those so-called Gartenberg principles, Justice Alito wrote, mutual fund directors have breached their ''fiduciary duty'' only when an adviser's fee is ''so disproportionately large that it bears no reasonable relationship to the services rendered and could not have been the product of arm's length bargaining.'' 
 Under this guideline, there hasn't been a single trial verdict in investors' favor. Several lawyers said that the court had made investors' burden lighter but that it might still not be easy to prevail. 
 IN a statement, Paul Schott, the president of the I.C.I., said that by embracing Gartenberg, the new ruling ''brings stability and certainty'' to mutual fund managers, directors and investors.
 ''This standard has well served the interests of funds and fund shareholders, who have seen their cost of investing fall by half in the last 20 years,'' he said. 
 Of course, whether fees have fallen or risen depends on how you do the counting. By Mr. Bogle's reckoning, fees have fallen sharply for investors who have put their money into index funds, but that's about it.
 The issue is complex and important, and I'll be returning to it in future columns. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John C. Bogle says a Supreme Court decision didn't go far enough in setting guidelines for mutual fund fees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); SUPREME COURTS (86%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); INDEX FUNDS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ALITO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



212 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Travelogues to the Nine Circles and Back

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
THERE is nothing quite as hypnotic as a travel show that suggests it's better to stay home.
 ''Locked Up Abroad,'' on the National Geographic Channel, is a series devoted to exploring the horrors that can happen to tourists who are kidnapped, commit a crime overseas or are falsely accused of one. That last predicament was the case with Simon Burke, a shy and homely British bachelor who couldn't believe his luck when a vivacious blonde invited him on a 10-day holiday to Machu Picchu. She didn't mention that she was smuggling drugs as well. Mr. Burke soon found himself naked, hands against the wall in an overcrowded Peruvian prison, awaiting an anal search and months of hazing from his scarred and tattooed cellmates.
 Similar tortures -- ''Midnight Express'' meets ''Brokedown Palace'' -- await guileless tourists all over the world, even in Sydney, Australia. And many other shows on cable and on the Internet complement the cautionary message of ''Locked Up Abroad.'' 
 After decades of high-minded exploration and Grand Tour enlightenment, travelogues about foreign destinations are throwbacks to a ''Here Be Dragons'' era of fevered imagination when terra incognita on maps was marked by sea serpents and scary mythical monsters. 
 That fearfulness is perhaps fitting in an era of man-made economic decline and natural calamity -- be it volcanic ash in Iceland or earthquakes in Haiti, Chile and Tibet -- and the more standard travel fare on television has rarely seemed so timorous. Nowadays even the Travel Channel is hidebound and xenophobic, focusing on beaches of Florida and California, and only occasionally venturing farther abroad than hotel chains in the Caribbean.
 ''I Shouldn't Be Alive,'' an Animal Planet series, demonstrates how adventurous travelers are brutally punished for their gumption: be it a British hiker who is crippled and almost killed by an avalanche in the Carpathian Mountains of Romania, or two teenagers fishing in a dinghy off the coast of South Carolina who are swept to sea by a riptide for a six-day ''Raft of the Medusa'' ordeal. 
 The Internet spawns ever more inventively alarming looks at foreign tourism, like ''The Vice Guide to Travel'' on VBS.TV, which specializes in unorthodox forms of tourism. One such episode is set in EcoAlberto Park, in El Alberto, Mexico, where day-trippers who pay $20 are given a chance to experience the fear and discomfort of a mock illegal border crossing, with no food or water as they deal with actors playing the part of Mexican smugglers and American border patrol officers with night-vision goggles. (''Hands up! Do you speak English?'')
 Obviously this is something of a departure from the travel shows of old, those magisterial tours of Venice, Dublin and the Pyramids of Giza that gave viewers benign and beautiful views of the world's most venerated wonders -- almost always through the eyes of an omniscient, or at least British, narrator. The outdoors, in particular, were served up as exotic but hospitable on shows like ''Wild Kingdom,'' '''The Undersea World of Jacques Cousteau'' and early incarnations of National Geographic specials. 
 Technology has grown ever more advanced and boundless, so that nature films like ''Winged Migration,'' and, more recently, ''Oceans,'' take viewers to places so high above the earth and deep beneath it that no ordinary person could possibly come close. 
 The spread of cable and the Internet, on the other hand, has balkanized and demystified travel, taming even the most remote parts of the world to suit the demands of a grilling contest on the Food Network or bikini modeling on ''Get Out!'' an extreme travel series on HDNet that takes scantily clad women to exotic locales, then lingers on their contours rather than the surrounding terrain's. 
 There are still plenty of stately and reverential travel shows on PBS stations, but the trend is headed in narrower, darker directions.
 That makes sense, in a way. For years cable networks like Animal Planet and National Geographic have whetted viewer's appetite for animal-on-animal iniquity, with programs that showcase shark attacks and impala massacres, as well as specials like ''Elephants: The Dark Side.'' So it's only to be expected that man is the latest species to be endangered by alien habitats, like Europe. 
 In the old days, series like ''Wild Kingdom'' and ''The Wonderful World of Disney'' were sometimes accused of overly anthropomorphizing wild animals; nowadays cable shows focus on bad things people do to one another, misanthropomorphizing the human race. 
 Its also true that in an era of YouTube, vote-in shows and blogger journalism, viewers seem less in thrall to experts than with first-person blunderers -- untutored, feckless guides to remote and unwelcoming places. That is certainly the appeal of ''Three Sheets,'' a series that began on Mojo, moved to the Fine Living Channel in its third season and can currently be seen on the Travel Channel for a limited time.
 The era of the jaunty amateur explorer, Phileas Fogg or Lady Hester Stanhope, is long over. Zane Lamprey, the host of ''Three Sheets,'' which takes its name from ''three sheets to the wind,'' an expression that means intoxicated, travels the globe to guzzle local alcoholic beverages. He doesn't go sightseeing, he goes sight-drinking -- in pubs, nightclubs, moonshine shacks, distilleries and squats and at beach parties and tribal gathering places. In Brussels he bolts back Belgian beer in a bar called A la Mort Subite (Sudden Death); in Moscow he goes to a banya, a Russian bathhouse, where he is swatted with birch branches in the sauna by thuggish-looking locals, then cooled down with bottles of vodka. 
 The ill-fated tourists and travelers who star in ''Locked Up Abroad'' and ''I Shouldn't Be Alive,'' are victims cast as first-person narrators. Each series follows the conventional History channel format that puts a real person in front of a camera in a darkened studio, then amplifies the account of woe with lurid re-enactments.
 When Ken Jones, the British traveler who was stranded in the Romanian mountains for four days, describes what it felt like when an avalanche threw him over a rock, shattering his pelvis (''It was agony, like a red-hot poker was being pushed into the side of my leg'') an actor, face covered in blood, obligingly writhes in the snow, screaming into the vast wilderness. When Mr. Jones recalls his fear of being ''eaten alive,'' wolves lope across the screen, howling hungrily at the moon. 
 Most such episodes end with a clip from real footage, as if to remind viewers that this is no joke. And those moments taken from newsreels or security cameras can sometimes be scarier than the dramatizations. In ''Locked Up Abroad: Sydney,'' Mark Knowles enjoys a beach getaway in Asia but is finally stopped by an alert security guard at the Sydney airport. The actor playing Mr. Knowles displays all the tension and panic that comes with walking past drug-sniffing dogs carrying 700 grams of cocaine inside his stomach (in condom-wrapped pellets) and strapped inside his shirt. 
 Moments later, the scene switches to actual security-camera footage of the real Mark Knowles in 1992, being ordered to remove his clothing. Worse even than the packets of cocaine taped to his waist like a bondage corset is the sight of his European bikini underwear, semi-sheer, with a cobweb pattern. (As if packing for a trip is not difficult enough these days, now travelers should bring underwear that's security-camera ready.) 
 Like many other subjects on ''Locked Up Abroad'' Mark emerges from a lengthy prison sentence remorseful and reformed, intent on preventing other fools from repeating his mistakes. 
 ''I don't care if I have a big house, don't care if I have loads of money,'' he says. ''It's the real things in life that are important -- friendship, love, family, and yeah, a little bit of traveling.'' He stops, and repeats with a lugubrious chortle, ''yeah, a little bit of traveling.''
 He is kidding.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rough trips: from top, in a re-enactment a traveler is interrogated by Mexican police officers in ''Locked Up Abroad''
a thirsty Zane Lamprey on ''Three Sheets''
and an ATV rider is trapped in ''I Shouldn't Be Alive.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE KEMP/RAW TELEVISION
SCREAMING FLEA PRODUCTIONS
 ANIMAL PLANET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); HIKING (77%); BEACHES (77%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); SMUGGLING (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); AVALANCHES (66%); HOTEL CHAINS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (54%) MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); PERU (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); HAITI (79%); TIBET (79%); ROMANIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); ICELAND (74%); CHINA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



213 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Boom Time for Boomer Models

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: generationb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
JULIETTE BRANKER, 53, works two jobs.
 As a customer service agent/Level 4 for the Lowe's home improvement store in Garden City, N.Y., she operates a forklift (above), along with a narrow aisle reach machine and an order picker machine. The other day she unloaded 20 skids of mulch (''mulch is really bouncy, you have to drive slowly or it'll fall on you'') and then did 18 skids of patio-building material. In the winter, she uses a chain saw to trim Christmas trees for customers, and come spring she offers planting advice in the garden store.
 In her second job, working as a model for the Ford agency, she's appeared on the ''Today'' show five times. ''A dream job,'' she said. ''They send a car for you, feed you, you wear these beautiful clothes, you walk on for about two seconds, they take you home, and you make $800 each time.'' 
 She's also appeared as a savvy business investor on a TV commercial for Edward Jones (earning $10,000, plus residuals); as a worldly traveler who speaks six languages for American Express; as a warm, twinkly mom of a 7-year-old for Hallmark; as the face of Weleda skin-care products; and as a middle-aged woman getting welcome relief from rheumatoid arthritis thanks to Cimzia.
 Ms. Branker would love to model full time. But being new -- she was discovered two years ago while taking salsa lessons at Stepping Out Studios in Manhattan -- she has held on to her $35,000-a-year Lowe's job. Still, she counts herself lucky. ''I never would imagine, starting to model at 51 years old,'' she said.
 Her new career is a reflection of changes both in the modeling world and in the consumers being targeted. ''You have a graying baby-boomer population that still has enormous buying power,'' said Paulette Ellison, who oversees Ford's classic division, which is primarily female models over 40. ''That demographic needs to be portrayed in a different way.''
 Ford has long employed middle-age classic models, but it wasn't until two years ago that the numbers got big enough for the agency to create a freestanding division. In the mid-1980s, according to Patty Sicular, Ford's archives director, the agency had 12 classic models in New York; by the mid-1990s, 18. That had grown to 40 by 2008, and today there are 54 -- a sign that despite the Great Recession, boomers continue to have more buying power than most.
 In the early 1980s, when Ms. Sicular joined Ford, she worked with the young stars, the teenager and 20-something women's division -- known as the high board for the dazzling money and lifestyle -- and remembers the classic board being considered the dregs. ''They were basically the leftovers, large-size, olds, parts models -- women who just did hands, legs, feet.'' In the mid-'90s, as the first boomers reached 50, Ms. Sicular took over the classics, weeding out deadwood and pushing for better work. ''In those days we were treated as third-class citizens,'' she said. ''I'd fight with clients -- more respect, more money, better clothes. Eventually it started to get easier.''
 A turning point was the success of Cindy Joseph, who signed her first modeling contract at 49, with Ford in 1999. For 25 years before that, Ms. Joseph had been a leading makeup artist, traveling the world to work with Cindy Crawford, Naomi Campbell, Susan Sarandon, Willem Dafoe. Even then, she was known for her natural beauty, her long-flowing gray hair, and for never, she said, ever having even one tiny Botox tweak (''Never would, no way''). She was spotted on the street in Greenwich Village by a casting agent for the fashion photographer Steven Meisel. He featured her in a campaign for Dolce & Gabbana, the Italian clothing designer, and from there her career soared: Liz Claiborne, DKNY, Olay, L. L. Bean, Target.
 Several times, her image appeared on Times Square billboards four stories high. Howard Schatz photographed her nude, for a pharmaceuticals brochure, a Time magazine cover (in silhouette) and a book. In the mid-2000s, she was profiled in magazines and on TV, the harbinger of something new, a middle-age model making it big.
 Ms. Joseph, who has a 40-year-old son and a 36-year-old daughter, said that in her best year she made $280,000. Now, at 59, in some ways she is a victim of her success. ''I used to do a go-see, and there were three of us,'' she said. ''Now it can be 10, and sometimes a roomful. With more women my age in the business, I'm working less.''
 It's also age. ''Ten years later I look older,'' she said. ''I get calls, I can tell, they're looking to see if I still have that youthful quality. Now I'm a little more matronly, a few more wrinkles, more silver hair.'' She's found she's too old to portray a mom, but too young to be Grandma in a pharmaceuticals ad. Still, she's busy and earns a six-figure income.
 Recently, she's been doing Macy's and J. C. Penney advertising and catalog work and has started her own cosmetics line, Boom. ''Instead of anti-aging, I say it's pro-aging. The idea is women can look beautiful without looking younger.''
 Unlike Ms. Branker and Ms. Joseph, Joy Bell, 53, had one of those dazzling high-board careers in her 20s and early 30s. She lived and worked in Italy, Paris, London and New York; jetted off to the Greek Islands for three-day shoots; was photographed by Irving Penn; did fashion spreads for Italian Vogue and Harper's Bazaar. And then, in her 30s, it stopped. ''I was too old for one market,'' she said, ''and the next market didn't exist yet.'' She spent 18 months on the soap opera ''Another World'' (''I was a vixen''), worked as a photographer and was an office manager for a hedge fund.
 In the early 2000s, she noticed Ms. Joseph's work. She started running -- slimming from size 12 to 8 -- and spoke to Ford about modeling again. ''They said, 'Look, there's a market now for your age,' '' she said. ''It kicked in my ambitious side -- how do I dive in on this?''
 While she doesn't earn the kind of money she did in her 20s, this time around, she said, ''I make a good, solid income.''
 In 2005, she was one of three models used on a Time magazine cover for the article ''A Female Midlife Crisis?''
 She had been hired at age 30 by the Gotham agency to be the face of Oil of Olay cosmetics (as it was known then), and 20 years later, Gotham used her again, for a Maybelline cosmetics campaign this time, playing Christy Turlington's older sister. ''I was perfectly fine with that,'' she said.
 She works differently now. At a shoot for Cavi clothes in California, she had to pose in four-inch Jessica Simpson heels all day. ''At my age, that's hard on the back,'' she said. To train, in the days before, while still at home, she did a lengthy regimen of stretches for upper and lower back, legs and hips, and ran daily. After each day of shooting, she soaked in Epsom salts and was in bed by 11. Instead of going home the night the job was done, she stayed over and left the next morning. ''After a day of work, if I sat on a red-eye for six hours -- back problems.''
 Many of the modeling moves she used when she was young are no longer appropriate. ''There used to be a lot of jumping around -- that's not what they want from me now,'' she said. ''When I was young, they wanted a more passive, more malleable look. You're the product of the photographer.
 ''Now they're looking for a confident pose, two feet firmly on the ground. It's in the shoulders, the way you stand. It's a 'you know who you are' look.''
 Asked if she had help figuring out modeling in middle age, she said: ''Not really. We're the first generation going through this. Our mothers didn't have these opportunities. So we just have to figure this out ourselves as we go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME CENTERS (90%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (86%); BABY BOOMERS (85%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (73%); CHRISTMAS (70%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (52%); ARTHRITIS (50%)

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (92%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (92%); AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (92%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



214 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: New Union Leader Wants Group to Be More of a Political Powerhouse

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the eldest daughter among 10 siblings -- and the third-eldest in all -- Mary Kay Henry, the incoming president of the Service Employees International Union, says she was born to be an organizer. 
 ''I was always asked to get everybody organized to get on the bus and to get everyone to the dinner table on time,'' said Ms. Henry, who after three decades of leading unionization drives was set to be elected on Saturday to head the nation's most politically potent union. 
 Ms. Henry will need more than organizing skills to fill the shoes of her visionary but divisive predecessor, Andy Stern, who was a prominent political player.
 Under Mr. Stern, the service employees became a formidable force in presidential, Congressional and governors' races and was the nation's fastest-growing union, expanding to nearly two million members.
 Eager to make her mark, Ms. Henry, 52, is vowing to turn the union into even more of an organizing and political powerhouse, with hopes of unionizing more than 150,000 workers a year and giving the service employees even more political weight.
 ''I feel this ominous responsibility to take the union to the next level,'' Ms. Henry, who was wearing a lavender blouse and lavender silk scarf (her union's official color is purple), said in an interview in her office, which was filled with union and feminist posters. 
 When Mr. Stern announced plans last month to step down, Anna Burger, the union's secretary-treasurer, seemed the favorite to succeed him. But within days, Ms. Henry had all but clinched the presidency as many senior leaders and large union locals rallied behind her, prompting Ms. Burger to withdraw her candidacy. 
 Many union officials embraced Ms. Henry as a consensus builder after Mr. Stern had angered much of organized labor by quitting the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and picking fights with other unions.
 ''I've never seen her be polarizing,'' said Dennis Rivera, who heads the service employees' health care division. ''She brings people together.'' 
 Friends say that Ms. Henry, who grew up in a middle-class Detroit suburb, is down to earth and devoid of airs. But she nonetheless said, ''I believe I'm the right leader at the right moment for what's required to win for workers.'' To her, ''to win for workers'' means to unionize more of them to lift their standards of living and give them more political power.
 While Mr. Stern often sizzled with ideas and bristled with impatience, Ms. Henry is a calming, reassuring presence who says her greatest strength is being ''an excellent listener.''
 She is a straight talker with a strong, comforting voice who speaks freely about how her Roman Catholic upbringing nourished her interest in social justice, about being a lesbian and about her hopes to use her new position to battle for workers' rights, immigrants' rights and gay rights.
 Her father was a salesman and her mother was a substitute teacher. After graduating from Michigan State University in 1979, she took a job with the service employees' union because it, unlike some others, was hiring female organizers. 
 In her decades of organizing, Ms. Henry became a master practitioner of the labor strategy that companies hate most: corporate campaigns. In one major success, she led a four-year corporate campaign against Catholic Health Care West, a chain of California hospitals, branding it antiworker and lining up the support of several Catholic bishops. 
 That campaign led to unionizing 17,000 workers at 27 hospitals.
 ''I would hope she moves away from corporate campaigns,'' said Randel Johnson, senior vice president for labor at the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''The S.E.I.U. has turned them into an aggressive art form. The vast majority of them are unfair.''
 But Ms. Henry has no plans to relent. ''We have to figure out how to reach out to nonunion workers like never before because of these tough economic times,'' she said. By spending $250 million a year on organizing, the union's leaders expect to expand membership to three million by decade's end, meaning the S.E.I.U. would represent 20 percent of all unionized workers. 
 Ms. Henry seems in no rush to distance herself from Mr. Stern's policies. She subscribes to his ambitious political strategies, even planning to increase his proposed spending on governors' races to $14 million this year, from $10 million.
 ''Our members want to hold politicians accountable,'' she said. For example, upset that Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, opposed some major aspects of the recent health care bill, Ms. Henry supports her predecessor's decision to back the lieutenant governor, Bill Halter, in a primary challenge to Mrs. Lincoln. 
 George Gresham, president of 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East, a 300,000-member local based in New York whose endorsement was crucial to Ms. Henry's victory, said: ''Some bloggers were saying that a vote for Mary Kay was a vote to step away from the political strategy and political power that S.E.I.U. had developed. Nothing could be further from the truth.''
 Ms. Henry seems more eager than Mr. Stern to reach a settlement to end a bruising war with Unite Here, the union representing hotel and restaurant workers. The two unions have often sought to sabotage each other's organizing drives. 
 But Ms. Henry said she had no intention of settling with Sal Rosselli, the president of a large California union local who led an effort to quit the S.E.I.U. Mr. Rosselli constantly denounced Mr. Stern as a top-down leader who ignored the rank and file, and he has begun leveling similar criticisms against Ms. Henry. She calls Mr. Rosselli a divisive figure whom a jury found to have illegally used members' dues to finance his breakaway efforts.
 Many unions are hoping Ms. Henry will lead her union back into the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which the service employees quit in 2005, criticizing it as hidebound and doing too little to stop labor from sinking. But Ms. Henry said she had no plans to rejoin, although she wants labor to work together in this year's elections. 
 ''It really isn't about structure,'' she said. ''Most workers have had it with the direction of the economy and having to make ends meet with shrinking incomes, rising health costs and no retirement security. That's where I want to put our attention as a movement. Not to how the deck chairs are arranged.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary Kay Henry 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); HEALTH CARE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



215 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CAREER COUCH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Offering Help To a Troubled Colleague

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN. 
E-mail: ccouch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Q. One of your co-workers has been acting strangely for a while, and you're beginning to suspect that something may be seriously wrong -- perhaps problems at home, mental health issues or substance abuse. What kind of behavior could point to a problem like this?
 A. Any sustained change in someone's normal behavior can signal a problem. Examples may include angry outbursts or forgetfulness, being late or frequently absent or missing deadlines. Diana Gregory, a senior human resources specialist at Administaff in San Francisco, says that this situation has become more common recently, with so many people facing home foreclosures and other financial crises. 
 Yet just because you notice a change in someone's behavior doesn't mean that you are qualified to determine what is causing it.
 ''You never want to be a diagnostician in the workplace,'' says Richard Chaifetz, chairman and chief executive of the ComPsych Corporation, a Chicago-based provider of employee assistance programs. 
 ''The chances of you being wrong are far greater than you being right,'' he says. What might be perceived as a smell of alcohol, for example, could result from a problem that diabetics sometimes have with the sugar buildup in their bloodstream. Another cause may be prescription medication.
 ''Focus instead on how the problem is affecting the workplace and its impact on performance, he says. ''In the professional world, that's what matters.''
 Q.Should you take your concerns directly to your colleague, or go to management?
 A. If you have a friendly relationship with your co-worker, it's fine to ask what's wrong. But make your intentions clear, says Dennis S. Reina, a psychologist and co-author of ''Trust and Betrayal in the Workplace: Building Effective Relationships in Your Organization.'' Explain that you are there to offer support, not to judge or blame. ''You could say, 'I have the impression that something might be wrong.''' 
 ''Then discuss the things you have noticed,'' Mr. Reina says. ''Define the what, when and how. Stick to the evidence. Then give the person the opportunity to explain.'' 
 If the problems are beyond what you can handle as a co-worker, suggest that the person seek help from an outside counselor or doctor, or by calling the company's employee assistance line.
 If your co-worker becomes defensive or angry, speak to your boss or human resources, because it's not your job to manage the problem, says David Sack, a psychiatrist and C.E.O. of Promises Treatment Centers in Malibu, Calif. 
 If you decide to go to management, ''stay focused on the behavior, because the behavior is the fact, while the cause is uncertain,'' Dr. Chaifetz says. Always alert management if someone expresses violent or suicidal thoughts.
 Q. Can you get into trouble for discussing your concerns about a co-worker with your boss?
 A. Generally you can't, but never gossip about the person with other co-workers, says Rosemary S. Gousman, regional managing partner of the New Jersey office of Fisher & Phillips, a labor and employment law firm. ''Tell only those who have a business need to know,'' she says. ''If you have very sensitive information about them, it might be better not to go to a manager, but to human resources instead. By not going to your co-worker's immediate manager you are protecting their privacy.''
 Q.You decide to ask your co-worker if something is wrong, and he or she starts confiding in you about very personal problems. You want to be supportive but also don't want to become too involved. What should you do?
 A. Someone going through a difficult time is often relieved just to be asked about it and may start to unload all the details on you. You should show some empathy and then make generic suggestions, Dr. Sack says. ''Discussions about the kind of professional help your benefit plan covers, finding a counselor or calling the confidential help line are usually the most appropriate and helpful in a work environment,'' he says.
 Keep in mind that just because someone is opening up to you doesn't necessarily mean they want your help. In fact, Dr. Chaifetz says, people may ''perceive your attempt to solve their problems as an unwanted intrusion.''
 Q. If the colleague having problems is also a good friend, how far should you go to help, considering that you still have a professional relationship to maintain?
 A. We generally go a step further for a friend, Dr. Sack says. It's O.K. to do whatever you reasonably can -- like helping to find a counselor, scheduling the appointment, even coming along for support.
 If the problems are severe, however, remember that you are a friend, not a therapist. ''Always advise seeking the help of a professional,'' says Dr. Chaifetz. ''You can be empathetic and let them know the situation sounds terrible, but also let them know you aren't qualified to help them solve it, although you can certainly help them find someone who is.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS REED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); FORECLOSURE (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (51%)

COMPANY: COMPSYCH CORP (69%); INSPERITY INC (57%)

TICKER: NSP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (57%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



216 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Adding a Dimension to the Frenzy

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
AT this moment, poised between the release of ''How to Train Your Dragon'' -- seven weeks and around $200 million of domestic box office in the past -- and the arrival of the next and final ''Shrek'' movie two weekends from now, we find ourselves in the middle of what film historians of the future may remember as the great 3-D frenzy of 2010. It is difficult, in the middle of any momentous historical event, to discern its true nature. Is this a revolution or a craze? Will the new 3-D, like sound in the late 1920s and '30s, color and widescreen a generation later, or computer-generated imagery over the past decade, fundamentally alter the way movies are made and experienced? Or will it be more like the old 3-D: an intriguing but ultimately limited gimmick? 
 Are these economic or aesthetic questions? Is it even possible to tell the difference any more? The commercial power of 3-D is hard to dispute, at least for now. Theaters have raised the surcharge for thick-framed disposable (or rather, recyclable) glasses, from the typical $3 to, in some places, as much as $5 or $7.50 per ticket, a premium that has hardly deterred moviegoers. The added expense almost seems to be having the opposite effect. Spending more on a 3-D ticket, particularly when the same movie can be seen in a conventional flat version, makes that extra dimension feel extra special. It's like a cable channel with swearing and nudity, or a tub of popcorn twice as big as the next size down, but for only a little more money. It's a mass-produced luxury, a splurge that almost feels like a bargain.
 Six months after prerelease speculation about ''Avatar'' reached its breathless acme, that movie has quieted skeptics by earning around three-quarters of a billion dollars in the United States alone. Not all of that money has come from 3-D engagements, but the triumph of ''Avatar'' has certainly helped to establish the viability of the format. The subsequent success of every other nonnature-documentary feature released in 3-D this year -- ''Alice in Wonderland,''''Clash of the Titans'' and ''How to Train Your Dragon'' -- has laid the groundwork for a new conventional wisdom that will hold at least until the first major 3-D flop.
 That is bound to happen, of course, but by then the investments in new equipment will be so substantial, and the pipeline so full of new product, that the juggernaut is unlikely to stall. One important tenet of the conventional wisdom is that 3-D is drawing crowds to the multiplexes that might otherwise have stayed home. Ever since the rise of television, theater owners and Hollywood studios have lived in a state of panic -- sometimes low level, sometimes acute -- that a new invention would cause people to stop going to the movies. This anxiety has persisted even as Hollywood learned to turn its supposed competitors into streams of ancillary revenue. And even now, as improved technology has brought the home viewing experience close to parity with (and, if your local multiplex is as crummy as mine, even superiority to) what audiences can find in theaters, the habit of moviegoing has proved impressively durable. 
 But of course it has always been a habit fed by novelty, and by a steady growth in the size, scale and extravagance of available spectacles. The paradox is that those features, with increasing speed, migrate from the theater to the living room. You can find 3-D televisions in the showrooms of home electronics stores, and as the economy continues to recover, you will see more and more of them in your neighbors' houses. Your kids will be able to watch the same movies they saw twice in theaters again and again, in more or less the same way.
 So there is no question that a bonanza of economic opportunism is under way, as studios rush to retrofit two-dimensional movies -- as with ''Clash of the Titans'' and Disney's ''Alice in Wonderland'' -- or to refurbish existing franchises. This year we will see not only the fourth ''Shrek'' movie and ''Toy Story 3,'' but also the fish-mayhem movie ''Piranha 3-D'' and fully fleshed-out installments in the ''Step Up'' dance series and the ''Jackass'' extreme-stunt documentaries.
 Much as one can look forward to the realistically deep belly buttons of ''Step Up 3-D'' and the -- actually I don't even want to picture it -- of the next ''Jackass,'' it seems reasonable to wonder just what is added when an illusory third dimension is tacked on. And also whether it will be suitable for all kinds of movies. In a dissenting essay published in Newsweek -- and titled ''Why I Hate 3-D (and You Should Too)'' -- Roger Ebert wrote that he could not ''imagine a serious drama, such as 'Up in the Air' or 'The Hurt Locker,' in 3-D.'' 
 He didn't think most filmmakers could either, and to be honest, neither can I. But back in the old days there were critics who were similarly skeptical about sound and then color, both of which were thought to diminish the distinctive artistic qualities of cinema. And I suspect that before long Mr. Ebert and I will see a dramatic film that challenges our assumptions.
 Until then, though, we --by which I mean everyone who goes to the movies -- will have to contend with a grab bag of innovation, ambition and slapdash workmanship. In this regard 3-D is not so different from any other kind of moviemaking, except that its genuine achievements are to date fairly limited. 
 So far 3-D works better in animation than in live action. ''Avatar,'' with its motion-captured figures and computer-generated landscapes seamlessly blended with real actors and settings, is the exception that proves this rule. The sequences in that film in which the spatial illusion works best are, for the most part, those involving the Na'vi and the wild fauna of Pandora. And the truly breathtaking moments are those when the winged creatures take flight and soar.
 The same is true in ''How to Train Your Dragon,'' a fairly standard child-friendly animated tale about being yourself, following your dreams and tolerating others that is made transcendent by the vertiginous and exhilarating spectacle of dragons on the wing. My hunch is that the amazing success of this movie, which dominated the box office for weeks in the face of competition from action movies, romantic comedies and other popular genres, owes more to its sheer visual appeal than anything else. It supplies an almost primal delight, the kind that earlier generations found in CinemaScope epics or in the predigital effects of the first ''Star Wars'' movies. Watching it, you almost believe that you are flying.
 The replication of flight has been a dream of cinema for a very long time, at least since William Wellman's ''Wings'' was honored at the first Academy Awards. The best 3-D movies -- ''Up,'' as well as ''Avatar'' and ''Dragon'' -- revive this dream and supply it with a new dimension. In the case of more earthbound 3-D movies, like ''Alice'' and ''Titans,'' the pop-out holographic effects feel more tacked on, and not just because they were added in postproduction rather than applied organically (to borrow ''Avatar'' director James Cameron's word) during the shooting. There is nothing in those movies -- not giant scorpions or fearsome Jabberwocks -- that really needs extra virtual bulk. And they include few flights of imagination capable of pulling us out of our seats and into the air. 
 But one of the reasons we hunger for newforms of flight is that the thrill has a way of wearing off. The movies that astonished our parents or our younger selves now look creaky or quaint, charming rather than mind blowing. This will happen to 3-D, perhaps faster than we think. Maybe it's here to stay, and maybe it's not such a big deal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Movies with wings: From top, ''How to Train Your Dragon'' and ''Clash of the Titans,'' starring Sam Worthington, far left, were box office powerhouses. Other 3-D films in the pipeline include ''Toy Story 3,'' above, and ''Step Up 3-D,'' at left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PARAMOUNT PICTURES
WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES
DISNEY/PIXAR
 K. C. BAILEY/WALT DISNEY PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (90%); FILM (90%); HISTORY (89%); FILM HISTORY (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (69%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



217 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Can Michelle Obama Make You a Star?

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

 BODY:
LAST Saturday night, Michelle Obama walked into a staid Washington hotel ballroom wearing a striking red gown, and within minutes the fashion world was talking.
 Tweets and e-mail messages went out from the myriad journalists and celebrities in the room for the annual White House Correspondents' Association dinner. Bloggers weighed in. Adjectives like ''stunning'' and ''magnificent'' and ''F-A-B-U-L-O-U-S'' flew through cyberspace.
 Prabal Gurung, the young designer who created the hand-draped, body-hugging, off-the-shoulder dress, was in New York, headed to a party in a taxi with a couple of friends when the congratulatory messages came rolling in. By the next day, traffic on his Web site had shot up. By Monday, he was hearing from stores that do not carry his lines but were now, suddenly, very interested.
 ''For me it's incredible, it's such an honor,'' Mr. Gurung said last week. 
 Another fashion star is born? Or not?
 The first lady's sartorial tastes have been scrutinized, admired and highly publicized. Entire Web sites have been formed devoted to what she chooses to put on her body at any given moment. (''Michelle Brings Back the Brooch at the National Science Bowl,'' trumpeted one recent headline.) Because of her, designers barely known outside the fashion beltway like Jason Wu have become known to the masses. But whether Mrs. Obama's patronage translates into higher sales for the designers she wears regularly is still in question.
 The disparity between the first lady's affection and actual sales was underscored recently when one of the earliest designers associated with Mrs. Obama, Maria Pinto, announced that she was closing her business. Some of the most memorable images of Mrs. Obama during the 2008 election season -- addressing the Democratic National Convention in turquoise; bumping fists with her husband in a belted purple sheath after securing the nomination; visiting the Bushes at the White House in vivid red as the wife of the president-elect -- involved Ms. Pinto's creations. In a recent interview with The New York Times, Ms. Pinto said she failed to capitalize on the enormous publicity from Mrs. Obama's patronage.
 As with many designers spotlighted by Mrs. Obama, ''you can definitely win the PR race, but there's still a business to manage,'' said Hayley Corwick, who writes a blog about the fashion business, Madison Avenue Spy, under the name Lila Delilah.
 Ms. Corwick recently discovered that another iconic Michelle Obama outfit, the red and black Narciso Rodriguez dress Mrs. Obama wore on election night in 2008 -- part of a tableau that has been enshrined in history -- also showed signs of suffering in the consumer marketplace. It was being offered on the Bergdorf Goodman Web site at $1,540, down from $4,400.
 Clearly some businesses have benefited from Mrs. Obama's choices, especially those easier on the pocketbook. J. Crew sales soared when, during the height of scorn over Sarah Palin's $150,000 campaign wardrobe, Mrs. Obama noted during a TV interview that she herself was wearing a J. Crew sweater set.
 But at the industry's higher end, it's harder to know which designers have gained financially; many of their businesses are privately held and not obligated to disclose sales figures.
 There certainly have been some winners. Mr. Wu, the young designer who created the floating white gown that Mrs. Obama wore for the inaugural balls, saw an immediate jump in business after the inauguration, and the growth has continued, said Robert Burke, a fashion and luxury goods consultant who works with Mr. Wu's company.
 Even before she shined a spotlight on him, Mr. Wu was already carried by prime retailers like Bergdorf Goodman, Neiman Marcus and Saks Fifth Avenue. But since January 2009, the business has grown 40 percent each year, said Gustavo Rangel, Mr. Wu's chief financial officer -- and that was during a deep recession. He has also introduced new product lines including sunglasses, eyewear and a camera collection.
 Mr. Burke also said that another client, Naeem Khan, an Indian-American designer who created the shimmering handmade gold strapless gown that the first lady wore to a White House state dinner with the Indian prime minister and his wife, received an immediate boost to his business afterward.
 The first lady's patronage ''does translate into business,'' Mr. Burke said. ''It's long been known that celebrities sell fashion. This takes the situation to a whole other level.''
 But some buyers and boutique owners say they have yet to see material evidence of that. Sarah Easley, an owner of Kirna Zabete, a boutique in Manhattan, said that her store already carried many of the designers Mrs. Obama chose long before she propelled their names into the national spotlight, and that she has never had a customer cite the first lady when making a choice. ''No one has ever come in and said, 'Well, I saw Michelle wearing Thakoon so I am here to buy Thakoon,' '' she said.
 Laura Vinroot Poole, the owner of Capitol, a women's luxury retail store in Charlotte, N.C., said that Mrs. Obama's propensity to mix mass labels like J. Crew with high-end designers has helped ''democratize fashion'' and made the first lady enormously influential in the field. But she added, ''For me, it does not translate into sales at all.''
 She and others note that most of their clients who have the taste and the money for high-end designer clothes are looking for something they feel is special -- not, say, a dress that everyone has seen on magazine covers and on TV. ''Alaia dresses are $3,000,'' Ms. Poole said, referring to the designer Azzedine Alaia, whom Mrs. Obama has worn a number of times. ''I can promise you I have not sold one Alaia dress because Michelle Obama wore it.''
 For Mr. Gurung how all this attention plays out remains to be seen. He has shown his collection only three seasons. He's in 23 stores, but after last weekend, he heard from about 50 others. No business has been done yet, but he said, ''It's opened a dialogue.''
 Of course the dress that caught everyone's attention may not ever be available to the consumer. It was custom made for Mrs. Obama. ''Retailers have really been asking about it,'' Mr. Gurung said. ''I have to think about whether I want to reissue a version of it.''
 Michelle Obama as a brand extends beyond the fashion world. Amazon.com lists 201 book titles with her name, everything from the biography ''Michelle Obama: An American Story'' to ''Totally Toned Arms: Get Michelle Obama Arms in 21 Days.'' Scores of magazines, from the obvious (Ebony) to the unexpected (Radar), have put her on the cover.
 At Conde Nast, Glamour, Vogue, Wired, the New Yorker (a drawing) and, just this month, Conde Nast Traveler all have done Michelle Obama covers. The March 2009 Vogue was one of the magazine's top-selling issues ever, but it's too soon to tell how the Traveler issue is doing. Peter W. Kaplan, the magazine's editorial creative director, said that the last time Traveler put someone associated with the White House on the cover -- Bill Clinton in 2007 -- a number of people canceled subscriptions.
 During the cover shoot, Mr. Kaplan said he was struck by how professionally Mrs. Obama, in a vibrant pink Diane Von Furstenberg dress, conducted herself. ''She worked like a supermodel,'' he said. ''I cannot believe on her best day that Christy Turlington worked any harder.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STAR: Michelle Obama in a Prabal Gurung, with the president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI GRIPAS/AFP/GETTY) (ST1)
FIRST MODEL'S INFLUENCE: Michelle Obama, from left, in clothes designed by Narciso Rodriguez
Prabal Gurung
Jason Wu
L'Wren Scott
Jason Wu
L'Wren Scott (cardigan) and Talbots (blouse). (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM LEFT, TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AFP/GETTY IMAGES
JEWEL SAMAD/AFP/GETTY IMAGES
CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
SAUL LOEB/AFP/GETTY IMAGES
EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (ST8)
IN HER OWN PARADE: The first lady in designs she chose, from left, by Narciso Rodriguez
Maria Pinto
Jason Wu (dress)
J. Crew (sweater)
J. Crew (sweater)
and L'Wren Scott (sweater). (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM LEFT, JASON REED/REUTERS
CHRIS CARLSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS
PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS
DAN KITWOOD/GETTY IMAGES
 JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) (ST9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (77%); WRITERS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (61%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



218 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Save the Date, and Waste a Long Weekend?

BYLINE: By JOANNE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
SAVE the dates: Monica Lee and Kelly Milligan are marrying in Chicago on Memorial Day weekend. Jessica Mullens and Scott Engelman plan to wed on Independence Day weekend in San Francisco, and Ella Dutton and Alex Campbell have set their date for Labor Day weekend in Scarborough, N.Y.
 They are among an ever increasing number of couples planning weddings on one of the summer's three-day weekends.
 Family and close friends will wish them every happiness, but they may also wish that the couples had chosen a different weekend. 
 ''People got punched by blizzards this winter,'' said Linnyette Richardson-Hall, a wedding planner in Baltimore. ''They can't wait for summer. If you decide to get married on one of those long weekends, a lot of people are going to be like, 'Are you serious?' ''
 It can be a complicated calculus. The three-day weekend offers extra time for friends and family traveling far. It also means those guests won't have to take a day off from work for the wedding. But holiday-weekend wedding invitations create conflicts -- emotional and otherwise -- for those with longstanding plans: opening a summer cottage, or hosting a Fourth of July barbecue or an end-of-summer picnic.
 Some couples wish to save money (more on that below). Others want to accommodate far-flung guests.
 ''I think it's easier for guests that it's in a three-day period,'' said Ms. Mullens, 37, an owner of a marketing firm in San Francisco. ''For people who are coming from New York, they're not traveling a long distance for a brief time.'' 
 More than half the guests expected at Ms. Lee's wedding at the James hotel in Chicago on the Sunday evening before Memorial Day are out-of-towners. ''We figured that having it Memorial Day weekend meant people would have Monday to get home and not lose a day of work,'' she said.
 ''We also wanted it to be an extended celebration,'' said Ms. Lee, 31, an administrator with the Chicago public school system. ''And we thought that doing it over the long weekend would give us multiple times to connect with guests.''
 If protracted partying and catching up with friends are what wedding couples want, a holiday ceremony may be ideal. If they want to save money, they should look at other days on the calendar, wedding planners say, because bargains are few. Some venues may offer discounts for weddings held on the Monday of a long weekend, said the New York event planner Marcy Blum, but certainly not on the Saturday night, ''which is becoming more and more popular.''
 Indeed, couples may find they're paying extra for a holiday weekend.
 ''Vendors have to pay their employees extra to work that holiday, and they pass the costs on to you,'' Ms. Richardson-Hall said. ''And I, as a planner, charge a premium for those weekends, and I have to pay my own employees more.''
 Ms. Dutton, 23, and Mr. Campbell, 29 -- who plan a Saturday evening ceremony at the Sleepy Hollow Country Club on Labor Day weekend, partly for the sake of a large family contingent from the West Coast -- ''shopped around pretty heavily for what we thought was the best deal,'' Mr. Campbell said. ''Most places we looked at treated the Sunday of a holiday like a Saturday night. We're paying a premium.''
 So are out-of-town guests. Air fares and lodging rates are generally higher on holiday weekends, and that's what is keeping Steven Anderson from his cousin's Memorial Day weekend wedding in Las Vegas.
 ''I love her dearly, but it's just not going to work out,'' said Mr. Anderson, who because of the recession was unemployed for most of last year. Though he is back at work now, as a public affairs manager for a government contracting firm in Reston, Va., ''we just weren't able to budget for this,'' he said. ''We'll send our love and regrets and a really nice gift.''
 Even couples who manage to strike attractive holiday weekend deals won't be holding on to their savings for long, Ms. Blum said, ''because they have to arrange extra entertainment for the guests who are there for the three days. It's the gracious thing to do.''
 Such extras include a welcome party and a goodbye brunch the day after the wedding. ''I always believe in a gift bag,'' Ms. Blum said. ''But if money is an issue, guests being invited to something on all three days of their stay is more important than a gift bag.''
 Ms. Richardson-Hall (who is also a cast member of the Style Network show ''Whose Wedding Is It Anyway?'') suggests that couples give guests a list of their favorite restaurants ''and maybe call the restaurants and see if they'll extend a 10 percent discount,'' she said. ''In most cases they're happy to do so.''
 Sinisa Srdic, the director of special events at the James hotel in Chicago, said that some couples marrying on a holiday weekend have paid for a hospitality suite stocked with drinks and snacks, excursions like an architectural tour by boat, tickets to a baseball game or a trip to a spa.
 On their wedding Web site, Ms. Dutton and Mr. Campbell supply information about getting tickets to the United States Open tennis tournament and furnish a guide to cultural events in Westchester County and Manhattan.
 ''If you do a three-day weekend wedding the right way, people will be excited to be there,'' said Ms. Richardson-Hall, who suggests incorporating the holiday into the proceedings. For example, send a ''save the date'' card (a crucial mailing) in a sparkler box for a July 4 weekend wedding.
 There's a lot to be said for timing. In deference to guests who would like at least part of a holiday weekend to call their own, Ms. Blum suggested that the couple avoid scheduling the wedding for midday Saturday. 
 ''People get that invitation and think, Shoot me now,'' she said. Sunday evenings are even better, she said, ''because the guests will have had two free days.'' 
 Ms. Richardson-Hall also suggests that couples, who tend to get caught up in the planning, take a step back. ''I always tell brides and grooms: 'This is the first event you're hosting together. Be mindful of your guests' comfort,' '' she said. ''I tell them: 'When you're getting married, your wedding is the most important thing to you. But other people don't feel that way.' '' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM BLOOM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); US LABOR DAY (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



219 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Soho House Opens A Berlin Hotel

BYLINE: By CHARLY WILDER

 BODY:
If there were ever an indicator that Berlin has outgrown its image as untamed bohemian playground, this might be it. Soho House Berlin, a 40-room hotel and private club aimed at the young and affluent, is set to open on May 10 in Mitte, a district once dominated by squatters and unemployed artists. 
 Located in a massive late-Bauhaus structure that opened as a department store in 1928 and was seized by the Nazis and, later, the post-war Communist regime, Soho House Berlin (Torstrasse 1; 49-30-405-04-40; www.sohohouseberlin.com) includes a movie theater, a spa, a state-of-the-art gym and a heated rooftop pool made from volcanic stone. The rooms, each of which are equipped with an old-fashioned gramophone and a selection of vinyl LPs, start at 100 euros a night, about $130, for nonmembers (75 euros with membership).
 The club is the latest venture by the British entrepreneur Nick Jones, who opened the original Soho House above a London restaurant in 1995 and has since expanded with locations in New York's meatpacking district, West Hollywood and throughout Britain (Chicago and Miami sites are also in the works).
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH RENDERING FROM SOHO HOUSE BERLIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL AMENITIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); FILM (76%); RESTAURANTS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%)

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (86%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



220 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Half a Degree

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is an economics columnist for The Times and a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
The Great Depression did not have too many silver linings, but it did change the way Americans thought about education, clearly for the better. In 1930, only 30 percent of teenagers graduated from high school. By 1940, after a decade in which there often was nothing better to do than stay in school, the number had jumped to 50 percent. The Depression didn't just make Americans tougher. It made them smarter.
 In the years that followed, these newly skilled workers helped create an economic colossus. They were the factory workers, office clerks and managers who built up General Motors, U.S. Steel, R.C.A. and I.B.M. So when our own Great Recession began more than two years ago, it was reasonable to hope that something similar, if less extreme, might take place. 
 In a historical echo, the share of young adults in recent years who graduated from college happened to be about 30 percent. By any serious reckoning, that number was too low. The gap between the pay of college graduates and everyone else has grown sharply over the last three decades, reaching a new all-time high last year, which suggests that workers with a degree are too scarce a resource. There may indeed be a natural ceiling on how many college graduates a society should produce, but the United States does not appear close to it.
 A deep recession has the potential to change that. It can keep people in school, or drive them back to school, in two main ways. First, it reduces the opportunity cost -- to use the technical term -- of attending college. When times are tough, you are less likely to be missing out on a good $20-an-hour job by being in class. Second, a recession can serve as a wake-up, as Cecilia Rouse, a Princeton economist on leave to work in the White House, puts it. Because job losses and reductions in hours tend to fall disproportionately on less-educated workers, a downturn reminds people of a degree's value.
 The good news is that this dynamic seems to be playing out once again. The Bureau of Labor Statistics recently reported that the share of new high-school graduates enrolled in college rose to 70.1 percent last fall. That was up from 67.2 percent in 2007 and a new record. And an analysis by the Pew Research Center has found the increase happening overwhelmingly at community colleges, which tend to educate working-class and poor students, the very groups that have been left behind. Northampton Community College in Bethlehem, Pa., has dealt with the crush by holding classes in empty mall stores and church basements, according to the publication Community College Week. Fresno City College, in California, now has an enrollment of more than 25,000 students but just 3,000 parking spaces.
 Yet this overcrowding also highlights the main reason to be skeptical that the current college surge will have anywhere near the impact of the Depression's high-school surge: it is not at all clear that colleges will, or even can, do right by their new students.
 Over the last few decades, the number of teenagers who enroll in college has actually been rising fairly steadily. But graduation rates have fallen. Less than a third of all students who enroll in community colleges with the intention of getting a two-year degree -- a degree leading to jobs in nursing, auto repair, preschool education -- ever do so at any college, statistics suggest. The United States still leads the world in getting students to start college, notes Lawrence Katz, co-author of a recent history of education. But we no longer lead in what really matters: educational attainment.
 This problem -- the college-dropout boom -- has started to receive more attention lately. The Obama administration has announced that it considers college completion to be as important as college access. The education bill that was attached to health care reform included $2 billion for community colleges with promising pilot programs. It was much less money than the White House initially wanted, but it is still enough to make a difference. The Gates Foundation, meanwhile, has begun to consider two-year colleges as the linchpin to improving higher education. ''We have to accept the fact that completion rates are far too low,'' Melinda Gates told a gathering of community-college presidents last month. Gates implored them to be more innovative, and the foundation is spending $400 million to encourage such efforts.
 College administrators and researchers admit they do not yet know exactly what works. The most important factor appears to be student preparation, which is mostly beyond a college's control. But intensive remedial programs seem to make a difference. So does financial aid linked to academic performance. In Louisiana and West Virginia, students whose scholarships were tied to remaining on track for graduation have done better than their peers. Such programs have the added benefit -- especially during a time of shrinking government budgets -- of focusing aid on students with a good chance of becoming graduates. Finally, of course, there is the overall cost of college. The higher the cost, the fewer the students who graduate, research has shown.
 One advantage for Depression-era teenagers was the tuition at their local high school: zero. College, on the other hand, will probably never be free in this country. If anything, the recent state budget cuts are making it more expensive. Yet college is no less important to the country's economic future than high school was in 1930. So what is to be done?
 In her recent speech, Gates spent a few minutes praising the impressive tenacity of the community-college students she has met. She described one who napped in his car between a night shift and a morning class and another who juggled caring for her infant son with studying chemistry. Unfortunately, not all students can manage to be so tenacious and creative. Even more to the point, perhaps, the rest of us have not been, either. The policy makers, administrators and even voters whose decisions shape today's colleges have come to see a job half-done as an acceptable outcome. Until that changes, it is hard to see how the country will have another great education surge.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATHERINE WAGNER) DRAWING (DRAWING BY BY HUMAN EMPIRE)
 GRAPHIC: In October 2008, 3.4 million STUDENTS were ENROLLED in U.S. community colleges. (SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER, 2009) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); STATISTICS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



221 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Democrats See Hopes for West Dim in Colorado

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
DENVER -- When Barack Obama stood before an admiring audience at Mile High Stadium here and accepted his presidential nomination 21 months ago, Democratic leaders crowed about turning Colorado into a reliable stronghold, another step toward building the party's strength in the West. 
 Those dreams of expansion have given way to hopes for survival. 
 Republicans are now well positioned for a statewide resurgence, threatening several Democratic seats in the midterm elections and raising questions about whether the opening chapter of the Obama administration has eroded gains that Democrats had been making here for the previous six years.
 A persistently sluggish economy, the ninth-highest foreclosure rate in the country, the rising federal budget deficit and opposition to the new health care law have all contributed to a volatile environment for Democrats. The number of registered Democrats has dropped slightly since Mr. Obama's 9-point victory here, becoming only the third presidential candidate of his party to carry Colorado since Harry S. Truman. 
 ''We were set up for a 15- or 20-year Democratic dominance,'' said Gary Hart, a former Democratic senator from Colorado, adding that the party would have prospered if the economy had not collapsed. ''This state, more than most, is a pendulum. It seems to be to be swinging faster than it did before.''
 The president's approval ratings in Colorado have hovered just below 50 percent, according to a variety of public and private polls, but it is the sentiment of those who strongly disapprove of Mr. Obama that causes particular worry for Democrats. Party strategists believe that independent male voters will be difficult, if not impossible, to win over, so Democrats are trying to improve their standing with independent female voters here and in other states, who will hold considerable sway in the fall elections.
 At stake this year in Colorado are Democratic efforts to hold on to the governor's office, a United States Senate seat and at least three competitive House districts, along with both chambers of the state legislature.
 The White House has angered some Democrats here by trying to quash a primary challenge against Senator Michael Bennet, who was appointed to the seat when Ken Salazar joined the cabinet as interior secretary. Party leaders feared that a costly primary battle could weaken Mr. Bennet, a former superintendent of schools in Denver who had never held elective office. 
 ''A fair reading of the facts are that I was appointed, the president endorsed me and 10 months later someone decided to run against me,'' Mr. Bennet said in an interview. He added, ''But like anybody else, I have to win this on my own.''
 Andrew Romanoff, a former Colorado House speaker, rebuffed repeated appeals and is challenging Mr. Bennet from the left. He won the Democratic caucuses this spring and is expected to deliver a strong showing at the state convention on May 22. 
 His popularity among people active in party politics provoked enough worry on Mr. Bennet's behalf that he is hedging his bets and collecting signatures to get his name on the ballot in case he fails to win enough support at the convention. 
 ''It is not only the stubbornness of Republicans that's at fault here; it is too often the spinelessness of Democrats,'' Mr. Romanoff said recently at a house party in Aurora, where voters vented their frustrations about Congress. ''I don't take any joy in that conclusion.''
 While the White House endorses all Democratic incumbents, some voters say the Colorado case should be different because Mr. Bennet has never been elected. The Democratic National Committee has tried to fire up the Obama army of supporters, known as Organizing for America, to help Mr. Bennet. But that decision did not sit well with some Democrats, several of whom aired their disapproval in interviews last week.
 ''Keep your nose out of local politics, you know?'' said Jane Johnson, a retiree, who first became involved in politics as a volunteer for Mr. Obama's presidential campaign and supports Mr. Romanoff. ''It's ironic coming from Obama.''
 The unstable situation facing Mr. Obama and his party is a stark contrast to the mood less than two years ago at the national convention. Democratic strategists believe their party's popularity will rise as the health care law begins taking effect and the economy improves. 
 But registered Democrats have fallen by 30,000 since November 2008, a drop of about 4 percent, according to the Colorado secretary of state. And since April, when the state began allowing new voters to register online, more Republicans than Democrats have done so. As of May 1, the state had 849,572 Republicans, 813,126 Democrats and 752,503 voters not affiliated with either party.
 ''Never in my wildest dreams did I feel we'd be in this position,'' said Dick Wadhams, chairman of the Colorado Republican Party. ''Voters got carried away with the charisma of Obama, but the bailouts, health care, cap-and-trade was not what they bargained for.''
 The political atmosphere has produced the biggest burst of optimism for Republicans since 2004, Mr. Wadhams said, with the party setting its sights on Democratic Representatives Betsy Markey, Ed Perlmutter and John Salazar (the brother of the interior secretary). Ms. Markey, who represents Fort Collins and the eastern swatch of the state, is seen as one of the most vulnerable members of Congress.
 Yet for all the enthusiasm among party stalwarts, Republicans in Colorado must also navigate several primary contests on Aug. 10, the outcomes of which will help determine whether their candidates hold wide appeal to independent voters. The discontent with government in Washington has produced an active Tea Party movement and challenges to the Republican establishment.
 Democratic strategists concede that in Colorado, as in many other states, their best chance to avoid big losses in November would be for the Republican Party to fracture. 
 At the Cool River Cafe in Greenwood Village, a suburb of Denver that is home to many independent voters, Jane Norton, a former lieutenant governor, praised Tea Party activists. ''I say, God bless people for getting off their chairs!'' But in her bid for the Republican Senate nomination, for which she is one of three candidates, she said the party needed to produce nominees who could win and be unified.
 ''I know we have some disenfranchised independents and Democrats here,'' Ms. Norton said Friday, speaking over applause that filled the crowded room. ''If you can't get elected, you can't govern. If you can't govern, you can't change this country.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andrew Romanoff is challenging Michael Bennet, a fellow Democrat appointed to the Senate. Jane Norton is seeking the Republican Senate nomination. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); BUDGETS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (54%); HEALTH CARE LAW (54%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MICHAEL BENNET (89%); KEN SALAZAR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (91%) COLORADO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



222 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BOOKSHELF; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: A Black Abolitionist and Barbecue Diplomacy

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Mention American abolitionists and David Ruggles rarely comes to mind. In ''David Ruggles: A Radical Black Abolitionist and the Underground Railroad in New York City'' (University of North Carolina Press, $30), Graham Russell Gao Hodges goes a long way toward rectifying that oversight. Ruggles published what might have been the first black periodical in the country, sheltered a fugitive slave named Frederick Washington Bailey -- later Frederick Douglass -- at his home on Lispenard Street in Lower Manhattan, and led a committee that helped save more than 600 escaped slaves. 
 He was also black, radical, an intellectual and deceased before the passage of the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, all of which condemned him to obscurity (except for a Brooklyn school named for him). But Mr. Hodges, a history and black studies professor at Colgate, comes to the rescue. For another contemporary take on the Underground Railroad in New York, see Scott Christianson's ''Freeing Charles: The Struggle to Free a Slave on the Eve of the Civil War.'' 
 ''Eating With the Enemy'' (St. Martin's Press, $25.99) is a boisterous if improbable book about barbecue diplomacy conducted mostly in New York and New Jersey between the United States and North Korea. What distinguishes it from ordinary nonfiction in the you-can't-make-this-up category are the acknowledgments: This might be the only American book to thank ''the Great Leader Kim Il Sung and his son, the Dear Leader Kim Jong Il.'' 
 Written by Robert Egan and Kurt Pitzer, a journalist, the book recounts the bizarre relationship between a North Korean diplomat, Han Song Ryol, and Mr. Egan, the owner of Cubby's, a barbecue restaurant in Hackensack. Mr. Egan unabashedly describes himself as ''Kim Jong Il's guy in New Jersey,'' an adventurer who relished his self-styled and decidedly undiplomatic role as a go-between with the North Koreans.
 Mr. Egan apparently made his North Korean contacts during efforts on behalf of American prisoners of war in Vietnam. The relationships fed his appetite for swashbuckling and provided the North Koreans not only with ample supplies of ribs but also a diplomatic and commercial back channel in the United States. This is not the kind of book that lends itself to footnotes. Rather, it is a jaunty narrative of one man's sometimes self-indulgent escapades in the face of government ambivalence. 
 ''Han and I aren't the type to get all weepy,'' Mr. Egan recalls as the ambassador was preparing to return home. ''We're macho guys. When we want to express our deepest feelings, we do it with an envelope of cash.''
 Was urban renewal physical development? Or was it physical and social destruction? And how did the objections it generated evolve into a less corrosive cultural movement called urbanism?
 In ''Manhattan Projects: The Rise and Fall of Urban Renewal in Cold War New York'' (Oxford University Press, $34.95), Samuel Zipp, a professor at Brown University, explores those questions through the lens of four giant projects: the United Nations headquarters, Stuyvesant Town, Lincoln Center and public housing in East Harlem. 
 Giving projects built by Robert Moses and the New York City Housing Authority their due, Professor Zipp argues that urban renewal cannot be measured merely by the number of structures that were bulldozed or built. Rather, he makes a convincing case that the policy also transformed ''the terms by which cities were understood'' and recast debates over ''the impacts of modernism, progress, public and private power, and cold war ideology on culture, politics and social life.'' 
 What began as ''slum clearance,'' he writes, turned into ''one of the roots of the great ideological divide that marked the era we call the '60s.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OVERLOOKED: David Ruggles led a group that saved more than 600 escaped slaves and published an early black periodical. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMISTAD RESEARCH CENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (90%); WRITERS (77%); CIVIL WAR (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); VIETNAM WAR (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); VIET NAM (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



223 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2333 words

HEADLINE: For President Obama......Many Gaps to Fill on the Bench

 BODY:
Many argue that the Supreme Court lacks diversity. As President Obama closes in on a nominee, 10 legal experts make their case for the kind of justice the court needs. 
 A Politician
 A seat on the Supreme Court was once a natural terminus of a career in public service. After years in the sweaty tangle of state fairs and backrooms, many a senator, governor and even president yearned for the quiet power of the court. And many -- from Charles Evans Hughes to Earl Warren -- served there with distinction.
 Which makes it strange that some people now regard the idea as unwise. We've come to believe that anyone who has ever stated a position on anything of consequence cannot be confirmed. Cynics question why we would invite craven, beholden, good-for-nothing politicians onto the court, where they might do real damage -- or behave, well, politically. And we all know justices never do that.
 The counterarguments are more persuasive: Politicians are deal-cutters, consensus-builders, and our divided court needs those. There ought to be a place on the bench for judges who understand, as President Obama put it, ''how our laws affect the daily realities of people's lives.'' 
 Beyond this, constitutional interpretation has never been the sole province of appellate judges. Our understanding of the Constitution evolves in a dialogue among judges, yes, but also legislators, academics, journalists and ordinary people. As Franklin D. Roosevelt said, the Constitution should be seen as ''a layman's document, not a lawyer's contract.''
 -- JEFF SHESOL, author of ''Supreme Power: Franklin Roosevelt vs. the Supreme Court''
 A Veteran
 When Justice John Paul Stevens retires, the Supreme Court will be left without a sitting war veteran. He enlisted in the Navy the day before Pearl Harbor and, as an intelligence officer, was involved with the code-breaking efforts in the Pacific. Decades later, Justice Stevens's service gave him a visceral appreciation for war and the military institution, and left in him a healthy skepticism toward executive power, particularly the use of that power in wartime. This carried forward into some of his most important opinions, as in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, in 2006, which ruled military commissions inconsistent with the Geneva conventions and America's system of military justice.
 The court's impending military gap reflects America's widening civil-military divide: fewer than one percent of Americans serve in the armed forces and, consistent with these numbers, fewer veterans now serve in Congress or on the federal bench than at any time since World War II. But our nation remains at war, and many of the court's toughest cases arise out of these wars, from battlefield contracts to warrantless surveillance. The Supreme Court needs a new justice who will bring national security credentials, and a personal connection to the military, to its cloistered chambers. 
 -- PHILLIP CARTER, Iraq war veteran and former deputy assistant secretary of defense for detainee policy
 A Young Person
 Youth may be wasted on the young, but its distinct experiences and perspectives can add a lot to a group that skews old. Even minus the nonagenarian Justice Stevens, the current Supreme Court has four justices born in the 1930s, one in the 1940s and three in the 1950s. Maybe it's time to move past the baby boomers and choose a justice for whom the Internet is not some newfangled contraption.
 With youth comes openness, new ideas and energy. Joseph Story was appointed to the court at age 32 by James Madison. His generation of Northerners had a fresher perspective on slavery than the framers who preceded him; he went on to write the opinion freeing the enslaved Africans in the famous Amistad case. William O. Douglas, named at age 40 by Franklin D. Roosevelt, devised the right to privacy that gave us reproductive freedom, while also becoming a leader in the creation of environmental law. 
 Post-boomers have grown up during not only a technological revolution but a demographic one; they are comfortable with people who live and think differently. The justices have the job of applying the Constitution to the problems of a fast-changing world. Given that John McCain won a majority of voters over 40 in 2008, doesn't it make sense for at least one justice to come from the America that made Barack Obama president? 
 -- NOAH FELDMAN, professor at Harvard Law School and a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations
 An Evangelical
 The Supreme Court must understand that the promise of religious freedom, as understood by the founders and by most Americans today, is that we may choose our religion, or choose to have none. This voluntaristic view is particularly American, particularly Protestant and particularly important to evangelical Protestants. Evangelicals also preserve the founders' notion, embodied in the Constitution's division of powers, of human fallibility, in which concentrated authority is dangerous and an earthly utopia unreachable. Justices who understand this are likely to protect liberty against governmental encroachment and to recognize that they may misuse their own powers. 
 Evangelicals have no monopoly on this perspective, of course, nor should there be a religious test for a Supreme Court nomination. Yet choosing an evangelical justice to fill John Paul Stevens's vacant seat would bring valuable diversity to the court and enhance trust among evangelicals -- perhaps a third of the country -- who may wonder whether the court understands their most important commitments. 
 -- MARK S. SCARBERRY, professor at Pepperdine University School of Law
 A Nonbeliever
 While it's true that a Protestant, Muslim or Buddhist justice would diversify the Supreme Court's religious makeup -- once John Paul Stevens leaves, the remaining members will all be either Jewish or Roman Catholic -- it might be even better for the country if President Obama were to pick someone who is not a member of any mainstream religion at all. His nominee should be someone who is either atheist or agnostic -- or spiritual but not religious, a fast-growing demographic. 
 In recent decisions, the Supreme Court has resisted acknowledging the country's religious diversity, instead attempting to characterize the United States as ''monotheistic,'' as though that captures the actual variety of beliefs. Most recently, in Salazar v. Buono, Justice Anthony Kennedy, writing for the majority, treated a Christian cross as though it was the standard grave marker for all fallen American soldiers. Yet Arlington National Cemetery itself offers 41 different images for gravestones. Any limitation on religion is considered by the conservatives on the court as hostility toward that faith rather than liberty for people outside it. A nonbelieving justice most likely would challenge that approach.
 This is an opportunity for President Obama to affirm to the world the one absolute right on which this nation is built: the right to believe anything whatsoever. 
 -- MARCI A. HAMILTON, professor at Cardozo School of Law
 An Immigrant
 The United States is a nation founded on, and constantly rejuvenated by, the labor, creativity and diversity of its immigrant communities. And as recent events have shown, struggles over the future of immigration are to the 21st century what the civil rights movement was to the 20th. This is why the Supreme Court needs a justice who is a naturalized citizen. 
 From 1907 to 2009, nearly 24 million immigrants were naturalized as citizens -- some seven million in the past 10 years alone. Still, millions of undocumented immigrants who contribute daily to our country's economic and cultural vitality are forced to live in the shadows. A Supreme Court justice with experience as an immigrant would signal America's commitment to maintaining its pluralistic society.
 -- ANDREW FRIEDMAN, co-executive director of Make the Road New York, an immigrant rights group
 A Gay Person
 For gay Americans, civil-rights breakthroughs tend to happen most when they matter least. With the important exception of gay marriage, courts and legislatures have tended to follow rather than lead public opinion -- waiting until public sentiment changed before doing things like overturning sodomy laws, repealing the ban on H.I.V.-positive immigrants and passing anti-discrimination bills.
 The appointment of an openly gay Supreme Court justice looks likely to follow the rule. It won't happen until having an openly gay justice is fairly uncontroversial. But it would still matter. It would signal that the era of the closet is over for good, that even in the highest reaches of public life, open and responsible homosexuality is now a fact, not a scandal.
 Perhaps more important, though, is what would not happen. The great lesson of the gay civil rights movement is that fears that homosexuality will disrupt the social order are invariably wrong. In families, in schools, in workplaces and in (other nations') military forces, gays turn out to be far less different than even, in many cases, gays themselves had initially supposed.
 So, too, on the Supreme Court. An openly gay justice's sexual orientation would prove to be a non-event, in terms of both the court's jurisprudence and its comity. The real breakthrough of an openly gay justice would be that, after about a week, it would not look like a breakthrough at all. 
 -- JONATHAN RAUCH, senior writer at National Journal and guest scholar at the Brookings Institution
 An Asian
 President Obama has been admirably attuned to making the judiciary look more like America. Yet even though 5 percent of Americans are of Asian decent, only 1 percent of our federal judiciary is, with only one Asian-American (Denny Chin of the Second Circuit) a full-time federal appellate judge. (Atsushi Tashima of the Ninth Circuit has taken senior status and Goodwin Liu has been nominated but not yet confirmed.) 
 Asian-Americans have long been cast as perpetual foreigners. That stereotype might make it harder to see that an Asian-American Supreme Court justice could be a decisive interpreter of our nation's founding document, which, over the past 200 years, has told the story of an ever-expanding ''We, the people.'' 
 -- KENJI YOSHINO, professor at New York University School of Law
 A State Politico
 Diversity is a fine thing. 
 But nine justices can supply only so much of it. And the more we focus on identity groups, the less we attend to the diversity of professional experience.
 Here I stress a singularly underrepresented background on the court. This particular kind of person possesses a deep understanding of why the court needs to be clearer in its decisions than it too often is: state and local policymakers.
 A high percentage of the big (and small) constitutional cases comes from state legislatures and agencies, city and county school boards, city councils, county commissions -- which then have to figure out how to put the court's rulings into practice. 
 Think of abortion, guns, affirmative action programs, the death penalty, school integration programs, tuition vouchers, laws affecting free speech rights, decisions to display the Ten Commandments on courthouse walls or state capitol grounds and much more. State and local policymakers are among the most important consumers of the court's work.
 Yet no current justice has significant state or local policymaking experience. Only Clarence Thomas (an assistant attorney general of Missouri long ago) and Sonia Sotomayor (a prosecutor in New York City long ago) have any such experience at all. 
 That paucity may help explain why those citizens most affected by the court's work frequently get so little value from its all-too-common non-decision decisions. 
 -- STUART TAYLOR Jr., Newsweek contributor and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution
 A Great Heart
 There will be no dearth of brains, legal learning or technical skills among the Supreme Court justices remaining on the bench after Justice John Paul Stevens retires. However, when the stony indifference to ordinary people's suffering of our conservative justices is factored in, an essential quality that will be in much shorter supply is empathy. There is an urgent need to correct this deficiency when President Obama fills the vacant seat.
 It is empathy that will make the new justice sensitive to the concerns of underrepresented groups, and not membership in one particular group or another. Fortunately, President Obama understands this truth: he has wisely singled out empathy as ''an essential ingredient for arriving at just decisions and outcomes.'' Similarly, President Bill Clinton, learning that Justice Byron White would retire, declared that he would seek a candidate with ''a fine mind, good judgment, wide experience in the law and in the problems of real people and someone with a big heart.'' 
 A great heart: that is the unmistakable characteristic that distinguishes Justice John Paul Stevens, and has distinguished justices with philosophies and personalities as different as (and in some cases, as conservative as) Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., Louis Brandeis, Felix Frankfurter, Hugo Black, Thurgood Marshall, Harry Blackmun, Earl Warren and William Rehnquist.
 In these harsh times, the nation needs judges with great hearts to bridge the differences in economic and educational status or race, religion, gender and sexual orientation that divide us, and stand guard over America's great tradition of generosity and hope.
 -- LOUIS BEGLEY, retired lawyer and author, most recently, of ''Why the Dreyfus Affair Matters''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 11, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Sunday, about the desirability of naming a military veteran to the Supreme Court, referred imprecisely to the current justices' military service. While John Paul Stevens is the only justice to have served during a war, Samuel A. Alito Jr., Stephen G. Breyer and Anthony M. Kennedy were also in the military. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (WK9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); APPEALS (89%); WORLD WAR II (86%); VETERANS (86%); MILITARY COURTS (78%); JUDGES (78%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); NATIONAL SECURITY (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



224 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Applause, Please, For Early Adopters

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
WHY would anyone rush to buy a product knowing full well that it would be cheaper -- and probably better -- in a matter of months?
 Hundreds of thousands of iPad buyers did just that last month. Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, crowed that in the first 28 days on the market, Apple sold one million iPads. He found it remarkable that buyers snatched up this new slate computer at twice the fervid pace of the first iPhone.
 But what is truly remarkable about this surge in consumption is that early adopters -- those who simply haveto own a new gadget right away -- cheerfully exhibited what might seem to be irrational behavior. These ardent consumers will stand in long lines, if that's what it takes, to get an overpriced gadget ahead of everyone else they know. 
 A tough lesson about buying early could have been learned by the iPhone's first buyers back in 2007. Those early adopters paid $600 for a phone. Two months later, Apple dropped the price to $400. Then, in June 2009, it introduced a better version, with twice the storage, for $200, one-third the original's price. 
 So how do early adopters justify their actions? Let's look first at what they say. Often, they claim that they actually got a bargain.
 Of course, it's not easy for a consumer to know what a product is really worth. Sure, within a few days of the debut of the iPad, which, in its most basic version, cost $500, analysts at iSuppli had taken it apart and calculated the value of its parts at $260. That provides a floor; you wouldn't expect Apple to sell it that cheaply yet.
 But the early adopter is looking for a ceiling, which Apple kindly provided. When it announced the imminent sale of the first iPad series, it also said a second would be coming soon -- costing $130 more for each model. The new series' most expensive version, which includes 64 gigabytes of storage and connects to AT&T's cell network, costs $830. That gives consumers a reference point, which marketers call a price anchor. It helps convince people they'll ''save'' by spending anything less than $830. 
 Economics professors may say that such behavior is irrational, but that doesn't mean it makes no sense. People who stand in lines for the latest product may be buying it for what it conveys about them to others, says Jonah Berger, an assistant professor of marketing at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
 That's true of music, clothes and cars, but not so true of dishwasher soap. Tech gadgets fall in between those extremes, he says. A new gadget can be a fashion item -- a revelation that Apple embraced long ago.
 Dan Ariely, a professor of behavioral economics at Duke University and the author of a new book, ''The Upside of Irrationality,'' has studied why earlier adopters do what they do. ''It's not about the cost-benefit analysis,'' he says. And rarely is it a successful calculation of higher productivity, though many a person has tried to justify purchases of expensive toys that way.
 It can be more about cementing one's identity. Although people who want to be first with a product aren't making a direct calculation -- ''I'd pay $100 for my ego'' -- they may derive value from showing off a new product or being perceived as being at technology's forefront. 
 ''I realized years ago that I derive great pleasure from buying a new gadget,'' said Professor Ariely. ''I bought a Segway.''
 And public awareness may matter. Professor Ariely says the behavior is akin to how we can be more willing to do something good if the public knows about it. People will pay extra for a Prius, whose ecological benefits may be debatable, but be more circumspect about buying extra home insulation, which is one of the best ways to save energy. 
 Your friends will see you cruising in the Prius. (Indeed, no car has driven so far on sanctimony.) No one will ever see the extra two inches of R-38 in your attic.
 But even if you would never be the first in your neighborhood to buy a gadget, don't scorn the early adopters. They are working for you. ''They, in a sense, provide valuable services to other consumers by their willingness to serve as a guinea pig,'' said Jay Pil Choi, a professor of economics at Michigan State University, who wrote a much-quoted paper on herd behavior and the ''penguin effect.'' 
 (He also wrote an even more widely quoted paper on whether to leave a toilet seat up, as men often do, or down, as women generally prefer. His economic analysis showed that selfish behavior was optimum.)
 HE described early adopters as pioneers. ''If all consumers are striving for value and take the approach of 'wait and see,''' he said, ''the new products will never be able to take off or take much longer to succeed in the marketplace.''
 He added, ''Their early purchase allows the firms to go down the learning curve and enables a lower price for other consumers.'' 
 So, you early adopters, when the new iPhone comes out next month, please stand in line for me. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Buying on Day 1: Sayuri Watanabe came from Japan to be among the first to get an iPad last month at the Apple store in downtown San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMARTPHONES (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (84%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); EXECUTIVES (57%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



225 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4716 words

HEADLINE: The Post-Hispanic Hispanic Politician

BYLINE: By ZEV CHAFETS. 
Zev Chafets is a frequent contributor to the magazine. He writes often about politics and religion. His new book is ''Rush Limbaugh: An Army of One.''

 BODY:
In early December, Julian Castro, the newly elected mayor of San Antonio, visited the White House to attend President Obama's national jobs-and-economic-growth forum. Castro was one of only five mayors in attendance and, at 35, the youngest. When his turn came to speak -- the subject was the creation of green jobs -- the president looked at him, midway down the long conference table, and said: ''I thought he was on our staff. I thought he was an intern. This guy's a mayor?'' The other participants -- world-famous economists, environmentalists and politicians -- burst into laughter.
 ''Of San Antonio, Tex.,'' Castro said evenly.
 Obama grinned. ''I'm messing with you,'' he said. ''I know who you are.'' 
 Castro was neither flustered nor flattered by the president's bantering familiarity. Of course Obama knew who he was -- gate-crashers might make it into White House social events, but they don't get to the table of high-level West Wing policy meetings led by the president himself. Castro smiled politely at Obama's jest and then proceeded to the business at hand, delivering prepared remarks about employment and the energy market in San Antonio. He is cerebral, serious, self-contained and highly efficient. If he were an energy source, he'd be zero-emission. A video of the event shows the president listening intently to Castro's presentation and nodding occasionally, Harvard Law '91 silently encouraging Harvard Law '00.
 A few days before the meeting, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood visited San Antonio and told the mayor that he was ''on the radar in Washington.'' The morning of the meeting, Castro was included in a small working breakfast hosted by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner; Valerie Jarrett, one of the president's closest advisers, was there, too. Castro was being noticed and auditioned. It had been about a dozen years since another brilliant young man from San Antonio, Henry Cisneros, regarded by many as the emerging national leader of the Hispanic wing of the Democratic Party, lost his political future in a sex-and-money scandal. Cisneros's implosion left an opening. For a while, Bill Richardson, the governor of New Mexico, and Antonio Villaraigosa, the mayor of Los Angeles, were Great Hispanic Hopes, but scandals eventually knocked them out of contention too.
 A lot of very smart people, not all of them in Texas, see Julian Castro as the favorite to fill the leadership void. ''Julian really stands out,'' says Raul Hinojosa-Ojeda, an associate professor of Chicano and global studies at U.C.L.A. ''There are other talented young Hispanic politicians around, but few have his stature or national potential. He's from San Antonio, but he's very much admired in California. He's like Obama -- one of us, but someone who also comes out of a broader American experience.''
 Castro ''has all the assets to become the next favorite son,'' is how John A. Garcia, a political-science professor at the University of Arizona, puts it. ''He has an elite education, which has given him a national network, and a quiet, serious public persona that appeals to a lot of younger Hispanic voters,'' Garcia says. ''People look at him and say, 'Finally, we have somebody who won't screw up.' Of course, he's still young, and he might be too good to be true, but if I were betting on the next national Hispanic political leader, I'd bet on Julian.''
 In 1984, Mexican-American political activists were thrilled when Walter Mondale publicly considered Cisneros for the Democratic vice-presidential nomination. But second place no longer seems such a great prize. ''In 1984, there were 20 million Hispanics in America,'' according to the political activist Antonio Gonzalez, who heads the William C. Velasquez Institute. ''Today, we are 50 million, and more and more people are registering to vote.'' Who they will vote for and what issues will cement their party loyalty is one of the great questions of American politics. This year Democrats hope to exploit the ire among Hispanics over the new G.O.P.-inspired law in Arizona that empowers local police forces to crack down on illegal immigrants.
 Mark McKinnon is prepared to be more explicit about the long-term stakes. An early member of George W. Bush's inner circle in Austin, he knows Texas political talent when he sees it. ''Julian Castro has a very good chance of becoming the first Hispanic president of the United States,'' he says flatly.
 Julian Castro is the son of Rosie Castro, a well-known '70s firebrand who was among the leaders of La Raza Unida, the radical movement in Texas that was dedicated to defending the civil rights of Mexican-Americans and promoting a strong ''Chicano'' identity. One of Castro's first acts as mayor was to hang a 1971 La Raza Unida City Council campaign poster, featuring his mother, in his private office. But this was a gesture of filial loyalty, not of ideological solidarity. A Democrat, Castro is a pragmatist, sometimes unpredictably so. He supports free trade, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, advocates an energy policy that includes fossil fuels, believes in balanced budgets and refers to David Souter as his ideal Supreme Court justice. Like a large plurality of his fellow San Antonians, Castro is a Roman Catholic, but he was the first San Antonio mayor to be grand marshal when he marched in the annual gay rights parade, and he is pro-choice. ''We disagree on this, the pope and I,'' he says with a smile.
 Nothing seems to ruffle him. Recently, after Arizona passed its tough immigration law, most Hispanic politicians reacted with fury. Some even compared the decision to apartheid. Castro, through a spokesman, phrased his own opposition to the decision in characteristically understated and inclusive language, saying, in part: ''Texas has long been an example of how two neighboring countries can co-exist in a mutually beneficial way for the American economy. A law like Arizona's would fly in the face of that history.''
 Julian Castro seems entirely comfortable expressing views on national and international matters normally outside the purview of first-term mayors. He and his identical twin, Joaquin, are scions of the west-side barrio political machine their mother helped build, and they were raised with the expectation that they would be leaders, young men of personal excellence and public spirit. They were the undisputed stars of Jefferson High School, where they played on the tennis team, earned top grades and skipped 10th grade. In their spare time they accompanied their mother to political events and strategy sessions, where they were exposed to her fiery style of radicalism (which, in any case, was softening over time); met the key figures in the Chicano political world; became practiced community organizers on political campaigns; and learned to make the system work for them.
 ''Joaquin and I got into Stanford because of affirmative action,'' Julian says. ''I scored 1,210 on my SATs, which was lower than the median matriculating student. But I did fine in college and in law school. So did Joaquin. I'm a strong supporter of affirmative action because I've seen it work in my own life.''
 In college, Julian majored in communications and political science and tied his brother for most votes in the student senate election their junior year. During the summer of 1994, he was a White House intern. (''You think I look young now, you should have seen me then,'' he says.) When Joaquin did not get into Yale Law School, the brothers settled for Harvard. Julian joined Alianza, an Hispanic organization at the school, and served on the Law School Council, but his thoughts were on San Antonio politics. In his last year at Harvard, he decided to run after graduation for the City Council seat that had eluded his mother, and he was so eager to get going that he held his first fund-raiser among his fellow students in Cambridge. He won that race and took a seat on the council in 2001. The following year, Joaquin was elected to the Texas State House of Representatives from a district that includes San Antonio. The Castro boys were back in town.
 ''Julian and Joaquin were young but not new,'' Jim Dublin, a veteran San Antonio political consultant, says. ''We've been reading about their exploits in the paper since they were at Jefferson High.''
 A place on the San Antonio City Council doesn't come with a salary, and the Texas State House of Representatives, which meets only 140 days every two years, pays what averages out to be about $16,000 annually. The Castro brothers already had day jobs at the local branch of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, a major law firm with offices around the world. Later they started their own practice. A celebrated personal-injury case, in which they represented victims of a fatal drunken-driving accident, earned them enough to comfortably continue their political careers.
 In 2005, Julian ran for mayor. His opponent was the retired judge Phil Hardberger, a Democrat who was a decade older than the combined ages of Julian and Joaquin. Rosie Castro cast a shadow; Julian found it hard to raise money in the Anglo business community, and he worked hard to reassure voters that he was not just a barrio candidate. ''When I represent, I represent everyone,'' he said. He won a plurality in the first round of balloting but narrowly lost the runoff to Hardberger. It wasn't just the Rosie factor that hurt. Hardberger's predecessor, Ed Garza, was widely regarded as lackluster, and voters weren't in the mood for another boy wonder from Jefferson High, as Garza had been. Four years later, Hardberger retired from office, and Castro captured City Hall in the first round of balloting. At 34, he was the mayor of the seventh-largest city in the United States.
 SAN ANTONIO is located in south central Texas, about 150 miles from the Mexican border. Like Houston, Phoenix, Los Angeles and Oklahoma City, San Antonio swallows its suburbs and expands as it goes. You can fit Chicago, Boston and Miami into the city limits and still have room for Manhattan. At the center of this sprawl is the old town of San Antonio, built by the Spanish in the early 18th century. And at the heart of the old town is the Alamo. When I visited in September, the small mission and the plaza surrounding it were full of tourists of all ages. ''This place means so much to so many people,'' says Bruce Winders, the curator and historian of the Alamo, who, with spontaneous Texas hospitality, had volunteered to serve as my guide. ''Folks come here as pilgrims. They want to see the cradle of Texas independence. To those from around the country, it reinforces their identity as Americans. To Texans, it says, 'You are part of this story.' The Alamo is a place that helps parents pass their history along to their children.''
 The Alamo, where a small band of volunteers held off the Mexican Army for 13 days, inspiring the ultimately successful fight for Texas independence, is run by the Daughters of the Republic of Texas. For a decade, according to Winders, the Daughters have been trying, in vain, to get permission from City Hall to put up some explanatory signs on municipal property bordering the plaza. He attributed this failure to ''ideological hostility'' in a city where some people take a dimmer view of the Alamo. People like Rosie Castro.
 I met the mayor's mother in her office at Palo Alto College, where she runs a student-services center. She was born in San Antonio in 1947 to an immigrant mother who didn't get past fourth grade; she didn't meet her father till she was 34. To Rosie, the Alamo is a symbol of bad times. ''They used to take us there when we were schoolchildren,'' she told me. ''They told us how glorious that battle was. When I grew up I learned that the 'heroes' of the Alamo were a bunch of drunks and crooks and slaveholding imperialists who conquered land that didn't belong to them. But as a little girl I got the message -- we were losers. I can truly say that I hate that place and everything it stands for.''
 That evening I dined with the mayor and his wife, Erica, at Rosario's, a large, upscale cantina favored by young businesspeople and political types. Erica is a consultant to math teachers, four years Julian's junior, who grew up on the south side hearing tales of the amazing Castro brothers. Julian and Erica met one summer when he was home from Harvard, and then dated, mostly long distance, for eight years.
 The mayor asked about my session with his mother. ''She hates the Alamo,'' I said.
 ''Yes, I know,'' he said with what might have been a slight smile.
 ''What about you? How do you feel about it?''
 ''The Alamo?'' he said. ''It's the largest tourist attraction in Texas. And tourism is one of San Antonio's major economic engines.''
 I mentioned that the Alamo's curator complained that the city wouldn't give permission to put up signs on municipal property.
 ''I've never heard that before,'' Castro said. ''I'll look into it.''
 ''The curator called it a shrine.''
 Castro considered that briefly, then nodded. ''There are people for whom the Alamo is a sacred place,'' he said without any discernible emotion.
 ROSIE CASTRO proudly calls herself a ''Chicana,'' a term that connotes political activism and ethnic pride, but she says her son is different. ''I don't think Julian would call himself a Chicano,'' she told me. ''A Latino maybe.'' When I relayed this to the mayor, he didn't disagree. ''I consider myself Mexican-American, both parts of that phrase,'' he said. ''I don't want to turn my back on my mother's generation. But we are less burdened.''
 Historically, Mexican-Americans have generally been considered ''white'' in Texas; they served in white units of the segregated military, including the National Guard, and were allowed, during the Jim Crow years, to marry white (but not black) partners. In the early '40s, the Texas Legislature even passed a ''Caucasian Race Resolution,'' which affirmed their status as white. Today the U.S. Census treats ''Hispanic,'' ''Latino'' and ''Spanish origin'' -- terms that apply to anyone of Spanish-speaking background -- as an ethnic category. Race is a separate category, with various options, including a nonspecific ''some other race.'' In 2000, about half of all Hispanics checked ''white'' for race. Castro told me that he was planning to check ''some other race'' in 2010. He is uncomfortable referring to himself as ''brown,'' and he doesn't use the term ''people of color'' when he discusses Mexican-Americans.
 Whatever their racial and geographic differences, Americans from Spanish-speaking cultures in different parts of the country increasingly see one another as sharing a common identity and interests. Partly this is a result of astute marketing by Spanish-language mass media. But politics plays a major role. ''The pan-Latino process in the U.S. encompasses everyone, though the Cubans lag behind,'' says Antonio Gonzalez of the William C. Velasquez Institute. ''And the biggest single unifier among subgroups across the Latino community is compatibility on issues.'' Roughly 60 percent of Hispanics identify themselves as Democrats. And because Mexican-Americans dominate the national pan-Latino community through sheer numbers -- they make up about 60 percent of the total Hispanic population -- and they are concentrated in key electoral states like Texas and California, simple arithmetic and political logic make it very likely that one of the next national political leaders of Hispanic America will be a Mexican-American Democrat.
 In 2000, while Castro was still in Cambridge, the political theorist Samuel P. Huntington argued that mass immigration from Mexico poses an existential threat to the United States. ''Mexican immigration,'' he wrote, ''is a unique, disturbing and looming challenge to our cultural integrity, our national identity and potentially to our future as a country.'' At the heart of Huntington's critique, which many Americans share, is the sense that Mexican-Americans will form a permanent, unassimilated superbarrio across the Southwest and elsewhere. Julian Castro's San Antonio is one place that counters that concern.
 ''San Antonio is the city of the future, the avatar,'' says Karl Eschbach, until recently the official demographer of the state of Texas. ''The Mexican-American population is about 60 percent of the city, but it is now several generations old. There is comparatively little immigration these days. Mexican-Americans in San Antonio experience a continual drift'' into a blending with non-Hispanic whites and others.
 Arturo Madrid, a professor of humanities at Trinity University in San Antonio, agrees with Eschbach's assessment. ''The power of America is undeniable,'' he says. Like Rosie Castro, Madrid is a proud product of the Chicano movement, but he has no illusions about the shape of the future. ''People may check 'Hispanic' on the census, but in San Antonio they are Tejanos, Texans of Mexican ancestry,'' he told me. ''This is the model of what America will look like in other cities. English will be the dominant language. Young Mexican-Americans may display minor symbols of their ethnicity -- 'I eat spaghetti, therefore I'm Italian,' that sort of thing -- but their kids will consider themselves American. We are already your neighbors and fellow workers, and are or soon will be your in-laws.''
 Madrid considers it only natural that the young mayor of San Antonio is seen as the new man in Hispanic politics. ''We were the first big city with Hispanic political leadership,'' he says.
 Paradoxically, Julian Castro's appeal to fellow Hispanic voters may be limited by his own assimilation. Although he pronounces his name ''HOO-lee-un,'' he doesn't really speak Spanish -- a fact he isn't eager to advertise. La Raza put a high premium on the mother tongue, but Rosie Castro spoke English to her sons, and Julian studied Latin and Japanese in school, while Joaquin studied Latin and German. A lack of Spanish fluency isn't unusual in San Antonio, especially among Castro's generation, but in the immigrant barrios of Houston and the colonias south of Interstate 10 down to the border, Spanish is the first and often only language. A Mexican-American with statewide political aspirations needs to be able to do more than pronounce his name correctly. Early in his administration, Castro assigned his chief of staff, Robbie Greenblum -- a Jewish lawyer from the border town of Laredo whose own Spanish is impeccable -- to discreetly find him a tutor. Rosie Castro's son is now being taught Spanish by a woman named Marta Bronstein. Greenblum met her in shul.
 IT'S NOT CLEAR what Castro can accomplish as mayor. His executive clout is limited. The daily business of San Antonio is conducted by a professional city manager. The mayor's power derives from being the senior elected official in the city and his role as chairman of the City Council, the body that wields ultimately authority over municipal affairs. He gets an office, a car and driver, a secretary, police protection and the same per-meeting stipend paid to other members of the council. Some of his predecessors have treated the mayoralty as a part-time job, but Castro is at his desk every day. He has also surrounded himself with a high-powered staff that includes Greenblum, who was a prominent local attorney before signing on with the mayor; the spokesman Jaime Castillo, a former political columnist for The San Antonio Express-News; and Manoj Mate, a friend from Harvard Law and a Ph.D. candidate in political science who serves as senior policy adviser. This is not the sort of team you put together if you are planning to settle in for a nice long career as a politician in San Antonio.
 Castro knows that his future is a matter of constant speculation; given his age and his meteoric career path, it could hardly be otherwise. But talking about it is dangerous. ''There's a push-and-pull here,'' he told me. ''I've read about Bill Clinton, how he rose. Even Arkansas people who didn't like him took pride in his success.'' But in San Antonio, he added, ''nobody likes people with big heads.''
 Still, in his quiet way, Julian Castro is fiercely competitive, and he keeps score. In our first conversation he rattled off the names of his Harvard Law contemporaries who have already been elected to public office around the country. Most, like Joaquin, are still in state legislatures. And being in the House of Representatives ''means being one of 435 Representatives,'' he told me. ''You can't really get that much done on your own. I prefer executive positions.'' (Joaquin is considering a Congressional run in 2012 if there is an open seat. He is a minute younger than Julian and, for now, defers to his elder twin.) Julian conceded that the Senate might be a slightly more interesting job, but there remained the problem of being one in a crowd.
 ''Would you accept a cabinet position?'' I asked. That was the route taken by Cisneros.
 ''Not likely, no,'' Castro said in a way that suggested he had been considering it.
 I asked what that left: ''President?''
 ''It is way too early to be thinking about that,'' Castro said.
 ''TO BE HONEST, I can see a path to Washington for Julian,'' Joaquin Castro says. ''That path leads through the governor's mansion in Austin. A Democrat who can win the governorship of Texas would automatically be under consideration for a spot on the national ticket.''
 For the moment it seems a distant goal. Texas is Republican territory -- Republicans hold every statewide elected office -- and polls show Gov. Rick Perry running ahead of his Democratic opponent, the former Houston mayor Bill White. But if White loses in November, it will present Castro with an opportunity. Mexican-Americans already make up a third of the state's population, and they are registering to vote in increasing numbers.
 The majority of the Mexican-American vote in Texas (and beyond) went to Obama in 2008, and it is widely assumed by Democratic strategists that their party will continue to benefit from Latino voters. This, however, is not settled political science. ''The Democrats are way ahead of the Republicans,'' John Garcia says, ''but there isn't a complete buy-in. The attitude is, They are better than the Republicans, but not great.''
 This year, Marco Rubio is making a strong run for the open U.S. Senate seat in Florida. Rubio, the favorite son of the Cuban community, is an attractive young Republican, but his appeal doesn't extend to the broader Hispanic community. Sergio Bendixen, a Miami-based political consultant, predicts that Rubio would lose the non-Cuban Hispanic vote to Kendrick Meek, the African-American Democratic candidate.
 Rubio's problem is not simply ethnic; it is not very likely that any Republican will make strong inroads with Mexican-American voters as long as the G.O.P. remains hawkish on border control, supports Arizona-style policing of illegal residents and calls for fewer government entitlements. If Republicans hope to compete nationally, they will need more flexible policies and candidates as appealing as Julian Castro. The name that most often arises is George P. Bush, son of Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, and nephew of President George W. Bush. As governor of Texas, W. was popular with Mexican-Americans, and in the 2004 election he won more than 40 percent of the national Hispanic vote. His nephew George P. (whom George H. W. Bush famously described as ''one of the little brown ones'') is now all grown up and living in Texas. He is a graduate of Rice University in Houston and the University of Texas law school and recently helped found a political-action committee in Austin to recruit Hispanic Republicans. He has all the tools -- good looks, fluent Spanish, ethnic bona fides on his Mexican-American mother's side, instant name recognition and access to a network of political and financial connections on his father's -- that could make him a formidable vote-getter. Mark McKinnon, who helped put Bush 43 in the White House, half-jokingly refers to George P. as ''47.''
 Julian Castro and George P. Bush have been aware of each other for some time. ''We have mutual friends,'' Castro told me. ''They introduced us in Austin, three or four years ago. George worked for Akin Gump after law school, just like Joaquin and I did. He's a reserve officer in the Navy. There's a lot to admire about him. And of course, he has a lot going for him.''
 Still, the Castros are not intimidated by the Bush pedigree or by other contemporaries in the Anglo establishment. ''Julian and I are just two guys from the bad side of San Antonio,'' Joaquin told me. ''When we went away to school, we didn't know what to expect. At Stanford and Harvard, we were among all these people from the leadership class, people with fancy educations and pedigrees, and very often we were the only Hispanics in the classroom. But we listened to the people at Harvard, and I have to say, we were never overwhelmed.''
 ON SEPT. 16, the Castro brothers celebrated their 35th birthday as they always do, together. This time, though, they were joined by a thousand or so of their best friends and voters at a gala held in Sunset Station, an old railroad depot near the Alamo that has been remade into an ornate party space. A long line of people waited for the chance to have their pictures taken standing between Julian and Joaquin, who were dressed in nearly identical suits and ties. In the 2005 mayoral race, the brothers caused a minor scandal when it was discovered that Joaquin substituted for Julian at a campaign event. Some voters were amused by this, others infuriated, claiming it raised questions about the mayor's maturity.
 Perhaps the greatest difference between Julian and his younger brother is that Joaquin is still single and known to enjoy his status as San Antonio's most eligible bachelor. During the course of the evening, a number of very attractive young women posed between the brothers. Erica, who can tell them apart, kept a watchful eye, although probably unnecessarily. From an early age Julian and his brother have been taught by their mother that bad company -- especially bad female company -- is Kryptonite to young politicians.
 The party was loud and eclectic, a melange of Mariachi, cool jazz, R&B and country music performed by locals. A parade of men in black shirts, playing drums, whistles and maracas, and women decked out in gold lame snaked through the party. The boys took the stage and thanked everyone for coming. Julian announced that the Senate had just confirmed Sonia Sotomayor for a seat on the Supreme Court, which elicited a loud cheer.
 Rosie Castro was working the room that night, and I was on her to-do list. She introduced me to old comrades from the movement, made sure I got a piece of cake and reminded me that, while I may have come to San Antonio to write about Julian, Joaquin was just as talented. ''There is a potential for them both to go much further,'' she said. It was hard to disagree. When Barack Obama was their age, he was still only on the cusp of entering the Illinois State Senate.
 About two months later I got a call at home from Julian. He was in Boston attending a conference, but there was something on his mind. ''I looked into the problem you asked about,'' he said. ''The signs for the Alamo? I think there might have been some misunderstanding about that in the past.'' City officials could find no record of a request for signage. ''But of course we'll allow them to put up their signs on city property. I'll see to it personally.''
 I can't say I was surprised. You don't get where Julian Castro is -- or where he intends to go -- by forgetting the Alamo.
Correction: May 9, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 38 this weekend about Julian Castro, the mayor of San Antonio, misstates the surname of an African-American Democratic candidate in this year's Florida race for the United States Senate, who may be running against the Republican Marco Rubio, a Hispanic politician with whom Mr. Castro is sometimes compared. He is Kendrick Meek, not Meeks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (M39)
NATIVE SON: Castro at a meeting in January about the rebuilding of the east side of San Antonio. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARAH WILSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM40
MM41)
 MATRILINEAL: Castro's mother, Rosie (second from right), as a 23-year-old City Council candidate in 1971. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE UTSA INSTITUTE OF TEXAN CULTURES/HEARST CORPORAT ION) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); EMISSIONS (69%); SCANDALS (64%); SEX SCANDALS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAY LAHOOD (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



226 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2102 words

HEADLINE: You'd Never Know He's a Sun King

BYLINE: By TODD WOODY

 BODY:
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif.
 AMID the $6 million homes perched on a beachfront cliff in this conservative Southern California enclave, the seven-year-old Honda Civic hybrid with the Obama bumper sticker is the giveaway.
 It's not the usual drive of choice for wealthy former hedge fund managers like David Gelbaum. Then again, there's not much that is business as usual about Mr. Gelbaum, an intensely private person who happens to be one of the nation's largest -- and largely unknown -- green technology investors and environmental philanthropists.
 Mr. Gelbaum has invested $500 million in clean-tech companies since 2002 through his Quercus Trust, amassing a portfolio of some 40 businesses involved in nearly every aspect of the emerging green economy, be it renewable energy, the smart electric grid, sustainable agriculture, electric cars or biological remediation of oil spills. He has poured almost as much into environmental causes.
 ''I think his impact on green technology is huge,'' says Bill Gross, the serial technology entrepreneur and founder of eSolar, a solar power start-up in which Mr. Gelbaum has invested. ''He is supporting bolder and riskier bets, and he's doing it from a different filter than a traditional venture capitalist, and I think that makes a wider opportunity for success.'' 
 In this economic downturn, many venture capitalists have grown cautious about putting money into what Vinod Khosla, the prominent Silicon Valley green tech investor, calls ''science experiments.'' But Quercus Trust is still taking chances on blue-sky start-ups pursuing technological breakthroughs.
 Working outside the clubby venture capital network, Mr. Gelbaum has, until recently, maintained an obsessively low profile. In Silicon Valley, he remains something of an unknown. Associates say his near-invisibility is owed to a genuine modesty and concerns over the security of his family because of his wealth. Recipients of his philanthropy, for instance, signed confidentiality agreements that forbade mention of his name.
 Mr. Gelbaum says he decided to break his long silence upon becoming chief executive in February of Entech Solar, one of his portfolio companies that is publicly traded. ''This is what's best for the company,'' he says, pointing out that Entech benefits if he maintains a more public profile.
 It is too early to predict whether Mr. Gelbaum's big green bets will pay off. But he's been capitalizing on two trends: the rapid decline in the price of photovoltaic power, and a focus on cutting capital costs as solar power competition with China intensifies.
 His environmental philanthropy also gives him an influence beyond laboratories and boardrooms. He has given $200 million to the Sierra Club and $250 million to the Wildlands Conservancy, a land trust he co-founded that has acquired and preserved 1,200 square miles of land in California, including more than a half million acres of the Mojave Desert.
 The desert land, which was donated to the federal government, has become the focus of a fight over environmental preservation and renewable energy development. At Wildlands' urging, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, introduced legislation in December to permanently protect the donated land. Though her opposition scuttled several multibillion-dollar solar power plants planned for the area, including some by eSolar's rivals, even the competitors say that Mr. Gelbaum's motivation was environmental, not economic.
 The Wildlands Conservancy has emerged as a force promoting ''distributed generation'' -- putting renewable energy installations on rooftops, near cities or on degraded farmland. Its efforts dovetail with Mr. Gelbaum's belief that solar farms should not be built on pristine lands as well as his big bets on the emergence of a decentralized energy system tied together by smart grid software.
 ''I still don't know which technology will end up winning, but I believe we're on the cusp of a revolution in how energy is generated and distributed,'' he says.
 AT 61, Mr. Gelbaum has a receding hairline, a scruffy beard and glasses that frame curious eyes. Inside the circle of entrepreneurs who have received his financial backing, he has engendered a loyalty bordering on adoration.
 ''He's got this big heart that's coupled with such a keen intellect,'' says Peter Corsell, the chief executive of GridPoint, a smart-grid software start-up backed by Mr. Gelbaum, Goldman Sachs and other investors. ''He's close to egoless, like a monk.''
 Mr. Gelbaum grew up in Minnesota, moving to Orange County, Calif., in 1964 when his father, a mathematician, joined the faculty at the University of California, Irvine. He bounced around U.C. Berkeley and Humboldt State College in Northern California before returning to Irvine to receive his mathematics degree in 1972.
 After graduating, he worked for a math professor, Edward O. Thorp, whose theories led to the establishment of what became Princeton/Newport Partners, one of the first investment firms to use mathematical formulas to price stocks and derivatives.
 Princeton/Newport Partners collapsed in 1989, following the indictment of five executives in connection with a scheme to create illegal tax losses. Mr. Thorp and Mr. Gelbaum were not implicated, and an appellate court later overturned the other executives' convictions.
 Mr. Gelbaum was a co-founder of another hedge fund firm, the Sierra Enterprises Group, following the breakup of Princeton/Newport, and worked there until his retirement in 2002. Mr. Thorp says he lost contact with his onetime protege during those years. ''He was so low-key,'' Mr. Thorp said by e-mail.
 He began making contributions to the Sierra Club and other environmental groups in the late 1970s.
 ''I was interested in the environment because as a child my happiest memories were of camping and hiking,'' says Mr. Gelbaum, speaking in a soft, raspy voice.
 He says he has a longstanding admiration of the Sierra Club, dating back to a job he once had in sawmills that environmentalists were singling out in an effort to protect redwood forests.
 Carl Pope, chairman of the Sierra Club, says he first met Mr. Gelbaum in 1992 when the financier called to talk about a state parks bond measure. That conversation led to others, and Mr. Gelbaum became the Sierra Club's largest individual benefactor, financing programs to help the environmental organization reach out to hunters and veterans, as well as to African-Americans, Hispanics and other groups.
 ''Many of the environmental justice programs we carried out have been his idea,'' says Mr. Pope.
 In the early 1990s, Mr. Gelbaum also met David Myers, an ardent environmentalist. They founded the Wildlands Conservancy, which began to acquire vast swaths of the Mojave. They created nature preserves elsewhere in California that offered free outdoor programs for underprivileged children.
 But he insisted that his generosity be kept anonymous. ''I didn't want to create problems for my family, and I also prefer not to take credit for these things,'' says Mr. Gelbaum.
 The mysterious millions attracted attention, however, and in 2004 The Los Angeles Times identified Mr. Gelbaum as the donor in the third profile of the philanthropist to be published. (He later confirmed that he had also given at least $93.5 million to the American Civil Liberties Union and $246.6 million to aid veterans of the Afghanistan and Iraq wars.)
 Despite his wealth, Mr. Gelbaum remains unpretentious. He holds business meetings in a relatively modest mid-century Modernist home -- albeit with a stunning view of the Pacific Ocean for a backdrop. He doesn't surround himself with a large staff, fancy cars or private jets. After lunch, he even does his own dishes.
 Mr. Gelbaum says he has given away or paid in taxes three-quarters of what he's made. ''Philanthropy is a job and I was just doing my job,'' he says.
 AS scores of green tech entrepreneurs have discovered, Mr. Gelbaum is not an absentee investor.
 ''He took an interest that's much deeper than other investors, right down to the type of algorithms we're writing,'' says Mr. Corsell.
 Rob Lamkin, chief executive of Cool Earth Solar of Livermore, Calif., was in the office at 7 one morning when the phone rang.
 ''There was a gentleman on the other end saying, 'Good morning, my name's David and I'm interested in solar,' '' says Mr. Lamkin, whose start-up is developing power plants that generate electricity from inflatable solar receivers that resemble giant balloons.
 Three months of phone conversations followed before Mr. Gelbaum revealed he was an investor. Around the same time in 2007, Bill Gross of eSolar received an e-mail message from a person who identified himself only as ''David.'' 
 ''I didn't know who he was,'' Mr. Gross says, ''but he really asked such thoughtful questions about the solar energy space, and that led me to reach out to him.''
 Mr. Gelbaum showed up for a meeting at eSolar's headquarters in Pasadena, Calif., wearing jeans and carrying a backpack. ''He was so well versed in math and science, it was like we were talking to one of our engineers,'' says Mr. Gross.
 Mr. Gelbaum says he made what he considers his first green investment in 2002 when, impressed by the Prius, he bought stock in Toyota. He subsequently took large positions in a host of public renewable energy companies, including First Solar and SunPower.
 In 2007, David Anthony, a venture capitalist in New York, noticed that Quercus Trust had taken a large stake in an Australian solar company he was interested in.
 ''There was no way to find him on the Internet, so I just wrote him a letter,'' says Mr. Anthony.
 A one-hour meeting turned into a five-hour discussion and eventually an agreement by which Mr. Anthony's 21 Ventures co-invests with Quercus Trust and helps manage Mr. Gelbaum's portfolio.
 Essential to Mr. Gelbaum's approach, not surprisingly, is that he is hedging his investments -- backing, for instance, distributed energy start-ups but also companies developing energy storage for centralized solar farms.
 Mr. Gelbaum is making one of his bigger bets on Entech Solar, a Fort Worth company that once built solar systems for NASA spacecraft and is developing a low-cost photovoltaic technology. As a hedge against rising solar cell prices, Mr. Gelbaum has also invested in a Chinese solar module maker, Solar Enertech.
 Mark O'Neill, Entech Solar's co-founder, says Mr. Gelbaum has pushed relentlessly to cut costs.
 ''He's doing calculus about how to save cents per watt so quickly in his head that I have a hard time keeping up with him without a spreadsheet,'' Mr. O'Neill says.
 IF there's a place where Mr. Gelbaum's entrepreneurial and environmental impulses converge, it is in the Mojave Desert.
 He has arranged for a car -- a Prius, naturally -- to take us to Whitewater Canyon, a 2,851-acre preserve near Palm Springs acquired by the Wildlands Conservancy.
 Under the legislation proposed by Senator Feinstein, Whitewater Canyon would serve as a wildlife corridor to a new national monument. That bill would also protect hundreds of thousands of other acres that Mr. Gelbaum helped acquire, some of which the government had planned to lease for huge solar thermal power plants.
 ''There are other areas appropriate for solar plants,'' says Mr. Gelbaum, kicking off his shoes and walking barefoot along a riverbank. ''As distributed solar becomes lower-priced, there are plenty of roofs to put solar on.''
 With some other large solar projects bogged down in disputes over their environmental impact, Mr. Gelbaum's bets could pay off as utilities sign contracts for huge photovoltaic projects and as China's appetite for solar energy grows -- evidenced by a 2,000-megawatt deal that a Chinese company signed with eSolar this year.
 And after years of operating in the shadows, Mr. Gelbaum seems comfortable finally stepping into the sunlight and even letting a little ego shine through.
 ''I've gone long on solar as I'm expecting that's where my big win will be,'' he says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Gelbaum has quietly poured nearly $1 billion into environmental companies and causes. He advocates nature preserves and solar energy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
 A solar plant in Lancaster, Calif., run by eSolar, in which David Gelbaum has invested. He is also encouraging rooftop installations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ESOLAR) (BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (77%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); BIOREMEDIATION (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); TRENDS (71%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (70%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (70%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (57%); OIL SPILLS (53%)

COMPANY: ENTECH SOLAR INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS221119 OTHER ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); BILL GROSS (55%); VINOD KHOSLA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010



227 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4716 words

HEADLINE: The Post-Hispanic Hispanic Politician

BYLINE: By ZEV CHAFETS. 
Zev Chafets is a frequent contributor to the magazine. He writes often about politics and religion. His new book is ''Rush Limbaugh: An Army of One.''

 BODY:
In early December, Julian Castro, the newly elected mayor of San Antonio, visited the White House to attend President Obama's national jobs-and-economic-growth forum. Castro was one of only five mayors in attendance and, at 35, the youngest. When his turn came to speak -- the subject was the creation of green jobs -- the president looked at him, midway down the long conference table, and said: ''I thought he was on our staff. I thought he was an intern. This guy's a mayor?'' The other participants -- world-famous economists, environmentalists and politicians -- burst into laughter.
 ''Of San Antonio, Tex.,'' Castro said evenly.
 Obama grinned. ''I'm messing with you,'' he said. ''I know who you are.'' 
 Castro was neither flustered nor flattered by the president's bantering familiarity. Of course Obama knew who he was -- gate-crashers might make it into White House social events, but they don't get to the table of high-level West Wing policy meetings led by the president himself. Castro smiled politely at Obama's jest and then proceeded to the business at hand, delivering prepared remarks about employment and the energy market in San Antonio. He is cerebral, serious, self-contained and highly efficient. If he were an energy source, he'd be zero-emission. A video of the event shows the president listening intently to Castro's presentation and nodding occasionally, Harvard Law '91 silently encouraging Harvard Law '00.
 A few days before the meeting, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood visited San Antonio and told the mayor that he was ''on the radar in Washington.'' The morning of the meeting, Castro was included in a small working breakfast hosted by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner; Valerie Jarrett, one of the president's closest advisers, was there, too. Castro was being noticed and auditioned. It had been about a dozen years since another brilliant young man from San Antonio, Henry Cisneros, regarded by many as the emerging national leader of the Hispanic wing of the Democratic Party, lost his political future in a sex-and-money scandal. Cisneros's implosion left an opening. For a while, Bill Richardson, the governor of New Mexico, and Antonio Villaraigosa, the mayor of Los Angeles, were Great Hispanic Hopes, but scandals eventually knocked them out of contention too.
 A lot of very smart people, not all of them in Texas, see Julian Castro as the favorite to fill the leadership void. ''Julian really stands out,'' says Raul Hinojosa-Ojeda, an associate professor of Chicano and global studies at U.C.L.A. ''There are other talented young Hispanic politicians around, but few have his stature or national potential. He's from San Antonio, but he's very much admired in California. He's like Obama -- one of us, but someone who also comes out of a broader American experience.''
 Castro ''has all the assets to become the next favorite son,'' is how John A. Garcia, a political-science professor at the University of Arizona, puts it. ''He has an elite education, which has given him a national network, and a quiet, serious public persona that appeals to a lot of younger Hispanic voters,'' Garcia says. ''People look at him and say, 'Finally, we have somebody who won't screw up.' Of course, he's still young, and he might be too good to be true, but if I were betting on the next national Hispanic political leader, I'd bet on Julian.''
 In 1984, Mexican-American political activists were thrilled when Walter Mondale publicly considered Cisneros for the Democratic vice-presidential nomination. But second place no longer seems such a great prize. ''In 1984, there were 20 million Hispanics in America,'' according to the political activist Antonio Gonzalez, who heads the William C. Velasquez Institute. ''Today, we are 50 million, and more and more people are registering to vote.'' Who they will vote for and what issues will cement their party loyalty is one of the great questions of American politics. This year Democrats hope to exploit the ire among Hispanics over the new G.O.P.-inspired law in Arizona that empowers local police forces to crack down on illegal immigrants.
 Mark McKinnon is prepared to be more explicit about the long-term stakes. An early member of George W. Bush's inner circle in Austin, he knows Texas political talent when he sees it. ''Julian Castro has a very good chance of becoming the first Hispanic president of the United States,'' he says flatly.
 Julian Castro is the son of Rosie Castro, a well-known '70s firebrand who was among the leaders of La Raza Unida, the radical movement in Texas that was dedicated to defending the civil rights of Mexican-Americans and promoting a strong ''Chicano'' identity. One of Castro's first acts as mayor was to hang a 1971 La Raza Unida City Council campaign poster, featuring his mother, in his private office. But this was a gesture of filial loyalty, not of ideological solidarity. A Democrat, Castro is a pragmatist, sometimes unpredictably so. He supports free trade, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, advocates an energy policy that includes fossil fuels, believes in balanced budgets and refers to David Souter as his ideal Supreme Court justice. Like a large plurality of his fellow San Antonians, Castro is a Roman Catholic, but he was the first San Antonio mayor to be grand marshal when he marched in the annual gay rights parade, and he is pro-choice. ''We disagree on this, the pope and I,'' he says with a smile.
 Nothing seems to ruffle him. Recently, after Arizona passed its tough immigration law, most Hispanic politicians reacted with fury. Some even compared the decision to apartheid. Castro, through a spokesman, phrased his own opposition to the decision in characteristically understated and inclusive language, saying, in part: ''Texas has long been an example of how two neighboring countries can co-exist in a mutually beneficial way for the American economy. A law like Arizona's would fly in the face of that history.''
 Julian Castro seems entirely comfortable expressing views on national and international matters normally outside the purview of first-term mayors. He and his identical twin, Joaquin, are scions of the west-side barrio political machine their mother helped build, and they were raised with the expectation that they would be leaders, young men of personal excellence and public spirit. They were the undisputed stars of Jefferson High School, where they played on the tennis team, earned top grades and skipped 10th grade. In their spare time they accompanied their mother to political events and strategy sessions, where they were exposed to her fiery style of radicalism (which, in any case, was softening over time); met the key figures in the Chicano political world; became practiced community organizers on political campaigns; and learned to make the system work for them.
 ''Joaquin and I got into Stanford because of affirmative action,'' Julian says. ''I scored 1,210 on my SATs, which was lower than the median matriculating student. But I did fine in college and in law school. So did Joaquin. I'm a strong supporter of affirmative action because I've seen it work in my own life.''
 In college, Julian majored in communications and political science and tied his brother for most votes in the student senate election their junior year. During the summer of 1994, he was a White House intern. (''You think I look young now, you should have seen me then,'' he says.) When Joaquin did not get into Yale Law School, the brothers settled for Harvard. Julian joined Alianza, an Hispanic organization at the school, and served on the Law School Council, but his thoughts were on San Antonio politics. In his last year at Harvard, he decided to run after graduation for the City Council seat that had eluded his mother, and he was so eager to get going that he held his first fund-raiser among his fellow students in Cambridge. He won that race and took a seat on the council in 2001. The following year, Joaquin was elected to the Texas State House of Representatives from a district that includes San Antonio. The Castro boys were back in town.
 ''Julian and Joaquin were young but not new,'' Jim Dublin, a veteran San Antonio political consultant, says. ''We've been reading about their exploits in the paper since they were at Jefferson High.''
 A place on the San Antonio City Council doesn't come with a salary, and the Texas State House of Representatives, which meets only 140 days every two years, pays what averages out to be about $16,000 annually. The Castro brothers already had day jobs at the local branch of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, a major law firm with offices around the world. Later they started their own practice. A celebrated personal-injury case, in which they represented victims of a fatal drunken-driving accident, earned them enough to comfortably continue their political careers.
 In 2005, Julian ran for mayor. His opponent was the retired judge Phil Hardberger, a Democrat who was a decade older than the combined ages of Julian and Joaquin. Rosie Castro cast a shadow; Julian found it hard to raise money in the Anglo business community, and he worked hard to reassure voters that he was not just a barrio candidate. ''When I represent, I represent everyone,'' he said. He won a plurality in the first round of balloting but narrowly lost the runoff to Hardberger. It wasn't just the Rosie factor that hurt. Hardberger's predecessor, Ed Garza, was widely regarded as lackluster, and voters weren't in the mood for another boy wonder from Jefferson High, as Garza had been. Four years later, Hardberger retired from office, and Castro captured City Hall in the first round of balloting. At 34, he was the mayor of the seventh-largest city in the United States.
 SAN ANTONIO is located in south central Texas, about 150 miles from the Mexican border. Like Houston, Phoenix, Los Angeles and Oklahoma City, San Antonio swallows its suburbs and expands as it goes. You can fit Chicago, Boston and Miami into the city limits and still have room for Manhattan. At the center of this sprawl is the old town of San Antonio, built by the Spanish in the early 18th century. And at the heart of the old town is the Alamo. When I visited in September, the small mission and the plaza surrounding it were full of tourists of all ages. ''This place means so much to so many people,'' says Bruce Winders, the curator and historian of the Alamo, who, with spontaneous Texas hospitality, had volunteered to serve as my guide. ''Folks come here as pilgrims. They want to see the cradle of Texas independence. To those from around the country, it reinforces their identity as Americans. To Texans, it says, 'You are part of this story.' The Alamo is a place that helps parents pass their history along to their children.''
 The Alamo, where a small band of volunteers held off the Mexican Army for 13 days, inspiring the ultimately successful fight for Texas independence, is run by the Daughters of the Republic of Texas. For a decade, according to Winders, the Daughters have been trying, in vain, to get permission from City Hall to put up some explanatory signs on municipal property bordering the plaza. He attributed this failure to ''ideological hostility'' in a city where some people take a dimmer view of the Alamo. People like Rosie Castro.
 I met the mayor's mother in her office at Palo Alto College, where she runs a student-services center. She was born in San Antonio in 1947 to an immigrant mother who didn't get past fourth grade; she didn't meet her father till she was 34. To Rosie, the Alamo is a symbol of bad times. ''They used to take us there when we were schoolchildren,'' she told me. ''They told us how glorious that battle was. When I grew up I learned that the 'heroes' of the Alamo were a bunch of drunks and crooks and slaveholding imperialists who conquered land that didn't belong to them. But as a little girl I got the message -- we were losers. I can truly say that I hate that place and everything it stands for.''
 That evening I dined with the mayor and his wife, Erica, at Rosario's, a large, upscale cantina favored by young businesspeople and political types. Erica is a consultant to math teachers, four years Julian's junior, who grew up on the south side hearing tales of the amazing Castro brothers. Julian and Erica met one summer when he was home from Harvard, and then dated, mostly long distance, for eight years.
 The mayor asked about my session with his mother. ''She hates the Alamo,'' I said.
 ''Yes, I know,'' he said with what might have been a slight smile.
 ''What about you? How do you feel about it?''
 ''The Alamo?'' he said. ''It's the largest tourist attraction in Texas. And tourism is one of San Antonio's major economic engines.''
 I mentioned that the Alamo's curator complained that the city wouldn't give permission to put up signs on municipal property.
 ''I've never heard that before,'' Castro said. ''I'll look into it.''
 ''The curator called it a shrine.''
 Castro considered that briefly, then nodded. ''There are people for whom the Alamo is a sacred place,'' he said without any discernible emotion.
 ROSIE CASTRO proudly calls herself a ''Chicana,'' a term that connotes political activism and ethnic pride, but she says her son is different. ''I don't think Julian would call himself a Chicano,'' she told me. ''A Latino maybe.'' When I relayed this to the mayor, he didn't disagree. ''I consider myself Mexican-American, both parts of that phrase,'' he said. ''I don't want to turn my back on my mother's generation. But we are less burdened.''
 Historically, Mexican-Americans have generally been considered ''white'' in Texas; they served in white units of the segregated military, including the National Guard, and were allowed, during the Jim Crow years, to marry white (but not black) partners. In the early '40s, the Texas Legislature even passed a ''Caucasian Race Resolution,'' which affirmed their status as white. Today the U.S. Census treats ''Hispanic,'' ''Latino'' and ''Spanish origin'' -- terms that apply to anyone of Spanish-speaking background -- as an ethnic category. Race is a separate category, with various options, including a nonspecific ''some other race.'' In 2000, about half of all Hispanics checked ''white'' for race. Castro told me that he was planning to check ''some other race'' in 2010. He is uncomfortable referring to himself as ''brown,'' and he doesn't use the term ''people of color'' when he discusses Mexican-Americans.
 Whatever their racial and geographic differences, Americans from Spanish-speaking cultures in different parts of the country increasingly see one another as sharing a common identity and interests. Partly this is a result of astute marketing by Spanish-language mass media. But politics plays a major role. ''The pan-Latino process in the U.S. encompasses everyone, though the Cubans lag behind,'' says Antonio Gonzalez of the William C. Velasquez Institute. ''And the biggest single unifier among subgroups across the Latino community is compatibility on issues.'' Roughly 60 percent of Hispanics identify themselves as Democrats. And because Mexican-Americans dominate the national pan-Latino community through sheer numbers -- they make up about 60 percent of the total Hispanic population -- and they are concentrated in key electoral states like Texas and California, simple arithmetic and political logic make it very likely that one of the next national political leaders of Hispanic America will be a Mexican-American Democrat.
 In 2000, while Castro was still in Cambridge, the political theorist Samuel P. Huntington argued that mass immigration from Mexico poses an existential threat to the United States. ''Mexican immigration,'' he wrote, ''is a unique, disturbing and looming challenge to our cultural integrity, our national identity and potentially to our future as a country.'' At the heart of Huntington's critique, which many Americans share, is the sense that Mexican-Americans will form a permanent, unassimilated superbarrio across the Southwest and elsewhere. Julian Castro's San Antonio is one place that counters that concern.
 ''San Antonio is the city of the future, the avatar,'' says Karl Eschbach, until recently the official demographer of the state of Texas. ''The Mexican-American population is about 60 percent of the city, but it is now several generations old. There is comparatively little immigration these days. Mexican-Americans in San Antonio experience a continual drift'' into a blending with non-Hispanic whites and others.
 Arturo Madrid, a professor of humanities at Trinity University in San Antonio, agrees with Eschbach's assessment. ''The power of America is undeniable,'' he says. Like Rosie Castro, Madrid is a proud product of the Chicano movement, but he has no illusions about the shape of the future. ''People may check 'Hispanic' on the census, but in San Antonio they are Tejanos, Texans of Mexican ancestry,'' he told me. ''This is the model of what America will look like in other cities. English will be the dominant language. Young Mexican-Americans may display minor symbols of their ethnicity -- 'I eat spaghetti, therefore I'm Italian,' that sort of thing -- but their kids will consider themselves American. We are already your neighbors and fellow workers, and are or soon will be your in-laws.''
 Madrid considers it only natural that the young mayor of San Antonio is seen as the new man in Hispanic politics. ''We were the first big city with Hispanic political leadership,'' he says.
 Paradoxically, Julian Castro's appeal to fellow Hispanic voters may be limited by his own assimilation. Although he pronounces his name ''HOO-lee-un,'' he doesn't really speak Spanish -- a fact he isn't eager to advertise. La Raza put a high premium on the mother tongue, but Rosie Castro spoke English to her sons, and Julian studied Latin and Japanese in school, while Joaquin studied Latin and German. A lack of Spanish fluency isn't unusual in San Antonio, especially among Castro's generation, but in the immigrant barrios of Houston and the colonias south of Interstate 10 down to the border, Spanish is the first and often only language. A Mexican-American with statewide political aspirations needs to be able to do more than pronounce his name correctly. Early in his administration, Castro assigned his chief of staff, Robbie Greenblum -- a Jewish lawyer from the border town of Laredo whose own Spanish is impeccable -- to discreetly find him a tutor. Rosie Castro's son is now being taught Spanish by a woman named Marta Bronstein. Greenblum met her in shul.
 IT'S NOT CLEAR what Castro can accomplish as mayor. His executive clout is limited. The daily business of San Antonio is conducted by a professional city manager. The mayor's power derives from being the senior elected official in the city and his role as chairman of the City Council, the body that wields ultimately authority over municipal affairs. He gets an office, a car and driver, a secretary, police protection and the same per-meeting stipend paid to other members of the council. Some of his predecessors have treated the mayoralty as a part-time job, but Castro is at his desk every day. He has also surrounded himself with a high-powered staff that includes Greenblum, who was a prominent local attorney before signing on with the mayor; the spokesman Jaime Castillo, a former political columnist for The San Antonio Express-News; and Manoj Mate, a friend from Harvard Law and a Ph.D. candidate in political science who serves as senior policy adviser. This is not the sort of team you put together if you are planning to settle in for a nice long career as a politician in San Antonio.
 Castro knows that his future is a matter of constant speculation; given his age and his meteoric career path, it could hardly be otherwise. But talking about it is dangerous. ''There's a push-and-pull here,'' he told me. ''I've read about Bill Clinton, how he rose. Even Arkansas people who didn't like him took pride in his success.'' But in San Antonio, he added, ''nobody likes people with big heads.''
 Still, in his quiet way, Julian Castro is fiercely competitive, and he keeps score. In our first conversation he rattled off the names of his Harvard Law contemporaries who have already been elected to public office around the country. Most, like Joaquin, are still in state legislatures. And being in the House of Representatives ''means being one of 435 Representatives,'' he told me. ''You can't really get that much done on your own. I prefer executive positions.'' (Joaquin is considering a Congressional run in 2012 if there is an open seat. He is a minute younger than Julian and, for now, defers to his elder twin.) Julian conceded that the Senate might be a slightly more interesting job, but there remained the problem of being one in a crowd.
 ''Would you accept a cabinet position?'' I asked. That was the route taken by Cisneros.
 ''Not likely, no,'' Castro said in a way that suggested he had been considering it.
 I asked what that left: ''President?''
 ''It is way too early to be thinking about that,'' Castro said.
 ''TO BE HONEST, I can see a path to Washington for Julian,'' Joaquin Castro says. ''That path leads through the governor's mansion in Austin. A Democrat who can win the governorship of Texas would automatically be under consideration for a spot on the national ticket.''
 For the moment it seems a distant goal. Texas is Republican territory -- Republicans hold every statewide elected office -- and polls show Gov. Rick Perry running ahead of his Democratic opponent, the former Houston mayor Bill White. But if White loses in November, it will present Castro with an opportunity. Mexican-Americans already make up a third of the state's population, and they are registering to vote in increasing numbers.
 The majority of the Mexican-American vote in Texas (and beyond) went to Obama in 2008, and it is widely assumed by Democratic strategists that their party will continue to benefit from Latino voters. This, however, is not settled political science. ''The Democrats are way ahead of the Republicans,'' John Garcia says, ''but there isn't a complete buy-in. The attitude is, They are better than the Republicans, but not great.''
 This year, Marco Rubio is making a strong run for the open U.S. Senate seat in Florida. Rubio, the favorite son of the Cuban community, is an attractive young Republican, but his appeal doesn't extend to the broader Hispanic community. Sergio Bendixen, a Miami-based political consultant, predicts that Rubio would lose the non-Cuban Hispanic vote to Kendrick Meek, the African-American Democratic candidate.
 Rubio's problem is not simply ethnic; it is not very likely that any Republican will make strong inroads with Mexican-American voters as long as the G.O.P. remains hawkish on border control, supports Arizona-style policing of illegal residents and calls for fewer government entitlements. If Republicans hope to compete nationally, they will need more flexible policies and candidates as appealing as Julian Castro. The name that most often arises is George P. Bush, son of Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, and nephew of President George W. Bush. As governor of Texas, W. was popular with Mexican-Americans, and in the 2004 election he won more than 40 percent of the national Hispanic vote. His nephew George P. (whom George H. W. Bush famously described as ''one of the little brown ones'') is now all grown up and living in Texas. He is a graduate of Rice University in Houston and the University of Texas law school and recently helped found a political-action committee in Austin to recruit Hispanic Republicans. He has all the tools -- good looks, fluent Spanish, ethnic bona fides on his Mexican-American mother's side, instant name recognition and access to a network of political and financial connections on his father's -- that could make him a formidable vote-getter. Mark McKinnon, who helped put Bush 43 in the White House, half-jokingly refers to George P. as ''47.''
 Julian Castro and George P. Bush have been aware of each other for some time. ''We have mutual friends,'' Castro told me. ''They introduced us in Austin, three or four years ago. George worked for Akin Gump after law school, just like Joaquin and I did. He's a reserve officer in the Navy. There's a lot to admire about him. And of course, he has a lot going for him.''
 Still, the Castros are not intimidated by the Bush pedigree or by other contemporaries in the Anglo establishment. ''Julian and I are just two guys from the bad side of San Antonio,'' Joaquin told me. ''When we went away to school, we didn't know what to expect. At Stanford and Harvard, we were among all these people from the leadership class, people with fancy educations and pedigrees, and very often we were the only Hispanics in the classroom. But we listened to the people at Harvard, and I have to say, we were never overwhelmed.''
 ON SEPT. 16, the Castro brothers celebrated their 35th birthday as they always do, together. This time, though, they were joined by a thousand or so of their best friends and voters at a gala held in Sunset Station, an old railroad depot near the Alamo that has been remade into an ornate party space. A long line of people waited for the chance to have their pictures taken standing between Julian and Joaquin, who were dressed in nearly identical suits and ties. In the 2005 mayoral race, the brothers caused a minor scandal when it was discovered that Joaquin substituted for Julian at a campaign event. Some voters were amused by this, others infuriated, claiming it raised questions about the mayor's maturity.
 Perhaps the greatest difference between Julian and his younger brother is that Joaquin is still single and known to enjoy his status as San Antonio's most eligible bachelor. During the course of the evening, a number of very attractive young women posed between the brothers. Erica, who can tell them apart, kept a watchful eye, although probably unnecessarily. From an early age Julian and his brother have been taught by their mother that bad company -- especially bad female company -- is Kryptonite to young politicians.
 The party was loud and eclectic, a melange of Mariachi, cool jazz, R&B and country music performed by locals. A parade of men in black shirts, playing drums, whistles and maracas, and women decked out in gold lame snaked through the party. The boys took the stage and thanked everyone for coming. Julian announced that the Senate had just confirmed Sonia Sotomayor for a seat on the Supreme Court, which elicited a loud cheer.
 Rosie Castro was working the room that night, and I was on her to-do list. She introduced me to old comrades from the movement, made sure I got a piece of cake and reminded me that, while I may have come to San Antonio to write about Julian, Joaquin was just as talented. ''There is a potential for them both to go much further,'' she said. It was hard to disagree. When Barack Obama was their age, he was still only on the cusp of entering the Illinois State Senate.
 About two months later I got a call at home from Julian. He was in Boston attending a conference, but there was something on his mind. ''I looked into the problem you asked about,'' he said. ''The signs for the Alamo? I think there might have been some misunderstanding about that in the past.'' City officials could find no record of a request for signage. ''But of course we'll allow them to put up their signs on city property. I'll see to it personally.''
 I can't say I was surprised. You don't get where Julian Castro is -- or where he intends to go -- by forgetting the Alamo.
Correction: May 9, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 38 this weekend about Julian Castro, the mayor of San Antonio, misstates the surname of an African-American Democratic candidate in this year's Florida race for the United States Senate, who may be running against the Republican Marco Rubio, a Hispanic politician with whom Mr. Castro is sometimes compared. He is Kendrick Meek, not Meeks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (M39)
NATIVE SON: Castro at a meeting in January about the rebuilding of the east side of San Antonio. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARAH WILSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM40
MM41)
 MATRILINEAL: Castro's mother, Rosie (second from right), as a 23-year-old City Council candidate in 1971. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE UTSA INSTITUTE OF TEXAN CULTURES/HEARST CORPORAT ION) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); EMISSIONS (69%); SCANDALS (64%); SEX SCANDALS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAY LAHOOD (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



228 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4714 words

HEADLINE: The Post-Hispanic Hispanic Politician

BYLINE: By ZEV CHAFETS. 
Zev Chafets is a frequent contributor to the magazine. He writes often about politics and religion. His new book is ''Rush Limbaugh: An Army of One.''

 BODY:
In early December, Julian Castro, the newly elected mayor of San Antonio, visited the White House to attend President Obama's national jobs-and-economic-growth forum. Castro was one of only five mayors in attendance and, at 35, the youngest. When his turn came to speak -- the subject was the creation of green jobs -- the president looked at him, midway down the long conference table, and said: ''I thought he was on our staff. I thought he was an intern. This guy's a mayor?'' The other participants -- world-famous economists, environmentalists and politicians -- burst into laughter.
 ''Of San Antonio, Tex.,'' Castro said evenly.
Obama grinned. ''I'm messing with you,'' he said. ''I know who you are.'' 
 Castro was neither flustered nor flattered by the president's bantering familiarity. Of course Obama knew who he was -- gate-crashers might make it into White House social events, but they don't get to the table of high-level West Wing policy meetings led by the president himself. Castro smiled politely at Obama's jest and then proceeded to the business at hand, delivering prepared remarks about employment and the energy market in San Antonio. He is cerebral, serious, self-contained and highly efficient. If he were an energy source, he'd be zero-emission. A video of the event shows the president listening intently to Castro's presentation and nodding occasionally, Harvard Law '91 silently encouraging Harvard Law '00.
 A few days before the meeting, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood visited San Antonio and told the mayor that he was ''on the radar in Washington.'' The morning of the meeting, Castro was included in a small working breakfast hosted by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner; Valerie Jarrett, one of the president's closest advisers, was there, too. Castro was being noticed and auditioned. It had been about a dozen years since another brilliant young man from San Antonio, Henry Cisneros, regarded by many as the emerging national leader of the Hispanic wing of the Democratic Party, lost his political future in a sex-and-money scandal. Cisneros's implosion left an opening. For a while, Bill Richardson, the governor of New Mexico, and Antonio Villaraigosa, the mayor of Los Angeles, were Great Hispanic Hopes, but scandals eventually knocked them out of contention too.
 A lot of very smart people, not all of them in Texas, see Julian Castro as the favorite to fill the leadership void. ''Julian really stands out,'' says Raul Hinojosa-Ojeda, an associate professor of Chicano and global studies at U.C.L.A. ''There are other talented young Hispanic politicians around, but few have his stature or national potential. He's from San Antonio, but he's very much admired in California. He's like Obama -- one of us, but someone who also comes out of a broader American experience.''
 Castro ''has all the assets to become the next favorite son,'' is how John A. Garcia, a political-science professor at the University of Arizona, puts it. ''He has an elite education, which has given him a national network, and a quiet, serious public persona that appeals to a lot of younger Hispanic voters,'' Garcia says. ''People look at him and say, 'Finally, we have somebody who won't screw up.' Of course, he's still young, and he might be too good to be true, but if I were betting on the next national Hispanic political leader, I'd bet on Julian.''
 In 1984, Mexican-American political activists were thrilled when Walter Mondale publicly considered Cisneros for the Democratic vice-presidential nomination. But second place no longer seems such a great prize. ''In 1984, there were 20 million Hispanics in America,'' according to the political activist Antonio Gonzalez, who heads the William C. Velasquez Institute. ''Today, we are 50 million, and more and more people are registering to vote.'' Who they will vote for and what issues will cement their party loyalty is one of the great questions of American politics. This year Democrats hope to exploit the ire among Hispanics over the new G.O.P.-inspired law in Arizona that empowers local police forces to crack down on illegal immigrants.
 Mark McKinnon is prepared to be more explicit about the long-term stakes. An early member of George W. Bush's inner circle in Austin, he knows Texas political talent when he sees it. ''Julian Castro has a very good chance of becoming the first Hispanic president of the United States,'' he says flatly.
 Julian Castro is the son of Rosie Castro, a well-known '70s firebrand who was among the leaders of La Raza Unida, the radical movement in Texas that was dedicated to defending the civil rights of Mexican-Americans and promoting a strong ''Chicano'' identity. One of Castro's first acts as mayor was to hang a 1971 La Raza Unida City Council campaign poster, featuring his mother, in his private office. But this was a gesture of filial loyalty, not of ideological solidarity. A Democrat, Castro is a pragmatist, sometimes unpredictably so. He supports free trade, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, advocates an energy policy that includes fossil fuels, believes in balanced budgets and refers to David Souter as his ideal Supreme Court justice. Like a large plurality of his fellow San Antonians, Castro is a Roman Catholic, but he was the first San Antonio mayor to be grand marshal when he marched in the annual gay rights parade, and he is pro-choice. ''We disagree on this, the pope and I,'' he says with a smile.
 Nothing seems to ruffle him. Recently, after Arizona passed its tough immigration law, most Hispanic politicians reacted with fury. Some even compared the decision to apartheid. Castro, through a spokesman, phrased his own opposition to the decision in characteristically understated and inclusive language, saying, in part: ''Texas has long been an example of how two neighboring countries can co-exist in a mutually beneficial way for the American economy. A law like Arizona's would fly in the face of that history.''
 Julian Castro seems entirely comfortable expressing views on national and international matters normally outside the purview of first-term mayors. He and his identical twin, Joaquin, are scions of the west-side barrio political machine their mother helped build, and they were raised with the expectation that they would be leaders, young men of personal excellence and public spirit. They were the undisputed stars of Jefferson High School, where they played on the tennis team, earned top grades and skipped 10th grade. In their spare time they accompanied their mother to political events and strategy sessions, where they were exposed to her fiery style of radicalism (which, in any case, was softening over time); met the key figures in the Chicano political world; became practiced community organizers on political campaigns; and learned to make the system work for them.
 ''Joaquin and I got into Stanford because of affirmative action,'' Julian says. ''I scored 1,210 on my SATs, which was lower than the median matriculating student. But I did fine in college and in law school. So did Joaquin. I'm a strong supporter of affirmative action because I've seen it work in my own life.''
 In college, Julian majored in communications and political science and tied his brother for most votes in the student senate election their junior year. During the summer of 1994, he was a White House intern. (''You think I look young now, you should have seen me then,'' he says.) When Joaquin did not get into Yale Law School, the brothers settled for Harvard. Julian joined Alianza, an Hispanic organization at the school, and served on the Law School Council, but his thoughts were on San Antonio politics. In his last year at Harvard, he decided to run after graduation for the City Council seat that had eluded his mother, and he was so eager to get going that he held his first fund-raiser among his fellow students in Cambridge. He won that race and took a seat on the council in 2001. The following year, Joaquin was elected to the Texas State House of Representatives from a district that includes San Antonio. The Castro boys were back in town.
 ''Julian and Joaquin were young but not new,'' Jim Dublin, a veteran San Antonio political consultant, says. ''We've been reading about their exploits in the paper since they were at Jefferson High.''
 A place on the San Antonio City Council doesn't come with a salary, and the Texas State House of Representatives, which meets only 140 days every two years, pays what averages out to be about $16,000 annually. The Castro brothers already had day jobs at the local branch of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, a major law firm with offices around the world. Later they started their own practice. A celebrated personal-injury case, in which they represented victims of a fatal drunken-driving accident, earned them enough to comfortably continue their political careers.
 In 2005, Julian ran for mayor. His opponent was the retired judge Phil Hardberger, a Democrat who was a decade older than the combined ages of Julian and Joaquin. Rosie Castro cast a shadow; Julian found it hard to raise money in the Anglo business community, and he worked hard to reassure voters that he was not just a barrio candidate. ''When I represent, I represent everyone,'' he said. He won a plurality in the first round of balloting but narrowly lost the runoff to Hardberger. It wasn't just the Rosie factor that hurt. Hardberger's predecessor, Ed Garza, was widely regarded as lackluster, and voters weren't in the mood for another boy wonder from Jefferson High, as Garza had been. Four years later, Hardberger retired from office, and Castro captured City Hall in the first round of balloting. At 34, he was the mayor of the seventh-largest city in the United States.
 SAN ANTONIO is located in south central Texas, about 150 miles from the Mexican border. Like Houston, Phoenix, Los Angeles and Oklahoma City, San Antonio swallows its suburbs and expands as it goes. You can fit Chicago, Boston and Miami into the city limits and still have room for Manhattan. At the center of this sprawl is the old town of San Antonio, built by the Spanish in the early 18th century. And at the heart of the old town is the Alamo. When I visited in September, the small mission and the plaza surrounding it were full of tourists of all ages. ''This place means so much to so many people,'' says Bruce Winders, the curator and historian of the Alamo, who, with spontaneous Texas hospitality, had volunteered to serve as my guide. ''Folks come here as pilgrims. They want to see the cradle of Texas independence. To those from around the country, it reinforces their identity as Americans. To Texans, it says, 'You are part of this story.' The Alamo is a place that helps parents pass their history along to their children.''
 The Alamo, where a small band of volunteers held off the Mexican Army for 13 days, inspiring the ultimately successful fight for Texas independence, is run by the Daughters of the Republic of Texas. For a decade, according to Winders, the Daughters have been trying, in vain, to get permission from City Hall to put up some explanatory signs on municipal property bordering the plaza. He attributed this failure to ''ideological hostility'' in a city where some people take a dimmer view of the Alamo. People like Rosie Castro.
 I met the mayor's mother in her office at Palo Alto College, where she runs a student-services center. She was born in San Antonio in 1947 to an immigrant mother who didn't get past fourth grade; she didn't meet her father till she was 34. To Rosie, the Alamo is a symbol of bad times. ''They used to take us there when we were schoolchildren,'' she told me. ''They told us how glorious that battle was. When I grew up I learned that the 'heroes' of the Alamo were a bunch of drunks and crooks and slaveholding imperialists who conquered land that didn't belong to them. But as a little girl I got the message -- we were losers. I can truly say that I hate that place and everything it stands for.''
 That evening I dined with the mayor and his wife, Erica, at Rosario's, a large, upscale cantina favored by young businesspeople and political types. Erica is a consultant to math teachers, four years Julian's junior, who grew up on the south side hearing tales of the amazing Castro brothers. Julian and Erica met one summer when he was home from Harvard, and then dated, mostly long distance, for eight years.
 The mayor asked about my session with his mother. ''She hates the Alamo,'' I said.
 ''Yes, I know,'' he said with what might have been a slight smile.
 ''What about you? How do you feel about it?''
 ''The Alamo?'' he said. ''It's the largest tourist attraction in Texas. And tourism is one of San Antonio's major economic engines.''
 I mentioned that the Alamo's curator complained that the city wouldn't give permission to put up signs on municipal property.
 ''I've never heard that before,'' Castro said. ''I'll look into it.''
 ''The curator called it a shrine.''
 Castro considered that briefly, then nodded. ''There are people for whom the Alamo is a sacred place,'' he said without any discernible emotion.
 ROSIE CASTRO proudly calls herself a ''Chicana,'' a term that connotes political activism and ethnic pride, but she says her son is different. ''I don't think Julian would call himself a Chicano,'' she told me. ''A Latino maybe.'' When I relayed this to the mayor, he didn't disagree. ''I consider myself Mexican-American, both parts of that phrase,'' he said. ''I don't want to turn my back on my mother's generation. But we are less burdened.''
 Historically, Mexican-Americans have generally been considered ''white'' in Texas; they served in white units of the segregated military, including the National Guard, and were allowed, during the Jim Crow years, to marry white (but not black) partners. In the early '40s, the Texas Legislature even passed a ''Caucasian Race Resolution,'' which affirmed their status as white. Today the U.S. Census treats ''Hispanic,'' ''Latino'' and ''Spanish origin'' -- terms that apply to anyone of Spanish-speaking background -- as an ethnic category. Race is a separate category, with various options, including a nonspecific ''some other race.'' In 2000, about half of all Hispanics checked ''white'' for race. Castro told me that he was planning to check ''some other race'' in 2010. He is uncomfortable referring to himself as ''brown,'' and he doesn't use the term ''people of color'' when he discusses Mexican-Americans.
 Whatever their racial and geographic differences, Americans from Spanish-speaking cultures in different parts of the country increasingly see one another as sharing a common identity and interests. Partly this is a result of astute marketing by Spanish-language mass media. But politics plays a major role. ''The pan-Latino process in the U.S. encompasses everyone, though the Cubans lag behind,'' says Antonio Gonzalez of the William C. Velasquez Institute. ''And the biggest single unifier among subgroups across the Latino community is compatibility on issues.'' Roughly 60 percent of Hispanics identify themselves as Democrats. And because Mexican-Americans dominate the national pan-Latino community through sheer numbers -- they make up about 60 percent of the total Hispanic population -- and they are concentrated in key electoral states like Texas and California, simple arithmetic and political logic make it very likely that one of the next national political leaders of Hispanic America will be a Mexican-American Democrat.
 In 2000, while Castro was still in Cambridge, the political theorist Samuel P. Huntington argued that mass immigration from Mexico poses an existential threat to the United States. ''Mexican immigration,'' he wrote, ''is a unique, disturbing and looming challenge to our cultural integrity, our national identity and potentially to our future as a country.'' At the heart of Huntington's critique, which many Americans share, is the sense that Mexican-Americans will form a permanent, unassimilated superbarrio across the Southwest and elsewhere. Julian Castro's San Antonio is one place that counters that concern.
 ''San Antonio is the city of the future, the avatar,'' says Karl Eschbach, until recently the official demographer of the state of Texas. ''The Mexican-American population is about 60 percent of the city, but it is now several generations old. There is comparatively little immigration these days. Mexican-Americans in San Antonio experience a continual drift'' into a blending with non-Hispanic whites and others.
 Arturo Madrid, a professor of humanities at Trinity University in San Antonio, agrees with Eschbach's assessment. ''The power of America is undeniable,'' he says. Like Rosie Castro, Madrid is a proud product of the Chicano movement, but he has no illusions about the shape of the future. ''People may check 'Hispanic' on the census, but in San Antonio they are Tejanos, Texans of Mexican ancestry,'' he told me. ''This is the model of what America will look like in other cities. English will be the dominant language. Young Mexican-Americans may display minor symbols of their ethnicity -- 'I eat spaghetti, therefore I'm Italian,' that sort of thing -- but their kids will consider themselves American. We are already your neighbors and fellow workers, and are or soon will be your in-laws.''
 Madrid considers it only natural that the young mayor of San Antonio is seen as the new man in Hispanic politics. ''We were the first big city with Hispanic political leadership,'' he says.
 Paradoxically, Julian Castro's appeal to fellow Hispanic voters may be limited by his own assimilation. Although he pronounces his name ''HOO-lee-un,'' he doesn't really speak Spanish -- a fact he isn't eager to advertise. La Raza put a high premium on the mother tongue, but Rosie Castro spoke English to her sons, and Julian studied Latin and Japanese in school, while Joaquin studied Latin and German. A lack of Spanish fluency isn't unusual in San Antonio, especially among Castro's generation, but in the immigrant barrios of Houston and the colonias south of Interstate 10 down to the border, Spanish is the first and often only language. A Mexican-American with statewide political aspirations needs to be able to do more than pronounce his name correctly. Early in his administration, Castro assigned his chief of staff, Robbie Greenblum -- a Jewish lawyer from the border town of Laredo whose own Spanish is impeccable -- to discreetly find him a tutor. Rosie Castro's son is now being taught Spanish by a woman named Marta Bronstein. Greenblum met her in shul.
 IT'S NOT CLEAR what Castro can accomplish as mayor. His executive clout is limited. The daily business of San Antonio is conducted by a professional city manager. The mayor's power derives from being the senior elected official in the city and his role as chairman of the City Council, the body that wields ultimately authority over municipal affairs. He gets an office, a car and driver, a secretary, police protection and the same per-meeting stipend paid to other members of the council. Some of his predecessors have treated the mayoralty as a part-time job, but Castro is at his desk every day. He has also surrounded himself with a high-powered staff that includes Greenblum, who was a prominent local attorney before signing on with the mayor; the spokesman Jaime Castillo, a former political columnist for The San Antonio Express-News; and Manoj Mate, a friend from Harvard Law and a Ph.D. candidate in political science who serves as senior policy adviser. This is not the sort of team you put together if you are planning to settle in for a nice long career as a politician in San Antonio.
 Castro knows that his future is a matter of constant speculation; given his age and his meteoric career path, it could hardly be otherwise. But talking about it is dangerous. ''There's a push-and-pull here,'' he told me. ''I've read about Bill Clinton, how he rose. Even Arkansas people who didn't like him took pride in his success.'' But in San Antonio, he added, ''nobody likes people with big heads.''
 Still, in his quiet way, Julian Castro is fiercely competitive, and he keeps score. In our first conversation he rattled off the names of his Harvard Law contemporaries who have already been elected to public office around the country. Most, like Joaquin, are still in state legislatures. And being in the House of Representatives ''means being one of 435 Representatives,'' he told me. ''You can't really get that much done on your own. I prefer executive positions.'' (Joaquin is considering a Congressional run in 2012 if there is an open seat. He is a minute younger than Julian and, for now, defers to his elder twin.) Julian conceded that the Senate might be a slightly more interesting job, but there remained the problem of being one in a crowd.
 ''Would you accept a cabinet position?'' I asked. That was the route taken by Cisneros.
 ''Not likely, no,'' Castro said in a way that suggested he had been considering it.
 I asked what that left: ''President?''
 ''It is way too early to be thinking about that,'' Castro said.
 ''TO BE HONEST, I can see a path to Washington for Julian,'' Joaquin Castro says. ''That path leads through the governor's mansion in Austin. A Democrat who can win the governorship of Texas would automatically be under consideration for a spot on the national ticket.''
 For the moment it seems a distant goal. Texas is Republican territory -- Republicans hold every statewide elected office -- and polls show Gov. Rick Perry running ahead of his Democratic opponent, the former Houston mayor Bill White. But if White loses in November, it will present Castro with an opportunity. Mexican-Americans already make up a third of the state's population, and they are registering to vote in increasing numbers.
 The majority of the Mexican-American vote in Texas (and beyond) went to Obama in 2008, and it is widely assumed by Democratic strategists that their party will continue to benefit from Latino voters. This, however, is not settled political science. ''The Democrats are way ahead of the Republicans,'' John Garcia says, ''but there isn't a complete buy-in. The attitude is, They are better than the Republicans, but not great.''
 This year, Marco Rubio is making a strong run for the open U.S. Senate seat in Florida. Rubio, the favorite son of the Cuban community, is an attractive young Republican, but his appeal doesn't extend to the broader Hispanic community. Sergio Bendixen, a Miami-based political consultant, predicts that Rubio would lose the non-Cuban Hispanic vote to Kendrick Meek, the African-American Democratic candidate.
 Rubio's problem is not simply ethnic; it is not very likely that any Republican will make strong inroads with Mexican-American voters as long as the G.O.P. remains hawkish on border control, supports Arizona-style policing of illegal residents and calls for fewer government entitlements. If Republicans hope to compete nationally, they will need more flexible policies and candidates as appealing as Julian Castro. The name that most often arises is George P. Bush, son of Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, and nephew of President George W. Bush. As governor of Texas, W. was popular with Mexican-Americans, and in the 2004 election he won more than 40 percent of the national Hispanic vote. His nephew George P. (whom George H. W. Bush famously described as ''one of the little brown ones'') is now all grown up and living in Texas. He is a graduate of Rice University in Houston and the University of Texas law school and recently helped found a political-action committee in Austin to recruit Hispanic Republicans. He has all the tools -- good looks, fluent Spanish, ethnic bona fides on his Mexican-American mother's side, instant name recognition and access to a network of political and financial connections on his father's -- that could make him a formidable vote-getter. Mark McKinnon, who helped put Bush 43 in the White House, half-jokingly refers to George P. as ''47.''
 Julian Castro and George P. Bush have been aware of each other for some time. ''We have mutual friends,'' Castro told me. ''They introduced us in Austin, three or four years ago. George worked for Akin Gump after law school, just like Joaquin and I did. He's a reserve officer in the Navy. There's a lot to admire about him. And of course, he has a lot going for him.''
 Still, the Castros are not intimidated by the Bush pedigree or by other contemporaries in the Anglo establishment. ''Julian and I are just two guys from the bad side of San Antonio,'' Joaquin told me. ''When we went away to school, we didn't know what to expect. At Stanford and Harvard, we were among all these people from the leadership class, people with fancy educations and pedigrees, and very often we were the only Hispanics in the classroom. But we listened to the people at Harvard, and I have to say, we were never overwhelmed.''
 ON SEPT. 16, the Castro brothers celebrated their 35th birthday as they always do, together. This time, though, they were joined by a thousand or so of their best friends and voters at a gala held in Sunset Station, an old railroad depot near the Alamo that has been remade into an ornate party space. A long line of people waited for the chance to have their pictures taken standing between Julian and Joaquin, who were dressed in nearly identical suits and ties. In the 2005 mayoral race, the brothers caused a minor scandal when it was discovered that Joaquin substituted for Julian at a campaign event. Some voters were amused by this, others infuriated, claiming it raised questions about the mayor's maturity.
 Perhaps the greatest difference between Julian and his younger brother is that Joaquin is still single and known to enjoy his status as San Antonio's most eligible bachelor. During the course of the evening, a number of very attractive young women posed between the brothers. Erica, who can tell them apart, kept a watchful eye, although probably unnecessarily. From an early age Julian and his brother have been taught by their mother that bad company -- especially bad female company -- is Kryptonite to young politicians.
 The party was loud and eclectic, a melange of Mariachi, cool jazz, R&B and country music performed by locals. A parade of men in black shirts, playing drums, whistles and maracas, and women decked out in gold lame snaked through the party. The boys took the stage and thanked everyone for coming. Julian announced that the Senate had just confirmed Sonia Sotomayor for a seat on the Supreme Court, which elicited a loud cheer.
 Rosie Castro was working the room that night, and I was on her to-do list. She introduced me to old comrades from the movement, made sure I got a piece of cake and reminded me that, while I may have come to San Antonio to write about Julian, Joaquin was just as talented. ''There is a potential for them both to go much further,'' she said. It was hard to disagree. When Barack Obama was their age, he was still only on the cusp of entering the Illinois State Senate.
 About two months later I got a call at home from Julian. He was in Boston attending a conference, but there was something on his mind. ''I looked into the problem you asked about,'' he said. ''The signs for the Alamo? I think there might have been some misunderstanding about that in the past.'' City officials could find no record of a request for signage. ''But of course we'll allow them to put up their signs on city property. I'll see to it personally.''
 I can't say I was surprised. You don't get where Julian Castro is -- or where he intends to go -- by forgetting the Alamo. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 9, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 38 this weekend about Julian Castro, the mayor of San Antonio, misstates the surname of an African-American Democratic candidate in this year's Florida race for the United States Senate, who may be running against the Republican Marco Rubio, a Hispanic politician with whom Mr. Castro is sometimes compared. He is Kendrick Meek, not Meeks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (M39)
NATIVE SON: Castro at a meeting in January about the rebuilding of the east side of San Antonio. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARAH WILSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM40
MM41)
 MATRILINEAL: Castro's mother, Rosie (second from right), as a 23-year-old City Council candidate in 1971. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE UTSA INSTITUTE OF TEXAN CULTURES/HEARST CORPORAT ION) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); EMISSIONS (69%); SCANDALS (64%); SEX SCANDALS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAY LAHOOD (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



229 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 4919 words

HEADLINE: Summer Stages: Classical

BYLINE: By VIVIEN SCHWEITZER

 BODY:
Arizona GRAND CANYON MUSIC FESTIVAL Aug. 27-28, Sept. 3-4 and Sept. 10-12. With spectacular scenery and fine music making, this small festival is a treat for eyes and ears. The lineup in the Shrine of the Ages, near the south rim of the canyon, includes the adventurous string quartet Ethel and the American Indian flutist Robert Mirabal. (800)997-8285, grandcanyonmusicfest.org. California BERKELEY FESTIVAL AND EXHIBITION University of California, Berkeley, June 6-13. There's plenty to keep early-music buffs happy at this festival, where concerts this summer include Gesualdo's ''Tenebrae Responsoria''; Baroque music played by the Marion Verbruggen Trio; and Monteverdi madrigals performed by the ensemble Artek. (510)642-9988, bfx.berkeley.edu.
 CABRILLO FESTIVAL OF CONTEMPORARY MUSIC Santa Cruz and San Juan Bautista, Aug. 1-15. This new music mecca features 13 composers in residence, including John Adams, Philip Glass, Michael Hersch, Jennifer Higdon and Mark-Anthony Turnage. Marin Alsop, the festival's dynamic conductor, will lead the Cabrillo Festival Orchestra in a mouthwatering lineup that includes the premiere of Mr. Hersch's Symphony No.3. Performers include Eighth Blackbird and the Kronos Quartet. (831)426-6966, cabrillomusic.org. 
 CARMEL BACH FESTIVAL Carmel-by-the-Sea, July 17-31 . The festival's namesake of course figures highly here, with performances of his cello suites, the St. Matthew Passion and keyboard and violin partitas. The lineup also includes Beethoven, Brahms and the Monteverdi Vespers, conducted by Andrew Megill. (831)624-1521, bachfestival.org.
 FESTIVAL DEL SOLE Napa Valley, July 16-25. All of the senses are catered to here with a mix of visual, culinary and musical offerings. Performances by Joshua Bell, Jean-Yves Thibaudet and the Russian National Orchestra are interspersed with feasts at restaurants and vineyards. (888)337-6272, fdsnapa.org.
 HOLLYWOOD BOWL July 6-Sept. 9. Every summer the Los Angeles Philharmonic decamps to the Hollywood Bowl, where Gustavo Dudamel, the orchestra's dynamic young maestro, will lead a concert performance of Bizet's '' Carmen.'' Other highlights include the pianist Gabriela Montero playing Gershwin and the violinist Augustin Hadelich playing Mendelssohn. (323)850-2000, hollywoodbowl.com.
 LA JOLLA SUMMERFEST San Diego, Aug. 6-27. A host of respected musicians perform at this lively festival, whose offerings this year include performances by the Borromeo String Quartet and the pianist Emanuel Ax. The virtuoso pipa player Wu Man will perform her own work on a program of new music. (858)459-3728, ljms.org. MUSIC ACADEMY OF THE WEST Santa Barbara, June 21-Aug. 14. The sound of music echoes through the Miraflores garden estate each summer. Festival highlights include Christopher Taylor playing Bach's ''Goldberg Variations,'' a staged production of Mozart's '' Don Giovanni'' and Nicholas McGegan leading the Academy Chamber Orchestra in an evening of Bach, Handel and Beethoven. (805)969-8787, musicacademy.org.
 MUSIC AT MENLO July 23-Aug. 14. David Finckel and Wu Han, the chamber music luminaries who founded this festival, are joined by some of their Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center colleagues for thematic programs including '' The English Voice,'' featuring music of Elgar, Britten and Walton; and '' Dvorak's America,'' which focuses on the Czech composer, Barber and William Bolcom. (650)331-0202, musicatmenlo.org.
 OJAI MUSIC FESTIVAL June 10-13. The British composer George Benjamin is programming the adventurous event this year, along with the festival's artistic director, Thomas W. Morris. Mr. Benjamin will conduct the Ensemble Modern in his opera ''Into the Little Hill'' and programs with music by Messiaen and Ligeti. Other highlights include ''Vingt Regards sur l'Enfant Jesus,'' Messiaen's majestic work for solo piano. (805646-2053, ojaifestival.org.
 SAN FRANCISCO OPERA June 5-July 2. Nicola Luisotti inaugurated his tenure as music director in September with an elegant performance of Verdi's ''Trovatore.'' This summer he leads Puccini's '' Girl of the Golden West,'' starring Deborah Voigt. The lineup that also features '' Faust'' with Patricia Racette as Marguerite and ''Die Walkure'' with Nina Stemme as Brunnhilde. (415)864-3330, sfopera.com. Colorado ASPEN MUSIC FESTIVAL AND SCHOOL July 1-Aug. 22. David Zinman, music director of the festival since 1997, resigned last month, and Alan Fletcher, its president and chief executive, received a vote of no confidence from its board. But the show goes on this summer with replacement conductors including Marin Alsop and Ludovic Morlot as well as programs focusing on what the festival calls ''the magic years'': 1800-1810, 1900-1910 and 2000-2010. That includes Schumann, whose bicentennial is being celebrated this year. Soloists include the pianists Yuja Wang and Marc-Andre Hamelin; the violinist Gil Shaham; and the Takacs Quartet. The new music lineup includes Philip Glass's Violin Concerto No.2. (970)925-9042, aspenmusicfestival.com.
 BRAVO! VAIL VALLEY MUSIC FESTIVAL June 25- Aug. 3. The cellist Yo-Yo Ma and pianist Kathryn Stott kick off the festivities with a recital, followed by the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, the Philadelphia Orchestra and the New York Philharmonic playing favorites such as Beethoven's Symphony No.9 and a program of Gershwin and Bernstein. Also on the lineup is a premiere of a chamber work by Joan Tower, the festival's composer in residence. (877)812-5700, vailmusicfestival.org.
 CENTRAL CITY OPERA June 26- Aug. 8. This summer in the city's intimate jewel-box opera house, the lineup features Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly'' and new productions of Offenbach's operetta '' Orpheus in the Underworld'' and Jake Heggie's '' Three Decembers,'' both performed in English. (303)292-6700, centralcityopera.org. COLORADO MUSIC FESTIVAL Boulder, June 26-Aug. 6. Michael Christie celebrates his 10th anniversary as music director this summer with a Brahms minifestival, Mahler's Symphony No.5 and works by Osvaldo Golijov and Chris Brubeck. (303)440-7666, coloradomusicfest.org.
 CRESTED BUTTE MUSIC FESTIVAL July 3- Aug. 5. Beer and Beethoven in a barn with a view is what you'll find in this laid-back festival, which includes Jens Georg Bachmann conducting Beethoven's Symphony No.2. Also on the lineup is Daniel Schnyder's Concerto for Alphorn and Orchestra and a staged performance of ''La Boheme.'' (970)349-0619, crestedbuttemusicfestival.com. Connecticut CONNECTICUT EARLY MUSIC FESTIVAL New London, June 12-27. The theme this year is ''The French Connection,'' exploring the Germanic link with France. Programs include the Arcadia Players performing Beethoven; the Blue Heron Renaissance Choir singing sacred French music; an evening of music and dance from the Court of Louis XIV and a concert called ''Bach, Rameau, and the Era of the Sun King.'' (860439-2787, ctearlymusic.org.
 INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL OF ARTS AND IDEAS New Haven, June 12-26 This multidisciplinary festival features several classical concerts, including Philip Glass performing his own piano compositions . The Calder Quartet offers the premiere of Christopher Rouse's String Quartet No.3 ; another program features music by Kevin Puts, Marc Mellit, and Michael Torke (former students of Mr. Rouse) . The lineup also includes the Palestrina Choir (a boys chorus) and the Four Nations Ensemble . (203)562- 5666, artidea.org.
 Florida AMELIA ISLAND CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL May 7-30. Concerts celebrating the Chopin, Schumann and Barber anniversaries, take place at a historic bar and courthouse, a Civil War fort, churches and Fernandina Beach. Among the performers are the soprano Jessica Rivera and the St. Lawrence String Quartet. (904)261-1779, aicmf.com.
 Idaho SUN VALLEY SUMMER SYMPHONY July 26-Aug. 17. Budget-conscious music lovers should check out this recession-proof festival, which offers free chamber and orchestral concerts. The music director, Alasdair Neale, conducts Itzhak Perlman in Bruch's G minor Violin Concerto, Jennifer Koh in Barber's Violin Concerto and Emanuel Ax in Brahms's Piano Concerto No.2. (208)622-5607, svsummersymphony.org. Illinois GRANT PARK MUSIC FESTIVAL Chicago, June 16-Aug. 21. The conductor Carlos Kalmar celebrates his 10th anniversary here with several performances in the Pritzker Pavilion, designed by Frank Gehry, including Beethoven's Mass in C, the violinist Christian Tetzlaff playing Dvorak and a program honoring the Chopin anniversary. Also featured are Xian Zhang conducting Prokofiev, Sibelius and Chen-Yi. (312)742-7638, grantparkmusicfestival.com.
 RAVINIA FESTIVAL Highland Park, June 3 -Sept. 7. The festival's music director, James Conlon, toasts his 60th birthday with productions of Mozart's ''Cosi Fan Tutte'' with the mezzo-soprano Frederica von Stade as Despina, and the '' Marriage of Figaro'' with Nathan Gunn as the Count. The lineup also features Bernstein's Vocal Suite from Candide; Garrick Ohlsson playing Chopin; the complete Beethoven piano concertos with Jorge Federico Osorio; and the Pacifica Quartet playing Schumann. (847)266-5100, ravinia.org. Maine BOWDOIN INTERNATIONAL MUSIC FESTIVAL Brunswick, June 26-Aug. 7. Musicians from (among others) the New York Philharmonic, the Cleveland Orchestra and the Ying and Shanghai quartets participate in this teaching festival. This summer the spotlight is on the chamber and piano works of Schumann and Chopin, whose bicentennials are celebrated this year. The Gamper Festival of Contemporary Music offers recent works. (207)725-3895, summermusic.org. Massachusetts ASTON MAGNA Great Barrington, Waltham and Williamstown, Mass., and Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., June 17- July 17. This festival will keep the period-instrument crowd happy with performances of Bach's partitas for solo violin; Mozart's chamber works for strings and winds; Pergolesi's comic opera ''La Serva Padrona'' and chamber cantata '' Orfeo''; and an evening of music by Monteverdi, Marini and Frescobaldi with projections of artworks by Artemisia Gentileschi, Caravaggio and others. (800)875-7156, astonmagna.org.
 BERKSHIRE CHORAL FESTIVAL Sheffield, July 17-Aug. 7. This festival is proof that amateur choral singing continues to thrive, as eager singers arrive from around the country for an intense period of study and performance. Their efforts will culminate in performances of Handel's '' Judas Maccabaeus;'' Haydn's '' Paukenmesse;'' Poulenc's '' Gloria'' and Bizet's '' Te Deum.'' (The festival also takes place in Montreal and Umbria, Italy.) (413)229-1999, choralfest.org.
 CAPE COD CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL Aug. 2-Aug. 20. The pianist Jon Nakamatsu and the clarinetist Jon Manasse are the artistic directors here; they will be performing on a lineup that also includes the Tokyo String Quartet and Paquito D'Rivera. Repertory favorites are interspersed with works by August Klughardt, Sulkhan Tsintsadze and Lowell Liebermann. (508)247-9400, capecodchambermusic.org.
 TANGLEWOOD Lenox, June 26-Sept. 5. Snug in the Berkshire hills, this prominent festival - the summer home of the Boston Symphony Orchestra - is an ideal musical retreat. James Levine conducts the opening night concert of Mahler's ''Resurrection'' Symphony and also leads programs featuring Mahler's Symphony No.3, S travinsky's ''Symphony of Psalms,'' Mozart's ''Requiem,'' a concert performance of Mozart's '' Abduction from the Seraglio'' and staged performances of Strauss's '' Ariadne auf Naxos.'' Solo and chamber concerts include Pieter Wispelwey playing Bach's complete cello suites. Guest conductors include Charles Dutoit, leading Yo-Yo Ma in Elgar's Cello Concerto, and Kurt Masur, conducting Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. New-music lovers will also find plenty of interest in Tanglewood's Festival of Contemporary Music. (888)266-1200, tanglewood.org.
 Minnesota MINNESOTA ORCHESTRA SOMMERFEST Minneapolis, July 3-30. Osmo Vanska (the orchestra's music director) will demonstrate his Beethovenian prowess leading the Symphonies Nos.4 and 7. Andrew Litton, the festival's artistic director, will lead a semi-staged performance of Puccini's ''Tosca'' and will play the piano in a chamber music concert. (612)371-5656, minnesotaorchestra.org. Missouri OPERA THEATER OF ST. LOUIS May 22-June 27. All operas are sung in English at this company, noted for its high standards and casual ambience. Audience members mingle with the casts, which this year features talented young singers like Daniel Okulitch, Dina Kuznetsova and Sean Panikkar, after each performance. The lineup includes Mozart's ''Marriage of Figaro,'' Tchaikovsky's ''Eugene Onegin,'' Sondheim's '' Little Night Music'' and the premiere of Peter Ash's '' Golden Ticket,'' based on Roald Dahl's ''Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.'' (314)961-0644, opera-stl.org. New Hampshire MONADNOCK MUSIC Peterborough, July 8-Aug. 27. The Chiara and Borromeo Quartets will perform at this lively festival, where many events, in meetinghouses and churches in the region, are free. Composers in residence include Mario Davidovsky, Steven Mackey and Melinda Wagner. (603)924-7610, monadnockmusic.org. New Hampshire OPERA NORTH Lebanon, Aug. 7-21. Rising stars in the Opera North Young Artists program will sing in Mozart's '' Don Giovanni'' and Puccini's '' Boheme,'' performed in the intimate Lebanon Opera House. (603)448-0400, operanorth.org.
 New Jersey NEW JERSEY OPERA THEATER SUMMERFEST Princeton, July 11- Aug. 1. Talented young singers are recruited for summer season performances of Mozart's '' Don Giovanni,'' Gounod's '' Faust,'' Donizetti's '' Don Pasquale'' and Bizet's '' Carmen.'' (609)258-2787, opera-nj.org. New Mexico MUSIC FROM ANGEL FIRE Angel Fire, Taos, Raton and Las Vegas, Aug. 20- Sept. 5. In honor of the Schumann bicentennial, this festival focuses on the relationship among Schumann, his wife, Clara, and Brahms with concerts by the Miami String Quartet, Ida and Ani Kavafian and others. A new work by Lowell Liebermann, composer in residence, is also on the lineup. (888)377-3300, musicfromangelfire.org.
 SANTA FE CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL Santa Fe and Albuquerque, July 18- Aug. 23. The mezzo-soprano Susan Graham will be the first artist in residence at this festival nestled in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains. A host of distinguished visiting artists will perform chamber repertory favorites and new works by composers including Steven Stucky, Cynthia Lee Wong and Chinary Ung. The pianist Simone Dinnerstein and the cellist Zuill Bailey give solo recitals as well. (888)221-9836, santafechambermusic.org.
 SANTA FE OPERA July 2- Aug. 28. The season at this prestigious festival opens with a new production of Puccini's '' Madama Butterfly,'' with Kelly Kaduce as Cio-Cio-San. Paul Groves stars in the title role of Offenbach's '' Tales of Hoffmann'' alongside Erin Wall as the four heroines and Kate Lindsey as Nicklausse in a new production directed by Christopher Alden. Andrew Davis conducts Britten's comic '' Albert Herring,'' with Christine Brewer as Lady Billows. Leonard Slatkin leads the premiere of Lewis Spratlan's '' Life is a Dream,'' with a libretto by James Maraniss. Also on the lineup is Tim Albery's staging of Mozart's '' Magic Flute.'' (505)986-5900, santafeopera.org.
 New York City LINCOLN CENTER FESTIVAL July 7-25. Edgard Varese, '' the father of electronic music,'' is in the spotlight this year, with performances of his complete works by Alan Gilbert and the New York Philharmonic, the International Contemporary Ensemble, So Percussion and others. '' La porta della legge,'' an opera by the avant-garde Italian composer Salvatore Sciarrino (based on a story by Kafka) receives its American premiere. ( 212)721-6500, lincolncenter.org
 MAKE MUSIC NEW YORK June 21. The streets are alive with the sound of music in this vibrant event, where you can stroll around the city and hear punk bands, hip-hop, opera, string quartets and mariachi echoing throughout the boroughs. (917)779-9709, makemusicnewyork.com. MOSTLY MOZART July 27- Aug. 21. This festival offers a healthy dose of its namesake (including his seldom performed oratorio '' Davidde Penitente'') as well as an eclectic lineup of composers including the birthday boys Schumann and Chopin, performed by the Mostly Mozart Festival orchestra led by Louis Langree. The excellent pianist Pierre-Laurent Aimard programs a mini-series called ''Bach and Polyphonies,'' juxtaposing traditional Georgian polyphony with Xenakis, Carter, Birtwistle and Berio. Visiting ensembles include the Deutsche Kammerphilharmonie Bremen and the Freiburg Baroque Orchestra. For the delightful, candlelit '' Little Night Music'' series in the Kaplan Penthouse, Paul Hillier conducts Ars Nova Copenhagen, and the pianists Simon Trpceski and Mihaela Ursuleasa and Jeremy Denk perform recitals. (212)721-6500, lincolncenter.org.
 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC Parks in the boroughs, July 13-19. The Philharmonic is breaking with routine by sharing the stage for its opening concert at Central Park with the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra. ( Andrey Boreyko will lead the Philharmonic and Long Yu the Shanghai Symphony.) The pianist Lang Lang will perform Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue with the Chinese ensemble. Other concerts feature Mr. Boreyko leading Branford Marsalis in his Philharmonic debut. There will be free indoor concerts on Staten Island and in the Bronx. (212)721-6500, nyphil.org.
 RIVER TO RIVER FESTIVAL June 22-Aug. 20. New-music lovers with plenty of stamina should mark their calendars for the annual Bang on a Can marathon at the World Financial Center Winter Garden on June 27. The typically eclectic lineup includes the United States premiere of Fausto Romitelli's '' Professor Bad Trip,'' a new work by Mira Calix, music from Kyrgyzstan and Lukas Ligeti's dynamic band Burkina Electric. The classical lineup also features a recital by the pianists Natasha Paremski and Orion Weiss. rivertorivernyc.com.
 New York State BARD MUSIC FESTIVAL AND BARD SUMMERSCAPE Annandale-on-Hudson, July 8- Aug. 22. Alban Berg is in the spotlight this year. In the silver-roofed, Gehry-designed Fisher Center, Leon Botstein, the American Symphony Orchestra and visiting scholars and musicians will explore the origins and development of modernism in music, with performances of Berg's music and that of his famous and lesser-known contemporaries. A full schedule of lectures, panel discussions and films complement the performances. Bard SummerScape will present Franz Schreker's 1910 opera ''Der ferne Klang'' (''The Distant Sound'') and Oscar Straus's 1908 operetta '' The Chocolate Soldier.'' (845)758-7900, fishercenter.bard.edu.
 CARAMOOR INTERNATIONAL MUSIC FESTIVAL June 26-Aug. 8. There is something for everyone at this genteel estate, ideal for a quick getaway from the city. Will Crutchfield offers annual bel canto treats with superb singers: this year he conducts Bellini's ''Norma'' starring Angela Meade and Donizetti's '' Maria di Rohan'' with Takesha Meshe Kizart in the title role. The pianist Mitsuko Uchida opens the festival by playing and conducting Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 27 with the Orchestra of St. Luke's. Also on the roster: ''extreme chamber music'' with Ethel and Christopher O'Riley, solo recitals, and ''Sonidos Latinos'' events with Paquito D'Rivera. (914)232-1252, caramoor.org.
 CHAUTAUQUA INSTITUTION June 26- Aug. 29. The music director, Stefan Sanderling, leads the Chautauqua Symphony Orchestra in Dvorak's Symphony '' From the New World''; Mahler's Symphony No.3 and Brahms's Violin Concerto with Augustin Hadelich as soloist. (716)357-6250, ciweb.org.
 GLIMMERGLASS OPERA Cooperstown, July 9-Aug. 24. Christian Curnyn, who recently made a notable debut at New York City Opera conducting Handel's '' Partenope,'' leads what is billed as the first professional staging of Handel's '' Tolomeo'' in the United States. The cast includes the talented young countertenor Anthony Roth Costanzo in the title role. The season also features Mozart's '' Marriage of Figaro,'' Puccini's '' Tosca'' and Copland's '' Tender Land.'' (607)547-2255, glimmerglass.org.
 JUNE IN BUFFALO May 31- June 6. Composers have flocked to this festival since 1975, when Morton Feldman founded it as an American version of the Darmstadt festival in Germany. The 35th anniversary season offers works by budding young composers and senior faculty members like Steve Reich, performed by cutting edge ensembles including Signal. (716)852-5000, www.music.buffalo.edu/juneinbuffalo.
 MAVERICK Woodstock, June 27- Sept. 5. The theme this year is '' The Romantic Generations: Barber/ Schumann/ Chopin.'' Concerts, performed by prominent ensembles and soloists like the Tokyo, Shanghai, Miro and Ebene quartets; the Imani Winds; and the violinist Lara St. John, take place in an atmospheric barn built in 1916. (800)595-4849, maverickconcerts.org.
 SARATOGA PERFORMING ARTS CENTER May 21-Aug. 27. Charles Dutoit celebrates his 20th and final summer as artistic director and principal conductor of the Philadelphia Orchestra's season with a farewell concert of Shostakovich, Debussy, Respighi and Korngold's Violin Concerto. Other highlights of the multidisciplinary festival include Alec Baldwin narrating Prokofiev's '' Peter and the Wolf.'' The Lake George Opera presents Bizet's '' Carmen'' and Donizetti's '' Viva La Mamma.'' (518)587-3330, spac.org.
 WEEKEND OF CHAMBER MUSIC Catskills, July 11-24. The flutist Judith Pearce founded this festival, whose programs this year range from Rebel to Haydn to Bartok. (845)887-5803, wcmconcerts.org.
 North Carolina EASTERN MUSIC FESTIVAL Greensboro, June 26 - July 31. Gerard Schwarz conducts programs including Lynn Harrell playing Shostakovich's Cello Concerto No.1; the premiere of Bright Sheng's '' Just Dance'' and Gil Shaham performing Brahms's Violin Concerto. (866) 579-8499, easternmusicfestival.org.
 Ohio BLOSSOM FESTIVAL Cuyahoga Falls, July 2-Sept. 5. During the Cleveland Orchestra's annual decampment to the Blossom Music Center, its music director, Franz Welser-Most, conducts Debussy, Schubert, Strauss, Ives and Berg. There's also Nicholas McGegan leading Handel, and Yo-Yo Ma and the Silk Road Ensemble. (800)686-1141, clevelandorchestra.com.
 CINCINNATI MAY FESTIVAL May 14-22. James Conlon, music director of this prestigious festival (established in 1873), begins the festivities, conducting the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra and May Festival Chorus in excerpts from four of Handel's oratorios. Also on the program: Bach's ''St. Matthew Passion,'' Bernstein's ''Chichester Psalms'' and the premiere of Ian Krouse's ''Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking.'' (513)381-3300, mayfestival.com.
 CINCINNATI OPERA June 19-July 25. The company celebrates its 90th anniversary with a gala concert starring Christine Brewer and Angela Brown, accompanied by the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra and Cincinnati Opera Chorus. John Keenan will conduct Wagner's ''Die Meistersinger'' with James Morris as Hans Sachs and the English National Opera's recent production of Puccini's ''Boheme.'' Robert Spano conducts Verdi's ''Otello.'' (513)241-2742, cincinnatiopera.org.
 Oregon OREGON BACH FESTIVAL Portland and Eugene, June 25-July 11. Bach, naturally, is the backbone of this festival, where the great Helmuth Rilling conducts Bach's B minor Mass, Verdi's Requiem and Mendelssohn's ''Elijah.'' Other highlights include the bass-baritone Thomas Quasthoff singing Schubert's ''Die Schone Mullerin'' with the pianist Jeffrey Kahane. (541)682-5000, oregonbachfestival.com.
 YACHATS MUSIC FESTIVAL Yachats, July 8-11. Four Seasons Arts presents this festival, which celebrates its 30th anniversary with eclectic musical offerings by the baritone Thomas Buckner, the pianist Leon Bates and others. (510)845-4444, fsarts.org.
 Pennsylvania VIVACE! Lancaster, July 5-18. The Cypress String Quartet and the Newstead Trio participate in this chamber music teaching festival, run by the Pennsylvania Academy of Music. (717)399-9733, pamusacad.org/musicnaturally.php.
 South Carolina SPOLETO FESTIVAL USA Charleston, May 28-June 13. The historic Dock Street Theater reopens after a three-year renovation for John Pascoe's new production of ''Flora, an Opera.'' The work (a ballad opera, said to be the first performed in the American colonies) was staged in this theater in 1736. Other highlights are the American premiere of Wolfgang Rihm's ''Proserpina;'' a lively chamber music series; the string quartet Brooklyn Rider performing contemporary music; and Emmanuel Villaume conducting the Spoleto Festival USA Orchestra in Beethoven, Mozart and Wagner. (843)579-3100, spoletousa.org.
 Texas INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL AND INSTITUTE AT ROUND TOP June 9-July 17. Students and professionals collaborate on diverse repertory. JoAnn Falletta conducts the Texas Festival Orchestra in Barber, Rachmaninoff and the American premiere of Frank Ticheli's Concerto for Clarinet and Orchestra. The flutist Carol Wincenc plays Debussy, Reger and Poulenc. (979)249-3129, festivalhill.org.
 MIMIR CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL Fort Worth, July 5-16. The Norse god of wisdom inspired the name of this teaching festival, with musicians from the Chicago Symphony and the Cleveland Orchestra. (817)257-5443, mimirfestival.org.
 Utah MOAB MUSIC FESTIVAL Sept. 2-13. There's a scenic commute for concertgoers here, who take a boat ride to the Colorado River Grotto to see a concert against a spectacular backdrop of red-hued rocks. The cellist Matt Haimovitz, the clarinetist Paquito D'Rivera, the pianist Michael Barrett (the festival's director) and the string quartet Ethel are among the performers playing eclectic programs that include Schumann, Bach, Lou Harrison and Lukas Foss. After the event adrenaline-seeking music lovers can enjoy a four-day raft trip with daily concerts. (435)259-7003, moabmusicfest.org.
 Vermont CHAMBER MUSIC CONFERENCE AND COMPOSERS' FORUM OF THE EAST Bennington, July 18-Aug. 15. High-level amateurs from diverse musical and professional backgrounds are catered to at this festival, which offers instrumentalists opportunities for performing and coaching. The compositionally inclined can study with the composers in residence, who this summer are Pierre Jalbert, Paul Moravec and Gabriela Lena Frank. (845)268-3261, cmceast.org.
 MARLBORO MUSIC SCHOOL AND FESTIVAL July 17-Aug. 15. Rising stars collaborate with prominent artists (like Richard Goode and Mitsuko Uchida, the artistic directors) for exciting intergenerational music making at this festival, one of the country's pre-eminent chamber music events. Repertory for concerts is programmed on short notice, but standards are high. (802)254-2394, marlboromusic.org.
 YELLOW BARN MUSIC SCHOOL AND FESTIVAL Putney, June 18-Aug. 7. Faculty and guest performers here include the violinist Anthony Marwood, the violist Kim Kashkashian, the pianist Gilbert Kalish and the Peabody Trio. (802)387-6637, yellowbarn.org. Virginia CASTLETON FESTIVAL Rappahannock County, July 2-25. Since concluding his tenure as music director of the New York Philharmonic, Lorin Maazel and his wife, Dietlinde Turban-Maazel, have been busy running this festival (an extension of the Castleton Residency Program, established by the Maazels' Chateauville Foundation). At their 550-acre property in Virginia, Mr. Maazel will conduct a new production of Puccini's ''Il Trittico''; staged performances of Stravinsky's ''L'histoire du soldat'' and De Falla's ''Master Pedro's Puppet Show''; Britten's ''The Beggar's Opera''; and the Castleton Festival Orchestra in three concerts. Timothy Myers leads Britten's '' Turn of the Screw.'' (540) 937-4969, castletonfestival.com.
 WOLF TRAP Vienna, May 21-Sept. 19. Wolf Trap's prestigious opera program for young artists presents new productions of Mozart's ''Zaide,'' Rossini's ''Il Turco in Italia'' and Britten's '' Midsummer Night's Dream.'' Other highlights include the violinist Joshua Bell performing Bruch's ''Scottish Fantasy'' with the National Symphony Orchestra. (703)255-1868, wolftrap.org.
 Washington OLYMPIC MUSIC FESTIVAL July 3-Aug. 22. This informal festival takes place in a historic dairy farm on the Olympic Peninsula, where picnickers and freely roaming donkeys enjoy chamber music concerts. (360)732-4800, olympicmusicfestival.org. Wyoming GRAND TETON MUSIC FESTIVAL Jackson Hole, June 30-Aug. 14. Wyoming's majestic mountains host distinguished guests, with Donald Runnicles conducting stars like the mezzo soprano Susan Graham, the violinist Sarah Chang and the percussionist Colin Currie in repertory favorites and contemporary works. (307)733-1128, gtmf.org.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 16, 2010, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A classical music entry for Virginia in the Summer Stages listings last Sunday gave an incorrect phone number for the Castleton Festival in Rappahannock County. The number is (540) 937-4969.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA WALSH) (AR21)
Brad Lubman and his Signal orchestra, at last year's Bang on a Can marathon at the World Financial Center Winter Garden
 this year, the event will be held on June 27. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RACHEL PAPO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (93%); FESTIVALS (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



230 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Thursday's Stock Free Fall May Prompt New Rules

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The kind of bungee jump that stocks took Thursday, plunging abruptly before snapping partway back in a brief frenzy of electronic trading, has worried market operators and experts on trading for some time. Despite a surprising consensus about what needs to be done, federal regulators have not shown much urgency in rewriting the rules governing an increasingly fragmented, and computerized, trading system.
 That appears likely to change after the wild, record-setting ride that briefly sent the market spinning out of control. President Obama and lawmakers called for action, and regulators at agencies including the Securities and Exchange Commission promised to deliver, even as they struggled to understand the origins and particulars of Thursday's chaos. 
 The gist of the solution, according to regulators, traders and academics is that markets need uniform rules for intervening when a stock goes into free fall.
 ''We need to work out a common consensus as to how markets react when stock prices start to plunge in very short time periods,'' said Richard G. Ketchum, the chief executive of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the industry group that polices brokers and exchanges.
 Asked why exchanges had not already agreed on such rules, Mr. Ketchum responded: ''I can't say that I have a good answer for that. We should have. And now we must.''
 The much-discussed ''stock market'' -- with its connotation of a single entity -- is a misnomer. Investors can buy and sell stocks through about 50 markets in the United States. Most of the trades are placed through computer networks, at the direction of computer programs, and orders are routed automatically to the market offering the best price.
 It is a system that sometimes spins out of control if the computerized sellers cannot find enough buyers. Last year, on April 28, 2009, the stock price of Dendreon, a Seattle biotechnology company, plunged 69 percent in 70 seconds before trading was halted. When trading resumed the next day, most of the loss was instantly erased. 
 The same pattern unfolded Thursday, as shares in companies including Procter & Gamble fell precipitously.
 Because such declines can reflect a temporary shortage of buyers rather than a permanent loss of value, some of the markets impose ''circuit breakers'' that pause trading to protect sellers from taking unnecessary losses. The New York Stock Exchange, for example, briefly suspended trading in some shares on Thursday, then slowed the pace of trading to give sellers a better chance to find buyers. 
 But experts say such safeguards make sense only if they are applied uniformly. When the New York exchange suspended trading Thursday, sellers simply moved to other exchanges with fewer restrictions. In some cases, the supply of buyers on those exchanges already had been exhausted, causing the computerized trading programs to offer shares at lower and lower prices. Some of the resulting downward spirals ended at one penny.
 ''When the New York Stock Exchange went into slow motion, a system designed to stabilize trading actually backfired in practice,'' said James J. Angel, a professor at Georgetown University who studies financial markets. ''No exchange should have an independent circuit breaker.''
 The S.E.C., which oversees the nation's equity markets, requires a suspension in trading only in the event of a broad market collapse, defined as a drop of at least 10 percent in the Dow Jones industrial average, which is based on the share prices of 30 large American companies.
 Other countries, like Germany, impose similar circuit breakers on trading in shares of any individual company that has a similar drop, but the S.E.C. has never done so. A former S.E.C. official said the possibility had been discussed in recent years, but ''I don't think there was quite the urgency to deal with it.''
 The S.E.C. and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in a joint statement on Friday that the issue now had their attention.
 ''We are scrutinizing the extent to which disparate trading conventions and rules across various markets may have contributed to the spike in volatility,'' the statement said. ''This is inconsistent with the effective functioning of our capital markets and we will make whatever structural or other changes are needed.''
 Early this year, the S.E.C. also began a broad review of equity markets, including whether computerized trading is properly regulated.
 The heads of several of the largest electronic exchanges said Friday that they would support industrywide rules for breaking free falls.
 But there are other ideas to keeping computerized markets in check. Lawrence E. Harris, a finance professor at the University of Southern California, said regulators should simply require all sellers to specify a minimum price below which they do not want to complete the sale of their shares. Market orders, placed at the best available price, can be too risky in the fast-moving age of electronic trading.
 On Thursday, some sellers placed orders that were not fulfilled until prices had plunged as low as a penny a share. If sellers had placed ''limit orders'' instead, those transactions would not have happened, Professor Harris said.
 ''Electronic exchanges in most other countries only accept limit orders,'' said Professor Harris, a former S.E.C. chief economist. ''Without any mechanisms to stop the market, we just had stocks falling through the ice.''
 But Rafi Reguer, a spokesman for the electronic exchange Direct Edge, said retail investors liked market orders because limit orders could be rejected, forcing the seller to try again, in some cases at a lower price.
 ''Sometimes what people value is the certainty of execution,'' Mr. Reguer said.
 Experts also note that the value of limit orders can be subverted if investors routinely set unrealistically low limits, to avoid the inconvenience of having their orders rejected.
 The BATS Exchange, a large electronic exchange based near Kansas City, rejects orders if the price would be more than 5 percent or 50 cents away from the last completed transaction.
 During the market panic on Thursday, between 2:40 and 3 p.m., BATS prevented more than 47.6 million orders from executing -- more than 95 percent of all orders during that period, according to Randy Williams, a spokesman for the company.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders on the New York Stock Exchange were shellshocked after stocks' dip and rebound. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: DENDREON CORP (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (55%)

TICKER: DNDN (NASDAQ) (53%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



231 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Mind Over Meds

 BODY:
Is it possible that Americans are still inundated by mental-health professionals who peddle a one-size-fits-all therapy to anyone who walks in the office? Let's hope that Daniel Carlat becomes both savior and saboteur of what has become a grossly misguided, albeit well-intentioned, field of practice.
 Since they are charged with such a risky and weighty mission, mental-health professionals would certainly benefit from Carlat's unique brand of honesty about the limitations of picking a psychomethodology and hanging out the matching shingle. His ability to recognize a more holistic and personalized problem-solving approach is progressive, although in truth, it should be the de facto standard of care. SHARI EDELSON DOHERTY New Paltz, N.Y. 
 I applaud Daniel Carlat for having the courage not only to question the standard of care of his chosen profession but to change the way he practices and then write intelligently about the subject. As a pediatrician I have similar concerns, particularly regarding the standard of care for A.D.H.D. (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder).
 Stimulant medication does improve attention and positively affect school performance and self-esteem. But children with A.D.H.D. are usually seen by pediatricians who focus on symptoms and medication for 30 minutes every three months. Significant life events may not be addressed and medication may be prescribed based on a visit with only one parent, with no opportunity to explore the parents' relationship with each other. (Recent studies have shown that family conflict is a significant risk factor in A.D.H.D.) I hope that we are headed away from the ''mindless'' period of psychiatry for children as well as adults. CLAUDIA M. GOLD, M.D. Great Barrington, Mass.
 Daniel Carlat was courageous to admit that after treating his patients for a long time, he realized he barely knew them. He was educated under a system that had forgotten that knowing the complex narrative of a patient's life is a necessary part of treating him or her. In his first attempt to get out of the box imposed on him by the narrow constructs of psychopharmacology, he turns to another narrow theory, cognitive behaviorism.
 It's a start, but I hope he discovers the far more complex ways of understanding human lives that have evolved in fields like psychoanalysis, which looks not only at irrational thoughts and biologically tinged symptoms but also unconscious motivation, narcissism and ideals, trauma and anxiety, guilt and conflict. PRUDENCE L. GOURGUECHON, M.D. President American Psychoanalytic Association Chicago
 As members of the ''golden'' generation of psychiatrists, we applaud Daniel Carlat for his candor in exposing the severe limitations imposed by the ''split treatment'' model of psychiatry. Unfortunately, this is the only known form of treatment in most areas of the country. Insurance companies have proffered this treatment to save money, which is another example of economics taking the place of sound clinical practice. There is little consideration of the patient's receiving cohesive treatment, which leads to the serious potential for fragmentation and communication errors.
 Of course, there have been marvelous advances in psychopharmacology that allow psychiatrists to effect quality-of-life improvements; however, our need to understand our patients' conflicts and create an empathic treatment environment has all but vanished from many residency-training programs, psychiatric offices and clinics around the country.
 We, along with our ''dinosaur'' colleagues, will continue to endorse the holistic approach to psychiatry and hope that renewed interest in providing the benefits of both psychotherapy and medication will follow us. Thank you, Dr. Carlat, for speaking out for the patients and doctors who endorse the integrated-treatment model. SEYMOUR H. BLOCK, D.O. ALLAN I. STEMPLER, M.D. Great Neck, N.Y. Block and Stempler are past presidents of the Nassau Psychiatric Society of the American Psychiatric Association.
 Clinical psychologists like myself receive a doctorate degree after completing at least six years of postbachelor's training in the theory, science and practice of mental-health treatment. This involves thousands of hours of patient contact, supervision with licensed psychologists and course work. Many receive an education devoted specifically to empirically supported treatments, like cognitive-behavioral therapy. As Daniel Carlat says, ''psychopharmacology was infinitely easier to master than therapy.'' Of course, many psychiatrists seek additional training and supervision after their residencies in order to become excellent therapists, but not all do. If I were seeking a therapist for myself, I would certainly want someone who possesses a specialized training in therapy.
 Moreover, integrated treatment does not have to be provided by the same practitioner. Rather, it could entail a treatment team that regularly consults one another on changes in the patient's symptoms and life circumstances, as well as medication noncompliance or side effects. As a psychologist specializing in the treatment of eating disorders and depression, I believe it is imperative that I regularly speak with the internists, psychiatrists and nutritionists involved in my patients' care. While this approach to treatment may not save money in the short term, it may ensure improved outcomes and lower rates of relapse, making it a better approach for our patients in the long term. RENE D. ZWEIG, PH.D. New York

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY FINK) GRAPHIC: MOST POPULAR LETTERS TOPIC: ''MIND OVER MEDS,'' BY DANIEL CARLAT 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); PEDIATRICS (88%); CHILDREN (87%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); PHARMACOLOGY (70%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (67%); INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



232 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: The Big Picture Beyond Arizona's Law

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 We agree with Ross Douthat's column (''The Borders We Deserve,'' May 3) about the need to move past polarization on the immigration debate and enact national reforms to create an immigration system that welcomes legal immigrants and discourages illegal ones. So it was discouraging to see him write about how the United States needs to regain control of its southern border.
 First, such calls to ''regain'' control of the border suffer from historical amnesia, perpetuating a common myth that it was ever actually under control. It is only in the last several decades that the United States government has made a serious effort to discourage illegal crossings on what was historically a largely unmonitored border. 
 Second, he claims that the federal government has not tried to control the border. In fact, since 1990 the number of Border Patrol agents has grown from fewer than 4,000 to more than 20,000, doubling in the last five years alone.
 Add in the new technology and fencing, and the border with Mexico is now one of the most heavily policed borders in the world. And indeed it is precisely this border buildup that has blocked the easy routes through California and Texas and led to the enormous growth of smuggling of illegal migrants through the harsh Arizona deserts.
 Mr. Douthat is right, however, that the real measures for controlling unauthorized immigration will be found away from the border. These include tough and smart workplace enforcement and employer sanctions to shut off the jobs pipeline that attracts unauthorized migrants, secure identification for everyone and policies that would welcome more legal immigrants from a wider array of countries. And for that Congress finally needs to move on immigration reform legislation.
 Edward Alden Peter Andreas Washington, May 3, 2010
 Mr. Alden is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and project director of the Independent Task Force on U.S. Immigration Policy. Mr. Andreas is associate professor of political science at Brown University.
 To the Editor:
 Ross Douthat lists some ways to regain control of our southern border, including curbing demand for illegal workers with stiff workplace enforcement and stringent penalties for hiring undocumented workers.
 The fact is that American businesses, and therefore the local, state and federal governments, do not want to stop the flow of cheap, exploitable labor to America. Instead, politicians want to reap the economic benefit of illegal immigrants and, at the same time, assume a tough and patriotic posture for the angry American citizens who want to blame someone or something for the mismanagement of their beloved homeland.
 Eliminate the jobs that the illegal immigrants find here all too easily and you will reduce the problem significantly. But businesses large and small and our politicians will never do that. They would rather write laws that undermine the Constitution.
 Anthony Esposito Hurley, N.Y., May 3, 2010
 To the Editor:
 The myth that Arizona was forced to crack down on illegal immigrants because the federal government has abdicated its responsibility to enforce the immigration laws bears no more relation to reality than does the myth that only racists on the far right are against immigration.
 The truth is that under the administration of a left-centrist president -- who, as a candidate, promised to fight against making immigrants scapegoats for all of America's problems and to promote racial tolerance -- deportations, investigations of employers who hire immigrants and arbitrary denials of applications for legal visas, especially by educated professional workers, are higher than they have been for many years.
 The Arizona law is part of a wider populist movement to roll back the gains in racial tolerance that America's immigration system has made since 1965, when an immigration law based on restrictive national origin quotas favoring Northern Europe and dating from the 1920s was abolished. A century ago, there were the Chinese exclusion laws.
 Today, many immigration opponents in both parties would like to go back to the bigoted spirit of those times. It is meaningless to focus only on the Arizona law. There is a much broader issue at stake.
 Roger Algase New York, May 3, 2010
 The writer is an immigration lawyer.
 To the Editor:
 In ''If Only Arizona Were the Real Problem'' (column, May 2), Frank Rich suggests that opposition to illegal immigration is often racially motivated. Don't the American people have a right to their own country and their own culture, just as other nations do? The very least we can expect our government to do is enforce our laws and our borders.
 But the Democrats seem perfectly willing to allow a flood of illegal immigrants into our country because they see Hispanic immigrants as providing more votes for them. The Republicans turn a blind eye to illegal immigration as well because illegals mean cheap labor for their big business buddies.
 And the American people are left feeling helpless, abandoned and frustrated. If we dare to speak out and say, ''Hey, this is our country; don't we have a right to determine our own destiny as a nation?'' the media label us as racists.
 Donald Lyman Jr. Wilmington, Mass., May 5, 2010
 To the Editor:
 The incendiary rage behind Arizona's new immigration law has already spread to other issues and other states. Think of the wave of bills and laws further limiting women's reproductive choices. Think of the enraged campaigns against same-sex marriage. Think of the laws striking down affirmative action.
 Think of the recent statement by the governor of Virginia calling for the study of the Confederacy and neglecting to mention slavery. Think of the Texas textbook debates and the efforts to rewrite American history as the story of a Christian state.
 These are all campaigns to dehumanize certain sectors of the population: racial or ethnic minorities, women, nonheterosexuals, those practicing ''other'' religions, agnostics and atheists. They mark an increasing tendency to divide society into ''us'' and ''them.'' We need to call for a stop to this now, while also seriously addressing the fears behind this anger so we can defuse it.
 Lynn E. Palermo St.-Quentin-les-Troo, France, May 2, 2010
 The writer is a professor of French at Susquehanna University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); SMUGGLING (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



233 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Magic Noirism

BYLINE: By DANIEL WALLACE. 
Daniel Wallace is the author of four novels, most recently ''Mr. Sebastian and the Negro Magician.'' He teaches English at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

 BODY:
THE MANY DEATHS OF THE FIREFLY BROTHERS
 By Thomas Mullen
 397 pp. Random House. $26
 It takes guts for a writer to give away his novel's fundamental conceit in the title itself, yet that's just what Thomas Mullen has done with his second book, ''The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers.'' In a novel that in every other respect is more 1930s noir than Marquezian fantasy, Mullen has his Depression-era bank robbers -- Jason and Whit Fireson, popularly known as the Firefly Brothers -- killed violently at least three different times, and then, as if waking from a long night's sleep with a bad hangover, come achingly back to life. At which point it's time to rob another bank. Or save a damsel in distress. Until they're killed again, violently. And then. . . .
 The novel starts with Jason Fireson's resurrection. He regains consciousness but can't figure out what's going on, knowing only that ''he was cold, that his skin was touching metal and that he was naked.'' His brother Whit snaps back to life soon enough as well, but everything's fuzzy and they're both unnaturally pale and full of what looks like bullet holes. What happened? 
 The myths, legends and lore of 1930s bad guys have been well documented and often romanticized in books and movies for the last half-century or so. What is it about these avaricious, cold-blooded killers that stokes our imaginations and excites us so? Is it our cultural admiration for individualism and resolve, for pulling yourself up by your bootstraps even if it means blowing away a few people in the bargain? Or does every culture need its own mythology and, where the Greeks had Achilles and Odysseus, we have to settle for Al Capone and Baby Face Nelson? Many Americans refused to believe John Dillinger could be caught or killed, and maintained that the man shot at the Biograph Theater wasn't Dillinger at all but a double, set up by the mob to take the fall.
 Mullen tries to endow the Firefly Brothers with this kind of immortality, but the plot hinges less on their corporeal restoration than it does on the day-to-day ups and downs of a couple of guys who happen to be, collectively, Public Enemy No. 1. The first time they're presumed dead they decide to take advantage of the fact by robbing just two more banks, to get the money they need to go straight. Then Jason's girlfriend is kidnapped, and they have to rescue her. Meanwhile, the third Fireson brother, Weston, experiences some hard times, and this, coupled with envy of his older brothers' criminal success, moves him to betray them in a way he comes to regret.
 Mullen writes convincingly about the Depression, but too often the prose rides shotgun to the plot. ''A surge of guilt belted Whit in the chest.'' ''The simplicity was an anvil dropping on her heart.'' The freshness and fun of his central idea suffers through the use of some familiar themes, including a father dying in prison, a mother (''Ma'') who runs a boarding house to make ends meet and a good girl gone bad who gives up everything for the love of a gangster.
 Sometimes ''The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers'' is weighed down by back story and cliche, and as the point of view jumps from one character to the next the reader can't be blamed for getting antsy. But the story wonderfully illuminates why 1930s America spawned so many dark heroes, and how similar that depression was at times to the recession we're experiencing now. The only thing we don't have is our own version of the Firefly Brothers. Somehow I don't see Baby Face Madoff fitting the bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); BANK ROBBERY (75%); ROBBERY (70%); MYTHOLOGY (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%)

TITLE: Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



234 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: Two-Handers With Plenty To Applaud

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
PLAYWRIGHTS justly lament the incredible shrinking of the American theater. As the costs of producing have risen over the last few decades, the plays being regularly produced have been getting smaller and smaller. A cast of five actors now seems deluxe at an Off Broadway theater, and stories are rife of literary managers and dramaturges gently suggesting to playwrights that their work might be more marketable if they could airbrush out a few more characters.
 But the truism that less is more is as viable an argument in theater as it is in other aesthetic realms. Strictly speaking, all that is required to create a potent dramatic event is two characters. Put a pair onstage, and you automatically have a relationship, and from the complicated ways in which two people relate to each other can grow myriad dramatic developments. The people up there will connect or they will conflict, and the result will be any of a number of compelling possibilities: betrayal, conciliation, destruction, erotic attraction. 
In the theater season just concluding, just about all of those potentialities were explored in a virtual mini-festival of two-person plays. The big-star bang of the fall season on Broadway was ''A Steady Rain,'' in which no supporting players were skulking around the stage to get in the way of the audience worshiping the two manly movie stars Hugh Jackman and Daniel Craig. Another two-man play, John Logan's ''Red,'' featuring Alfred Molina as the painter Mark Rothko and Eddie Redmayne as his assistant, is a top contender for the best play Tony award.
 Women were not left out of the picture entirely, I'm happy to report. Linda Lavin and Sarah Paulson enact an artist-acolyte relationship akin to the one depicted in Mr. Logan's play in the engaging Broadway revival of Donald Margulies's ''Collected Stories.'' Nor was the gender-split tandem omitted: David Mamet's ''Oleanna'' made a brief appearance on Broadway in the fall, and one of the highlights of the spring season Off Broadway was David Ives's savory comedy-drama ''Venus in Fur,'' in which newcomer Nina Arianda made a spectacular debut as an actress asserting control over a playwright in the course of an erotically tinged audition.
 Two-handers, as two-person plays are nicknamed in the trade, have a respectable history and a particular appeal -- and not just for acting classes. The form could be said to date back to the Greeks. Perhaps exhausted by all the one-man tragedies he had been enduring, Aeschylus decided it was time for some innovation and added a second actor to the mix in 471 B.C. (There was also the chorus of course.)
 For much of the rest of theater history, more was considered more, and the Shakespearean model of amply filled stages held sway. But minimalism was a hallmark of modernist theater of the mid-20th century, which pared away much that was deemed inessential to depict the human experience to its essence. Samuel Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot'' is fundamentally a two-man play, with a few guest stars. Another of his masterworks, ''Happy Days,'' contains just two characters (really one and a half). Ionesco wrote brilliant absurdist pas de deux in ''The Lesson'' and ''The Chairs.'' (Each has a walk-on for a third character.) Harold Pinter and Jean Genet also experimented with the form, and Edward Albee's career ignited with ''The Zoo Story,'' about a fraught encounter between two men on a park bench.
 So it's not just about economics, even today, but about the particular allure of seeing drama that's taut and tight, cut to the bone. On some level many (if not most) two-handers are fundamentally about the problem of intimacy, the primal human need to connect with another, and the sorrows and satisfactions arising from this drive apparently hard-wired into the psyche. Their potency arises from our recognition of this universal urge, conscious or not. 
 It may sound whimsical to suggest it, but all two-handers are in some sense love stories, dramatic analogues for the desire most feel to commune with just a single other soul. You'd never confuse ''The Zoo Story'' with a standard romance of course. But the urgent need felt by the play's angry, loquacious Jerry to impose his experience on another -- to have his existence ratified by the mild-mannered Peter -- drives his increasingly unhinged accosting of a total stranger. It's a desperate attempt to escape alienation.
 The two-handers seen this season are dramas that explore various levels of intimacy between their characters, even as some of them also expose the dramaturgical challenges of the form. ''A Steady Rain'' told the love story of two Chicago cops who'd grown up together but find questions of ethics and loyalties tearing them apart. They were not actual lovers, of course, but the play turned on the decision of the Irish-American cop played by Mr. Craig to betray his lifelong buddy, the Italian-American played by Mr. Jackman.
 The problem with that play, by Keith Huff, was that, structurally speaking, it wasn't really a two-character play at all, but a pair of monologues spliced together. The cops rarely interacted in the course of the play, which meant that the essential appeal of the form -- watching conflict or connection -- was sacrificed almost entirely. A solo show is by nature about telling us about something that has happened (and there was a lot of telling in ''A Steady Rain''), but most of us prefer theater that shows.
 ''Red,'' the highbrow hot ticket of the spring season, also exposes a flaw that besets some two-character plays -- namely that they can resemble solo plays with an animated prop on hand to act as verbal stimulant to the central figure, allowing him or her to orate without eschewing realism and simply holding forth to the audience.
 Mr. Molina's imperious, pontifical Rothko strides the stage with dark command, and the painting assistant played by Mr. Redmayne mostly prods him with questions that lead Rothko into high-toned musings and aphorisms on the meaning of art and the benighted world that cannot recognize greatness, let alone strive for it as giants like Rothko strive. (If somebody gave Mr. Logan's Rothko a dollar for every time he invoked the concept of the tragic, he wouldn't have to worry about that commission for the Four Seasons paintings.)
 But ''Red'' does manage to build tension between the two characters as Rothko's windy solipsism gets under the skin of his assistant. It's also a play about intimacy, and indeed the most thrilling moment in the play is the wordless passage in which Rothko and his assistant slather paint across a canvas with rising, almost orgasmic intensity. (Fittingly, Rothko sits down for a cigarette afterward.) This act of mutual creation begins to break down the emotional barrier between Rothko and his assistant -- between Rothko and the world -- and the drama then becomes a story of how much deep a connection with another human being this solitary, society-scorning artist will allow.
 ''Collected Stories'' makes a distaff companion piece to ''Red'' as another study in the rewards and perils of a relationship between two creative artists, in this case two female writers at opposite junctures in their careers. Linda Lavin plays an established short-story writer, Ruth Steiner, who takes under her wing a bright-eyed young striver, Lisa Morrison (Sarah Paulson), who flatters and charms her way into Ruth's life. As the solitary, skeptical Ruth tutors and encourages the young aspirant, their relationship evolves from one of mentor-acolyte to something closer toequals, even rivals. Ruth's casual revelation to Lisa of her life's most momentous passage -- a painful but passionate love affair with the poet Delmore Schwartz -- is both the moment that deepens their connection but also the moment that exposes Ruth to the possibility of betrayal.
 But of all the two-handers I saw this season, none was a more persuasive exponent of the genre's unique appeal than ''Venus in Fur,'' Mr. Ives's dark comedy about the teeter-tottering power games between a playwright-director and the actress auditioning for his new play. The excitement of this study of increasing -- and increasingly combustible -- intimacy was heightened by Mr. Ives's allegiance to the so-called classical unities. ''Venus in Fur'' took place in a single setting and more or less in real time. 
 Many other successful two-handers -- including Terrence McNally's ''Frankie and Johnny in the Clair de Lune'' and Marsha Norman's '' 'night, Mother'' -- have also capitalized on the attraction of watching a relationship develop or evolve or unravel minute by minute in a single room, as the characters are experiencing it themselves. ''Venus in Fur'' amplified it by highlighting a corollary theme that often emerges organically in plays presenting us with just two people onstage: the question of who holds power over whom, and how it can be manipulated.
 It's no secret that in matters of intimate relations, the prickly question of who's in charge will eventually arise. And nobody would argue the point that watching fictional characters gingerly pick their way through this emotional mine field is a lot more appealing -- and entertaining -- than working through the same psychic territory on the home front. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Linda Lavin, left, with Sarah Paulson in ''Collected Stories.'' Below left, Eddie Redmayne, sitting, with Alfred Molina, in a scene from ''Red.'' Below right, Nina Arianda and Wes Bentley in ''Venus in Fur.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER (79%); FILM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); DRAMA FILMS (74%); FESTIVALS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



235 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 BRITAIN SCRAMBLES TO FORM
 New Government
 Talks about forming a new government in Britain resumed amid concern that continuing uncertainty would roil world financial markets when they reopen, but the prospects of a deal between the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats by that deadline appeared slim. PAGE 10
 SHOOTINGS OF AFGHANS ON RISE 
 Shootings of Afghan civilians by American and NATO convoys and at military checkpoints have spiked sharply, surpassing aerial bombings and other attacks as the leading cause of deaths and injuries. PAGE 8
 GERMAN BISHOP RESIGNS
 Pope Benedict XVI accepted the resignation of of Bishop Walter Mixa of Augsburg, Germany, who is under investigation for sexual abuse, the latest high-profile resignation since a sexual abuse crisis erupted in the Roman Catholic Church. PAGE 8
 DEBATE OVER GUYANA ROAD
 Guyana, which is about the size of Britain and has a population of just 753,000 people, is weighing a plan to upgrade a sometimes impassable main road, an option that holds both risk and reward. Many liken the debate to a battle for national identity, which is being pulled between delving into the global economy or pursuing a slower, more sustainable path toward development. PAGE 6
 National
 UTAH DELEGATES OUST
 Veteran G.O.P. Senator
 Senator Robert F. Bennett, an 18-year veteran Republican who had been seeking a fourth term, was stripped of his party's nomination at the state convention in Salt Lake City, becoming one of the first Congressional victims of the surging discontent from the Tea Party-infused Republican right. PAGE 23
 RULING ON ONLINE VOTING
 Nearly three million overseas and military voters from at least 33 states will be permitted to cast ballots over the Internet in November using e-mail or fax, in part because of new regulations proposed last month by the federal agency that oversees voting. PAGE 18
 Gates Aims at Military Spending 22
 metropolitan
 A LITTLE OFF THE TOP 
 And Also the Mind
 Part of the Solution, a social service agency in the Bronx, offers legal assistance, free meals served on tablecloths, and showers for the homeless and the destitute. But it is the haircut program that provides a look at the most revealing surprises about the lives of people stuck on the city's margins. PAGE 1
 Sports
 COLLEGE TEAM TEACHES
 A Lesson in Acceptance
 The Oneonta men's lacrosse team has long nursed a reputation that its coach described as ''rough around the edges.'' But this season, the team is developing a new reputation -- as models of tolerance -- after one of its captains announced in an online essay in February that he is gay. PAGE 1
 WAITING FOR BELTRAN
 Carlos Beltran, the Mets' injured center fielder, has missed huge swaths of the last two seasons to injury. He is not expected to return to the team's lineup until June at the earliest, and the team, which has struggled offensively, is in need of his hitting. PAGE 3
 PARENTS IN THE STANDS
 Lorraine Duffy Merkl writes that popular depictions of overbearing sports moms bears little resemblance to the ones she knows and has herself become. PAGE 9
 Obituaries
 PETER O'DONNELL, 90
 A British writer, he created Modesty Blaise, the sexy, resourceful action hero who was a distaff answer to James Bond, first as a comic strip character and later as the heroine of novels and short stories. PAGE 24
 Sunday Business
 FREDDIE MAC'S LOSS
 Ignored in Washington
 All of the chatter about financial reform overlooks Freddie Mac's horrific first quarter, and its warning that credit losses are likely to keep growing this year. PAGE 1
 Arts & Leisure
 ELGIN MARBLES QUESTION
 The Borders of Culture
 Greece's claim for the Elgin marbles is as much about nationalism as it is about art. PAGE 1
 AN ENGLISH LEGEND
 ''Robin Hood,'' with Russell Crowe, Cate Blanchett and lavish medieval sets, is a story about the forming of Robin Hood, the beginning of the legend. PAGE 1
 Sunday Styles
 CAN MICHELLE OBAMA
 Make You a Star?
 Because of the first lady, many designers barely known outside the fashion beltway have become known to the masses. PAGE 1
 THE LOOK AS PART OF THE ACT
 Sarah Silverman's look, picture pigtails and football shirts, is an integral part of her comedy: it provides the buffer of adorableness. PAGE 7
 Magazine
 THE MORAL LIFE OF BABIES
 Examining whether infants and toddlers can really tell right from wrong. PAGE 44
 Book Review
 THE JEWISH QUESTION
 Anthony Julius writes a strong and somber book on the long history of anti-Semitism in a supposedly humane and liberal society in ''Trials of the Diaspora.'' PAGE 1
 Travel
 HOTELS BUILT ON HISTORY
 Hotels in Italy, Quebec and Zanzibar offer proximity to ruins and excavations and also exhibit historic artifacts. PAGE 6
 Automobiles
 OFF THE WELL
 With electric vehicles of various degrees on the way, more drivers will understand driving with out oil. SportsSunday,Page 11
 Editorial
 FIXING A NUCLEAR TREATY
 To send a powerful message about curbing the spread of nuclear weapons, 189 nations must strengthen the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 7
 WHY DO AIRLINES MERGE?
 Regulators pondering whether to allow the merger between Continental and United Airlines must figure out why airlines have concluded that merging is their path to profitability. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 7
 Op-ed
 FRANK RICH
 As the president nailed our ''24/7 echo chamber'' media, a bomb in Times Square caught the press corps flat-footed. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Baby boomers must accept deep cuts today so their kids can have jobs and not be saddled with debts tomorrow. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 After brunch, let's make the world safer for moms everywhere. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); RELIGION (75%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (69%); HOMELESSNESS (61%); LACROSSE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%); ROBERT BENNETT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



236 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Leading the Coastal Commission for 25 Years, a Crusader and Lightning Rod

BYLINE: By KATHERINE ELLISON

 BODY:
Peter Douglas has survived Nazi Germany, throat cancer, accidentally setting himself on fire, and what he counts as 11 efforts to unseat him in his quarter-century as executive director of the California Coastal Commission. 
 The question now is whether both Mr. Douglas, 67, and the 12-member commission can weather the state's next budget and continue enforcing the 1976 Coastal Act, whose work has helped keep one of the world's most beautiful coastlines largely undeveloped.
 Mr. Douglas said he was deeply concerned that an item in Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's proposed budget could limit the agency's access to legal services supplied by the attorney general, calling the plan ''the greatest threat to the integrity of the Coastal Act since it was passed.'' 
 The commission, based in San Francisco, is one of the nation's most powerful -- and litigious -- land-use authorities. 
 Yet even some critics say its budget has perennially been inadequate to fulfill its broad mandate: to protect 1.5 million acres along 1,100 miles of coastline. In recent years, the commission's enforcement backlog has grown to 1,500 cases, a situation that Mr. Douglas and his staff attribute to insufficient personnel. The staff numbers about 125 today, down from a high of 212 in 1980. 
 ''Any day of the week, the offices look like there has just been an outbreak of anthrax,'' said David Weinsoff, a public interest lawyer in the Bay Area.
 Pending complaints include problems like blocked access to public beaches, illegally filled wetlands and the construction of homes, swimming pools and even golf courses without the required permits.
 The new budget could effectively cap the commission's annual legal expenses, which Mr. Douglas said could force him to choose between pursuing violators and making further budget cuts to underwrite legal action. 
 Moreover, he said, the commission for the first time would have to get the approval for new litigation from the governor's Office of Finance, effectively giving politicians a ''veto power'' over its actions.
 Linda Likar, an international sustainability consultant and former World Bank economist who has studied the commission, argued that the potential cut in legal support was ''a pernicious way'' to weaken the agency. 
 But Aaron McLear, a spokesman for Mr. Schwarzenegger, said the proposal was intended to apply to several other agencies, too, including the State Lands Commission. 
 And Norbert Dall, a land-use consultant in Sacramento who frequently works with the commission, said that while he thought the agency was ''ridiculously underfunded,'' he did not object to spending limits for what he characterized as unessential litigation. 
 The controversy is emblematic of Mr. Douglas's long stint as executive director. While his many admirers depict him as an environmental hero, critics suggest that he needs to pick his battles.
 ''Few people in California have made as many enemies as Douglas,'' The Capitol Weekly noted recently. 
 State Senator Denise Moreno Ducheny, a Democrat who is chairwoman of the budget committee, said of Mr. Douglas: ''He often doesn't choose to work with people. He just wants to tell you, which doesn't make him a lot of friends.'' 
 Mr. Douglas in many ways personifies the spirit of the early years of the grass-roots environmental movement that helped give birth to the Coastal Commission via a statewide voters' referendum. With a graying beard and a bolo tie, he calls himself a ''radical pagan heretic,'' and he has been known to interrupt drives along the coast to stand in front of bulldozers operating without a permit.
 His values reflect those embraced by his home county, Marin, including a reverence for natural landscapes and functioning farmland -- and an antipathy toward development that might alter them. 
 His powers of endurance, both personal and professional, are legendary. Born in Berlin, he fled the Nazis with his family when he was a child. In 2006, two years after recovering from Stage 4 cancer, Mr. Douglas set a match to a pile of dead leaves he had doused with gasoline, setting off an explosion that sent him flying. He has recovered from the serious burns.
 Mr. Douglas is strongly identified with his agency in part because he was a co-author of both the ballot initiative that created it and the 1976 law making the agency permanent. 
 The quasi-judicial agency is uniquely powerful, with a jurisdiction that overlaps those of city, state and federal authorities, and uniquely independent. The governor, State Senate and State Assembly each appoint one-third of the commission members. Mr. Douglas serves at their pleasure.
 During his tenure, the commission has moved forcefully on several fronts of its mandate, which includes limiting coastal construction, ensuring public access to beaches and having a say in the regulation of offshore drilling. 
 Over the years, commission actions have helped create thousands of acres of parklands and public trails and preserve much of Highway 1 as a two-lane road weaving through farmland, rocks and empty dunes. 
 Steve Blank, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur who serves on the commission, called Mr. Douglas ''the world's best bureaucratic street fighter.'' 
 Yet Mr. Dall and others argue that he has picked unnecessary fights with small property owners at the expense of broader planning to avert erosion and haphazard development.
 A San Mateo County Superior Court judge ruled last month that the commission had acted unlawfully in insisting that a Half Moon Bay resident who was seeking a permit to build a 6,500-square-foot house on agricultural land devote most of the 140 surrounding acres to farming or grazing.
 ''They were out of line,'' said the owner, Dan Sterling, adding that his children would have been prevented from ever subdividing the property.
 Mr. Douglas countered that the commission might appeal the judge's ruling, adding that ''it would be foolish of us'' to allow conversion of agricultural land at a time of increasing concerns about local food supplies.
 Mr. Douglas's most consistent opposition has come from the conservative Pacific Legal Foundation, which has spent an average of $500,000 annually in recent years on what it calls its Coastal Land Rights Project. The foundation, based in Sacramento, accuses the agency of violating property owners' rights and unconstitutionally confiscating their assets by insisting on unreasonable concessions in return for development rights.
 Among other cases, the foundation is backing an appeal to the California Supreme Court by a Gualala community group frustrated in its effort to stage a 15-minute fireworks display on the Sonoma County coastline. Mr. Douglas said the fireworks would have scared away nesting birds.
 Two lawyers affiliated with the foundation appear in a new documentary-style movie ''Sins of Commission,'' which was written and directed by Richard Oshen. The film, which has not been distributed, features a long line of frustrated lawyers, real estate agents, architects and property owners, and portrays the commission as an all-powerful enforcer that can ''strike the fear of God'' into property owners. 
 In light of the commission's personnel issues, however, some environmental groups find such depictions off base. ''If you're a developer, the risk of enforcement is similar to winning the Lotto,'' said Mark Gold, president of Heal the Bay, a Santa Monica group. 
 Mr. Douglas said he was not troubled by controversy. (''I follow the law, and it's a very strong law,'' he said.) Nor does he have plans to stop. The job has no mandatory retirement age, and there is no obvious successor in the wings -- a state of affairs that worries some supporters.
 ''Once he's gone, this commission will implode in the blink of an eye,'' Mr. Blank said, ''and all we'll be talking about is the color of the concrete used to pave over what's left of the coast.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Peter Douglas, executive director of the California Coastal Commission, is committed to keeping the coastline in its natural state despite budget constraints. Top, Big Sur, just north of Lucia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF PFLUEGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COASTAL AREAS (91%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); WETLANDS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); BEACHES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); VETO (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); HEAD & NECK CANCER (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); GOVERNORS (57%); ANTHRAX (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010



237 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: The Anthem Saga

 BODY:
Health insurers in many states have been seeking double-digit premium increases from people who buy their own policies directly from the companies rather than obtaining group coverage at work. In states where regulators have the power to curb excessive rate hikes, the increases are often rejected or negotiated down. In those where the regulatory laws are weak not much can be done beyond jawboning. 
 This hodgepodge of controls over premiums needs to be backstopped by a national law that would allow the federal government to block unjustified rate increases where state officials lack the authority to do so. Attempts to include such powers in the newly enacted health care reform law failed. And while the reform law does have provisions that should help restrain premiums, they lack the necessary teeth. 
 The story of Anthem Blue Cross's effort to impose big premium hikes on people who buy their own policies in California, a state with weak regulations, shows why that is so necessary. It also shows how difficult it is to measure what's reasonable and how a confusing melange of factors can affect the setting of premiums. 
 Anthem outraged its enrollees and much of the public in February with a plan to raise premiums for individuals by an average of 25 percent. The company argued that it lost money on the individual market in California last year, that medical costs were escalating far faster than inflation, and that the recession was causing relatively healthy individuals to drop coverage, driving up average costs for the remaining, less healthy enrollees.
 Anthem could have spread its losses more broadly to protect its individual buyers. The only reason the company lost money on the individual market is that it lost heavily on policies issued to participants in two state programs that required Anthem to cover people with pre-existing conditions and capped the premiums it could charge. It chose to offset further losses by imposing big hikes on other individual purchasers. For competitive reasons, it is unwilling to pass the costs on to employer-based group plans. 
 Meanwhile, an actuarial review commissioned by the state's Department of Insurance found that Anthem also miscalculated the costs it would face in the individual market and the premiums it would need to offset them. Had the calculation been done correctly, Anthem would have needed an average increase in the individual market of only 15 percent, not the 25 percent it proposed.
 There is no evidence that Anthem deliberately cooked the books. The errors were not detected by an internal company review or by an outside consultant hired by the company. They were found only when an independent firm hired by the state, Axene Health Partners, assigned four actuaries who spent 500 hours over 10 weeks analyzing calculations that it described as ''extremely complex.''
 It is daunting how much effort was required to dig out these discrepancies, and it's revealing that it required a truly independent review to find them. Regulators everywhere are now on notice that they can't assume company calculations are accurate and that they may need to hire their own consultants to probe deeply. 
 Anthem and its parent company, WellPoint, are scurrying to make amends. WellPoint has announced additional layers of internal review and will commission outside reviews of all of its 2010 rate filings in 14 states. Anthem is revising its rate proposals. But regulators won't have a lot of power to force reductions beyond the rhetorical threat of further embarrassment. 
 Meanwhile, it is important to realize that the prime culprit in rising premiums is the escalating cost of medical care; the prices charged by health care providers and drug companies; and the ever-wider use of medical services, much of it unnecessary. Until those costs are contained, it will be hard to truly restrain premiums. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (89%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (79%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (79%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%)

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (85%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



238 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1835 words

HEADLINE: At Front Lines, Global War on AIDS Is Falling Apart

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
KAMPALA, Uganda -- On the grounds of Uganda's biggest AIDS clinic, Dinavance Kamukama sits under a tree and weeps.
 Her disease is probably quite advanced: her kidneys are failing and she is so weak she can barely walk. Leaving her young daughter with family, she rode a bus four hours to the hospital where her cousin Allen Bamurekye, born infected, both works and gets the drugs that keep her alive. 
 But there are no drugs for Ms. Kamukama. As is happening in other clinics in Kampala, all new patients go on a waiting list. A slot opens when a patient dies. 
 ''So many people are being supported by America,'' Ms. Kamukama, 28, says mournfully. ''Can they not help me as well?'' 
 The answer increasingly is no. Uganda is the first and most obvious example of how the war on global AIDS is falling apart.
 The last decade has been what some doctors call a ''golden window'' for treatment. Drugs that once cost $12,000 a year fell to less than $100, and the world was willing to pay.
 In Uganda, where fewer than 10,000 were on drugs a decade ago, nearly 200,000 now are, largely as a result of American generosity. But the golden window is closing. 
 Uganda is the first country where major clinics routinely turn people away, but it will not be the last. In Kenya next door, grants to keep 200,000 on drugs will expire soon. An American-run program in Mozambique has been told to stop opening clinics. There have been drug shortages in Nigeria and Swaziland. Tanzania and Botswana are trimming treatment slots, according to a report by the medical charity Doctors Without Borders.
 The collapse was set off by the global recession's effect on donors, and by a growing sense that more lives would be saved by fighting other, cheaper diseases. Even as the number of people infected by AIDS grows by a million a year, money for treatment has stopped growing. 
 Other forces made failure almost inevitable.
 Science has produced no magic bullet -- no cure, no vaccine, no widely accepted female condom. Every proposal for controlling the epidemic with current tools -- like circumcising every man in the third world, giving a daily prophylactic pill to everyone contemplating sex or testing billions of people and treating all the estimated 33 million who would test positive -- is wildly impractical.
 And, most devastating of all, old-fashioned prevention has flopped. Too few people, particularly in Africa, are using the ''ABC'' approach pioneered here in Uganda: abstain, be faithful, use condoms.
 For every 100 people put on treatment, 250 are newly infected, according to the United Nations' AIDS-fighting agency, Unaids. 
 That makes prospects for the future grim. Worldwide, even though two million people with the disease die each year, the total keeps growing because nearly three million adults and children become infected.
 Even now, the fight is falling short. Of the 33 million people infected, 14 million are immuno-compromised enough to need drugs now, under the latest World Health Organization guidelines. (W.H.O. guidelines are conservative; if all 33 million were Americans, most clinicians would treat them at once.) 
 Instead, despite a superhuman effort by donors, fewer than four million are on treatment. Just to meet the minimal W.H.O. guidelines, donations would have to treble instead of going flat.
 Uganda is a microcosm of that: 500,000 need treatment, 200,000 are getting it, but each year, an additional 110,000 are infected.
 ''You cannot mop the floor when the tap is still running on it,'' said Dr. David Kihumuro Apuuli, director-general of the Uganda AIDS Commission.
 Some battles will still be won. Middle-income countries with limited epidemics, like India, Brazil and Russia, can probably treat all their patients without outside help. China almost certainly can. South Africa might; it has a raging epidemic but is rich by African standards. 
 But for most of Africa and scattered other countries like Haiti, Guyana and Cambodia, it seems inevitable that the 1990s will return: walking skeletons in the villages, stacks of bodies in morgues, mountains of newly turned earth in cemeteries. 
 As he tours world capitals seeking donations, Dr. Michel D. Kazatchkine, executive director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, said he had become ''hugely frustrated.''
 ''The consistent answer I hear is: 'We love you, we hear you, we acknowledge the fund's good results, but our budget is tight, our budget is cut, it's the economic crisis.' ''
 No commander in the global fight openly concedes that the war is over, but all admit to deep pessimism.
 ''I don't see the cavalry riding to the rescue,'' said Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, an AIDS researcher who leads one of the National Institutes of Health.
 ''I'm worried we'll be in a 'Kampala situation' in other countries soon,'' said Ambassador Eric Goosby, the Obama administration's new global AIDS coordinator.
 ''What I see is making me very scared,'' agreed Michel Sidibe, executive director of Unaids. Without a change of heart among donors, Mr. Sidibe said, ''the whole hope I've had for the last 10 years will disappear.''
 Donors give about $10 billion a year, while controlling the epidemic would cost $27 billion a year, he estimated.
 His predecessor, Dr. Peter Piot, said he had seen optimism soar and then fade.
 Hopes rose from 2001 to 2003 when cheap generic antiretroviral drugs became available, Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations formed the Global Fund and President George W. Bush initiated the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or Pepfar.
 ''Then, we were at a tipping point in the right direction,'' Dr. Piot said. ''Now I'm afraid we're at a tipping point in the wrong direction.''
 AIDS2031, a panel he convened to look ahead to the epidemic's 50th anniversary, issued a pessimistic report in November that concluded: ''Without a change in approach, a major epidemic will still be with us in 2031.'' Because of population growth, it said, there may still be two million new infections a year even then.
 According to the Uganda AIDS Commission, the lifetime bill for treating one Ugandan AIDS patient, counting drugs, tests and medical salaries, is $11,500.
 Donors have decided that is too much, that more lives can be saved by concentrating on child-killers like stillbirth, pneumonia, diarrhea, malaria, measles and tetanus. Cures for those killers, like antibiotics, mosquito nets, rehydration salts, water filters, shots and deworming pills, cost $1 to $10.
 Under its new Global Health Initiative, the Obama administration has announced plans to shift its focus to mother-and-child health. The AIDS budget was increased by only 2 percent. 
 The British government and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation also said they would focus support on mother-child health.
 ''The political winds have changed,'' said Sharonann Lynch, chief author of the Doctors Without Borders report. ''And I don't believe for a minute it's just the economic downturn. I think world leaders feel the heat is off and they're fatigued.''
 American taxpayers have been particularly generous to Uganda, paying for 88 percent of its drugs; Ugandans know it. 
 Karen Morgan, an American who runs a laboratory at the hospital where Ms. Kamukama was turned away, said: ''Just today, a patient came up to me in the parking lot and said, 'Thank you, American.' I said, 'For what?' He said 'For my medicine. You care if I live or die.' ''
 Nearby, in a tent on the hospital lawn, Moses Nsubuga, a D.J. known as Supercharger, rehearsedhis troupe, the Stigmaless Band, composed entirely of teenagers on AIDS drugs.
 One of their songs is ''America, Thank You So Much.''
 Dr. Peter Mugyenyi, the hospital's founder, helped the Bush administration form its AIDS plan and sat beside Laura Bush during the State of the Union address as it was announced. 
 The loss of donor interest ''makes me frantic with worry,'' Dr. Mugyenyi said. ''Once word spreads that there is no treatment, people do what they did in the past: go to the witch doctors and buy fake treatments.'' 
 He offers copies of e-mail messages he exchanged with American aid officials. One reminds him that he has been instructed to stop enrolling new patients and asks for an explanation of reports that he is treating 37,000 when only 32,000 are authorized. Another asks him not to announce publicly that his funds have been frozen.
 He admits slipping pregnant women and young mothers like Ms. Kamukama into treatment slots ''contrary to instructions.'' 
 ''Morally, I can't turn them away,'' he said.
 He has another reason. Family members like Ms. Kamukama and her cousin will often share one set of pills, an act of love that leads to disaster. Incomplete treatment means both will probably die, but may first develop drug-resistant AIDS and pass it on.
 American officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity confirmed the financing freeze. 
 ''The decision was made late in the Bush administration to cap Uganda at $280 million,'' one said. ''That's an industrial amount of money.'' 
 United States Embassy officials debated adding $38 million, he said, but cabinet-level Ugandan ministers had been caught stealing from other donors and, though forced to repay the money, were not jailed. The government ''hasn't shown the leadership or commitment to transparency to earn additional funds,'' the official added. 
 Also, he said, Uganda contributes too little. Oil was recently discovered near Lake Albert and the government promised to spend the royalties on roads and electricity, but did not mention AIDS.
 ''And now the paper says they're buying Russian jets,'' another official added with obvious disgust. Uganda is negotiating for a $300 million squadron of Sukhoi fighter-bombers.
 For doctors on the front line, the frustration is palpable.
 Dr. Natasha Astill is a British AIDS specialist working at a hospital on the edges of the Bwindi Impenetrable Forest, in a mountain valley with pygmy settlements close by fancy gorilla-tourist lodges. It is so remote that the drugs that reached Kampala in 2003 did not get here until 2007. 
 After a long day in which she and a nurse saw 118 patients, many huddling together in the examining room to avoid the storm pounding on the tin roof, she broke down in tears. All day she told subsistence farmers she could not, for example, treat the white fungal thrush filling their mouths unless they could pay $1 a day -- more than they earn.
 She can still give free antiretrovirals to a few; while her hospital's American funds are frozen, it still gets some drugs from the Ugandan Ministry of Health and cash gifts from wildlife tourists and the singer Elton John. But soon this hospital, too, will make a waiting list. 
 ''It makes me angry,'' she says. ''It feels horrible. Sometimes you wonder if you're doing people favors. You start them on drugs, you give them hope, and then you're not sure you can keep it up. We all knew these drugs are for life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dinavance Kamukama, 28, front right, with cousins in Kampala, Uganda. She is on a waiting list for AIDS drugs.(A1)
SHARED SUFFERING: Susan Asio, 27, cannot find AIDS medicine in Kampala, Uganda. Her daughter Joan Akello, 3, who was born infected, receives treatment through a temporary Clinton Foundation grant.
 FROZEN BUDGETS: Dr. Natasha Astill, left, in a rural Uganda clinic. ''Sometimes you wonder if you're doing people favors,'' she says. ''You start them on drugs, you give them hope, and then you're not sure you can keep it up. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMICS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (78%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); VACCINES (73%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DRUG SHORTAGES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); CONTRACEPTION (65%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KAMPALA, UGANDA (94%) UGANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWAZILAND (79%); KENYA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



239 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MILAN JOURNAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Businesses Come Together for When Marriages Come Apart

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO

 BODY:
MILAN -- The exhibitors at what was billed as Italy's first divorce trade fair, held here over the weekend, were a predictable mishmash of lawyers, real estate agents, divorce planners, paternity testing centers and dating agencies.
 No less predictable was the media scrum, come to record the latest seismic transformation of Italian society, a mostly Roman Catholic nation traditionally centered on the family.
 That stereotype is fading fast. 
 In 2007, according to the most recent statistics available, there were more than 81,000 separations and 50,000 divorces among Italy's population of 59 million. Thirty years ago, divorces did not break the 12,000 mark.
 Lifelong marriages and close-knit family ''values are great, but women have begun to live a different reality,'' said Lorenza Lucianer, a twice-separated office worker who came to the fair with two friends. ''We've turned into America. Everyone is on their second marriage. It happened later here, but it happened.''
 Yet it is not quite like America.
 For antsy Italian singles-in-waiting, American divorce laws (at least of the cinematic variety, where marriages are dissolved in the time it takes for ink to dry) are the stuff that dreams are made of. In Italy, divorces take around five years from the first separation hearing, said Claudio De Filippi, a lawyer who had a booth at the fair.
 His firm, he said, was challenging Italy's divorce laws at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France, because in most European countries a divorce takes around one year. ''But, of course, we have the Vatican here,'' he said. ''Divorce has tended to be viewed as an extreme measure.''
 Italy ratified divorce only in 1974 in a referendum, and critics complain that Italian legislators have not kept up with changing times.
 For example, Italy fine-tuned its joint custody legislation in 2006, but ''la mamma'' still ends up doing most of the child rearing, according to Umberto Vaghi, a real estate agent and advocate with the I Love Papa Association, which organizes an annual Daddy's Pride Parade in Rome and fights for the rights of fathers and minors.
 He said his association has been ''battling a cultural problem that discriminates against men and women,'' because it ''presupposes that children will stay with their mothers. And that forces mothers into a role that might not let them do other things in life,'' he said.
 The growing divorce rate is what led Milena Stojkovic two years ago to open what she claims to be Italy's first divorce planning agency, Ciao Amore. (''Ciao means both hello and goodbye in Italian,'' she said, adding that she ''wanted to give the idea of 'I never want to see you again,' and 'this isn't necessarily a goodbye.' '') With offices in Rome and Trieste, a branch is expected to open in Milan soon, she said. ''Divorce planning was a very new concept in Italy,'' she said, but the business has been satisfying.
 And now, a trade fair. It was held in the basement of a large business hotel.
 According to Franco Zanetti, the journalist turned impresario behind the event, Vienna was the first European capital to hold a divorce fair two years ago. ''It was also in a hotel,'' he said. ''Really Viennese, everything behind closed doors.''
 A Parisian version last December ''was too sociological and ideological'' and open to widows and widowers, which he said would not have gone down as well in Italy.
 So his fair had a bit of everything, including a self-proclaimed seduction expert, who gave tips on how to pick up women in a disco and mimed a male orgasm during his public pep talk.
 Mr. Zanetti said he had ''no ideological vocation'' toward divorce (in his mid-50s, he got married only four years ago), but he has experience in designing trade fairs for the public.
 In 1994, he said, he was one of the organizers of Italy's first sex fair, Mi-Sex, which drew 62,000 visitors in three days. His ambitions this time were more modest. ''A thousand visitors would be great, but it's a small place,'' he said, adding that by Sunday evening he had reached his goal.
 The potential economic implications of a growing divorce rate were not lost on the Slovenian Tourist Board, which, especially for the fair, quickly put together ''regenerative weekends'' that could -- but need not -- include cosmetic treatments for ''fresh divorcees,'' at several spas, said Maja Slivnjak, a tourist board representative. (We are, she added, ''the only country that has love in its name.'')
 Slovenia is a short drive from many major Italian cities. ''We used to focus on couples and families,'' but divorcees are ''a very interesting market,'' she said. 
 Divorcees were not out in big numbers on Saturday afternoon, but those who came had specific agendas.
 Virna Modena, a divorced wedding planner from Modena, said she had come to the fair ''to see the other side of the coin.'' And to check out its commercial potential. ''Perhaps it's a better business to be in,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ciao Amore, a divorce planning agency, was represented at the weekend fair in Milan by its founder, Milena Stojkovic, center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAKIS LALAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); FAMILY LAW (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); LEGAL PATERNITY (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GENDER EQUALITY (74%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); DATING SERVICES (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); STATISTICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (79%) ALSACE, FRANCE (69%) ITALY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); HOLY SEE (78%); FRANCE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



240 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Take a Taxicab to Work? More New Yorkers Walk

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
What's the most expensive way to get to and from work if you live in New York City?
 Not surprisingly, the answer is by taxi -- even before the recent surcharge took effect -- which may help explain why only 1 percent of the 4.3 million New Yorkers who commute to work every day take a cab. In fact, 10 times as many walk to work as take a taxi.
 ''This reminds me of the traffic engineer's joke about New York City,'' said Samuel I. Schwartz, a traffic consultant: '' 'Shall we walk or do we have time to take a taxi?' Those who can afford to commute by taxi probably have the luxury of time on their side.'' 
 Deep inside a lengthy report recently released by the city's Center for Economic Opportunity that calculated what it costs to survive in New York is a sophisticated and revealing look at the costs of commuting in 2008.
 The median cost of taking a taxi to and from work was $4,704 a year, more than twice that of any other means of transportation. Commuting by railroad was second, at $2,163. After that, the most expensive means was driving to work either by car ($1,932) or by motorcycle ($1,449). Those costs include tolls but not parking.
 The commuting breakdown provided by the Center for Economic Opportunity, a city-financed research center, is based on data from Census Bureau's American Community Survey; figures from the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, the region's transportation planning group; and other sources.
 While nearly 900,000, or 21 percent, of commuting New Yorkers say they drive alone, fewer than 2,000, or 0.04 percent, say they commute by motorcycle. Despite the Bloomberg administration's enthusiastic promotion of bicycling as an environmentally friendly way to get around the city, about 24,000, or 0.6 percent, of New Yorkers used a bike to get to and from work, although that was about a 33 percent increase over two years earlier.
 An additional 4.9 percent traveled by carpool and 0.2 percent took the ferry -- presumably the Staten Island Ferry, since the cost was listed as zero.
 A higher proportion -- nearly half -- of New Yorkers take mass transit, more than in any other city in the country. Nearly 37 percent use the subway and 11 percent commute by bus -- both have an annual median cost that the city estimates at $965.
 The city calculates the cost of biking, walking (9.2 percent) and working from home (3.3 percent) at zero.
 By comparison, two years earlier, more people were taking cabs and fewer were walking or biking or taking the subway, according to a previous analysis by the Center for Economic Opportunity.
 ''Deciding how to get to work shouldn't be a job in itself,'' said Lisa Daglian, a spokeswoman for the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council. ''With our smorgasbord of transportation options, New Yorkers can choose the mode that fits their taste, and their wallet.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 2010, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about New Yorkers' commuting habits misspelled the surname of a spokeswoman for the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council who noted that New Yorkers have many transportation options. She is Lisa Daglian, not Daglin. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Getting There: Most New Yorkers with regular commutes went by subway or bus, and saved money by doing so. (Source: N.Y.C. Center for Economic Opportunity) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (88%); WALKING & JOGGING (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); RAIL TRAFFIC CONTROL (75%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); CENSUS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); FERRIES (60%); CYCLING (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COUNCIL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



241 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Along Gulf, Many Wary Of Promises After Spill

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
GULFPORT, Miss. -- People who live along the Gulf Coast know that a promise of money is not nearly as nice as it sounds. It means waiting and waiting, and raising a fuss, and then waiting some more, and consulting lawyers and talking to bureaucrats, and still waiting, and in some cases just giving up.
 And now, after almost five years of fighting insurance companies and government agencies to rebuild after Hurricane Katrina, they are contemplating the prospect of going through all of that again. 
 It is too early to tell how the maddeningly unpredictable oil slick in the Gulf of Mexico will affect the economies that depend on the ocean and its edible inhabitants. And it is too early to judge how BP will act in providing compensation for economic losses. But recent experience does not provide comfort.
 ''The insurance industry and big corporations have a history of stall, deny and kind of wait you out,'' said Kevin Buckle, who works for Ship Island Excursions, a charter boat company here. Mr. Buckle had such a bad experience after Hurricane Katrina that he has been pushing for a state insurance bill of rights. Like most everyone else, he is in a wait-and-see mode.
 BP says it has a ''robust process to manage claims'' and ''is committed to pay legitimate claims'' for loss or damage caused by the spill, all in addition to footing the cleanup costs.
 There is a toll-free telephone number to call, and if the claim is small enough -- generally, immediate loss of pay fits this category -- an operator can walk a person through the process and have the claim paid within 48 hours, said Bill Salvin, a company spokesman. Any person accepting such a payment does not waive any rights against future litigation or claims. Larger claims, Mr. Salvin said, would require an investigation by adjusters.
 So far, around 4,700 claims have been filed, a BP spokesman said, with a little over 800 paid, almost all of them for loss of income.
 Along the bayous of southern Louisiana and along the docks of Mississippi harbors, it is difficult to find someone who has even heard that the toll-free number exists. And those who have called often report difficulty getting through to an operator. So BP is enlisting churches and community groups to get the word out, as well as setting up offices in vacant storefronts along the coast to deal with claimants in person.
 This sounds good to coastal residents. But they want it in writing.
 ''I mean, Exxon came out and said the same stuff after Valdez,'' said Jim Hood, the attorney general of Mississippi, who describes himself as a ''veteran of the insurance wars'' after Hurricane Katrina. 
 Mr. Hood said he was cautiously optimistic after his conversations with BP's lawyers, who are expected to formalize some of their assurances in writing early this week.
 The question of liability is likely to be unsettled for some time. BP officials said that the $75 million limit on the company's liability, as set forth in the law that governs oil spills, is ''not relevant'' in this case, and some United States senators seem to agree, having proposed legislation that would retroactively raise the cap to $10 billion. 
 But with several companies involved in the drilling rig that caused the spill, including the rig's owner, Transocean, there will most likely be protracted legal battles that will determine who actually owes whom for what. For now it is BP, the self-acknowledged ''responsible party,'' that is spending the money.
 BP is, obviously, interested in where that money goes, hence the need for adjusters on the large claims and the comment by Tony Hayward, the company's chief executive, to The Times of London: ''This is America -- come on. We're going to have lots of illegitimate claims.'' 
 It is true that fraud cases related to Hurricane Katrina continue to trickle into federal courts. But the burden of the term ''legitimate claims'' has given some people pause. The unease is especially keen here, given the often arbitrary-seeming reasons for denials of coverage after the storm and the fact that many of those likely to be affected by the slick lack the legal education -- or in the case of the large community of Vietnamese, the language ability -- to know what kind of agreements they have made. 
 The worries were heightened by early incidents that BP officials have tried to put behind them. In one case, BP officials were making boat owners, many of whom have been temporarily put out of work by the spill, sign agreements to work in the cleanup effort that included waivers of certain kinds of liability. BP dropped the clauses, which Mr. Hayward referred to as a ''misstep,'' but not without facing widespread public outrage and a ruling in Federal District Court.
 Then the Alabama attorney general condemned reports that a BP employee had offered quick $5,000 settlements for economic damages in exchange for waivers of future liability. Several BP spokesmen said they were not aware that such an offer was ever made, though Mr. Hayward appeared to confirm it last week when he told reporters it was a ''screw-up'' by a few employees.
 A response this big is going to have glitches, Mr. Salvin said. While this is true, these particular glitches worried coastal residents because they conformed to the worst fears.
 ''That's the kind of deal they would do,'' said Brent Coon, a lawyer who sued on behalf of victims of the BP Texas City refinery explosion in 2005 that left 15 dead, and who has filed a suit in this disaster as well. ''Let's go ahead and just buy them off quick and cheap now before they realize how bad this is going to be.''
 Meanwhile, a fleet of lawyers is already massing, with new class-action suits being filed seemingly by the hour. Even some plaintiff attorneys here worry that fishermen could see badly-needed claims payments eaten up by the fees of less-scrupulous lawyers.
 But the last five years have taught vigilance.
 ''I don't trust much,'' said Loc Nguyen, 46, smoking Marlboro Reds on the stern of his shrimp boat in the harbor of Pass Christian, Miss. ''If you want money, you have to go see lawyer first.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WILKING/REUTERS) (A12)
 Michael Calamari, left, and Rudy Ladner, fishermen who are out of work because of the spill, pass the time in Lakeshore, Miss. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); HURRICANES (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULFPORT, MS, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



242 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Where Stars Got Started: Plaques Outside the Apollo

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Hollywood has the famous one, and New York already has at least three. But on Monday, the city will get another walk of fame.
 This one will be outside the Apollo Theater, on West 125th Street. The shiny golden plaques honoring famous performers will be rectangular - not star shaped, as in Hollywood. And officials at the Apollo have proofread the plaques before they install them. (Someone in Hollywood apparently forgot to check the one for the actress Julia Louis-Dreyfus that was unveiled recently. It arrived lacking the ''o'' and the hyphen.)
 ''Since 1934, we've been an epicenter for African-American culture, and we launched careers of practically all the legendary performers,'' said Jonelle Procope, the president and chief executive of the Apollo. ''The walk of fame, the idea of publicly paying tribute to the Apollo's legends, made absolute sense.'' 
 The Apollo announced the walk-of-fame idea in 2008 in connection with a long-planned renovation. Last year, as arts organizations everywhere struggled to survive the financial crisis, the Apollo said it was postponing the renovation until it could raise the money to complete the $96 million project. (Officials said in 2008 that they already had $51 million in hand.)
 But recession or no recession, the Apollo went ahead with the walk of fame.
 ''A lot of people don't realize that there is a real process when it involves doing something in a public place,'' Ms. Procope said. ''There's a sequence. The architects have to come up with a design and then you have to get it approved. That process takes a long time. It's taken us almost two years from inception to this point.''
 And so - drum roll, please - on Monday the Apollo will install plaques honoring Quincy Jones, Patti LaBelle, Smokey Robinson, James Brown, Little Richard, Ella Fitzgerald and Gladys Knight and the Pips. Plaques for Michael Jackson and Aretha Franklin will be put down next month, after a fund-raising gala for the nonprofit theater, Ms. Procope said.
 The Apollo walk of fame is hardly the only one in the city. There is one in the Bronx, and NBC-TV inaugurated one at Rockefeller Center in 2000. The Fashion Walk of Fame on Seventh Avenue honors designers.
 And then there is the New York Walk of Fame.
 Those five words, ''New York Walk of Fame,'' were trademarked in 2004.
 Finding the person who sought the trademark meant finding Nemo Turner, a Montreal magician who also has a trademark on the Quebec Walk of Fame.
 So where is the New York Walk of Fame, anyway?
 It's in his head, and his computer. ''Right now, we don't have a sidewalk - it's a virtual thing,'' Mr. Turner said. ''I'm working with a Web designer trying to create a virtual experience where you'll see sidewalks and buildings.''
 ''I'm even wondering if we'll do an actual sidewalk because I'm hearing it's so complicated to put a star down,'' he added. ''The problem with getting a sidewalk, it gets into city rules. And when you put a star that's metal and shiny, people can slip and fall, and snow and ice are not kind to metal.''
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); CELEBRITIES (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); TRADEMARK LAW (62%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (65%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



243 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Booker Favored, but Newark Is in No Mood to Celebrate This Year

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
NEWARK -- Inside the soaring New Jersey Performing Arts Center, it was theater of the kind politicians crave. Days before facing re-election, Mayor Cory A. Booker and other luminaries announced a deal to build a 44-story apartment tower, bringing jobs and residents to this troubled city.
 Outside, it was a different sort of scene last week, with pedestrians strolling by in the heat, most of them unaware that the election is Tuesday.
 ''That's coming up?'' asked Toni Jackson, a 36-year-old store clerk. As for Mr. Booker and the Municipal Council, whose members are also on the ballot, Ms. Jackson said she liked them well enough, but she could cite just one achievement: ''Crime is better.'' 
 Eight years ago, it was a ''Street Fight,'' the title of an acclaimed documentary about Mr. Booker's unsuccessful run against the longtime mayor, Sharpe James. Four years ago, it was more like a coronation, as Mr. Booker -- a darling of the press, reformers and business groups -- won 72 percent of the vote, and the candidates he endorsed made a clean sweep of Council seats.
 This year's elections have drawn far less interest, and Mr. Booker, 41, has largely ignored his three underfinanced challengers, but the stakes are no less high. Despite some progress, Newark remains pocked with vacant lots and empty storefronts, and continues to suffer from poverty, unemployment and crime.
 Mr. Booker is still the energetic youngster, full of optimism and eloquence -- ''Newark has stood up and said, 'We will be a light unto the darkness, we will be the hope amidst despair,' '' he declared at a recent appearance -- and political analysts say there is little doubt that he will win.
 But in a low-turnout election, some Council incumbents, all of them backed by the mayor, might be vulnerable, and the mayor's margin of victory could be much smaller than in 2006.
 ''If Booker lost, it would be a huge upset, and I don't think anyone expects that,'' said John Weingart, associate director of the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University. ''Beyond that, it's hard to predict. There are clearly people in Newark who remain loyal to the old power structure, but no one knows how many.''
 An unimpressive showing by Mr. Booker and his team could make it harder to govern and tarnish his image -- and hurt his chances if, as is widely expected, he seeks statewide office some day.
 The challengers in Tuesday's nonpartisan election -- all the major candidates are Democrats -- include a slate with strong ties to the old guard and to Mr. James, who was the mayor for 20 years. He declined to run again in 2006, and went to prison in 2008 after his conviction on fraud charges.
 The opposition ticket's mayoral candidate, Clifford J. Minor, is a former judge and former Essex County prosecutor who was in the crowd that greeted and cheered Mr. James last month when he returned from prison to Newark to serve out his sentence in a halfway house. One of that slate's Council candidates is John Sharpe James, the former mayor's son.
 ''This election isn't about my father,'' the younger Mr. James, a former Army major, said in an interview. He said the former mayor was not allowed to receive phone calls, and had offered very little guidance to the challengers.
 Mr. Booker's critics challenge the official statistics showing reduced crime, and they question his fiscal management. But much of the criticism is aimed at painting him as an aloof outsider, just as when he was a challenger, and Mr. James used Mr. Booker's suburban childhood and degrees from Stanford, Oxford and Yale against him.
 Since taking office, Mr. Booker has appointed many officials who do not live in the city. He hired a police director, Garry F. McCarthy, and a deputy mayor, Stefan Pryor, who are white and had previously worked in New York City -- a risky move in a majority-black city.
 ''He hires people from outside of Newark,'' Mr. Minor said last week in a candidates' forum.
 John James dismissed Mr. Booker as ''a big celebrity going around the country,'' while in Newark, ''people have to go through layers of other people to get to him.''
 Mr. Booker originally embraced a part of the outsider image, campaigning as an antidote to an often corrupt political culture. As mayor, he tightened ethics rules and swept out many of Mr. James's appointees.
 But in office, the lines between reformer and establishment blur quickly. A former deputy mayor under Mr. Booker, Ronald Salahuddin, was indicted this year on extortion and bribery charges. Council members and political advisers who were once allied with Mr. James have switched sides and become members of Mr. Booker's team, at least for now.
 A longtime Booker antagonist was Stephen N. Adubato Sr., one of the city's major power brokers. But they achieved a truce last year, after Mr. Booker helped arrange a $500,000 gift by Oprah Winfrey to a charter school founded by Mr. Adubato.
 In previous campaigns, Mr. Booker said he could change the tattered image of this city of 280,000 people, and attract corporate investment. He can point to a number of big projects, including new housing and a new hotel, but most of those are not yet under way.
 ''I thought Newark's trajectory would be far higher at this point,'' he conceded in an interview, blaming the recession and a weak real estate market. ''We may have gone from running on an Olympic track to running on a beach in knee-deep water, but the reality is we're still making forward progress.''
 Gerald Krovatin, a prominent lawyer in Newark, said that in the business community, ''there's still a lot of optimism out there about Booker, but also a sense of a job not yet fulfilled.''
 The Newark police say that crime in 2009 was down 21 percent from 2006, and the decline is often cited as Mr. Booker's primary achievement. He increased the size of the police force and invested in technology like surveillance cameras and sonic gunshot detectors.
 But the mayor says he is most proud of less-noticed things, like turning some 20 vacant lots into parks, cleaning other lots to prepare them for development, and creating programs to aid newly released prisoners. High on his list for a second term, he said, is wresting control of the Newark school system from the state.
 ''I'm not the kind of guy who wants to have my ship rot in the harbor,'' he said. ''I'd rather be sunk at sea than be timid.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark last week at the unveiling of plans for an apartment building. Newark's Election Day is Tuesday.
 Councilman Carlos M. Gonzalez is running for re-election as a member of the Booker team, but there is spirited opposition. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); RETAILERS (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); MOVIE REVIEWS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



244 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Red Family, Blue Family

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
Fifty years ago, American family structures were remarkably uniform. The rich married at roughly the same rate as the poor and middle class. Divorce rates were low for the college educated and high school graduates alike. Out-of-wedlock births, while more common among African-Americans, were rare in almost every region and community. 
 That was a long time ago. The intact two-parent family has been in eclipse for decades now: last week, the Pew Research Center reported that in 2008, 41 percent of American births occurred outside of marriage, the highest figure yet recorded. And from divorce rates to teen births, nearly every indicator of family life now varies dramatically by education, race, geography and income. 
 In a rare convergence, conservatives and liberals basically agree on how this happened. First, the sexual revolution overturned the old order of single-earner households, early marriages, and strong stigmas against divorce and unwed motherhood. In its aftermath, the professional classes found a new equilibrium. Today, couples with college and (especially) graduate degrees tend to cohabit early and marry late, delaying childbirth and raising smaller families than their parents, while enjoying low divorce rates and bearing relatively few children out of wedlock.
 For the rest of the country, this comfortable equilibrium remains out of reach. In the underclass (black, white and Hispanic alike), intact families are now an endangered species. For middle America, the ideal of the two-parent family endures, but the reality is much more chaotic: early marriages coexist with frequent divorces, and the out-of-wedlock birth rate keeps inching upward.
 When it comes to drawing lessons from this story, though, the agreement between liberals and conservatives ends. The right tends to emphasize what's been lost, arguing that most Americans -- especially the poor and working-class -- would benefit from a stronger link between sex, marriage and procreation. The left argues that the revolution just hasn't been completed yet: it's the right-wing backlash against abortion, contraception and sex education that's preventing downscale Americans from attaining the new upper-middle-class stability, and reaping its social and economic benefits.
 This is one of the themes of ''Red Families v. Blue Families,'' a provocative new book by two law professors, Naomi Cahn and June Carbone. The authors depict a culturally conservative ''red America'' that's stuck trying to sustain an outdated social model. By insisting (unrealistically) on chastity before marriage, Cahn and Carbone argue, social conservatives guarantee that their children will get pregnant early and often (see Palin, Bristol), leading to teen childbirth, shotgun marriages and high divorce rates.
 This self-defeating cycle could explain why socially conservative states have more family instability than, say, the culturally liberal Northeast. If you're looking for solid marriages, head to Massachusetts, not Alabama.
 To Cahn and Carbone's credit, their book is nuanced enough to complicate this liberal-friendly thesis. They acknowledge, for instance, that there are actually multiple ''red family'' models, from the Mormon West to the Sunbelt suburbs to the rural South. 
 More important, Cahn and Carbone also acknowledge one of the more polarizing aspects of the ''blue family'' model. Conservative states may have more teen births and more divorces, but liberal states have many more abortions. 
 Liberals sometimes argue that their preferred approach to family life reduces the need for abortion. In reality, it may depend on abortion to succeed. The teen pregnancy rate in blue Connecticut, for instance, is roughly identical to the teen pregnancy rate in red Montana. But in Connecticut, those pregnancies are half as likely to be carried to term. Over all, the abortion rate is twice as high in New York as in Texas and three times as high in Massachusetts as in Utah. 
 So it isn't just contraception that delays childbearing in liberal states, and it isn't just a foolish devotion to abstinence education that leads to teen births and hasty marriages in conservative America. It's also a matter of how plausible an option abortion seems, both morally and practically, depending on who and where you are.
 Whether it's attainable for most Americans or not, the ''blue family'' model clearly works: it leads to marital success and material prosperity, and it's well suited to our mobile, globalized society. 
 By comparison, the ''red family'' model can look dysfunctional -- an uneasy mix of rigor and permissiveness, whose ideals don't always match up with the facts of contemporary life.
 But it reflects something else as well: an attempt, however compromised, to navigate post-sexual revolution America without relying on abortion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (92%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); SEX EDUCATION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); COHABITATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); WRITERS (68%); ABORTION (61%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



245 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Obama Jabs, And Democrats Flinch

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
President Obama made another effort last week to project fiscal discipline - and reminded Congressional Democrats why he sometimes exasperates them.
 Amid heightened public concern over spending, the White House disclosed that Mr. Obama wanted increased authority to strip wasteful projects from spending bills.
 That is, wasteful projects placed in spending bills by members of Congress - which is controlled by Democrats, who do not appreciate the suggestion that, while doing Mr. Obama's bidding in a threatening election season, they have not been minding the fiscal store. 
 ''Congress is working to try and rein in spending - how about pointing that out?'' groused Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland. Mr. Van Hollen said the political fault lines that count divided Democrats from Republicans, not the White House from Congress, and ''the president has not done enough to draw those distinctions.'' 
 Mr. Van Hollen's sensitivity is no mystery; he is leading the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee as the party braces for November losses. But he reflects a broader unease among incumbents who fear that the president's gibes at Washington, even as they align the administration with disaffected Americans, fuel Republican efforts to get Democrats fired.
 White House officials insist Mr. Obama has simply remained true to the call for ending politics as usual that marked his 2008 campaign. Democrats might better withstand anti-incumbent sentiment, they argue, by responding as deftly to voters.
 What is clear is that the electoral fates of the president and his Congressional allies turn on different timetables. For every House member, Election Day comes in six months; for Mr. Obama, not for another two and a half years.
 ''There's a dynamic tension here,'' observed pollster Geoff Garin, who advises Democratic candidates. ''Democrats on the Hill just want to make sure the White House isn't looking past 2010.''
 Strained Relations
 At first blush, the argument sounds confusing. Republicans have complained since Mr. Obama took office that he has rejected bipartisanship and pursued his agenda almost entirely through Congressional Democrats.
 But partisan affinity has never precluded strains between presidents and legislators. Congressional Republicans chafed at the lack of assistance from President Richard Nixon in his ''lonely landslide'' 1972 re-election. Ten years later, Ronald Reagan's ''stay the course'' message defended his economic policies in a recession but did not keep Republicans from losing 26 House seats in mid-term elections.
 ''The president can't readjust his agenda to dovetail with the disparate needs of the Congress,'' said a Republican consultant, Kenneth Khachigian, who advised Nixon and Reagan. ''Hasn't changed in the eight presidencies I've watched, and won't change in the next eight.''
 Congressional Democrats face an unusually difficult adjustment after benefiting from strong political tailwinds in 2006 and 2008. Now that Mr. Obama has replaced President George W. Bush in the White House, Democrats stand fully exposed to public ire.
 ''Congressional Democrats are paranoid because for the first time in years, they can't just blame Bush,'' said Representative Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma and a veteran party strategist. ''They own Washington.''
 'Political Theater'
 Addressing the Business Council last week on the economy and financial reform, Mr. Obama did not speak the words ''Democrat'' or ''Republican.'' Instead, he urged Americans to abandon the ''easy talking points'' and ''good political theater'' of Washington.
 ''Politicians can rail against Wall Street, or against each other,'' he said. ''It just traps us in the same debates that have held us back for a very long time.''
 That framework sounds less than flattering for Democratic veterans who have been in office a very long time. At week's end, the Republican leader in the House, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, blamed ''Washington Democrats'' for 9.9 percent unemployment.
 Mr. Van Hollen noted strong cooperation between the White House and Congressional Democrats on policy, and cast his importuning on rhetoric as ''constructive criticism.'' But he said, ''It's important that they more clearly distinguish between what Democrats in Washington stand for and what Republicans in Washington stand for.''
 Republican incumbents, too, have reason to be frightened, as the failure of Senator Robert F. Bennett of Utah to win renomination over the weekend made clear. And the White House hardly equates Republican foes on Capitol Hill with the Democrats on whom Mr. Obama's agenda depends.
 ''In the last year and a half, the Congress, almost entirely Democrats, has dealt with a crisis as deep as any we've faced in generations,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's top strategist. ''The Republicans have played a very cynical game.''
 Yet Mr. Axelrod warns that overly partisan arguments will turn off voters hungry for solutions instead of bickering.
 Democrats should not repeat ''the old rhetoric that has people saying, 'We've heard all this before,' '' Mr. Axelrod said. ''To ignore the big gestalt out there is a big mistake.''
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (78%); RICHARD NIXON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



246 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Banks Lobby to Rid Finance Bill of Ban on Trading in Derivatives

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
Cory Strupp, who represents Wall Street in Washington, spent the last six months lobbying for more than two dozen changes in the derivatives chapter of the Senate's financial legislation.
 He has spent the last two weeks focused on one: eliminating a new provision that would require banks to leave the lucrative business of derivatives trading.
 Democrats surprised the industry by adding the ''push-out'' provision in mid-April, transforming the final rounds of an epic prize fight. The industry has been forced to set aside the issues that were its greatest concerns, including its opposition to a requirement that almost all derivatives trades be recorded on public exchanges.
 Mr. Strupp, who works for the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, a Wall Street trade group in Washington, said that he generally has only 30 minutes to sway a senator or aides. He said he now uses almost the entire time to argue that banks should retain the right to trade derivatives. 
 The nation's five largest banks, which dominate the derivatives business, have dispatched trade groups, paid lobbyists and their own executives to convince senators that excluding banks from the derivatives business would make markets less safe by shifting the trading to foreign banks and other institutions that are subject to less federal oversight.
 The provision that would prohibit banks from trading derivatives has alarmed the industry because it strikes at the combination of commercial banking and Wall Street trading that defines the modern industry.
 By one count the five banks together have mustered more than 130 registered lobbyists, including 40 former Senate staff members and one retired senator, Trent Lott. The list includes former staff members for the Senate majority and minority leaders, the chairmen and ranking members of the banking and finance committees, and more than 15 other senators. In the first quarter, the banks spent $6.1 million on lobbying. 
 Bankers and Congressional aides say the provision is likely to be weakened or removed, in part because the Obama administration and leading Democrats are concerned that it would diminish oversight of the derivatives marketplace. But the bankers and aides also agree that the focus on derivatives has increased the chances that other controversial proposals will pass, including a ban on ''proprietary trading,'' or trading in their own accounts.
 ''A lot of oxygen has been burned here in talking about where we are on derivatives,'' said Rob Nichols, president of the Financial Services Forum, a trade and lobbying group for 19 of the nation's largest financial institutions.
 Derivatives are contracts whose value is determined by something else. Trading in derivatives is dominated by the nation's five largest banks, JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo. Most deals are done in private, making it difficult to compare prices or identify problems.
 The financial legislation proposed by the Obama administration and passed by the House would require most derivatives to trade on public exchanges, in the belief that a transparent marketplace will be safer and cheaper. The scope of the exchange trading requirement has been the focus of the debate for months. Opponents argue that the bill would limit the industry's ability to customize derivatives to match the needs of clients.
 Then the chairwoman of the Agriculture Committee, Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, dropped a bombshell in April, introducing language that would require banks to choose between trading in derivatives and remaining under federal protection.
 The government's umbrella, including deposit insurance, allows banks to raise money at lower cost than other financial institutions. Mrs. Lincoln said the bill would help to ensure that banks use that cheap money for traditional activities like lending.
 The financial industry says that derivatives are a valuable product used by more than 95 percent of Fortune 1000 companies to hedge against risks, including price changes.
 ''These swaps have become standard bank products. The proper response would be to recognize that the markets have evolved and there's been innovation and they need to be regulated by bank regulators rather than pretending that they're not integral to the system,'' said Daniel F. C. Crowley, a partner at the K&L Gates law firm and an industry lobbyist.
 The change could cost the industry a lot of money. Banks reported $22.6 billion in derivatives revenue in 2009, according to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. 
 Banking executives were caught flat-footed by Mrs. Lincoln's provision, and many are still seething. One senior executive at a major financial institution, speaking on condition of anonymity so he could talk frankly, said the idea was ''irresponsible'' and the details revealed a basic ignorance about the financial industry.
 The executive, who said he had spoken with several senators in recent days, said the industry now was simply trying to get a hearing. ''We're on the outside, knocking on the window and saying, 'Hey, listen to us just a little bit,' '' the executive said.
 Mr. Strupp says he tries to explain to senators and aides that they should not be too hasty in blaming derivatives for the financial crisis. He often refers to how one of the first interest-rate swaps from the early 1980s has become a common kind of derivative that protects companies against changes in interest rates. He says he still tells that story on Capitol Hill as part of a broader effort to explain how a complicated and often-misunderstood category of financial products grew up and became important to the broader economy.
 ''I talk to people about why they should be careful about impairing the use of derivatives,'' Mr. Strupp said.
 The Senate has proved to be a difficult audience. When Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, released a draft of the financial legislation in November, Mr. Strupp and his clients drew up a list of roughly 30 problems that the industry had with the proposals. About two dozen of those provisions remain in the bill.
 But the industry has gained important allies in its opposition to the Lincoln provisions. Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, has expressed concern about the impact on regulation of derivatives trading. And on Thursday, Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, said in a letter to crucial senators that the proposed ban on proprietary trading, which the administration has called the ''Volcker rule,'' was sufficient to address the most worrisome kinds of derivatives trading.
 ''The provision of derivatives by commercial banks to their customers in the usual course of a banking relationship should not be prohibited,'' Mr. Volcker wrote.
 Opponents of the Lincoln provisions still must persuade senators to vote for a change that could be portrayed as softening the financial legislation. Only Republicans have expressed public opposition. Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, with Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee and Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, introduced an amendment on Friday to remove the Lincoln language from the bill. 
 The challenge, said one lobbyist, is that senators may not support Mrs. Lincoln's language, but they have political problems with opposing it because of the public's anger at Wall Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Blanche Lincoln and Saxby Chambliss. Her provision could require banks to discontinue lucrative derivatives trading. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (94%); LOBBYING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (57%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (57%); TRENT LOTT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



247 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Pledges to Aid Weak Nations In Europe Near $1 Trillion

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and LANDON THOMAS Jr.; James Kanter reported from Brussels, and Landon Thomas Jr. from London. Sewell Chan contributed from Washington and Bettina Wassener from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- European leaders agreed on Monday to provide a huge rescue package of nearly $1 trillion in a sweeping effort to combat the debt crisis that has engulfed Europe and threatened markets around the world. 
 In an extraordinary session that lasted into the early morning hours, finance ministers from the European Union agreed on a deal that would provide $560 billion in new loans and $76 billion under an existing lending program. Elena Salgado, the Spanish finance minister, who announced the deal, also said the International Monetary Fund was prepared to give up to $321 billion separately.
 Officials are hoping the size of the program -- a total of $957 billion -- will signal a ''shock and awe'' commitment that will be viewed in the same vein as the $700 billion package the United States government provided to help its own ailing financial institutions in 2008. 
 Stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region rose early on Monday on news of the package. The leading indexes in Japan and South Korea both rallied at least 1.5 percent soon after the deal was confirmed, recouping some of the losses they had suffered last week. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong gained 1.3 percent soon after the open. In Australia, the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 climbed 2.1 percent. 
 The markets in Singapore and mainland China also opened higher. 
 The package was much higher than expected, and represented an audacious step for a bloc that had been criticized for acting tentatively, and without unity, in the face of a mounting crisis. 
 Underscoring the urgency of the situation, President Obama spoke to the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, and the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, on Sunday about the need for decisive action to restore investor confidence. And in a sign of the spreading anxiety, the United States Federal Reserve, along with the European Central Bank and the central banks of Canada, Britain and Switzerland, announced the establishment of instruments known as swap lines. The swaps are intended to ease pressure on European banks and money markets by providing more liquidity.
 In addition, the European Central Bank announced after the deal was completed that it would intervene in the government and corporate bond markets, also to provide liquidity.
 The actions by the United States represented significant concern that the European crisis could spill over and hinder the American recovery.
 New political complications in two of Europe's most important countries added to the challenge faced by the finance ministers as they met to find a solution. In Germany, voter anger at the effort to save Greece cost Mrs. Merkel an important regional election Sunday, undermining her leadership, and in Britain the government remained in a state of suspended animation because of the inconclusive Parliamentary elections last week. 
 Financial unease has been mounting. Riots in Greece, ever-tightening terms of credit and the unexplained free fall in the American stock market last Thursday have compounded the sense that the European Union's inability to address its sovereign debt crisis might lead to the type of systemic collapse that followed the fall of Lehman Brothers. 
 The debt crisis began with Greece teetering toward default, and fear quickly spread about other weak economies like Portugal, Spain and even Italy. Previous efforts by the European Union to shore up investor confidence were viewed as too little, too late, with the markets making clear that they were looking for a bolder plan.
 Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for monetary policy, described the arrangement as ''a consolidation pact'' that would be ''particularly crucial for countries under speculative attacks in recent weeks.'' He specifically mentioned Portugal and Spain.
 Mr. Rehn said the I.M.F. would provide ''half as much as the European Union'' following lengthy talks with fund officials.
 ''We shall defend the euro whatever it takes,'' Mr. Rehn said.
 What emerged from the discussions, which covered more than 10 hours, represented a partial retreat from a system discussed earlier in the day that would have radically expanded the powers of the European Commission to raise funds. 
 Instead the ministers devised a system that would speed up the pace at which states that use the euro could lend to one another, but on a bilateral and voluntary basis. 
 One of the crucial decisions that ministers made was to create a so-called special purpose vehicle to disburse the $560 billion in new loans, should that support be required by member states in economic difficulties.
 The use of such a financial instrument reflected the difficulties that individual European governments -- and Germany's in particular -- had in committing huge sums to a central authority. Having a body like the European Commission, Europe's executive body, oversee the economic management of the bloc was seen by some countries as a clash with national sovereignty.
 In a statement after their meeting, the ministers emphasized that the special purpose vehicle would expire after three years and that its use would be strictly dependent on ''national constitutional requirements.''
 The language most likely reflected the reservations of some governments to providing even more money than is available in bailout packages already approved.
 Ministers said their first line of defense against financial turmoil was to employ an existing loan program, which they expanded by $76 billion, and to use the further loans approved Monday as a ''complement'' as required.
 While the sums being discussed are eye-catching, some bankers questioned whether they would be enough to calm the markets over the long term. One banker said that, with more European economies coping with rising deficits, raising, guaranteeing or backing such a large sum would not be an easy task. 
 But that concern may be addressed by a more forceful posture by the European Central Bank. The bank has rebuffed calls to inject liquidity into the markets by buying back European bonds, but in a statement Monday morning it said it would take whatever steps were necessary to smooth out the secondary markets for public and private debt, suggesting it would have the flexibility to intervene in the markets as needed.
 There were many complications in trying to forge a consensus. They included defining the role of Britain, which lies outside the euro zone and had said it would not help in propping up the euro, as well as the European Central Bank. The fractiousness underscores the frailty of a monetary union in which its richest member, Germany, is also the most opposed to a financial rescue.
 ''The fact that they are worried is clear,'' said David Marsh, the author of ''The Euro,'' a book on the history of monetary union. ''But I don't think that there is enough commitment or economic firepower in Germany to provide the massive loan guarantees to satisfy the markets.''
 Predictably, politicians blamed speculators for the market upheaval. The Swedish finance minister, Anders Borg, said immediate action was needed to tackle ''herd behaviors in the markets that are really pack behaviors, wolf pack behaviors.'' Mr. Borg warned that volatility in markets could ''tear the weaker countries apart.''
 Since it became clear that Greece would not be able to meet its financial obligations and fears spread that other indebted nations like Spain, Portugal and Ireland would have similar troubles, Europe has responded fitfully.
 Even now, despite the lashing rhetoric and the Sunday night meeting, there is still a feeling that Europe should be doing more -- notably with regard to freeing the European Central Bank to go against its charter and print money by buying back distressed European bonds from the secondary market.
 The meetings on Sunday represented an extraordinary convergence of diplomatic activity, crammed into a tight time frame. Political leaders including Mr. Sarkozy of France said early Saturday, at the end of an earlier summit meeting, that a loan mechanism intended to restore confidence should be ready by Monday morning. That effectively left the European Commission and finance ministers a single weekend to change the way the European Union operates its finances. 
 Mrs. Merkel of Germany attended a victory parade on Red Square in Moscow on Sunday, a sign of how seriously Germans consider reconciliation with Russia. Mr. Sarkozy and the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, opted not to attend, regarding the financial crisis as more urgent.
 Mr. Sarkozy held a strategy meeting with ministers on Sunday. 
 ''At stake is the euro and the euro zone,'' a French official said. ''We need to give a clear signal to markets.'' 
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jyrki Katainen of Finland, left, Christine Lagarde of France, Brian Lenihan of Ireland and Alistair Darling of Britain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGES GOBET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EURO (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (88%); EURO CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INDEX FUNDS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CORPORATE BONDS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); RIOTS (71%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (85%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: JYRKI KATAINEN (79%); ALISTAIR DARLING (59%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (56%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



248 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Be Role Models, President Tells Black Graduates

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
HAMPTON, Va. -- For the first time as president, Barack Obama on Sunday delivered a commencement address to a historically black college, Hampton University, telling graduates that they have ''a separate responsibility'' to become mentors to other young African-Americans to help close a persistent gap in educational achievement.
 Mr. Obama, clad in a ''Hampton blue'' robe, said the 1,072 graduates were better poised to enter an economy still recovering from recession and facing global competition than Americans without a college degree, who have an unemployment rate twice as high as those with one. 
 ''I don't have to tell you that too many folks back home aren't as well prepared,'' he said. ''By any number of different yardsticks, African-Americans are being outperformed by their white classmates, as are Hispanic-Americans. Students in well-off areas are outperforming students in poorer rural or urban communities, no matter what skin color. Globally, it's not even close.''
 Mr. Obama said all Americans have a responsibility ''to change this, to offer every single child in this country an education that will make them competitive in our knowledge economy.'' But, he told the graduates, ''all of you have a separate responsibility -- to be role models for your brothers and sisters, to be mentors in your communities and, when the time comes, to pass that sense of an education's value down to your children.''
 Recalling Hampton University's start as a trade and agricultural school for freed slaves after the Civil War in a state that had outlawed education for blacks, Mr. Obama said the founders of the school and others like it ''knew, of course, that inequality would persist long into the future.''
 ''But they also recognized the larger truth, a distinctly American truth,'' he said. ''They recognized, class of 2010, that the right education might allow those barriers to be overcome, might allow our God-given potential to be fulfilled.''
 Mr. Obama, a product of two Ivy League universities, Columbia and Harvard, was enthusiastically received by an audience that packed the field and bleachers of the school's stadium on a sunny, breezy morning. He spoke a day after his wife, Michelle, an alumna of Princeton, addressed graduates at another historically black college, the University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff.
 William R. Harvey, Hampton's president for 32 years, noted Mr. Obama's historic achievement as the first African-American president. He gave him a seedling from the university's Emancipation Oak, under which former slaves who had sought refuge at a Union fortress were educated by a free black woman in violation of Virginia law in 1861, seven years before Hampton was founded. 
 To applause, Dr. Harvey said Mr. Obama promised that the seedling would be planted at the White House.
 In his remarks, Mr. Obama reiterated a theme of his graduation address the previous weekend at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor -- that an often-argumentative and politically polarizing media culture posed a threat to democracy without well-educated citizens with open minds.
 ''Information becomes a distraction, a diversion, a form of entertainment, rather than a tool of empowerment, rather than a means of emancipation,'' Mr. Obama said. ''So all of this is not only putting pressure on you, it is putting new pressure on our country and on our democracy.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama told graduates at Hampton University, a historically black college in Virginia, they had ''a separate responsibility'' to help close the achievement gap in education. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); RURAL SCHOOLS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PINE BLUFF, AR, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



249 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.12 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.19 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.07 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 
 TUESDAY
 Virginia Beach, $60 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Alabama, $190.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Orange County, Calif., $80 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Richland County, S.C., School District, $55.1 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 WEDNESDAY
 Virginia Transportation Board, $492.6 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Virginia Beach Development Authority, $90.2 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Columbia, S.C., $105 million of waterworks and sewer revenue bonds. Morgan Keegan.
 Connecticut Health and Educational Facilities Authority, $104.6 million of revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Ector County Medical Center, Tex., $57 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
 Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, $692.8 million of revenue bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Georgia Municipal Gas Authority, $75 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
 Glendale, Ariz., $157.2 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
 McLean County, N.D., Waste Facilities, $83 million of revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, $250 million of road revenue and capital improvement project bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, $650 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Middletown Township, N.J., Board of Education, $58.8 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
 New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $750 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
 New York Municipal Bond Bank Agency, $118.6 million of recovery act bonds. Jefferies.
 North Texas Higher Education Authority, $207.2 million of student loan revenue bonds. Bank of America.
 Oregon Department of Administrative Services, $200 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
 Pennsylvania State University, $150 million of debt securities. Barclays Capital.
 Rhode Island, $144 million of recovery zone economic development bonds. Barclays Capital.
 Seattle, $810 million of municipal light and power improvement revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Selma, Ala., $50 million of gulf opportunity zone bonds. Morgan Keegan.
 Snohomish County, Wash., Public Utility, $323.8 million of electric system revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 St. Vrain Valley School District, Colorado, $85 million of debt securities. George K. Baum.
 Tennessee Housing Development Agency, $60 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
 Texas State University, $95 million of revenue system refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.
 University of Chicago, $300 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
 University of Connecticut, $131.1 million of debt securities. Wells Fargo Securities.
 West Virginia Economic Development Authority, $50 million of solid waste disposal facilities revenue refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (85%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); SCHOOL BONDS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); AIRPORT OPERATION (71%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); HURRICANES (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (69%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (65%); CIVIL AVIATION (65%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (64%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (65%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (54%); METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS AUTHORITY (54%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (54%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



250 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: In Mobile Age, Sound Quality Steps Back

BYLINE: By JOSEPH PLAMBECK

 BODY:
At the ripe age of 28, Jon Zimmer is sort of an old fogey. That is, he is obsessive about the sound quality of his music.
 A onetime audio engineer who now works as a consultant for Stereo Exchange, an upscale audio store in Manhattan, Mr. Zimmer lights up when talking about high fidelity, bit rates and $10,000 loudspeakers.
 But iPods and compressed computer files -- the most popular vehicles for audio today -- are ''sucking the life out of music,'' he says.
 The last decade has brought an explosion in dazzling technological advances -- including enhancements in surround sound, high definition television and 3-D -- that have transformed the fan's experience. There are improvements in the quality of media everywhere -- except in music. 
 In many ways, the quality of what people hear -- how well the playback reflects the original sound-- has taken a step back. To many expert ears, compressed music files produce a crackly, tinnier and thinner sound than music on CDs and certainly on vinyl. And to compete with other songs, tracks are engineered to be much louder as well.
 In one way, the music business has been the victim of its own technological success: the ease of loading songs onto a computer or an iPod has meant that a generation of fans has happily traded fidelity for portability and convenience. This is the obstacle the industry faces in any effort to create higher-quality -- and more expensive -- ways of listening.
 ''If people are interested in getting a better sound, there are many ways to do it,'' Mr. Zimmer said. ''But many people don't even know that they might be interested.''
 Take Thomas Pinales, a 22-year-old from Spanish Harlem and a fan of some of today's most popular artists, including Lady Gaga, Jay-Z and Lil Wayne. Mr. Pinales listens to his music stored on his Apple iPod through a pair of earbuds, and while he wouldn't mind upgrading, he is not convinced that it would be worth the cost.
 ''My ears aren't fine tuned,'' he said. ''I don't know if I could really tell the difference.''
 The change in sound quality is as much cultural as technological. For decades, starting around the 1950s, high-end stereos were a status symbol. A high-quality system was something to show off, much like a new flat-screen TV today.
 But Michael Fremer, a professed audiophile who runs musicangle.com, which reviews albums, said that today, ''a stereo has become an object of scorn.''
 The marketplace reflects that change. From 2000 to 2009, Americans reduced their overall spending on home stereo components by more than a third, to roughly $960 million, according to the Consumer Electronics Association, a trade group. Spending on portable digital devices during that same period increased more than fiftyfold, to $5.4 billion.
 ''People used to sit and listen to music,'' Mr. Fremer said, but the increased portability has altered the way people experience recorded music. ''It was an activity. It is no longer consumed as an event that you pay attention to.''
 Instead, music is often carried from place to place, played in the background while the consumer does something else -- exercising, commuting or cooking dinner.
 The songs themselves are usually saved on the digital devices in a compressed format, often as an AAC or MP3 file. That compression shrinks the size of the file, eliminating some of the sounds and range contained on a CD while allowing more songs to be saved on the device and reducing download times.
 Even if music companies and retailers like the iTunes Store, which opened in April 2003, wanted to put an emphasis on sound quality, they faced technical limitations at the start, not to mention economic ones.
 ''It would have been very difficult for the iTunes Store to launch with high-quality files if it took an hour to download a single song,'' said David Dorn, a senior vice president at Rhino Entertainment, a division of Warner Music that specializes in high-quality recordings.
 The music industry has not failed to try. About 10 years ago, two new high-quality formats -- DVD Audio and SACD, for Super Audio CD -- entered the marketplace, promising sound superior even to that of a CD. But neither format gained traction. In 2003, 1.7 million DVD Audio and SACD titles were shipped, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. But by 2009, only 200,000 SACD and DVD Audio titles were shipped.
 Last year, the iTunes Store upgraded the standard quality for a song to 256 kilobits per second from 128 kilobits per second, preserving more details and eliminating the worst crackles.
 Some online music services are now marketing an even higher-quality sound as a selling point. Mog, a new streaming music service, announced in March an application for smartphones that would allow the service's subscribers to save songs onto their phone. The music will be available on the phone as long as the subscriber pays the $10 monthly fee. Songs can be downloaded at up to 320 kilobits per second.
 Another company, HDtracks.com, started selling downloads last year that contain even more information than CDs at $2.49 a song. Right now, most of the available tracks are of classical or jazz music.
 David Chesky, a founder of HDtracks and composer of jazz and classical music, said the site tried to put music on a pedestal.
 ''Musicians work their whole life trying to capture a tone, and we're trying to take advantage of it,'' Mr. Chesky said. ''If you want to listen to a $3 million Stradivarius violin, you need to hear it in a hall that allows the instrument to sound like $3 million.''
 Still, these remain niche interests so far, and they are complicated by changes in the recording process. With the rise of digital music, fans listen to fewer albums straight through. Instead, they move from one artist's song to another's. Pop artists and their labels, meanwhile, shudder at the prospect of having their song seem quieter than the previous song on a fan's playlist.
 So audio engineers, acting as foot soldiers in a so-called volume war, are often enlisted to increase the overall volume of a recording.
 Randy Merrill, an engineer at Masterdisk, a New York City company that creates master recordings, said that to achieve an overall louder sound, engineers raise the softer volumes toward peak levels. On a quality stereo system, Mr. Merrill said, the reduced volume range can leave a track sounding distorted. ''Modern recording has gone overboard on the volume,'' he said.
 In fact, among younger listeners, the lower-quality sound might actually be preferred. Jonathan Berger, a professor of music at Stanford, said he had conducted an informal study among his students and found that, over the roughly seven years of the study, an increasing number of them preferred the sound of files with less data over the high-fidelity recordings.
 ''I think our human ears are fickle. What's considered good or bad sound changes over time,'' Mr. Berger said. ''Abnormality can become a feature.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about the sacrifices in sound quality of audio in compressed computer files misstated the common unit of measurement for the transfer rate for digital audio formats. It is kilobits per second, not kilobytes. The article also rendered incorrectly the name of a New York City company that makes master recordings. It is Masterdisk, not MasterDisk.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two ways to listen to music: Mario Suazo, 11, listens to his iPod at the Port Authority Bus Terminal. Below, an Ayre Acoustic sound system with Sonus Faber speakers at Stereo Exchange in Manhattan. Price: $125,000. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (74%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (74%); RECORD INDUSTRY (72%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%)

PERSON: LADY GAGA (57%); JAY-Z (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



251 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Offer Plenty of 'Nothing'

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The goal of a campaign that seeks to fight hunger is to make something of nothing.
 The pro bono campaign, which began last Tuesday, is appearing on behalf of the Rhode Island Community Food Bank. It was created by a Providence, R.I., agency named Nail.
 The campaign wants to take the phrase that ''Nothing can end hunger'' and turn it into a positive, proactive approach. To achieve that, the campaign treats ''Nothing'' like a brand name, making it a tangible product in the form of cans that look like they could contain soup, peaches, peas or other foods -- but are actually empty.
 Each can bears a green, red and yellow label showing an empty bowl in which a spoon rests forlornly. Above the bowl are the words ''Nothing'' and ''R.I. Community Food Bank'' and below it are the words ''An unnecessary tradition.''
 The effect is not unlike looking at a ''Twilight Zone'' version of a vintage can in an ad for a venerable food brand like Del Monte in a Life magazine from the 1940s or 1950s. 
 There will be 40,000 cans available for purchase, at $2.99 each, at food stores in Rhode Island that include local outlets of national chains like Whole Foods Market and Dunkin' Donuts as well as local retailers like Brigido's Fresh Market and Dave's Marketplace.
 The campaign, which is to continue through July, is centered on a Web site, nothing.org, which asks on its home page, ''How can an empty can feed so many?''
 The home page provides an answer, too: ''Each day, thousands of hungry Rhode Islanders eat nothing. By turning nothing into a product you can buy, we're going to change that.''
 The campaign also includes television and radio commercials, billboards and a channel on You Tube. It also has a presence on Facebookand Twitter.
 The money to create, produce and distribute the campaign is coming from a $100,000 donation from the Citizens Bank Foundation, the foundation of the Citizens Financial Group, which is based in Providence.
 The campaign is indicative of the nontraditional tacks being taken by nonprofit organizations for their public service and pro bono advertising. The intent is to gain attention, particularly from younger consumers or, in this instance, contributors.
 ''Many of the donors are older, 60 and older, which made me worry about the sustainability of the food bank,'' says Andrew Schiff, chief executive at the food bank in Providence, who joined in 2007 after working for an organization in Boston called Project Bread.
 ''And it made me worry,'' he adds, ''about where were the people 25 to 50.''
 One clue to their absence, Mr. Schiff says, was that the food bank's ''online presence was not much.''
 Still, with Nail's help, the food bank concluded that ''it would not work to have only an online campaign,'' he adds.
 Rather, ''it would make sense to connect with people where they may be thinking about food,'' Mr. Schiff says, which led to the decision to put the empty cans on sale at the supermarkets, Dunkin' Donuts stores and other retail outlets.
 The food bank was led to Nail by Lisa Roth Blackman, who was hired by Mr. Schiff to be the chief philanthropy officer, or director of fund raising. She knew people at the agency, he says, and knew the agency had worked on a marketing campaign for a nonprofit organization.
 Nail and the food bank first began discussions in the fall of 2008, Mr. Schiff recalls, planning for a campaign to start in 2009.
 ''Little did we know,'' he says, laughing.
 In the meantime, the economy got worse, as did the economy of Rhode Island, which has one of the highest unemployment rates of any state. That meant a greater need for the assistance provided by the food bank.
 When Nail came up with the concept of ''making 'Nothing' a tangible brand and thinking of it as launching a new food product,'' Mr. Schiff says, ''we realized this was very different from your typical campaign on the issue of hunger.''
 But it seemed right for the potential donors the food bank wants, he adds, because ''this younger audience is a tougher nut to crack.''
 Urging Rhode Islanders to ''do something about nothing'' is ''something unexpected, something different, something edgy,'' Mr. Schiff says.
 ''There were times when I was, 'I definitely losing my job over this,' '' he adds, laughing, ''but we were working with really creative people'' at Nail ''who'd spent a lot of time with us.''
 ''I stepped into the abyss of creativity,'' Mr. Schiff says.
 In the commercials, which double as the video clips on nothing.org and YouTube, people of all ages, races and backgrounds are shown inside a mall, taking part in what is billed as a ''taste test.''
 It looks very much like the kind of market research project that goes on all the time in shopping centers. There is even the kind of canned music you hear in a mall playing in the background of each spot.
 In one commercial, the participants, seated under a sign that reads ''Discover the taste,'' are told by a man, ''Today, you're going to taste something a lot of Rhode Islanders have every day.'' He lifts the silver lid off a plate to reveal nothing.
 The reactions range from wide-eyed stares to somber nods to a ''Wow'' from a younger woman.
 The words ''Today, too many will eat nothing'' appear on screen, with ''nothing'' represented by a can of Nothing from the campaign. ''Do something at nothing.org,'' the words conclude, with the can again appearing in place of the word.
 In another commercial, when a woman sees nothing on the plate, she says: ''I could see little faces in front of me. Little faces with empty plates.''
 At the end of the spot, she is seen crying while the man comforts her.
 In a third commercial, a young boy reacts to the empty plate by declaring, ''I don't feel very good about that.''
 In a fourth spot, a woman says: ''I live in a shelter. I know.'' There is also a commercial in Spanish.
 The food bank wants to raise $300,000 from the campaign, from the sales of the cans as well as other donations. The organization is also looking to expand its base of online donors by 2,000 and add 5,000 e-mail addresses to its e-mail list.
 In researching the younger people the food bank is aiming at with the campaign, it was determined that many of them, particularly those who are in their 30s, ''can afford to donate,'' says Jeremy Crisp, managing partner at Nail, but they prefer to make donations ''to solve finite problems: to build a wing for a hospital, a playground for a school.''
 ''Things like a cure for cancer to an end to hunger are intangible'' to them, he adds.
 By asserting that ''Nothing can end hunger in Rhode Island'' and selling cans bearing the Nothing brand, Mr. Crisp says, the campaign offers a solution that ''is tangible and people can put in their hands.''
 Another part of their anatomy came into play when Nail realized that ''to make the message powerful, put it close to food,'' he adds, ''where people are putting food in their mouth, or putting food in their shopping trolley.''
 (Mr. Crisp is from Ireland, so he says ''shopping trolley'' rather than ''shopping cart.'')
 Another element that would amplify the impact of the campaign, Mr. Crisp says, is that if ''we were going to launch a food brand, it would have to behave like a food brand'' -- meaning ''we needed some money'' to run ads frequently in various media, just the way food products are pitched.
 That is where the Citizens Bank Foundation steps in.
 ''We thought the program was innovative and creative,'' says Ellen Alemany, chairwoman and chief executive at the Citizens Financial Group, which is part of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group, and offered ''a way to increase the visibility of what the food bank is trying to do.''
 That is already taking place, at least judging from an e-mail message Ms. Alemany says she received from an employee who wrote that ''she purchased her first can of Nothing at Dunkin' Donuts this morning.''
 The employee called it ''a great way to start her day,'' Ms. Alemany says, and wrote how she was ''proud to work for a company that believes in citizenship.''
 ''We've always believed if our communities prosper,'' Ms. Alemany says, ''our business prospers.''
 Sometimes, it seems, a campaign can prosper through serendipity. Mr. Crisp and Mr. Schiff say that in developing the idea of the Nothing brand, it was discovered that the Web address nothing.org was already owned by someone.
 As it turns out, the owner, Mark Tribe, an artist in New York, teaches part time at Brown University in Providence. He agreed to lease the Web address to the food bank for a dollar.
 How does that old saying Go? Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); BRANDING (75%); BAKED GOODS (75%); RETAILERS (70%); WEB SITES (69%); RADIO ADVERTISING (66%); YOUTH MARKET (65%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (66%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (54%); CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (66%); WFM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (66%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (66%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



252 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Fed Intervenes in European Debt Crisis

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After months of quietly watching from the sidelines, the United States finally intervened in the European debt crisis on Sunday night.
 The Federal Reserve announced that it would open currency swap lines with the European Central Bank -- in essence, printing dollars and exchanging them for euros to provide some liquidity for European money markets and banks.
 The step came after a hectic week in which Washington began to fear that the sovereign debt crisis threatened to infect the American economy and hamper its recovery, according to several United States officials. 
 The Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy-making arm, approved the swap lines in a vote taken by videoconference on Sunday morning. The European Central Bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, asked for the Fed's help in a telephone call on Saturday with the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke.
 The intervention, which also involves the central banks of England, Switzerland, Canada and Japan, is part of a colossal package intended to quell the restive credit markets with a show of force and resolve that American policymakers had quietly believed was lacking. The package has two other elements: about $950 billion in loan guarantees from the European Union, and a decision by the European Central Bank to intervene in the bond markets through a series of refinancing operations. 
 An initial rescue package for Greece, totaling around $140 billion, failed to calm investors last week. The sudden plunge in the stock market on Thursday exacerbated the worries of American officials.
 Mr. Trichet had a series of conversations over the past week with Mr. Bernanke, who in turn received assurances from the Obama administration that the Fed's actions had the president's support, according to officials involved in the discussions, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 ''It became increasingly clear that, if they were willing to take very strong measures, that it would be in the interests of the United States to encourage and support that,'' one American official said.
 The official added, concerning the Europeans, ''Clearly they understood that both the European Central Bank, in the first instance, and then the global community was much more likely to try to help them if they were first willing to do something big themselves.''
 In a statement, the Fed said the currency swaps were intended to make it easier for European companies, institutions and governments to borrow dollars when they need them, ''and to prevent the spread of strains to other markets and financial centers.''
 The statement said the action was taken ''in response to the re-emergence of strains in U.S. dollar short-term funding markets in Europe.'' The statement added: ''Central banks will continue to work together closely as needed to address pressures in funding markets.''
 The program announced Sunday night is broadly similar to one that the Fed introduced in December 2007, as the United States entered a recession caused by the collapse of its housing market. 
 Under that program, the Fed provided dollars to central banks in exchange for an equivalent amount in foreign currency, based on prevailing exchange rates. The parties agreed to make the same exchange in reverese at a later date -- anywhere from one day to three months later -- using the same exchange rate as in the initial transaction. 
 The swap operations do not carry any exchange rate risks or credit risks, the Fed said. The Fed would not be a party to whatever dollar-denominated loans the European Central Bank may make to European financial institutions. 
 (An equivalent program was announced in April 2009 to give the Fed the ability to provide liquidity to American institutions in foreign currencies, but the Fed did not end up having to use that program.) 
 The Fed actually made money from the previous dollar swap program. The foreign central banks paid the Fed interest equivalent to what they made from lending the dollars. The Fed, however, did not pay any interest on the foreign currencies it took in exchange, having agreed to hold them instead of lending them out or investing them in the private markets. The new program is designed the same way. 
 In December 2008, at the height of the previous swap program, the Fed held $582.8 billion through the central bank liquidity swaps. That number fell to zero by the time the program ended in February of this year. 
 The swaps are likely to produce a significant, if temporary, expansion of the Fed's already giant balance sheet, which now totals around $2.3 trillion. The balance sheet grew as the Fed purchased mortgage-backed securities and longer-term Treasury debts as a way of holding down long-term interest rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); DEBT CRISIS (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); EURO CRISIS (91%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); BONDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); APPROVALS (70%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (58%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CANADA (79%); GREECE (58%); ENGLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



253 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 4658 words

HEADLINE: A Climb Marked by Confidence and Canniness

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE, LISA W. FODERARO and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
This article is by Katharine Q. Seelye, Lisa W. Foderaro and Sheryl Gay Stolberg.
 WASHINGTON -- She was a creature of Manhattan's liberal, intellectual Upper West Side -- a smart, witty girl who was bold enough at 13 to challenge her family's rabbi over her bat mitzvah, cocky (or perhaps prescient) enough at 17 to pose for her high school yearbook in a judge's robe with a gavel and a quotation from Felix Frankfurter, the Supreme Court justice, underneath.
 She was the razor-sharp newspaper editor and history major at Princeton who examined American socialism, and the Supreme Court clerk for a legal giant, Thurgood Marshall, who nicknamed her ''Shorty.'' She was the reformed teenage smoker who confessed to the occasional cigar as she fought Big Tobacco for the Clinton administration, and the literature lover who reread Jane Austen's ''Pride and Prejudice'' every year. 
 She was the opera-loving, poker-playing, glass-ceiling-shattering first woman to be dean of Harvard Law School, where she reached out to conservatives (she once held a dinner to honor Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia) and healed bitter rifts on the faculty with gestures as simple as offering professors free lunch, just to get them talking. 
 Elena Kagan has been all of these things, charting a careful and, some might say, calculated path -- never revealing too much of herself, never going too far out on a political limb -- that has led her to the spot she occupies today: the first female solicitor general of the United States, who won confirmation with the support of some important Republicans, and now, at 50, President Obama's nominee for the United States Supreme Court.
 ''Elena is open-minded, pragmatic and progressive,'' said Walter Dellinger, a former acting solicitor general in the Clinton administration who is close to both Ms. Kagan and the White House. ''Each of those qualities will appeal to some, and not to others.
 ''Her open-mindedness may disappoint some who want a sure liberal vote on almost every issue. Her pragmatism may disappoint those who believe that mechanical logic can decide all cases. And her progressive personal values will not endear her to the hard right. But that is exactly the combination the president was seeking.''
 In some respects, Ms. Kagan's traits -- her desire to build consensus through persuasion, her people skills, her ability to listen to others -- mirror those Mr. Obama sees in himself. They are qualities that the president hopes will play out in a leadership role on a deeply divided court. While Ms. Kagan has cited Justice Marshall as one she admires, some expect her to behave more like the center left Justice David Souter, who retired last year, or the master tactician John Paul Stevens, whom she would replace if confirmed.
 ''She was one of the most strategic people I've ever met, and that's true across lots of aspects of her life,'' said John Palfrey, a law professor who was hired at Harvard by Ms. Kagan. ''She is very effective at playing her cards in every setting I've seen.''
 Ms. Kagan's paper trail is scant, her academic writings painstakingly nonideological. And unlike Justice Sonia Sotomayor, a fellow New Yorker and Princeton graduate, who has written and spoken extensively about her childhood, Ms. Kagan, the daughter of a lawyer and a schoolteacher, is more private. During her academic and public life, she has rarely spoken of her political beliefs.
 When Mr. Dellinger interviewed her recently for a forum at Georgetown Law, he prodded her to talk about her growing up, and the influences that shaped her. She obliged, somewhat reluctantly, serving up only some bland details about her admiration for her parents. 
 Yet as a young writer for The Princetonian, the student newspaper at Princeton, Ms. Kagan offered clear insight into her worldview. She had spent the summer of 1980 working to elect a liberal Democrat, Liz Holtzman, to the Senate. On Election Night, she drowned her sorrow in vodka and tonic as Ronald Reagan took the White House and Ms. Holtzman lost to ''an ultraconservative machine politician,'' she wrote, named Alfonse D'Amato.
 ''Where I grew up -- on Manhattan's Upper West Side -- nobody ever admitted to voting for Republicans,'' Ms. Kagan wrote, in a kind of Democrat's lament. She described the Manhattan of her childhood, where those who won office were ''real Democrats -- not the closet Republicans that one sees so often these days but men and women committed to liberal principles and motivated by the ideal of an affirmative and compassionate government.''
 It was perhaps the last time Ms. Kagan wrote so openly of her own political beliefs. Last year, at her confirmation hearing to become solicitor general, senators focused less on her politics, but on whether she was too much in the ivory tower, with too little lawyerly experience to argue cases before the nation's highest court. That question will almost certainly come up again, given that Ms. Kagan has never been a judge. 
 ''One of the things I would hope to bring to the job is not just book learning, not just the study that I've made of constitutional and public law, but of a kind of wisdom and judgment, a kind of understanding of how to separate the truly important from the spurious,'' Ms. Kagan said. ''I like to think that one of the good things about me is that I know what I don't know and that I figure out how to learn it when I need to learn it.''
 At Hunter College High School in the 1970s, Ms. Kagan was a standout in a school of ultrabright girls. At least one classmate there, Natalie Bowden, remembers she had an ambitious goal: to become a Supreme Court justice.
 ''That was a goal from the very beginning,'' Ms. Bowden said. ''She did talk about it then.'' 
 The school, which then occupied three floors of an office building at 46th Street and Lexington Avenue, was and remains one of New York's elite public high schools. It drew girls from across the city and an array of backgrounds -- all admitted on the strength of their performance on an entrance exam, rather than money or family connections. 
 ''We were really exposed to tremendous diversity there -- whether it was a Jewish girl from the Upper West Side or a cop's kid from the Bronx or the daughter of a C.E.O. from the Upper East Side or kids whose parents worked in sweatshops in Chinatown,'' said Ellen M. Purtell, a high school classmate of Ms. Kagan's. ''It was never about what you were wearing. It was: Did you bring your best game academically with you today and could you contribute to the discussion?''
 The school, which went coed soon after Ms. Kagan left in 1977, was a rigorous, nurturing environment that instilled an ethos of public service.
 ''There was no driver's ed, there was no home economics, you didn't learn to type,'' said Jennifer Raab, the president of Hunter College, who was a few years ahead of Ms. Kagan. ''You were reading great books and you were going to college. You were going to lead, you were going to give back.''
 Ms. Kagan, the middle of three children, grew up in a family that embraced such values. They lived in a third-floor apartment at West End Avenue and 75th Street that was comfortable, but not fancy, in the days before the Upper West Side became trendy.
 Her mother, Gloria, who died two years ago, taught fifth and sixth grade at Hunter College Elementary School, which Elena attended as a young girl. Her brothers followed their mother's footsteps. Marc, a onetime subway worker and union activist, teaches social studies at the Bronx High School of Science, while Irving teaches social studies at Hunter College High. 
 Ms. Kagan hewed more to her father's path. With no shortage of modesty, she described herself in her confirmation hearings last year as ''a famously excellent teacher.'' But in terms of dynamism and disposition, family friends say, she is her father's daughter.
 Robert Kagan, who died in 1994, represented tenant associations whose rental apartments were being converted to co-ops. A graduate of Yale Law (he was said to have been crushed when his daughter was accepted there but chose Harvard Law instead), he was also immersed in the politics and culture of the West Side. 
 He fought the controversial Westway highway project as chairman of Community Board 7, an influential citizens' advisory group. He was a trustee of the West End Synagogue and president of the United Parents Association, a citywide parents' advocacy group.
 ''He was one of these people whom everyone liked and everyone believed,'' said Bill J. Lubic, Mr. Kagan's law partner of 20 years. ''He could deal with people in extremely difficult circumstances -- everything at the grass-roots level on the Upper West Side was a major problem. That was his talent. I firmly believe that that's what his daughter got from their relationship.'' 
 The young Ms. Kagan was independent and strong-willed. Mr. Lubic recalls her bat mitzvah -- or bas mitzvah, as it was then called -- in a conservative synagogue, where Elena clashed with the rabbi over some aspect of the ceremony.
 ''She had strong opinions about what a bas mitzvah should be like, which didn't parallel the wishes of the rabbi,'' he said. ''But they finally worked it out. She negotiated with the rabbi and came to a conclusion that satisfied everybody.''
 Even as a teenager, Ms. Kagan struck her peers and teachers as someone who was bound for greatness, demonstrating an interest in constitutional issues and displaying qualities that made her well suited for a career in the law.
 ''Honestly, if you had asked us back then who among you would be a Supreme Court justice some day, she'd certainly be on the short list,'' Ms. Purtell said. ''She was always very thoughtful, deliberate and focused and got along with everyone without any drama. Everybody liked her.'' 
 One thing was unusual about Ms. Kagan: she smoked cigarettes. One old friend, Margaret Raymond, said Ms. Kagan was the only girl she knew who smoked in high school. Disco was the rage in New York back then, but Ms. Kagan's was not a partying crowd; on Saturday nights, Ms. Raymond said, they were more apt to sit on the steps of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and talk.
 Ms. Kagan emerged as a leader. She became president of the student government, or Government Organization, as it was known, and was appointed to serve on a faculty committee.
 ''In assemblies and meetings, I used to watch her work,'' said Irv Steinfink, a retired teacher of history and comparative religion. ''She'd stand up on stage and present ideas for votes and she did it very well. She was very self-confident.''
 Although there was nothing judicial about the student government, in her senior yearbook Ms. Kagan, in wire-rimmed aviator glasses and long hair, is pictured on the group's page wearing a judge's robe, gavel in hand. Underneath is a quotation from Justice Frankfurter, who was appointed to the Supreme Court by Franklin D. Roosevelt.
 ''Government,'' it reads, ''is itself an art, one of the subtlest of arts.'' 
 Ms. Kagan quickly found a place at The Princetonian, the daily student newspaper at Princeton University, when she arrived there in the fall of 1977. 
 Her circle of friends was a high-powered one, including Eliot Spitzer, the future governor of New York, who became student body president. Bruce Reed, who would hire her as his deputy when he ran the White House Domestic Policy Council under President Bill Clinton, worked for Ms. Kagan at The Princetonian. He wrote ''smart-alecky columns, mostly about politics'' he said, while she, as editorial chairwoman, seemed ''determined to have a serious discussion about the nation's problems.''
 Still, she was hardly the dour sort, and her writings reflected not only her intensity, but her wry sense of humor. In 1979, she reported for Kiosk, a university magazine, on the Telluride House association, a student-governed academic community at Cornell that was facing money woes.
 ''Only hours before being interviewed on the association's financial state,'' Ms. Kagan wrote, ''several members of the house had been fleeced in a game of penny-ante poker by this reporter, a very average card player. Seven-card stud, it seemed, was looked on as an activity in which the very considerable intelligence of these men and women could lie completely dormant.''
 As a history major, Ms. Kagan was reflective and thoughtful, said Prof. Sean Wilentz, her senior thesis adviser, who guided her on an exploration of the history of American radicalism. 
 She titled the thesis ''To the Final Conflict: Socialism in New York City, 1900-1933,'' and used the acknowledgments to thank her brother Marc, whose ''involvement in radical causes,'' she wrote, ''led me to explore the history of American radicalism in the hope of clarifying my own political ideas.''
 In 153 pages, the paper examines why, despite the rise of the labor movement, the Socialist Party lost political traction in the United States -- a loss that she attributed to fissures and feuding within the movement. ''The story is a sad but also a chastening one for those who, more than half a century after socialism's decline, still wish to change America,'' she wrote.
 If that sounds like a defense of socialism, Mr. Wilentz insists that is not the case.
 ''She was interested in it,'' he said. ''To study something is not to endorse it.''
 Apart from her life as a student journalist, Ms. Kagan also dabbled in politics, working as a summer intern for Representative Ted Weiss, Democrat of New York, and later as an assistant press secretary for Ms. Holtzman, who was a congresswoman. In her senior year, she signed a manifesto, along with Mr. Spitzer and six others, under the rubric ''Campaign for a Democratic University,'' arguing for students to have a greater voice in university governance -- an effort that fell apart, one member said, when its adherents left for spring break.
 She graduated summa cum laude and seemed drawn, friends say, to a career in academia, public service and the law. She did not have to make an immediate choice; in her senior year, Ms. Kagan received a fellowship to Worcester College, Oxford, where she obtained a master's degree in philosophy.
 Upon returning to the United States, Ms. Kagan enrolled in law school at Harvard, where, predictably perhaps, she made law review at the end of her second year. It was a time of deep political divisions on the law school campus, but Jeffrey Toobin, a classmate and close friend of Ms. Kagan's who today covers legal issues for The New Yorker and CNN, recalls that Ms. Kagan had an uncanny ability to navigate the philosophical disputes that erupted on the law review board over what kind of articles to publish.
 ''She was someone who could always navigate easily between and among factions,'' he said, ''and I think that has remained a touchstone throughout her career.''
 She went on to win two plum clerkships, first for Judge Abner Mikva, of the federal appeals court in Washington, and then for Justice Marshall, where she impressed the male clerks by joining their pickup basketball games in the court's top-floor gym, the so-called ''highest court in the land.'' Harry Litman, a fellow clerk and former United States attorney in Pittsburgh, remembers Ms. Kagan as a ''plucky'' player. She played guard.
 ''I wouldn't say she dominated,'' Mr. Litman said. ''It was very much a hacker's game.''
 During her confirmation hearing, Ms. Kagan recalled that the memorandums she drafted for Justice Marshall reflected his views, not hers.
 ''You know, I was a 27-year-old pipsqueak and I was working for an 80-year-old giant in the law and a person who, let us be frank, had very strong jurisprudential and legal views,'' she said. ''He knew what he thought about most issues. And for better or for worse, he wasn't really interested in engaging with his clerks on first principles.''
 In 1988, as she was wrapping up her clerkship, it was time for Ms. Kagan to make a career decision. She had hoped to work for a Democratic administration; when George Bush won the presidency, that did not work out. So she went to work for Williams & Connolly as a litigator in Washington, though she did not last very long. Carol Steiker, a fellow clerk who is now a Harvard law professor, recalls that Ms. Kagan never seemed motivated by money. She told the story of Ms. Kagan's interview with a young associate at a mergers and acquisition firm in New York.
 ''He was single and he had no family and he was earning -- the sum seemed unimaginable -- $750,000 a year as a young partner. So she asked the guy, 'What do you do with all that money?' And he said, 'I buy art.' I remember her telling that story, and just shaking her head,'' Ms. Steiker said.
 In 1991, having acquired two years of real-world experience practicing law, she joined the faculty at the University of Chicago Law School. That same year, another bright young lawyer and Illinois state senator, Barack Obama, began teaching constitutional law there on the side. Unlike Mr. Obama, who held the title of lecturer, Ms. Kagan was hired as a full-time faculty member, on a tenure track. Geoff Stone, the Chicago law professor and former dean who hired her, said Ms. Kagan was an instant success.
 ''She was tough, she was independent-minded, she was demanding of her students, she had a good sense of humor,'' he said, adding, ''The students admired her and raved about her right from the beginning.''
 Richard Epstein, another professor at the school, remembers something else about Ms. Kagan: a fierce ambition. ''This was a very focused person,'' he said. ''There was this desperate desire to get ahead of the world and make a mark for herself.''
 She was so intense that life's mundane tasks would sometimes slip her mind.
 ''A couple of times when she was so focused on her work, she would park her car and leave it running overnight,'' said Lawrence Lessig, a longtime friend who taught alongside Ms. Kagan in Chicago. ''She just forgot to turn it off.''
 As a scholar, he said, Ms. Kagan's interests were narrow and somewhat technical. She was interested in questions like when the government could limit free speech. ''This is not a subject about which there is any ideological slant,'' Mr. Stone said. ''It's an intellectual puzzle.''
 She was granted tenure in 1995, despite the reservations of some colleagues who thought she had not published enough. Shortly thereafter, Washington beckoned. Judge Mikva was Mr. Clinton's White House counsel. Remembering Ms. Kagan as a very bright law clerk -- ''the pick of the litter'' from her year, Mr. Mikva said in an interview -- he wanted her to be one of his associates.
 It was an offer she could not resist, though she knew it was a risk. Chicago, like many universities, would allow her leave for up to two years. After that she would have to resign, giving up her tenure. That is exactly what happened -- in December 1996, after she quit her government post and planned her return to Chicago, she was asked by Bruce Reed, her old friend from Princeton who was now Mr. Clinton's director of domestic policy, to serve as his top deputy.
 ''Elena thought going ahead in politics was the better path,'' Mr. Epstein said. ''I think her preferred path was to stay there an extra year, get a really big administrative position, or a judgeship.''
 In 1999, Ms. Kagan almost got her chance, when President Clinton nominated her to a seat on the federal appeals court for the District of Columbia, where she had clerked for Judge Mikva. But the nomination fell through; Republicans would not schedule a hearing. Eventually, the judgeship went to John G. Roberts Jr.
 The nation's cigarette makers had already been under attack, both in the legal courts and the court of public opinion, by the time Ms. Kagan joined the Clinton policy shop. Coming off the heels of a legal settlement with state attorneys general, the industry now faced a new challenge: a White House plan to give the Food and Drug Administration authority to regulate tobacco. 
 Ms. Kagan was pressing the case in the Senate.
 As the administration's lead negotiator on a far-reaching tobacco bill that was to include F.D.A. regulatory authority, Ms. Kagan was assigned to work with the Republican author of the legislation, John McCain of Arizona. The talks were on-again, off-again, with Ms. Kagan eventually winning the support not only of Mr. McCain, but of another important Republican, Bill Frist of Tennessee. 
 ''She brought Republicans and Democrats together on the toughest, most contentious issue in the tobacco debate,'' Mr. Reed said. 
 Although the bill she helped shape never passed (it fell three votes short of the 60 necessary to break a filibuster), it made it out of the Commerce Committee by an extraordinary 19-1 vote in a year, 1998, when Mr. Clinton was facing impeachment and bipartisanship was in exceedingly short supply. Just last year, Congress did give the F.D.A. jurisdiction over cigarette makers -- a triumph, colleagues say, for the legislation Ms. Kagan worked on a decade ago.
 While she was respected inside the Clinton White House for her smarts (she would often bat around constitutional law questions with the president), one Clinton colleague, Jamie Gorelick, told The New York Sun in 2006 that Ms. Kagan was seen by some as brusque and overly demanding. She sometimes rubbed people in the Justice Department the wrong way.
 ''She was extremely aggressive when she was in the White House in trying to carry out the president's agenda,'' Ms. Gorelick, a former deputy attorney general and a fan of Ms. Kagan, was quoted as saying. ''She was not the most popular person there in part because of that.''
 The tug of academia was powerful for Ms. Kagan, and in 1999, with her time in the White House winding down, she tried to return to Chicago but was rebuffed. 
 ''It was a close call, Professor Epstein said. ''There were many people passionately in favor of it, some of whom had the prescience to say she would be a very good dean.'' 
 Ms. Kagan landed a visiting professorship at Harvard Law; two years later, she was named a full professor. Two years after that, in 2003, Harvard's president, Lawrence Summers (now Mr. Obama's top economics adviser) named her dean. She took charge of what was, in effect, a dysfunctional family stuck in the legal Dark Ages. 
 The faculty was at odds with itself. The curriculum was out of date. The gym and the dining facilities were old and run-down. The professors were aging, the students unhappy and the law school had fallen behind Yale in the all-important school ranking in U.S. News & World Report.
 Ms. Kagan undertook a top-to-bottom transformation, making the faculty more diverse, at least ideologically, and the school more student-friendly and academically competitive, the facilities more modern. Building consensus became her signature style.
 One big task was updating the first-year curriculum. With the faculty unable to come to terms on how to do it, Ms. Kagan coaxed professors into addressing the issue.
 ''She would have the corporate law people, then the public law people, then the criminal law people to her house for dinner and they would talk about it,'' said John Manning, a law professor Ms.Kagan poached from Columbia in January 2004. Together with Martha Minow, who succeeded her as dean, she built a proposal to add courses on legislation, international law and problem-solving. The faculty adopted it unanimously.
 But perhaps the greatest display of Ms. Kagan's ability to build consensus -- and the hallmark of her tenure as dean -- was her breaking the logjam that had bogged down the hiring of new faculty members.
 Hiring had slowed in part because the faculty was divided into ideological factions and each could stop a new hire. Ms. Kagan convinced her colleagues the law school needed fresh blood. She went after star professors at other universities and helped raise significant amounts of money to lure them to Cambridge. When she became dean, in July 2003, there were 81 full-time permanent members of the faculty, according to the law school. By the time she left, in March 2009, she had added 43. Taking into account retirements and other losses, the net expansion during her tenure was 22, an astonishing number in less than six years
 Her hiring binge became the subject of an April Fool's parody in 2008 in the Harvard Law Record. ''Dean Kagan Hires Every Law Professor in the Country,'' the headline blared.
 Critics have noted that most of the hires were white men. Of the 43 new hires, four were minorities and nine were women; law school officials said the numbers did not reflect the whole story because more offers were made than accepted and some jobs were still open.
 But Ms. Kagan broadened the faculty ideologically. Mr. Manning, a conservative, was one of the first professors she hired. Another early recruit was Jack Goldsmith, a Justice Department official in the Bush administration.
 As for getting agreement on the new hires, one Harvard law professor who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal politics at the school said that Ms. Kagan was more of a coalition-builder than a consensus-builder. The faculty was essentially divided into three blocs, this person said: conservative, liberal and one in the middle that usually went along with the dean.
 ''Elena would count the votes and say, 'This crowd will vote for X and I want X, so that will be two thirds and we'll make it happen,' '' the professor said. ''It was not that she won over people after they suddenly saw the wisdom of what she wanted.''
 Perhaps surprisingly for someone so prominent in academia, Ms. Kagan published very little. Except for her deep involvement in a fracas over whether military recruiters could use the law school's facilities -- and her strong antipathy toward the law barring gays and lesbians from serving openly in the armed forces -- Ms. Kagan did not write or speak out on the issues of the day.
 One of her biggest accomplishments, according to former students and faculty members, was simply making the campus more student-friendly. She renovated the gym and opened a skating rink and volleyball court. Her first summer, she hired contractors to create a place for students to sit outside Harkness Dining Hall and renovated the Harkness Commons. She created a faculty dining area that served free lunch.
 ''She was very big on building community at the law school,'' Mr. Manning said. ''She put two big round tables in the room and created a good place where people could get to know each other. She understands human nature very well.'' 
 When Ms. Kagan became United States solicitor general, the federal government's top appellate lawyer, in March 2009, she had argued no cases in the United States Supreme Court and had, indeed, just recently become a member of its bar. 
 Six months later, she made her debut in a case that would turn out to be one of the court's biggest decisions in recent years, Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission. 
 She lost.
 The court ruled against Ms. Kagan in January by a 5-to-4 vote, with the court's more conservative justices in the majority. Now that decision, which allowed unlimited corporate spending in candidate elections, will figure most prominently in Ms. Kagan's upcoming hearing. Mr. Obama has made the case a central theme of his argument that the court under Chief Justice Roberts is engaging in a conservative brand of judicial activism. 
 Back at Princeton, Ms. Kagan's history professor, Mr. Wilentz, says it makes perfect sense that the woman who argued Citizens United will now be looking to counter what the president regards as the court's rightward tilt.
 ''I'm not at all surprised that President Obama is drawn to Elena Kagan,'' Professor Wilentz said. ''She was just a wonderful combination of brains and passion.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WOMEN (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); APPEALS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); SMOKING (74%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); HISTORY (70%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (89%); DAVID SOUTER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); ANTONIN SCALIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



254 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: European Bank Stocks Soar On News of the Rescue Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
The European Union's rescue package for the euro sent battered bank shares in Europe soaring on Monday. 
 Even so, there was much less of an effect on the rates at which banks lend to one another in the money markets, a sign that confidence in the financial sector remains fragile. 
 Interbank rates remain low compared with the carnage of autumn 2008, when markets nearly ground to a halt after Lehman Brothers collapsed. 
 Central banks eventually restored confidence and brought rates to heel by flooding the market with liquidity and by buying asset-backed securities for which private-sector buyers had largely disappeared.
 But they started to rise again over the last couple of weeks as banks became nervous about how their counterparties might be affected if, for example, Greece, Spain or Portugal defaulted on their sovereign debts. Shares in European banks declined sharply over the same period.
 In a conference call with commercial banks on Friday, the European Central Bank heard of mounting fears that interbank lending could seize up once again.
 On Monday, after news of the European Union deal was disclosed, banking shares on the Stoxx Europe 600 index rose 7 percent and a wide range of credit market indicators improved: The cost of insuring corporate loans against default and borrowing costs for troubled euro zone governments both declined.
 But the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for three-month dollar loans between banks slipped only to 0.421 percent from 0.428 percent Friday, the British Bankers' Association said.
 The so-called Ted spread, the gap between yields on three-month United States government securities and the rate that banks charge each other for loans of the same duration, eased to 28 basis points from the 31 basis points it reached Friday. (A basis point is one hundredth of 1 percent.) 
 While the Friday peak was the highest since July 2009, it was still far below the 460 basis points it reached in October 2008.
 Analysts played down the significance of the interbank rates.
 ''I don't think there are any particular liquidity concerns at this time,'' said Charles Diebel, head of European rate strategy at Nomura International in London. 
 He said that the swap lines announced by the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and other central banks to re-establish temporary dollar liquidity swap facilities had not been employed yet.
 The Fed said late Sunday in Washington that the currency swaps were meant ''to help improve liquidity conditions in U.S. dollar funding markets and to prevent the spread of strains to other markets and financial centers.''
 The three-month Euribor-OIS spread, a measure of how large a premium investors require for unsecured (versus secured) credit, slipped to 23 basis points from 24 points Friday.
 ''People may be a little bit cautious about how much liquidity is going to come flooding back into the system,'' Mr. Diebel said. ''When the swap lines are enacted, money market rates will stabilize, but I don't think they'll move back to the lows.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EURO (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERBANK LENDING (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); BRITISH BANKERS' ASSOCIATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GREECE (73%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



255 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Nathan Serota, Developer, Dies at 90

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Nathan L. Serota, a developer who scraped together savings by selling railroad tickets, built a few houses, then went on to help shape the face of postwar Long Island with more than 50 shopping centers, died on May 1 at his home in Manhattan. He was 90.
 The cause was renal and heart failure, his wife, Vivian, said. 
 Mr. Serota, who ultimately built more than 5 million square feet of commercial space, was one of the mid-20th-century developers who looked at Long Island farmland and envisioned strip malls, supermarkets, movie theaters and more -- a brand-new suburban landscape.
 To some, these new enterprises meant economic growth and consumer convenience. To others, they epitomized unplanned boom development.
 Mr. Serota's response to opposition was often to bulldoze right through it. In the mid-1980s, he built two extra stories on what planning officials and residents in Valley Stream, N.Y., thought would be a four-story office building. When challenged in court, he successfully defended his six stories.
 ''Since the Serota controversy, we are trying to be a lot more careful,'' Dennis Caufield, superintendent of public works in Valley Stream, said in an interview with The New York Times in 1987.
 Wilbur Breslin, another major Long Island developer, said in an interview on Thursday that Mr. Serota marshaled charisma, connections and a knack for argument to get his way. 
 ''He had a lot of moxie, a lot of nerve,'' Mr. Breslin said, adding that the days when audacity alone could win zoning battles were gone.
 ''A lot of old-timers would take chances, and frankly get away with it,'' he said. ''Today you couldn't get away with that stuff.''
 An indication of the change came in the late 1990s, when the Suffolk County Planning Commission rejected a proposal by Mr. Serota for a big-box retail center in the town of Islip. Mr. Serota's company returned a decade later with a proposal to build an ecologically sensitive community where residents could bike or walk to jobs, shops and recreation.
 Nathan Louis Serota was born on Feb. 10, 1920, in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn. His father, Charles, made and lost a fortune as a builder, despite being illiterate. Charles died when Nathan was 16, and Nathan had to go to work to support his family. He worked in an uncle's coal and ice businesses and finished high school at night.
 Mr. Serota got a job selling tickets for the Pennsylvania Railroad, and came up with a plan to increase his earnings: He bought tickets in advance for popular times and routes, then sold them in periods of scarcity. He received handsome tips, he wrote in his autobiography, ''Don't Put Your Dreams on Hold.'' 
 After serving in the Army in World War II, he returned to the railroad job. In 1947, he and his brother, Morton, put their combined savings of $3,500 together and built houses on two waterfront lots in Belle Harbor, Queens. They built several more houses and doubled their original investment in 18 months.
 Mr. Serota teamed up with Ike Elias to build hundreds of houses over the next six years. They moved on to build shopping centers. Mr. Serota scored a major coup in 1964 when he bought a parcel in Nassau County that had been part of New York City's watershed system. It was next to the Green Acres Shopping Center, and Mr. Serota built a new Alexander's department store on it.
 Mr. Serota's refusal to sell the land to him so angered the owner of Green Acres that he put up a chain-link fence between the shopping center and the Alexander's site. It came to be called the spite fence.
 In 1975, Mr. Serota was convicted in federal court of accepting a bribe as vice chairman of the parking authority of Fort Lee, N.J., where he was then living. An appeals court overturned the conviction.
 Mr. Serota is survived by his wife, the former Vivian Roth; his sons Charles, Geoffrey and Daniel; his daughter, Deborah Carbone; his sister, Rita Bershan; and seven grandchildren.
 For more than 20 years, he was chairman of Daytop Village, an anti-drug program in New York and New Jersey. His wife said he also helped perfect strangers. Once, for example, he happened to see a woman struggling down her front steps with her husband's wheelchair: Mr. Serota soon built a ramp to their door and bought them a power wheelchair and a specially equipped car.
 Mrs. Serota said she usually learned of such good deeds much later from her husband's chauffeur. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nathan L. Serota (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIC DELUCIA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); COUNTIES (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



256 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: When Treating One Worker's Allergy Sets Off Another's

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
INDIANAPOLIS -- It's a case of King Solomon meets the Americans With Disabilities Act.
 In her first week at a new job, Emily Kysel suffered an allergy attack so severe that she had to go home early one day. A co-worker was eating buffalo wings at her desk, and the wings contained paprika, to which Ms. Kysel, 24, has a rare and potentially fatal allergy. 
 She nearly died five years ago from eating chili, and since then her allergy has sent her to the emergency room five times and caused her to jab herself with an anti-allergy injection 11 times, sometimes from just inhaling paprika nearby. 
 ''It feels like someone poured acid down your throat,'' she said.
 Fearing a fatal encounter with paprika, Ms. Kysel's parents and grandparents chipped in to buy her an allergy-detection dog, which works much like a narcotics-sniffing dog. After she had extensive talks with her employer, the City of Indianapolis, officials gave her permission to take the dog to work. The golden retriever, named Penny, cost her family $10,000 -- it jumps up on Ms. Kysel whenever it detects paprika.
 On the first day Ms. Kysel took Penny to work, one of her co-workers suffered an asthma attack because she is allergic to dogs. That afternoon Ms. Kysel was stunned when her boss told her that she could no longer take the dog to work, or if she felt she could not report to work without Penny, she could go on indefinite unpaid leave. She was ineligible for unemployment compensation because of the limbo she was put in. 
 Ms. Kysel filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, asserting that her employer had discriminated against her by failing to accommodate her disability. Legal experts say her case raises tough questions about how to balance the sometimes clashing interests of co-workers with disabilities and how far employers need to go to make reasonable accommodations for workers under the Americans With Disabilities Act.
 ''I was crestfallen, angry,'' Ms. Kysel said. ''I thought I had jumped through all the hoops to get permission, but then it immediately felt they were favoring this other individual.''
 Greg Fehribach, a lawyer for the city, denied that Indianapolis had violated the law. He said Ms. Kysel's supervisors had gone far to accommodate her, holding a meeting where she explained her allergy to her co-workers, and barring employees from eating foods containing paprika at their desks.Several managers and co-workers have questioned the seriousness of Ms. Kysel's allergy -- some see it as a quirky, almost laughable oddity. To buttress her case, two allergists wrote letters saying her allergy was life threatening. 
 While working for the city's Department of Code Enforcement, she had an attack because the tiny snack bar in her office building began serving paprika-laden pulled pork. 
 One thing that galls Ms. Kysel is that the City of Indianapolis has barred her from using her service animal at work although it allows blind employees to have them. 
 ''I don't think I deserve preferential treatment over anyone,'' she said. ''But I think I deserve equal treatment.''
 Christopher Kuczynski, assistant legal counsel for the Americans With Disabilities Act division of the equal-employment agency, declined to comment upon her case because it was pending.
 But in such situations, Mr. Kuczynski said, ''what's important when you have two people with disabilities is you don't treat one as inherently more important than the other.''
 ''What the employer has to do,'' he continued, ''is work out some sort of balance between the accommodations needed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Emily Kysel, who is allergic to paprika, is warned by her service dog. (PHOTOGRAPH BY A.J. MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); ALLERGIES (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (89%); DISABLED ACCESS (89%); DISABLED WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); IMMUNOLOGY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); ASTHMA (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); GRANDPARENTS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (94%) INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



257 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: At High-End Hotels, Business Is Looking Up

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN the depths of the recession, a cartoon made the rounds in the executive offices of the Ritz-Carlton hotel chain. ''It showed a guy trying to change the name on the sign above his hotel from Ritz to Fritz,'' said Simon Cooper, the president of Ritz-Carlton, which is the top luxury brand of Marriott International.
 While the recession cut deeply into business and leisure travel at all hotels, luxury hotels were hit the hardest. It didn't help the Ritz that its name was a symbol of the rich life. 
 Now, however, that segment is reporting the strongest recovery. For the week that ended May 1, the luxury hotel niche reported the sharpest increases in both occupancy and revenue per available room of any segment in the domestic hotel industry, according to Smith Travel Research, the hotel financial analysis firm. 
 ''The recovery is stronger in luxury than in any other segment of the hotel business,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''This time last year we were taking the toughest hit, primarily because of the cancellations of groups after A.I.G. and all the media attention that created.'' Everybody, he added, ''was being very circumspect about how they spent their money, and where.''
 The so-called A.I.G. effect crushed many areas of travel spending after reports that the insurance giant American International Group ran up a bill of about $440,000 on an incentives retreat in October 2008 at the St. Regis Monarch Beach, a Southern California resort hotel, shortly after the company accepted an $85 billion federal bailout. The bill for the retreat included $23,000 for spa treatments and $16,000 for the presidential suite.
 The only other segment of business travel that was hit as hard as luxury hotels during the downturn was the private jet industry, where sales plummeted after a period of record profits. The luxury hotel business went through a similar trajectory in recent years. The business aviation industry has also begun to recover in recent months.
 Data provided by Marriott showed the recent change of fortune at Ritz-Carlton. In March, Ritz-Carlton hotels in North America reported a 15.7 percent rise in revenue per available room over March 2009, which is the best measurement of a hotel's performance, following a 7.6 percent increase in February. In January, the measurement was down 2.4 percent. 
 ''We're not where we were, but we've certainly come a long way back,'' Mr. Cooper said.
 ''We were preparing ourselves for a very long haul in late '08, really preparing ourselves that this was going to be relatively long and drawn out,'' he said. Part of the rebound is being driven by robust luxury leisure travel, which, he said, is now ''back to where it was two years ago.'' 
 In the depths of the business travel slump, luxury hotels promoted themselves to high-end leisure travelers, many of whom still had money and were not as affected as corporations by public perceptions about spending. Meanwhile, luxury hotels did something they had been loath to do in past recessions: they aggressively discounted room rates, often through package deals that, for example, offered three nights for the price of two. Even now, discounts are still widely available at most luxury hotels. 
 Bjorn Hanson, a clinical professor at the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University, said recently that as travel demand picked up, the hotel industry faced ''permanent structural change,'' with much greater consumer and corporate emphasis on value. The big question at luxury hotels is whether they can ever recover the pricing power they had before the recession.
 Most brand hotels are overseen by the big chains, but owned by entrepreneurs who actually build the properties. In expensive new luxury properties, these owners, in particular, have been struggling to manage debt and pay operating costs while maintaining service at a luxury level. 
 The big question luxury hotel operators like Ritz-Carlton face is whether room rates and related revenue from restaurants, meetings services and other hotel sources will recover to the record levels that preceded the recession. Smith Travel Research predicts that luxury hotel occupancy will rise 4.2 percent by the end of the year, but with a 3.7 percent decline in average room rates and only a minuscule increase in per-room revenue. 
 Mr. Cooper wouldn't be pinned down on the question, except to say that ''pricing power'' is returning strongly in New York, Tokyo, Beijing, London and other world business capitals.
 But, he added: ''The consumer is much less brand-conscious. They're looking beneath the brand, under the tag, and asking, 'Is this good value for me?' -- whether it's a handbag or a hotel.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM (89%); LODGING (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); RESORTS (73%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); INSURANCE (69%)

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (92%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



258 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Plan B in the Gulf

BYLINE: By RIKI OTT, KEN ARNOLD, JOHN HOFMEISTER, TERRY HAZEN and KEVIN M. YEAGER

 BODY:
Over the weekend BP learned that its latest effort at stanching the Deepwater Horizon oil spill -- placing a huge metal dome over the leak -- had failed. With the oil slick now washing up on the Louisiana shore, the Op-Ed editors asked five experts for their thoughts on what should be done now -- and how we can avoid future catastrophes.
 Avoid Dispersants 
 ONE of the oil industry's favorite tools in fighting oil spills is chemical dispersants -- indeed, over 300,000 gallons have been used so far in the Gulf. But as anyone who studied high school chemistry knows, like dissolves like: crude oil responds only to oil-based solvents, which are extremely toxic. 
 The first dispersants, released in the late 1960s, were quickly shelved because they turned out to harm wildlife more than crude oil did. Drums of Corexit 9527, a dispersant used to clean up the Exxon Valdez spill in 1989, came with warning labels: ''prevent liquid from entering sewers, watercourses or low areas.'' Little has changed in 20 years. Even worse, spraying dispersants in the Gulf in an attempt to minimize the oil's damage to the coast would kill shrimp eggs and larvae and young fish in the open water. They can linger in the water for decades, especially when used in deep water, where low temperatures can inhibit biodegradation. Dispersants may sound like a good idea, but they're bad news, and their use should be avoided unless absolutely necessary. -- RIKI OTT, marine toxicologist and author of ''Not One Drop: Betrayal and Courage in the Wake of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill''
 Forget Acoustic Sensors
 IN Norway and Brazil, offshore oil rigs are required to have switches that close valves whenever they sense an acoustic pulse in the water, which could signal a blowout. In the wake of last month's accident, many have argued that similar switches should be required on American rigs. 
 But the Deepwater Horizon was hardly without safety precautions: it had manual switches at several different stations and two backups -- a ''dead man'' switch that would automatically send a shut-off signal to the valve if there was a loss of electrical communication from the surface, as well as a mechanism to allow a remotely operated vehicle to shut it off. Either these all failed, or they worked and the valve still failed to close. Would a third backup sending yet another signal reduce risk? Maybe. But it would be of marginal benefit, and could result in a false alarm or premature signal. When a safety switch is thrown, a device cuts the drill pipe, letting it fall into the hole. Fishing it out, and even testing it regularly, is a dangerous proposition, putting worker safety at risk -- precisely what such systems are designed to avoid. -- KEN ARNOLD, energy industry consultant
 Stop Outsourcing
 LIKE many other American corporations, oil and gas companies have been outsourcing critical, high-risk operations for several decades, sacrificing control to save money. Today, platforms like the Deepwater Horizon resemble small villages, home to distinct chains of command from several different subcontractors. Workers for different companies may hardly know one another despite working side by side; they often answer to different bosses. 
 Some argue that the level of specialization and technical expertise required to run a platform demands teamwork by different companies, each with its own research and development and command structures. True, but specialization and cost-cutting can go too far. Fragmented control is not likely to blame for the Gulf spill, but it is likely to hamper the search for the real cause and the effort to enact reforms to keep such disasters from happening again. Slowing, or even reversing, the outsourcing trend is a critical next step for the industry. 
 -- JOHN HOFMEISTER, former president of Shell and author of ''Why We Hate the Oil Companies: Straight Talk from an Energy Insider''
 Soak Up the Oil
 ONE tactic for reducing the amount of oil in the Gulf would be to seed the affected waters with absorbent materials -- for example, cellulose fibers or animal hair -- that can soak up oil. Once they've done their job, these materials can be retrieved and either compressed into blocks for burning or, better still, fed to microbes in quarantined spaces. Absorbent materials are cheap and readily available, and there's a fleet of commercial fishing vessels already in place for dispersing them. -- TERRY HAZEN, microbial ecologist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
 Do Nothing
 THE best thing to do in response to the Gulf spill's landfall is ... nothing. Sure, larger oil concentrations can be sopped up, and large animals can be cleaned. But cleanup efforts can do only so much: evidence suggests that they reduce hydrocarbon concentrations only over the short term. And many responses have harmful side effects. Controlled burning spreads toxic materials and kills plants that retard erosion, thus hurting the very lands we're trying to protect. Nutrient-rich detergents or active bioremediation -- which encourages the growth of bacteria that can break down oil -- can fundamentally disturb the ecological balance for decades.
 Instead, we should recognize that nature can do many things far better than we can, and with less collateral damage. Oil is a natural byproduct of biological and geological processes; if left alone in coastal environments, wave action, the sun and microbes in the sediment will naturally break down hydrocarbons. Meanwhile, money saved can go to helping local economies deal with the loss of income, improving safety regulations and enforcement and developing a clean energy policy. -- KEVIN M. YEAGER, assistant professor of marine sciences at the University of Southern Mississippi

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (ELLEN DRISCOLL, PHOTOGRAPH BY CURTIS HAMILTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (91%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BIOREMEDIATION (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); TOXICOLOGY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (74%); WRITERS (72%); SOLVENTS (70%); ACOUSTIC & AUDIO SENSORS (69%); PRODUCT LABELING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



259 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: A Trillion for Europe, With Doubts Attached

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and JACK EWING; James Kanter, David Jolly and Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Like the giant financial bailout announced by the United States in 2008, the sweeping rescue package announced by Europe eased fears of a market collapse but left a big question: will it work long term? 
 Stung by criticism that it was slow and weak, the European Union surpassed expectations in arranging a nearly $1 trillion financial commitment for its ailing members over the weekend and paved the way for the European Central Bank to begin purchases of European debt on Monday.
 Markets rallied around the world in response to the concerted defense of the euro, a package that exceeded in size the United States bank bailout two years ago. 
 Major stock indexes in the United States rose about 4 percent on Monday, while a leading index of blue-chip stocks in the euro zone rose more than 10 percent. The premium that investors had been demanding to buy Greek bonds plunged. But by Tuesday, that rally appeared to have sputtered out, with many Asian markets down slightly.
 And as details crystallized of the package's main component -- a promise by the European Union's member states to back 440 billion euros, or $560 billion, in new loans to bail out European economies -- the wisdom of solving a debt crisis by taking on more debt was challenged by some analysts. 
 ''Lending more money to already overborrowed governments does not solve their problems,'' Carl Weinberg, chief economist of High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., said in a note. ''Had we any Greek bonds in our portfolio, we would not feel rescued this morning.'' 
 Such concerns may be part of the reason the euro fell back when American markets opened, after surging in Asian and European trading, to end the day at about $1.28.
 Another big issue is whether bailing out economies creates moral hazard. Other countries may continue to skirt the kinds of actions that would lower their budget deficits and debt loads -- steps painful to the public and dangerous to politicians -- because they too can expect to be rescued. 
 It is clear that Europe's fund will require the sustained support of the 27 nations that form the European Union -- not to mention its richest member, Germany, which has until now deeply opposed a bailout. 
 Indeed, for all the excitement about the scale of the effort, it is important to remember that the core fund does not now exist. The fund, known as a special purpose vehicle, would raise money by issuing debt and making loans to support ailing economies. The European countries would guarantee that fund. 
 So the package is merely a commitment for the vehicle to borrow money if a large economy like Spain, which represents 12 percent of the output in the euro zone, asks for assistance. The International Monetary Fund is pledging 250 billion euros to support the effort. Sixty billion euros under an existing lending program pushes the total to near $1 trillion.
 The fund is therefore more a theoretical construct than the Troubled Asset Relief Program that was created in the United States, and that is where things get tricky. 
 By definition, if Spain came to a point where it could no longer finance itself, interest rates would be on the rise. The several hundred billion euros for the fund would not only come at a high cost, but would bring additional pain to already indebted countries like Portugal, France, Italy and the United Kingdom, which back the special purpose entity, thus compounding the region's debt woes.
 For Dominique Strauss Kahn, the I.M.F.'s ambitious managing director, the program is a hard-earned victory that allows the fund to assume a central role in pushing for economic reform in Europe. 
 Greece's cabinet on Monday approved major changes in its pension system, including an increase in the early retirement age to 60 and the broader retirement age to 65, as part of a three-year package of reforms imposed by the fund and the European Union. 
 Yet some fund staff members have pointed out that, if anything, the rescue package and the I.M.F. commitment to support it might give countries like Spain an excuse to retreat a bit from the tough measures that have distinguished Ireland's and Greece's austerity efforts. 
 ''It shows that Europe can come together,'' said a banker with close ties to the fund who was not authorized to speak on the record. Though it takes the pressure off Spain, ''it does not address structural pressure in Europe.'' 
 In effect, Germany and other wealthier European countries are assuming responsibility for the creditworthiness of Greece, Portugal and the other debt delinquents.
 But the European central government is weak and must invent new structures to administer the promised aid.
 ''The debt crisis will change the nature of European monetary union,'' Jorg Kramer, chief economist at Commerzbank, wrote in a note on Monday. ''The euro zone has moved away from a monetary union and towards a transfer union.''
 Mr. Kramer warned that the shift could ''undermine political support for the euro zone in the long run. After all, it is unlikely that the countries receiving support will let others permanently dictate their economic policies. Moreover, voters in the countries giving support will not be willing to permanently give financial support to other countries.''
 On Monday, Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, warned European governments, all of which will probably miss the budget deficit goals they agreed to when they created the euro, that they must continue to cut government spending.
 At a time when economies, from Romania and Hungary to Britain and Spain, are struggling to meet their deficit goals, Mr. Trichet's warning took on extra resonance.
 Romania and Hungary are operating under I.M.F. programs, while Britain and Spain are trying desperately to persuade markets that they will not experience the financing problems that have forced so many countries in Europe to seek assistance.
 ''For us, what is absolutely decisive is the commitment of governments of the euro area to take all measures needed to meet their fiscal targets this year and in the years ahead,'' Mr. Trichet told reporters at a press conference in Basel, Switzerland.
 But after 10 years of mostly missing fiscal guidelines during a worldwide economic boom, it remains uncertain if more finger-wagging by Mr. Trichet and a new fund backed by the I.M.F. will be enough to return European nations to fiscal health as their economies stagnate and social pressures build.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An employee of the Greek Parliament carries copies of proposed pension reforms at a cabinet meeting in Athens on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETROS GIANNAKOURIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) CHART: A Two-Pronged Approach: The European Central Bank and the European Commission announced steps yesterday to head off the debt crisis in Europe. Each agency is acting separately, but as part of an overall plan. (Sources: European Central Bank
 European Commission) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); BAILOUTS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); GREECE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



260 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Pfizer to Cut Jobs, Risking Repayment of Tax Breaks

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Pfizer, the world's largest pharmaceutical company, plans to lay off or relocate up to 1,400 New York City employees, seven years after receiving millions of dollars in tax breaks to create jobs in the city.
 On Monday the company, which has already scrapped about 2,000 positions, also put its office tower at 685 Third Avenue up for sale. Pfizer officials said the company's world headquarters would remain in the office tower at 235 East 42nd Street, near Grand Central Terminal. The company, which has been based in New York City since its founding in 1849, has about 4,400 employees here.
 But the company's decision is a remarkable turnabout in Pfizer's once robust expansion plans for New York and an embarrassment for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and state officials who had provided the drug-maker with the tax breaks in 2003. 
 Government officials often give the breaks, or what critics call corporate welfare, to companies that forgo plans to leave the city, or that invest in new equipment and jobs. But some economists argue that those scarce resources could be better spent on transportation, education and other things that create a better environment for all employers.
 ''This is another example that shows how useless these corporate retention deals are,'' said Bettina Damiani, director of Good Jobs New York, a private advocacy group. ''Major companies don't make location decisions based on tax breaks.'' 
 The Bloomberg administration has been far more stingy than Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's was in granting tax breaks to corporations threatening to leave New York. It has also worked to strengthen the penalties for companies that violate job-retention agreements. 
 Under the terms of its deal with Pfizer, the city will seek to recover double the $12 million in tax breaks that the company ultimately used if Pfizer eliminates more than 450 jobs, said David Lombino, a spokesman for the city's Economic Development Corporation.
 Pfizer bought another major pharmaceutical firm, Wyeth, last year in a $68 billion deal. Last week, Pfizer reported better than expected earnings in the first quarter of the year.
 ''A reduction in Pfizer's New York City work force resulting from their merger and restructuring would of course be disappointing,'' Mr. Lombino said. ''But we're encouraged that they are choosing to maintain their global headquarters here and will continue to employ thousands of New Yorkers.''
 Mr. Lombino said the city had recaptured $48 million since 2002 from 85 companies that did not live up to the terms of their deals. The city also could have demanded that Metropolitan Life repay $24 million, or double the tax break it received in 2001 when it announced it was moving employees to Queens. After the company moved some workers back to Manhattan, officials settled for $5 million in 2008 and a promise from MetLife to keep 1,750 employees in New York City.
 Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, acknowledged that the company had talked to the city about repaying the tax benefits. She said she did not know the exact number of jobs that would be cut, or moved to other offices. A government official who had been briefed on the company's plans, but who declined to be named because he was not authorized to reveal them, said that between 800 and 1,400 jobs would leave the city.
 ''It's all a part of consolidating our footprints in buildings we own,'' Ms. Campion said. ''We're moving a number of our people to other Pfizer locations'' in New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
 Pfizer will move its remaining workers into adjoining buildings at 239 and 219 East 42nd Street. 
 Pfizer was in the midst of buying Pharmacia for $60 billion in 2003 when Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Bloomberg held a news conference with company officials. They announced that Pfizer would invest $1 billion in New York City over 15 years, buy and renovate the building at 685 Third Avenue, create 2,000 jobs and retain 5,500 workers in New York.
 In return, the city and the state provided the company with tax breaks and other incentives worth up to $47 million, although it used only $12 million. Pfizer's New York City payroll reached a high of 6,500 in June 2005, according to city officials, but has declined ever since. In 2008, the company closed its longtime manufacturing plant in Brooklyn. That same year, the city ended the tax breaks because of low employment levels and forced the company to return $2.7 million in benefits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pfizer's building at 685 Third Avenue is for sale. The company said it would reduce its city work force by 800 to 1,400 jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (63%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (94%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (94%); PFEB (BRU) (94%); PFE (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (94%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



261 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: All Bets Are Off

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Markus Krygier is betting against the euro -- still. Not even $1 trillion was enough to change his mind.
 Only hours after European leaders devised a sweeping rescue package to defuse the debt crisis that has threatened the euro, Mr. Krygier, a money manager in London, arrived at his desk Monday morning confident that Europe's beleaguered currency would keep falling.
 ''We think the euro will go down still further,'' said Mr. Krygier, deputy chief investment officer at Amundi Asset Management, which oversees $40 billion in global fixed-income and currency assets. 
 He has plenty of company. Despite the nearly $1 trillion aid package assembled by the European Union, euro doubters on both sides of the Atlantic were unbowed on Monday -- and preparing to make new wagers against the currency. 
 From hedge fund managers on the Connecticut Gold Coast to investment pros who quietly tend fortunes in Geneva and London, die-hards betting that the euro will weaken brushed aside the news of Europe's audacious bailout plan. Even as the euro briefly rallied and stock markets soared, these investors predicted that Europe's financial markets would soon come under renewed pressure. The rescue plan, they said, does not fix Europe's deeper problems. 
 Their skepticism was reflected in the currency markets, where, after an initial surge, the euro quickly fell back. After rising against the dollar from just under $1.28 to nearly $1.31 in the early hours after the package was announced, the currency slipped back to close not far from where it started.
 The initial increase was spurred as investors who sold the euro short, wagering that it would fall, rushed to cover those positions and lock in profits. 
 ''We expected a short-lived bounce,'' Mr. Krygier said. ''There was definitely an element of a short squeeze in the rebound.''
 Indeed, by the time markets opened in the United States, and American hedge funds entered the market, the euro's rally began to flag.
 Traders said many of the big hedge funds that have been bearish on the euro saw Monday's initial move higher as a blip, and are counting on further euro weakness. Since hitting a high of $1.51 late last year, the euro has been in a steady decline.
 Central banks and sovereign wealth funds, which have actually been diversifying their holdings and adding euros recently, remain a strong counterweight to those who expect more weakness. 
 But the volume of negative bets against the euro has mounted sharply in the last few weeks. The selling pressure intensified last Thursday and Friday amid fear that the European Central Bank would fail to ride to the rescue.
 As of last Friday, investors had built up record short positions in the euro, according to public data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
 Euro bears argue that the huge budget deficits most European governments are groaning under will not be fixed by the package, and could actually get worse because of the hundreds of billions of dollars governments will have to borrow to finance the rescue. 
 Nor does the new plan address more fundamental structural problems like rigid labor markets and low productivity, said Marco Annunziata, chief economist for UniCredit. 
 ''It was crucial to stop the panic, and this package has done it, but it doesn't solve the longer-term problems which are slowly undermining the value of the euro,'' Mr. Annunziata said. ''If you're not competitive, you can't generate economic growth.''
 The crisis in Greece, which was sparked by fears that the country would be unable to borrow the money it needed to pay its bills and cover its deficit, threatened to spread to Portugal and Spain last week. 
 All three countries have borrowed heavily but are either in recession or growing very slowly, which leaves them little maneuvering room to cut spending or raise taxes. 
 For the moment, the fear of contagion, a mass exodus from assets across borders, seems to have passed.
 ''This is not an unambiguous positive signal for the euro, but it does limit the risk for contagion,'' said Todd Elmer, a Citigroup currency strategist. 
 In any case, a weak euro does bring some benefits to the 16 countries on the Continent that use it.
 Most significant, it makes exports more affordable on world markets, enhancing the ability of European companies to sell their goods in major markets like North America and Asia. 
 It is also a boon for tourism, because European vacations become cheaper for visitors from the United States and elsewhere. Tourism is a crucial economic sector in several of the more troubled countries on the Mediterranean rim, like Spain and Greece.
 One worry that is likely to get more attention in the coming days is the still-yawning spread between bonds from Germany, Europe's strongest economy, and those of Greece, Portugal and other shaky markets in the euro zone. 
 As of Monday's close, Greek bonds yielded nearly 7 percent more than comparable German securities, while Portuguese debt was 2.35 percent higher.
 ''We have a tremendous amount of debt outstanding, a tremendous amount on the way, and some pretty bad-looking fiscal deficits out there,'' said Bill Prophet, a Deutsche Bank rates strategist. ''The market is not completely convinced that the bailout is going to solve all these problems.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trader in London on Monday. Hours after the announcement of a debt crisis bailout, the euro rallied, but it later dropped. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON ALDEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (88%); FUTURES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



262 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: David E. Apter, 85, Yale Political Scientist

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
David E. Apter, a Yale professor who wove his expertise in political science and sociology into influential treatises on the often-tortured birth of developing nations, died Tuesday at his home in North Haven, Conn. He was 85. 
 The cause was complications of cancer, his daughter, Emily Apter, said.
 In his 46-year academic career, Professor Apter wrote or helped write more than 20 books that drew on social science and political theory and his own forays into impoverished lands, where he encountered peasants, politicians and sometimes terrorists. In 1986, Professor Apter spent months in China interviewing survivors of the 1934-35 Long March, which brought Mao Zedong eventually to power. In ''Revolutionary Discourse in Mao's Republic'' (Harvard, 1994), written with Tony Saich, Professor Apter told how Mao wrote his Little Red Book of political sayings while the marchers, sometimes living in caves, set up so-called ''universities'' so that they could digest Mao's texts. 
 ''The intensity of their indoctrination was remarkable, how they willingly surrendered personal discretion to gain collective power,'' Professor Apter said in an interview in April. 
 In his travels, he interviewed colonial bureaucrats, nationalist leaders, generals, foot soldiers, tribal chiefs, trade unionists, farmers, fishermen and merchants in the bazaar. 
 ''He was a tireless field worker, learning the fine grain of life out on the surfaces of the world where people actually live, and had a remarkable capacity to make broader theory out of it,'' Kai T. Erikson, a former president of the American Sociological Association, said in an interview.
 ''It's hard to pin him to the wall as a political scientist or a sociologist,'' Professor Erikson said. ''He had huge influence in both fields, bringing them together as an inventor of interdisciplinarity -- almost the coiner of the term.''
 Perhaps Professor Apter's most influential work is ''The Politics of Modernization'' (University of Chicago, 1965), an analysis of the daunting development problems new nations face. 
 Earlier he focused on independence struggles in Africa. In ''The Gold Coast in Transition'' (Princeton, 1955) -- later updated as ''Ghana in Transition'' -- he questioned whether parliamentary institutions created during the last stages of British colonialism could transform a mass movement of many tribes into a pluralistic, democratic state.
 Ghana achieved independence in 1957. But its first president, Kwame Nkrumah, created an essentially leftist, one-party state. He was overthrown in 1966, setting off a series of coups.
 ''So many African countries followed the same cycle from a kind of liberalistic formula to gain independence to a state of chaos,'' Professor Apter said. 
 After Africa, he turned his sights to South America, where his studies showed that economic growth did not necessarily promote democracy; rather, he found, it can foster inequality, radicalization and violence. He interviewed militants in Argentina, Chile and Peru, then did research on terrorists in the Middle East and members of the Red Brigades in Italy.
 That work laid the groundwork for ''Against the State: Politics and Social Protest in Japan'' (Harvard, 1984), which he wrote with Nagayo Sawa. The book is a case study of the more than three decades of conflict surrounding the building of Tokyo International Airport in an area called Sanrizuka.
 Seventeen radical groups ringed the airport site with small wooden fortresses, living there for years among the farmers facing displacement, staging sometimes violent demonstrations. 
 ''I stayed in their fortresses,'' Professor Apter said. ''There was a colonel who had been a war criminal in the Philippines during World War II; he was very proud of his army career. And yet these leftist radicals accepted this colonel into their group. All this complexity that gets refracted into a militant movement.''
 David Ernest Apter was born in Brooklyn on Dec. 18, 1924, one of two children of Herman and Bella Steinberg Apter; the family later moved to Mount Vernon, N.Y. His father, an executive at a brick factory, died when David was 12. He dropped out of school to work at several jobs.
 Drafted into the Army in 1943, he earned a general high school diploma in the service. In 1950 he received a degree in economics and political science from Antioch College. There he met and married Eleanor Selwyn. Besides his wife and daughter, he is survived by a son, Andrew, and four grandsons.
 Professor Apter earned a master's degree in 1952 and a Ph.D. in 1954, both in political science and both at Princeton. In 1961 and 1962 he was director of the Peace Corps' first training program, for volunteers being sent to Ghana. He went on to teach at Northwestern University; the University of Chicago; the University of California, Berkeley; and, from 1969 to 2000, at Yale. He was chairman of Yale's sociology department from 1997 to 2000. 
 In his worldwide research, Professor Apter often captured on film the subjects he interviewed. The photographs have been exhibited at Yale and the Century Club in New York and in private galleries. Among them are pictures of voters in line in Uganda and of widows of generals executed on Mao's orders.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. ; Reprinted from Monday's early editions. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David E. Apter (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL MARSLAND/YALE UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COUPS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); FARM LABOR (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); LABOR UNIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) AFRICA (93%); GHANA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



263 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Discount Store Is New York Beachhead for Nordstrom

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
After more than a century, Nordstrom, the upscale department store chain from Seattle, will make its Manhattan debut on Tuesday. 
 But don't expect $4,000 dresses. 
 Expect 25,000 pairs of discounted shoes, and an automated checkout line more at home in a supermarket than a purveyor of luxury goods. 
 While retailers of Nordstrom's caliber typically come to New York to erect sumptuous flagships, Nordstrom is introducing itself here with a low-cost sister store in Union Square -- mere steps from Filene's Basement. 
 The store, Nordstrom Rack, is good news for the pocketbooks of the fashion-conscious, though not necessarily for the brand's first impression in New York. For instance, Nordstrom's customer service is a hallmark of the chain, but the Manhattan store will not offer that level of attention. 
 ''Ideally we would have led with a full-line store,'' Blake W. Nordstrom, the company's president, told reporters on Monday during a walking tour of the new store. 
 Yet finding a suitably luxurious location in Manhattan is like finding the perfect bowl of porridge. Many spaces are too small, too dark or have ceilings that are too low. And competition for big, alluring spaces is stiff (read: astronomically expensive).
 Even the new Union Square store is, at 32,136 square feet, slightly smaller than the typical 35,000-square-foot Nordstrom Rack. Besides, it takes a year or two to find a suitable spot and open a Rack, Mr. Nordstrom said. Opening a traditional Nordstrom takes on average of four years. 
 ''Nordstrom has been trying for years to get a store in New York City proper,'' said Bill Dreher, a senior retailing analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities. ''A traditional Nordstrom department store would do very well in the Manhattan market.'' 
 So it seems: 20,000 Nordstrom credit card holders live in the Manhattan area, the retailer says. (They can shop online, and for the real thing, venture to New Jersey or Long Island.) 
 With that in mind, the chain said last year that it was seizing the opportunity afforded by the recession to bring its smaller Rack division to a former Virgin Megastore on East 14th Street near Broadway.
 ''We continue to look,'' Mr. Nordstrom said of his efforts to find a Manhattan home for a full-line Nordstrom, ''but there's nothing to announce.'' 
 And so, for now at least, residents will get to know Nordstrom through its discount offshoot, which offers merchandise at a 30 to 70 percent savings. And that's O.K. with company executives, who have engineered the Rack to be as New Yorker-friendly as possible. 
 That means it's designed for the impatient. 
 Take the shoe department. A number of Nordstrom Rack stores have only one shoe in each box on the shelf. If you decide to buy a pair, you go to a ''mate window'' to pick up the shoe that's not in the box. That might not have gone over so well with Manhattan shoppers. And so at the Union Square store, both shoes are in the boxes on the shelves, enabling customers to simply grab and go. 
 The checkout line is another attempt at efficiency. A large television screen automatically directs a single line of customers to one of 19 cash registers, the first such check-out operation at a Nordstrom store. 
 ''We're big fans of Whole Foods,'' said Geevy Thomas, president of Nordstrom Rack, adding that Nordstrom studied how throngs of New Yorkers are swiftly moved through the checkout lines at Whole Foods supermarkets. 
 Located in a diverse and bustling area of Manhattan, the Union Square Rack offers more women's clothes and shoes than at other Racks. There are no children's clothes. And the store has a broader array of sizes, be it bras from 32A to 40DD or men's dress shirts with neck sizes in 14.5 to 19. 
 Like any other Nordstrom Rack, though, only about 25 percent of the merchandise comes from full-line Nordstrom stores. And with the luxury retail business improving, Nordstrom stores have been turning over inventory more quickly than ever. 
 Hence, most of what you'll find at the Union Square Rack will be bought specifically for that store. That is not necessarily a downside. 
 Nordstrom leverages its longstanding relationships with designers to bring to the Racks end-of-season and overstock goods from popular brands like Marc by Marc Jacobs, See by Chloe, Dolce & Gabbana and Hugo Boss. 
 ''It's all the same brands you'd see in a full-line Nordstrom store,'' Mr. Thomas said. 
 At the Manhattan Rack, behind and beneath signs that say ''brands too hot to mention'' are clothes by Trina Turk and sunglasses by Prada. New merchandise is to be delivered five days a week.
 Nordstrom plans to open 10 to 15 more Racks nationwide this fall. In addition, the economy has inspired competitors -- Saks, Neiman Marcus, Bloomingdale's -- to introduce outlets.
 ''It's a format which has done very well throughout the recession as people were trading down to sharper price points,'' Mr. Dreher said. 
 Nordstrom Racks are slightly more productive than Nordstrom stores, but Mr. Nordstrom said that opening the New York Rack, the chain's 76th in the country, ''is not something new in terms of our strategy'' and that the company was not relying on Racks to drive its growth.
 Analysts pointed out that while Nordstrom was entering Manhattan with its lower-priced outfit, many national retailers came here without the same format or consistency they had in the rest of the country. And if Nordstrom can stock designer brands at deep discounts, it could outmaneuver Filene's Basement and DSW, likely to be its biggest competitors. 
 ''We think it's going to be one of our very best stores,'' Mr. Thomas said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tamala Ayres working to prepare the Nordstrom Rack for its opening on Tuesday. (B1)
 The Nordstrom Rack in Union Square. By this fall, Nordstrom plans to add 10 to 15 Racks to its 76 Rack stores nationwide. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SHOE STORES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); MUSIC STORES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC (93%); FILENE'S BASEMENT INC (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (53%)

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (93%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

PERSON: BLAKE W NORDSTROM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



264 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: Florida Suit Rated Best As Challenge To Care Law

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
As they constructed the requirement that Americans have health insurance, Democrats in Congress took pains to make their bill as constitutionally impregnable as possible.
 But despite the health care law's elaborate scaffolding, attorneys general and governors from 20 states, all but one of them Republicans, have now joined as confident litigants in a bid to topple its central pillar. In the process, they hope to present the Supreme Court with a landmark opportunity to define the limits of federal authority, perhaps for generations.
 In the seven weeks since the legislation passed, at least a dozen lawsuits have been filed in federal courts to challenge it, according to the Justice Department. But the case that could carry the most weight, and may be on the fastest track in the most advantageous venue, is the one filed in Pensacola, Fla., by state officials, just minutes after President Obama signed the bill.
 Some legal scholars, including some who normally lean to the left, believe the states have identified the law's weak spot and devised a credible theory for eviscerating it. 
 The power of their argument lies in questioning whether Congress can regulate inactivity -- in this case by levying a tax penalty on those who do not obtain health insurance. If so, they ask, what would theoretically prevent the government from mandating all manner of acts in the national interest, say regular exercise or buying an American car?
 Other experts, however, dismiss the Florida lawsuit as a politically motivated lark at taxpayer expense, and argue that the insurance mandate falls comfortably within Supreme Court precedents. The states, they say, may not even withstand a challenge to their standing to bring the suit, since they are only indirectly affected by the mandate.
 The focus of the litigation is the 16-word clause in Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution that allows Congress to regulate interstate commerce, a provision the court has interpreted broadly but not without boundaries. The lead plaintiff, Attorney General Bill McCollum of Florida, who is running for the Republican nomination for governor, argues that the new law's historic reach presents the courts with fresh circumstances.
 ''In the last 50 years or so,'' Mr. McCollum said, ''other than Brown v. Board, I think the constitutional precedents here will have a greater impact on more people than maybe anything else the court has decided.'' 
 Jonathan Turley, who teaches at George Washington University Law School, said that if forced to bet, he would predict that the courts would uphold the health care law. But Mr. Turley said that the federal government's case was far from open-and-shut, and that he found the arguments against the mandate compelling.
 ''There are few cases in the history of the court system that have a more significant assertion of authority by the government,'' said Mr. Turley, a civil libertarian who acknowledged being strange bedfellows with the conservative theorists behind the lawsuit. ''This case, more than any other, may give the court sticker shock in terms of its impact on federalism.''
 Mr. McCollum, 65, said he first became fixated on the constitutionality of the mandate last September, after reading a column in The Wall Street Journal by two Washington lawyers, David B. Rivkin Jr. and Lee A. Casey, of the white-shoe firm Baker Hostetler. Mr. McCollum had worked for the firm after retiring from the House of Representatives in 2001, but said he had never collaborated with the men and knew them only well enough to say hello in the hallway. 
 Mr. Rivkin, 53, and Mr. Casey, 52, who have worked together since meeting in the Reagan Justice Department, had been warning in columns since the early 1990s that a health insurance mandate would extend Congress's power to regulating Americans ''merely because you exist.'' 
 The lawsuit grew out of regular conference calls among a group of attorneys general who were threatening to challenge the so-called Cornhusker Kickback, a provision favoring a single state, Nebraska, that ultimately was dropped from the bill.
 The complaint initially was filed by attorneys general from 13 states, with Mr. McCollum's name listed first, like John Hancock's. Seven other states have since committed to join, some after bitter disagreements between governors and attorneys general from opposing parties. Virginia, which pre-emptively enacted a law intended to nullify a federal insurance mandate, has filed a separate lawsuit.
 The states have hired Mr. Rivkin and Mr. Casey as outside counsel under a contract that restricts their fees to $50,000 this year. The lawyers agreed to reduce their hourly rate to $250, from $950, a practice Mr. Rivkin said was standard for public-sector clients. 
 Four of the attorneys general named as plaintiffs are running for governor. Attorney General Henry McMaster of South Carolina, who faces a competitive Republican primary for governor in June, is broadcasting a television advertisement about the litigation in which he vows to ''protect the sovereignty of South Carolina.'' Mr. McCollum's campaign Web site features a petition in support of his lawsuit to ''stop Obamacare.''
 The Justice Department said it would ''vigorously defend'' the cases. ''We are confident that this statute is constitutional and that we will prevail,'' said Tracy Schmaler, a department spokeswoman.
 Congressional bill writers took steps to immunize the law against constitutional challenge. They asserted in the text that the insurance mandate ''substantially affects interstate commerce,'' the Supreme Court's standard for regulation under the Commerce Clause. They labeled the penalty on those who do not obtain coverage an ''excise tax,'' because such taxes enjoy substantial constitutional protection. Supportive analyses by prominent law professors were read into the Congressional Record.
 Nonetheless, there is a broad assumption that the health care law will earn Supreme Court review, although it could take two years or more to get there. The judge in Pensacola, Roger Vinson, has scheduled oral arguments for Sept. 14 on the Justice Department's anticipated motion to dismiss the case. With no real facts to try, those legal arguments would effectively serve as a trial.
 The lawsuit could have been filed anywhere. But several lawyers involved said they wanted the first review to rest with the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, a generally conservative bench that handles cases from Florida. 
 The state's Northern District includes a courthouse in Tallahassee, six blocks from Mr. McCollum's office. But Mr. McCollum instead filed the case 200 miles away in Pensacola, bypassing a Tallahassee judge who was named by President Bill Clinton and ensuring that the judge would be a Republican appointee.
 ''We thought with the judges, we'd do as well there as anywhere else,'' Mr. McMaster said. ''But it's the strength of the case we're counting on.''
 The suit lodges three related claims against the health law.
 It challenges the federal government's vast expansion of Medicaid as ''an unprecedented encroachment on the sovereignty of states.'' The Justice Department plans to counter that states do not have to participate in Medicaid, according to sources familiar with its thinking. But the states argue that their health care systems have grown so dependent on Medicaid that withdrawing would be catastrophic. 
 A second count attacks the tax penalty on the uninsured, saying it is an illegal direct tax, and not an allowable excise tax on goods or services.
 But the central challenge concerns the Supreme Court's interpretation of the Commerce Clause, as expressed in four decisions handed down over 63 years. If the court interprets the clause broadly, as it did in two seminal cases on the subject, the health insurance mandate is likely to survive.
 In those two cases, Wickard v. Filburn in 1942 and Gonzales v. Raich in 2005, the court ruled that Congress's regulatory authority was so extensive that it could even prevent growers from cultivating crops for personal use because of the cumulative impact on the market.
 But twice in the last 15 years, the court has invalidated laws that used the Commerce Clause to justify the regulation of noneconomic activity, like restrictions on carrying guns near schools. The constitutionality of the individual mandate, therefore, may rest on whether the justices can be convinced that decisions not to obtain insurance substantially affect interstate commerce.
 Lawyers for the government will contend that, because of the cost-shifting nature of health insurance, people who do not obtain coverage inevitably affect the pricing and availability of policies for everyone else. That, they will argue, is enough to satisfy the Supreme Court's test.
 But to Mr. Rivkin, the acceptance of that argument would herald an era without limits. 
 ''Every decision you can make as a human being has an economic footprint -- whether to procreate, whether to marry,'' he said. ''To say that is enough for your behavior to be regulated transforms the Commerce Clause into an infinitely capacious font of power, whose exercise is only restricted by the Bill of Rights.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Attorney General Bill McCollum of Florida, center, is the lead plaintiff in a challenge to the health care law. Mr. McCollum, a candidate for governor, campaigned recently in Pensacola. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL SPOONEYBARGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); STANDING TO SUE (75%); POLITICS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



265 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Soar After Europe Announces Rescue Plan

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Bettina Wassener, Jack Ewing and Hiroko Tabuchi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For a day, at least, investors could exhale.
 After a bruising five sessions last week that erased all of the year's gains -- including a momentary free fall on Thursday that remains largely unexplained -- stock indexes roared back on Monday. Credit markets also recovered from their malaise.
 Feeding the rally was an extraordinary agreement among European leaders to provide a rescue package of nearly $1 trillion to stop the spreading debt crisis. Financial stocks received a particular boost as fears receded, for now at least, of a default on Greek sovereign debt that might have hit the balance sheets of some big banks. 
 ''I looked at the numbers and said 'My goodness, that must be a misprint,' '' Anthony Conroy, head equity trader for BNY ConvergEx Group, said of his initial reaction to news of the European intervention. ''They are really sending a statement that we are going to fix the issues and we are going to fix them now.''
 The United States indexes opened sharply higher and stayed there. The Dow Jones industrial average soared 404.71 points, or 3.9 percent, to 10,785.14. It was the largest point gain since March 23, 2009, when the Dow closed up 497.48 points as it was recovering from lows that month.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 48.85 points, or 4.4 percent, to 1,159.73, and the Nasdaq composite index climbed 109.03 points, or 4.81 percent, to 2,374.67.
 The rebound was reminiscent of the reaction by investors to the United States government's plan, in September 2008, to buy up hundreds of billions of dollars worth of distressed mortgages. It was Washington's initial attempt to shore up banks that had been hobbled by the credit crisis, and it sent stock and credit markets sharply higher. 
 After rallies in Asia and Europe on Monday, Wall Street was primed for a rowdy opening. Traders said they returned to their desks early on Monday and were deluged with orders. Phones rang nonstop. Market strategists held conference calls with institutional investors and reset their portfolios. Treasuries sold, the financial sector rallied, and market indexes jumped. 
 ''We were busy at 6:30, already busy trading,'' Mr. Conroy said, adding, ''Normally there would be just a couple of orders, but this morning, multiply that exponentially.''
 Tom di Galoma, the United States head of fixed-income rates trading for Guggenheim Partners, said the day started with a string of phone calls as investors measured the effect of the plan. 
 ''There has been a tremendous amount of conference calls with customers related to what we think the plan actually does for the market place,'' he said. ''Spreads are tightening in the corporate bond market, and people are taking more risk in equities.''
 That sentiment was reflected in the credit markets, where the cost of insuring against default on both European government debt and banks fell sharply, after rising steadily for weeks. So did the yield premium that investors demand on Greek, Spanish and Portuguese debt, suggesting that investors were less fearful of default.
 Referring to the market turmoil on Thursday, he added: ''I still think people are in a state of shock because of what happened last week.'' The rally in the United States was preceded by renewed market confidence in Europe, where shares jumped on word of the nearly $1 trillion support package from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, which was followed by a pledge by the European Central Bank to intervene in the bond markets. The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, rose 10.35 percent. The FTSE 100 index in London increased 5.16 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris climbed 9.66 percent and the DAX in Frankfurt 5.3 percent. 
 As traders returned to riskier investments, gold and bond prices tumbled. Crude oil settled up $1.69, at $76.80 a barrel in New York. The Treasury's 10-year note fell 30/32, to 100 22/32. The yield rose to 3.54 percent from 3.43 percent.
 The moves also took the pressure off the euro, which bounced back from 14-month lows. The 16-nation currency jumped above the $1.30 barrier for the first time in a week before settling back to $1.2804 in trading in New York.
 Some investors said they were still waiting on the sidelines, fearful that European leaders had just papered over the growing problems in Greece, Portugal and Spain, using new debt to cover old debt.
 ''At least for the moment it puts aside any concerns,'' said one cautious investor, Marc Harris, co-head of global research at RBC Capital Markets.
 Officials involved in the rescue said they were relieved by the market's reaction.
 ''We wouldn't want to make too much of one day's response, but it looks like the involvement of the I.M.F. and the final approval of this joint program -- Greek, European, I.M.F. -- has had a very sharply positive impact on markets,'' John P. Lipsky, the first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said Monday in a conference call with reporters.
 Justin Golden, a senior strategist for Macro Risk Advisors, said he and colleagues worked through the night on Sunday, calling clients and exchanging messages on a chat system to try to make sense of the European announcement and to gauge how it would affect stocks and options prices. The last time they worked through the night was in January, when news of Greece's troubles emerged. 
 On Monday, he was glued to the screen early to get a sense for how the euro, specifically, would respond because United States equities investors had recently been taking their guidance from the currency.
 Some analysts had said the European Central Bank had missed an opportunity to take bold action last Thursday, so the size, if not the action, was a real surprise. 
 ''I think that is pretty typical for the E.C.B.,'' Mr. Golden said. ''Apparently they tend to downplay what they are working on and are a little less quick to the trigger.'' 
 He said the size of the bailout had been a surprise. ''We are calling it a financial bazooka,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rallies in Asia and Europe were followed by brisk trading at the New York Stock Exchange. The Dow industrials rose 404 points. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B8) CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday (Source: Bloomberg).
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer)(B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (71%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%)

COMPANY: CONVERGEX INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



266 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: The Calculus of Upgrades

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Accumulating frequent-flier miles used to be relatively straightforward. You could add to your miles by flying or through a credit card affiliated with an airline. Pretty soon, you had enough miles to get free tickets or upgrades to business class, or even first class.
 But as this summer travel season approaches, anyone hoping to use miles to upgrade to business class to Europe, say, should first read the fine print -- and then take out the calculator. 
 Here's why: Getting an upgrade can involve just cashing in frequent-flier miles or cashing in miles and paying an additional fee -- and the amounts vary by airline. Then, you have to consider the type of seat you buy, because airlines differ on which seats can be upgraded. So while all the airlines allow upgrades from economy-class seats, some set a higher hurdle for the kinds of economy tickets you must buy to be upgraded. 
 Some programs, like those of American Airlines and Continental Airlines, appear to offer more flexibility than Delta Air Lines, for example. And benefit programs, even among airlines that are more flexible, may vary. 
 Randy Petersen, who overseas the Web site of WebFlyer, says that travelers may want to believe that all frequent-flier plans are created equal, but they are not. ''The two most important parts are miles and the money to upgrade.'' 
 Tim Winship, publisher of FrequentFlier.com, which tracks the frequent-flier business, agreed. ''The whole question of which fares are upgradeable is a dirty little secret. The airlines will tell you that if you do your research, it will be disclosed that only such and such a fare base is upgradeable,'' he said. ''There is an incentive to mislead people because it makes the miles look more valuable if you don't get into much detail before you can upgrade.'' 
 There are other factors at work, too. One, for example, is how many seats are available for upgrades, although the airlines keep much of that information private. And much of the choice of frequent-flier programs is dictated by where you live and which airlines dominate your hometown market. For instance, neither United, which has a sliding scale policy related to the price of an economy ticket, nor US Airways, which charges $300 and 30,000 miles each way to upgrade regardless of ticket price, now fly directly to Europe out of New York's airports. 
 Passengers who choose Delta Airlines instead of American or Continental are generally required to buy a more expensive economy-class ticket if they want to become eligible to upgrade to business class for overseas trips. 
 Asked about the comparisons, Paul Skrbec, a Delta spokesman, said: ''The description is accurate. We are very clear on what people need to do within our program rules.'' 
 Continental and American let passengers upgrade from an economy-class ticket -- even the least expensive ones. And even though those airlines charge a fee for the upgrades as well as take miles out of your account, a recent check of upgrade costs on Delta for trips to London from New York and to Rome from Chicago, showed that the out-of-pocket costs on Delta were higher. 
 An upgradeable ticket on a 10-day trip from New York to London starting on June 1 would cost $2,356 round trip on Delta. If an upgrade were available, it would require 25,000 miles each way, but there would be no additional charge. A simple economy-class ticket would cost $953.60, but would not allow a passenger to apply for upgrades. 
 The same trip on American turned up the same price, $953.60, for the ticket. To upgrade -- if the upgrade were available, and that is an ''if'' on any airline, would cost $350 and 25,000 miles each way. If a traveler is cleared for upgrade in both directions, the fare would be $1,653.60. For an upgrade in just one direction, the fare would be $1,303.60. 
 Also noteworthy, an American Airlines passenger can request an upgrade for just one leg of the trip. With Delta, on the other hand, a passenger who wants to upgrade in only one direction would still have to pay for the higher round-trip ticket to qualify for the one-way upgrade (though he or she would use only 25,000 miles). 
 Continental has its own version of the upgrade. On a route from New York to Amsterdam, for instance, where both Delta and Continental fly direct, an upgradeable Delta ticket was $2,710.40 and would require 50,000 miles to upgrade both ways. Continental has a slightly more complex, but less costly formula. For its lowest fare, for the first week in June, a ticket would cost $1,145 round trip along with $500 to upgrade each way. But Continental takes only 20,000 miles for each upgrade. So a total round-trip upgrade would cost $2,145 and 40,000 miles. 
 Continental also has a sliding scale for the fees. For the traveler who buys a higher-class economy ticket for $1,776.41, the charge for upgrade drops to $250 each way (and 20,000 miles each way). Continental also offers a full-fare economy ticket, for $2,417 round trip, that allows an upgrade for 40,000 miles, without extra fees.
 Airlines vary as well on the numbers of miles required for each leg of an upgrade. United Airlines, like Continental, charges 20,000 miles for each leg of most upgrades overseas, while both American and Delta charge 25,000.
 Of course, these fares change frequently; what was true in the summer may not be true in the fall, and pricing gaps between airlines on the same route could shrink or widen.
 For a round-trip ticket from New York to London leaving on Oct. 1, a recent check showed the price of a Delta upgradeable ticket at $2,376.50, nearly the same as in June.
 American's price, meanwhile, jumped to $1,099, from $953.60 in June. 
 Travelers should expect the cost of upgrading to continue to rise.
 ''Between the rebounding of the economy and the cutback in inventory, the airlines have more pricing power, and I expect that to continue for the foreseeable future,'' Mr. Winship said. ''Everything points in the direction of increased ticket prices.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tim Winship, publisher of Frequentflier.com, says airlines do not tell all. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (93%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); AIR FARES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); LOYALTY MARKETING (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (74%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



267 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; GLOBAL UPDATE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: CHINA: A New Market Economy and Old Stigmas Lead to an Increase in Cases of Syphilis

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Syphilis, which was nearly eliminated from China under Maoist rule, is now the most commonly reported communicable disease in the country's largest city, Shanghai, according to an article in The New England Journal of Medicine last week. 
 The national rate of syphilis in babies of infected mothers, which can be disabling or fatal, is also soaring.
 ''No other country has seen such a precipitous increase in reported syphilis cases in the penicillin era,'' wrote the co-authors, who are from American, Chinese and British medical schools.
 They blamed two factors:
 First, the new market economy has made many men rich enough to buy sex from poor young women and men. Also, the traditional stigmatization of prostitution, along with authorities who fine sex workers or send them to so-called re-education centers, make both the workers and their clients afraid to go to clinics for testing.
 In the 1950s, the Communist government closed hundreds of brothels and treated thousands of sex workers with penicillin. 
 Within a decade, sexually transmitted diseases were almost unknown in China, the authors said (while not mentioning the many other social restrictions imposed in that era that could have contributed).
 To tackle the problem in today's China, the authors suggest that national and local governments admit the problem and commit money to it. But they also suggest that private advocacy groups be encouraged to do screenings at bars, brothels and other sex venues using new rapid blood tests that need only a half-hour to wait for results.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALY SONG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (94%); PROSTITUTION (90%); WRITERS (90%); ANTIBIOTICS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); DISEASE REPORTING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%) EAST CHINA (90%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



268 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: For Crime, Is Anatomy Destiny?

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Poverty, greed, anger, jealousy, pride, revenge. These are the usual suspects when it comes to discussing the causes of crime. In recent years, however, economists have started to investigate a different explanation for criminal activity: physical attributes. 
 A small band of economists has been studying how height, weight and beauty affect the likelihood of committing -- or being convicted of -- a crime. Looking at records from the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries, they have found evidence that shorter men are 20 to 30 percent more likely to end up in prison than their taller counterparts, and that obesity and physical attractiveness are linked to crime.
 ''The profession has developed a large interest in biology,'' what some refer to as anthropometric economics or history, said Gregory N. Price, an economist at Morehouse College and one of the authors of a paper on height and crime.
 There is already a sizable stack of research that examines the connections between physical characteristics and the labor market. Economists have found, for example, that every inch of additional height is associated with a nearly 2 percent increase in earnings; that employees rated beautiful tended to earn 5 percent more an hour than an average-looking person, while those rated as plain earned 9 percent less; that obesity can cause a drop in white women's earnings. 
 To make a point about income tax, Gregory Mankiw, an economist at Harvard and the former chairman of President George W. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, has facetiously proposed taxing taller people more, since someone 6 feet tall can be expected to earn $5,525 more a year than someone who is 5-foot-5, after accounting for gender, weight and age.
 Linking physical traits to criminality may sound like a throwback to the biological determinism advocated by 19th-century social Darwinists who believed that there was a genetic predisposition for wrongdoing. Practitioners are quick to distance themselves from such ideas. 
 Mr. Price, for example, argues that crime can be viewed, at least partly, as an ''alternative labor market.'' If individuals with certain physical attributes are disadvantaged in the labor force, they may find crime more attractive, he said.
 H. Naci Mocan, an economist at Louisiana State University and an author of a paper on crime and attractiveness, explained that theories about the relationship between weight, height or beauty and the labor force emerged because ''economists looking at standard determinants -- like education, experience, productivity, human capital -- found that they could only explain some of the variation in wages.'' 
 ''This is very new,'' Mr. Mocan said of the research into crime. ''It opens up our horizons a little more.'' 
 A link between a physical attribute and salary, or crime, does not necessarily mean cause and effect. Mr. Mocan pointed out that we do not know why someone who is overweight, unattractive or short is at a disadvantage in the labor market or more likely to commit a crime. It could be employer discrimination, customer preference or that the physical attribute may make the worker less productive. If a job involves carrying heavy loads, for instance, brawn would be an advantage.
 That is what both Howard Bodenhorn, an economist at Clemson University, and Mr. Price concluded from 19th-century prison records. In that era increased body weight was associated with a lower risk of crime. In the 21st century, though, in which service jobs are much more common, Mr. Price found that being overweight was linked to a higher risk of crime. 
 Mr. Mocan and Erdal Tekin, an economist at Georgia State University, analyzed data from a national survey of adolescent health that involved 15,000 high school students who were interviewed in 1994, 1996 and 2002. They found that being unattractive in high school was correlated with a lower grade point average, more problems with teachers and suspensions. 
 Other studies have found that shorter students tend to participate less frequently in clubs and sports. As a result these students may suffer a drop in self-esteem or not develop certain kinds of social skills that are useful later in life, the two economists theorized. 
 According to their study, both men and women who were rated unattractive (as rated on a five-point scale) in high school were more likely to commit -- or at least more likely to be caught while committing -- one of seven crimes, including burglary and selling drugs, than those rated average or attractive. 
 Mr. Price said anthropometric economics was based on the work of economic historians -- including the Nobel Prize-winner Robert Fogel, John Komlos at the University of Munich and Richard H. Steckel at Ohio State University -- who have used height and weight to assess changing social conditions. 
 Since biologists believe that 80 percent of height is determined by genetics and 20 percent by environmental conditions, height -- and sometimes weight -- can be an index of childhood nutrition, health care and exposure to disease. Thus smaller stature may be a sign of an impoverished upbringing.
 Mr. Komlos, for example, wrote a 2007 paper with Benjamin E. Lauderdale that found that Americans were the ''tallest in the world between colonial times and the middle of the 20th century,'' but have since ''become shorter (and fatter) than Western and Northern Europeans. In fact, the United States population is currently at the bottom end of the height distribution in advanced industrial countries.'' 
 ''We conjecture,'' they concluded, ''that the United States health-care system, as well as the relatively weak welfare safety net, might be why human growth in the United States has not performed as well in relative terms as one would expect on the basis of income alone.'' 
 Though beauty would superficially seem to be in the same category as weight and height, studies that assess the economic advantage of being attractive are actually quite different, said Christina Paxson, an economist at Princeton who has studied the relationship between stature and status. While height is a sign of health and social conditions, the impact of beauty is more psychological, she said. There the question is how someone's perception of a worker's productivity, skill and talent is influenced by looks. 
 Mr. Price has suggested that there may be policy implications in his work, saying, ''Public health policies successful at reducing obesity among individuals in the population will not only make society healthier, but also safer.''
 At the moment, Mr. Mankiw is skeptical of any real-world utility. ''Economists love quantifying things,'' he said, ''but there are so many possible interpretations, it doesn't settle debates as much as it opens up questions.'' 
 He did note that his students at Harvard have been particularly fascinated by the research that shows quantifiable economic advantages of beauty. The benefit of these ''weird facts,'' he said, is that it ''forces you to think about the world in ways you didn't before.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OBESITY (77%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); INCOME TAX (71%); WOMEN (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



269 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: After Half-Steps, Major Rescue Took a Nudge From Washington

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, KATRIN BENNHOLD and DAVID E. SANGER; Steven Erlanger and Katrin Bennhold reported from Paris, and David E. Sanger from Washington. Reporting was contributed by James Kanter from Brussels, Sewell Chan and Brian Knowlton from Washington, and Judy Dempsey from Berlin.

 BODY:
PARIS -- President Obama had just flown into Hampton, Va., Sunday morning to deliver a commencement address. But before he donned his silky academic robes, he was on the phone with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, offering urgent advice -- and some not so subtle prodding -- that Europe needed to try something big.
 Weeks of hesitant half-steps to address Greece's debt problems had only worsened market worries about the euro, and were threatening the still-fragile economic recoveries in the United States and Asia. Now, Mr. Obama told Mrs. Merkel that the Europeans needed an overwhelming financial rescue to end speculation that the euro -- and European unity -- could crumble.
 ''He was trying to convey that he knew these were politically difficult steps that the leaders there had to take, that he had gone through them as well,'' said one senior administration official familiar with the conversation. ''And that, from his experience, trying to get out ahead as much as possible was the right way to go.'' 
 That call was part of what a senior Treasury Department official called ''one long conversation'' with European leaders, who over an extraordinary weekend of late nights and early mornings overcame German resistance and agreed to a wholesale expansion of the bloc's political and financial mission. Bending the rules, they backed the stability of all 16 countries that use the euro with loan guarantees adding up to nearly $1 trillion.
 In the process, the European Union, under crisis conditions, moved fitfully toward more centralization, toward a French vision of an economic government for the region. It is a role not totally unlike the one that the federal government in the United States played during the early stages of the financial crisis in 2008.
 But to get there involved intense bargaining among leaders, especially the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, who was in Brussels, and Mrs. Merkel, who was in Moscow, but also the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi; Group of 7 finance ministers; the Japanese; and the Americans, according to interviews with numerous participants in the talks in Europe and the United States.
 The deal also required a contentious telephone vote by the members of the board of the European Central Bank, who agreed, though not unanimously, to do what the bank said last week it had not even considered -- buying up the sovereign debt of the weakest members of the euro zone, those nations using the euro currency, effectively guaranteeing their debt to protect them from anxious investors.
 After the 16 leaders of the euro zone met Friday evening into early Saturday to confirm their previous deal for Greece, which the markets had considered inadequate, they agreed they had to do more. Their finance ministers gathered Sunday in Brussels, under a deadline to act before financial markets opened in Asia on Monday morning, to hammer out the details.
 It was another of the all-night sessions that have come to epitomize the challenge of making decisions in Brussels, where 27 sovereign states with more than 450 million people sometimes painfully decide to share their sovereignty. The crisis most directly touches the 16 nations that use the euro. But it may also affect the fate of the single currency -- a main symbol of the new European unity -- and thus touches the entire European Union.
 But the states that share the euro, which is controlled by the independent European Central Bank, do not share a single treasury, tax system or budgetary authority. The euro's lack of coordinated financial backing had become excruciatingly evident after Greece admitted that its level of debt was much higher than previously reported, due to bad management and prevarication.
 A sovereign debt crisis -- compounded by a recession that had cut tax receipts and prompted extra government stimulus spending all over Europe -- began to gnaw at those countries most exposed and least competitive: Greece, Portugal and Spain.
 American officials became worried about the European response as early as February, a senior administration official in Washington said on Monday, when European leaders repeatedly stated that the Greece problem was well contained. They believed that mere expressions of support would be enough to calm the markets -- and that they did not need to put in real commitments of emergency funds.
 The Americans were less persuaded, telling their counterparts that they had to eradicate ''the risk of default.'' The Europeans debated this internally and, in the mind of one senior American official, who would not speak on the record, the Europeans ''waited too long.''
 ''Had they acted sooner,'' he said, ''They might have gotten away with less.''
 The United States officials began talking to their counterparts about an American concept: overwhelming force. ''It's all about psychology,'' said the senior official. ''You have to convince people that the government will get its act together.''
 But it was not until Sunday, one official noted, that the meltdown spreading across Europe was regarded as ''an existential threat.''
 Aware that the ''wolf pack'' markets, as the Swedish finance minister called them, had dismissed their every move so far as too little, too late, some of Europe's leaders knew they had to act in a big way -- to ''shock and awe'' the markets. To encourage them, Mr. Obama made his calls, first to Mrs. Merkel, who was losing a key state election in North Rhine-Westphalia, and, three hours later, to Mr. Sarkozy.
 Washington was also ready to help, in a limited but crucial way. The Federal Reserve offered to swap euros for dollars, easing pressure on European central banks, which were bleeding dollars.
 European finance ministers arrived in Brussels on Sunday with broad agreement on the need for a fiscal contribution from the European Union budget and some kind of fund to stabilize the most troubled markets. By several accounts in Europe, a 500 billion-euro figure first emerged Sunday afternoon, when Mr. Sarkozy called Mrs. Merkel after each had spoken with Mr. Obama.
 But how was that huge sum to be raised with the agreement of the politicians who wanted to keep control of their hastily devised rescue?
 Germany was insisting on a solution that involved bilateral loans from European member states, similar to the much smaller Greek bailout agreed to a week earlier. But countries like Italy and Spain feared that they would be unable to raise the amounts required and lobbied for loan guarantees on funds raised by the European Commission.
 As the evening unfolded, Germany, Britain and the Netherlands all opposed the commission's proposal to raise money on capital markets guaranteed by member states. The British and Dutch said the proposal was tantamount to giving a ''blank check'' to the European Union's governing commission, according to a European diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 Near midnight Sunday night, the talks appeared deadlocked, these participants said. ''The deal is exploding,'' read the text message of one French official to Paris, where Mr. Sarkozy was demanding regular updates and was pushing for a bigger agreement.
 Then came the deal-making idea -- put together, according to different officials from different countries, by the French, the Italians, the Dutch and a crucial German banker.
 Axel Weber, the president of the conservative Bundesbank, who is favored to succeed Jean-Claude Trichet as the next president of the European Central Bank, suggested a mechanism for Europewide loan guarantees that finally won support from a reluctant German government during a midnight call, participants said.
 The idea was for a new mechanism euphemistically called ''a special purpose vehicle'' -- essentially eurobonds created by intergovernmental agreement among euro zone countries. That vehicle, supposedly to last only three years, would raise up to 440 billion euros on the markets with loans and loan guarantees, depending on the need.
 The Germans, together with other northern Europeans like the Dutch, British and Austrians, insisted that the European Commission not control the vehicle but only manage it -- in conjunction, as with the Greek deal, with the International Monetary Fund. The fund would provide discipline, as well as roughly one euro for every two from Europe.
 The ''special purpose vehicle'' finally broke the French-German deadlock. Jose Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission, said Monday that agreement came at 2:15 a.m.
 ''Now Europe is finally getting noticed,'' noted one French official late Monday. ''I just wish it was under different circumstances.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Among those at one weekend meeting in Brussels were France's finance minister, Christine Lagarde, and Greece's, George Papaconstantinou, third from right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIRGINIA MAYO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EURO CRISIS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (59%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (93%); FRANCE (92%); ASIA (92%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



270 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: For Administration, an Ill-Timed Request for Aid

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Fannie Mae's request on Monday for another $8.4 billion in federal aid comes at a politically inconvenient time for the Obama administration, which is pressing to pass sweeping financial legislation without resolving the company's future.
 The government has already transfused $137.5 billion into Fannie Mae and its cousin, Freddie Mac, since seizing the two mortgage financing giants in August 2008. The money covers losses on mortgages that the companies bought or guaranteed during the housing boom, allowing them to continue buying new loans. 
 Democrats want to defer an overhaul of federal housing policy until next year, after the midterm elections. But Republicans have seized on the continuing losses to argue that a plan for the two companies should be a priority of the current legislation.
 It is an argument that Democrats have struggled to deflect. ''I think it's a fair claim to make to say we haven't done enough to address Fannie and Freddie,'' Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, said in an interview on CNBC Monday. ''It is the big elephant in the room.''
 Mr. Warner then reiterated his party's position that that it would be better to return to the issue next year ''in a more thoughtful way.''
 Republicans, meanwhile, tied up debate on the financial bill last week with speeches in favor of an amendment proposed by Senator John McCain of Arizona requiring the government to sever ties with the companies within five years. Fannie and Freddie would then be left to fend for themselves as private companies.
 ''The time has come to end Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's taxpayer-backed slush fund and require them to operate on a level playing field,'' Mr. McCain said.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were created by Congress to reduce the cost of home ownership. The companies buy mortgage loans from banks and other lenders, freeing up money for another round of loans. By providing a guaranteed return, the companies also allow lenders to charge lower interest rates.
 During the housing boom, the companies used their profits to build portfolios of investments in high-risk mortgage loans, which are now losing value.
 Fannie Mae said Monday that it lost $11.5 billion in the first quarter compared with a loss of $23.2 billion a year ago.
 The company essentially became the world's largest investor in mortgage loans, and its losses reflect the vast numbers of Americans who continue to default.
 One consequence is that Fannie Mae now owns real estate worth $11.4 billion. The company said it acquired 61,929 single-family homes in the first quarter alone.
 Freddie Mac said last week that it lost $8 billion in the first quarter. It asked for another $10.6 billion in federal assistance.
 For now, the quarterly requests are a formality. The Obama administration committed late last year to cover all losses by the two companies through 2012, replacing an earlier promise to cover losses up to $400 billion over that same period. 
 The total losses are not expected to cross that threshold, but the companies' prospects remain grim. Both said in first-quarter filings that they could not foresee any reasonable prospect of a return to profitability. 
 At the same time, the companies have become more important to the health of the housing market as private sources of mortgage funding evaporated almost completely during the financial crisis. Those sources have yet to make a significant comeback. 
 The government directly or indirectly provided financing for 96.5 percent of mortgage loans in the first quarter, according to the trade publication Inside Mortgage Finance.
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, argued in a memo to other leading Democrats last week that it was important to distinguish between the companies' past mistakes and their present contributions to the health of the housing market.
 While the losses that they are experiencing on old loans are unavoidable, Mr. Frank said the companies already had tightened lending standards to reduce future defaults.
 ''This is an important point that has to be repeated -- as Fannie and Freddie operate today, going forward, there is no loss,'' Mr. Frank wrote. ''The losses are the losses that occurred before we took the first step towards reforming them -- we the Democrats -- and nothing we could do today will diminish those losses.''
 Peter J. Wallison, a fellow in financial policy at the American Enterprise Institute, said it was true that the government could do nothing to stem the losses in the short term, but that it was a mistake not to decide the companies' future as soon as possible.
 ''Right now we have a consensus that something needs to be done,'' Mr. Wallison said. ''The sensible thing to do is to put Congress in a position where they have to act within a certain period of time.''
 Pushing the debate into the future, he said, created the risk that Congress would pass the present bill, congratulate itself on addressing the financial crisis, and lose its appetite for the difficult question of what do about Fannie and Freddie.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Barney Frank said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had tightened their lending standards. Senator Mark Warner, left, said he would wait to address the mortgage lenders. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: MARK WARNER (88%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); BARNEY FRANK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



271 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Rules Eased for Labor Organizing at Airlines

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Labor unions will have an easier time organizing workers at airline and railroad companies after the Obama administration on Monday changed a 76-year-old rule on union elections. 
 The change is a victory for unions that have struggled to reverse years of decline in membership. And it's the most significant initiative so far in a string of White House moves intended to help organized labor.
 The new rule, announced by the three-member National Mediation Board, would recognize a union if a simple majority of workers who cast ballots approved organizing. The previous rule required a majority of the entire work force to favor unionizing. That meant workers who did not vote were effectively treated as no votes.
 The most immediate impact of the change would be at Delta Air Lines, where unions are trying to organize about 20,000 flight attendants. Unions are also expected to seek to organize workers at smaller carriers, including Allegiant Air, JetBlue Airways, Republic Airways and SkyWest.
 Airlines that fought the change said it would lead to more labor disputes that could disrupt commerce and increase delays in an industry already reeling from recession, higher fuel costs and stepped-up security hurdles.
 The Air Transport Association, which represents most major airlines, is expected to file a lawsuit challenging the rule.
 Proponents of the change say the old rule ran contrary to democratic standards where the outcome of an election is determined by the majority of those who vote. The change puts the airline and railroad industries under the same procedures as most other companies, which are overseen by the National Labor Relations Board.
 The board proposed the rule change in October, after a request from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. That request came soon after President Obama named Linda Puchala -- former head of a flight attendants' union -- to the board, shifting the balance of power.
 The final rule was approved 2-1, with the chairwoman, Elizabeth Dougherty, issuing a fierce dissent. Ms. Dougherty, who was appointed by President George W. Bush, said the change was ''an unprecedented departure for the National Mediation Board and represents the most dramatic policy shift in the history of the agency.''
 Airlines and railroads employ more than 500,000 workers, and about two-thirds of those are already in unions. That's much higher than the overall union membership rate of 12 percent.
 But one exception to the higher rate is at Delta, where only about 15 percent of workers were union members before the carrier merged two years ago with heavily unionized Northwest Airlines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (70%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%); LITIGATION (50%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (91%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); ALLEGIANT TRAVEL CO (55%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (55%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (57%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (91%); ALGT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); NAICS481211 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (55%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (51%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010



272 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4212 words

HEADLINE: Pragmatic New Yorker Chose A Careful Path to Washington

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG, KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and LISA W. FODERARO.; Adam Liptak, Charlie Savage and Elissa Gootman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- She was a product of Manhattan's liberal, intellectual Upper West Side -- a smart, witty girl who was bold enough at 13 to challenge her family's rabbi over her bat mitzvah, cocky (or perhaps prescient) enough at 17 to pose for her high school yearbook in a judge's robe with a gavel and a quotation from Felix Frankfurter, the Supreme Court justice.
 She was the razor-sharp newspaper editor and history major at Princeton who examined American socialism, and the Supreme Court clerk for a legal giant, Thurgood Marshall, who nicknamed her Shorty. She was the reformed teenage smoker who confessed to the occasional cigar as she fought Big Tobacco for the Clinton administration, and the literature lover who reread Jane Austen's ''Pride and Prejudice'' every year.
She was the opera-loving, poker-playing, glass-ceiling-shattering first woman to be dean of Harvard Law School, where she reached out to conservatives (she once held a dinner to honor Justice Antonin Scalia) and healed bitter rifts on the faculty with gestures as simple as offering professors free lunch, just to get them talking. 
 Elena Kagan has been all of these things, charting a careful and, some might say, calculated path -- never revealing too much of herself, never going too far out on a political limb -- that has led her to the spot she occupies today: the first female solicitor general of the United States, who won confirmation with the support of seven Republicans, and now, at 50, President Obama's nominee for the United States Supreme Court.
 ''Elena is open-minded, pragmatic and progressive,'' said Walter Dellinger, an acting solicitor general in the Clinton administration who is close to both Ms. Kagan and the White House. ''Each of those qualities will appeal to some, and not to others.
 ''Her open-mindedness may disappoint some who want a sure liberal vote on almost every issue,'' Mr. Dellinger said. ''Her pragmatism may disappoint those who believe that mechanical logic can decide all cases. And her progressive personal values will not endear her to the hard right. But that is exactly the combination the president was seeking.''
 In some respects, Ms. Kagan's traits -- her desire to build consensus through persuasion, her people skills, her ability to listen to others -- mirror those Mr. Obama sees in himself; on Monday, he cited her temperament as one reason he picked her. They are qualities that the president hopes will play out in a leadership role on a deeply divided court. While Ms. Kagan has cited Justice Marshall as one she most admires, some expect her to behave more like the center-left Justice David H. Souter, who retired last year, or the master tactician Justice John Paul Stevens, whom she would succeed if confirmed.
 ''She was one of the most strategic people I've ever met, and that's true across lots of aspects of her life,'' said John Palfrey, a law professor who was hired at Harvard by Ms. Kagan. ''She is very effective at playing her cards in every setting I've seen.''
 Ms. Kagan's paper trail is scant, her academic writings painstakingly nonideological. And while Justice Sonia Sotomayor, a fellow New Yorker and Princeton graduate, has written and spoken extensively about her childhood, Ms. Kagan, the daughter of a lawyer and a schoolteacher, the granddaughter of immigrants, is more private. During her academic and public life, she has rarely spoken of her political beliefs.
 When Mr. Dellinger interviewed her recently for a forum at Georgetown Law, he prodded her to talk about her past, and the influences that shaped her. She obliged, somewhat reluctantly, serving up only some bland details about her admiration for her parents.
 Yet as a young writer for The Daily Princetonian, the student newspaper at Princeton, Ms. Kagan offered insight into her worldview. She had spent the summer of 1980 working to elect a liberal Democrat, Elizabeth Holtzman, to the Senate. On election night, Ms. Kagan drowned her sorrow in vodka and tonic as Ronald Reagan took the White House and Ms. Holtzman lost to ''an ultraconservative machine politician,'' she wrote, named Alfonse M. D'Amato.
 ''Where I grew up -- on Manhattan's Upper West Side -- nobody ever admitted to voting for Republicans,'' Ms. Kagan wrote, in a kind of Democrat's lament. She described the Manhattan of her childhood, where those who won office were ''real Democrats -- not the closet Republicans that one sees so often these days but men and women committed to liberal principles and motivated by the ideal of an affirmative and compassionate government.''
 It was perhaps the last time Ms. Kagan shared her political views so openly. Last year, at her confirmation hearing to become solicitor general, senators focused less on her politics than on whether she was too much in the ivory tower, with too little lawyerly experience to argue cases before the nation's highest court. The experience question will surely come up again, given that Ms. Kagan has never been a judge.
 ''One of the things I would hope to bring to the job is not just book learning, not just the study that I've made of constitutional and public law, but of a kind of wisdom and judgment, a kind of understanding of how to separate the truly important from the spurious,'' Ms. Kagan said. ''I like to think that one of the good things about me is that I know what I don't know and that I figure out how to learn it when I need to learn it.''
 A Leader Emerges
 At Hunter College High School in the 1970s, Ms. Kagan was a standout in a school of ultrabright girls. At least one classmate there, Natalie Bowden, remembers she had an ambitious dream: to become a Supreme Court justice.
 ''That was a goal from the very beginning,'' Ms. Bowden said. The school, which then occupied two floors of an office building at 46th Street and Lexington Avenue, was and remains one of New York's elite public high schools. It drew girls from across the city and an array of backgrounds -- all admitted on the strength of their performance on an entrance exam, rather than money or family connections.
 ''We were really exposed to tremendous diversity there,'' said Ellen M. Purtell, a high school classmate of Ms. Kagan's, ''whether it was a Jewish girl from the Upper West Side or a cop's kid from the Bronx or the daughter of a C.E.O. from the Upper East Side or kids whose parents worked in sweatshops in Chinatown.''
 It was a rigorous, nurturing environment that instilled an ethos of public service.
 ''There was no driver's ed, there was no home economics, you didn't learn to type,'' said Jennifer Raab, the president of Hunter College, who attended the high school a few years ahead of Ms. Kagan, who graduated in 1977. ''You were reading great books, and you were going to college. You were going to lead, you were going to give back.''
 Ms. Kagan, the middle child of three, grew up in a family that embraced such values. They lived in a third-floor apartment at West End Avenue and 75th Street that was comfortable, but not fancy, in the days before the Upper West Side became trendy. The dinner talk tended to current events.
 ''Verbal sparring was commonplace in their home,'' said Gail Katz-James, a cousin of Ms. Kagan. ''They just really enjoyed debating and discussing everything.''
 Ms. Kagan's mother, Gloria, who died two years ago, taught fifth and sixth grade at Hunter College Elementary School, which Elena attended. Her brothers followed their mother's footsteps. Marc, a onetime subway worker and union activist, teaches social studies at the Bronx High School of Science, while Irving teaches social studies at Hunter College High.
 Ms. Kagan, who has never married, adopted her father's love of opera, the New York Mets and the law. With her infectious laugh and New York accent, she brought a chuckle out of the senators at her confirmation hearing when she called herself ''a famously excellent teacher.'' But family friends say, she is her father's daughter.
 Robert Kagan, who died in 1994, represented tenant associations whose rental apartments were being converted to co-ops. A graduate of Yale Law (Mr. Kagan was said to have been crushed when his daughter chose Harvard Law though she also had been accepted at Yale), he was also immersed in the politics and culture of the West Side.
 He fought the controversial Westway Highway project as chairman of Community Board 7, an influential citizens' advisory group. He was a trustee of the West End Synagogue and president of the United Parents Association, a citywide advocacy group.
 ''He could deal with people in extremely difficult circumstances -- everything at the grass-roots level on the Upper West Side was a major problem,'' said William J. Lubic, Mr. Kagan's law partner of 20 years. ''That was his talent. I firmly believe that that's what his daughter got from their relationship.''
 The young Ms. Kagan was independent and strong-willed. Mr. Lubic recalls her bat mitzvah -- or bas mitzvah, as it was then called -- in a synagogue where Elena clashed with the rabbi over some aspect of the ceremony.
 ''She had strong opinions about what a bas mitzvah should be like, which didn't parallel the wishes of the rabbi,'' Mr. Lubic said. ''But they finally worked it out. She negotiated with the rabbi and came to a conclusion that satisfied everybody.''
 Friends recall her as confident, likeable and careful not to flaunt her smarts. Adults did not seem to intimidate her.
 Ms. Purtell recalled one teacher who sometimes insulted students. ''When he would ask a question that I think he half the time assumed was an unanswerable question, she would answer it, and just look at him as if to say, 'Is that all you have?' ''
 One thing was unusual about Ms. Kagan: she smoked cigarettes. One old friend, Margaret Raymond, now a law professor at the University of Iowa, said Ms. Kagan was the only girl she knew who smoked in high school. Another classmate remembers Ms. Kagan helped get smoking ''legalized'' in one of four girls' bathrooms. Disco was the rage in New York back then, but Ms. Kagan's was not a partying crowd; on Saturday nights, Ms. Raymond said, they were more apt to sit on the steps of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and talk.
 Ms. Kagan emerged as a leader. She became president of the student government. Although there was nothing judicial about the position, in her senior yearbook Ms. Kagan, in wire-rimmed aviator glasses and long hair, is pictured on the group's page wearing a judge's robe, gavel in hand. Underneath her senior picture is a quotation from Justice Frankfurter, who was appointed to the Supreme Court by President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
 ''Government,'' it reads, ''is itself an art, one of the subtlest of arts.''
 Choosing a Path
 Ms. Kagan's arrival at Princeton in the fall of 1977 proved a bit of a shock. Its eating clubs did not appeal to her; men made up two-thirds of the student body. She quickly found a home at The Daily Princetonian, the student paper. By her senior year she held a top job: editorial chairwoman. She always held her own in debates.
 ''She would argue, she would disagree with you, but it was controlled, restrained, forceful,'' said Peter Elkind, now an editor-at-large for Fortune magazine. ''There was a toughness there.''
 Her circle of friends was a high-powered one, including Eliot Spitzer, the future governor of New York, who became student body president. Bruce Reed, who would hire her as his deputy when he ran the White House Domestic Policy Council under President Bill Clinton, worked under Ms. Kagan at the paper. Mr. Reed said he wrote ''smart-alecky columns, mostly about politics,'' while she seemed ''determined to have a serious discussion about the nation's problems.''
 Some at the ''Prince,'' as the paper was called, chafed at the restrictions against student journalists working in politics. Ms. Kagan was not among them, friends say. But she did spend one summer interning for Representative Ted Weiss, Democrat of New York, and another with Ms. Holtzman.
 In her senior year, after she left the paper, she joined Mr. Spitzer in signing a manifesto, ''Campaign for a Democratic University,'' that called for a greater role in student governance. As a history major, Ms. Kagan dove into the roots of American radicalism in a senior thesis titled ''To the Final Conflict: Socialism in New York City, 1900-1933.'' In the acknowledgments, she thanked her brother Marc, whose ''involvement in radical causes,'' she wrote, ''led me to explore the history of American radicalism in the hope of clarifying my own political ideas.''
 In 153 pages, the paper examines why, despite the rise of the labor movement, the Socialist Party lost political traction in the United States -- a loss that she attributed to fissures and feuding within the movement. ''The story is a sad but also a chastening one for those who, more than half a century after socialism's decline, still wish to change America,'' she wrote.
 If that sounds like a defense of socialism, her adviser, Prof. Sean Wilentz, asserts that is not the case.
 ''To study something is not to endorse it,'' he said.
 She graduated summa cum laude, went off to Oxford on a two-year fellowship and returned to enroll in law school at Harvard, where, predictably perhaps, she made law review. It was a time of deep political divisions on the law school campus and review board, said Jeffrey Toobin, a classmate and close friend of Ms. Kagan's who today covers legal issues for The New Yorker and CNN.
 ''She was someone who could always navigate easily between and among factions,'' Mr. Toobin said.
 She went on to win two plum clerkships, first for Judge Abner J. Mikva, of the federal appeals court in Washington, and then for Justice Marshall. In the afternoons, the female Supreme Court clerks went to the gym to do Jane Fonda's workout. The 5-foot-3 Ms. Kagan played basketball with the men.
 ''I wouldn't say she dominated,'' said Harry Litman, a fellow clerk. ''It was very much a hacker's game.''
 To Ms. Kagan, Justice Marshall was an icon. But she made clear that he did not exactly take her under his wing.
 ''You know, I was a 27-year-old pipsqueak and I was working for an 80-year-old giant in the law and a person who, let us be frank, had very strong jurisprudential and legal views,'' she told senators during her confirmation hearing. ''He knew what he thought about most issues. And for better or for worse, he wasn't really interested in engaging with his clerks on first principles.''
 In 1988, as she was wrapping up her clerkship, it was time for Ms. Kagan to make a career decision. She had hoped to work for a Democratic administration but George Bush won the presidency. So she went to work for Williams & Connolly as a litigator in Washington, though it was clear she was not motivated by money.
 Carol Steiker, a fellow clerk who is now a Harvard law professor, recalls Ms. Kagan's interview with a young associate at a mergers and acquisition firm in New York.
 ''He was single and he had no family and he was earning -- the sum seemed unimaginable -- $750,000 a year as a young partner,'' Professor Steiker said. ''So she asked the guy, 'What do you do with all that money?' And he said, 'I buy art.' I remember her telling that story, and just shaking her head.''
 'Very Focused'
 If there was one trait about Ms. Kagan that stood out, beyond her obvious intellect, it was her fierce ambition.
 ''This was a very focused person,'' said Richard A. Epstein, a professor at the University of Chicago Law School, where Ms. Kagan took a job in 1991. ''There was this desperate desire to get ahead in the world and make a mark for herself.''
 Ms. Kagan arrived the same year as another bright young lawyer, Barack Obama, an Illinois state senator who lectured in constitutional law on the side. Unlike Mr. Obama, Ms. Kagan was on a tenure track. She quickly demonstrated a gift for teaching.
 ''She was tough, she was independent-minded, she was demanding of her students, she had a good sense of humor,'' said Geoffrey R. Stone, the professor who hired her. ''The students admired her and raved about her right from the beginning.''
 And she was intense, so much so that life's mundane tasks would sometimes slip her mind. The native New Yorker Ms. Kagan was never a very good driver. ''A couple of times when she was so focused on her work, she would park her car and leave it running overnight,'' said Lawrence Lessig, a longtime friend who taught alongside Ms. Kagan in Chicago. ''She just forgot to turn it off.''
 As a scholar, Ms. Kagan's interests were narrow, somewhat technical, and free of ideology. Her papers examined questions like when the government could limit free speech. ''This is not a subject about which there is any ideological slant,'' Professor Stone said. ''It's an intellectual puzzle.''
 She was granted tenure in 1995, despite the reservations of some colleagues who thought she had not published enough. Shortly thereafter, Washington beckoned. Judge Mikva was Mr. Clinton's White House counsel and offered Ms. Kagan a spot as an associate.
 She knew it was a risk. Chicago, like many universities, would allow her leave for up to two years. After that she would have to resign, giving up her tenure. That is exactly what she did, in December 1996, when Bruce Reed, her old friend from Princeton who was then Mr. Clinton's director of domestic policy, asked her to stay on as his top deputy.
 ''Elena thought going ahead in politics was the better path,'' Professor Epstein said. ''I think her preferred path was to stay there an extra year, get a really big administrative position, or a judgeship.''
 Inside the White House, Ms. Kagan developed a reputation as a kind of in-house constitutional lawyer, batting around ideas with the president. She was also a policy powerhouse on a range of matters, including a contentious tobacco bill that sought to give the Food and Drug Administration regulatory authority over cigarettes. Although it never passed, she won over important Republicans like Senators John McCain of Arizona, and Bill Frist of Tennessee. ''She and McCain hit it off from the beginning,'' Mr. Reed said.
 But sometimes Ms. Kagan rubbed colleagues the wrong way. Jamie Gorelick, a deputy attorney general in the Clinton administration, told The New York Sun in 2006 that Ms. Kagan, whom she admired, was sometimes seen as brusque and overly demanding.
 ''She was extremely aggressive when she was in the White House in trying to carry out the president's agenda,'' Ms. Gorelick was quoted as saying. ''She was not the most popular person there in part because of that.''
 In 1999, Ms. Kagan almost received her judgeship, when President Clinton nominated her to a seat on the federal appeals court for the District of Columbia, where she had clerked for Judge Mikva. But the nomination fell through; Republicans would not schedule a hearing. The seat eventually went to John G. Roberts Jr., now the chief justice.
 Change Comes to Harvard
 The law school at Harvard University resembled a dysfunctional family, stuck in the legal Dark Ages, when Ms. Kagan took over as dean in 2003. When her judgeship fell through and her tour in the Clinton White House expired, she had tried to return to Chicago, but was rebuffed. Instead, she took a visiting professorship at Harvard; four years later, the university's president, Lawrence H. Summers (now Mr. Obama's top economics adviser) installed her as dean.
 The faculty was at odds with itself. The curriculum was out of date. The gym and the dining facilities were old and run-down. The professors were aging, the students unhappy and the law school trailed Yale in the all-important school ranking in U.S. News & World Report.
 Ms. Kagan undertook a top-to-bottom transformation. Often, her consensus-building efforts revolved around meals -- a hint, friends say, of her nurturing, Jewish-mother side. With the faculty unable to come to terms over how to update the first-year curriculum, Ms. Kagan opened her home.
 ''She would have the corporate law people, then the public law people, then the criminal law people to her house for dinner and they would talk about it,'' said John Manning, a law professor Ms. Kagan poached from Columbia in January 2004. Together with Martha Minow, who succeeded her as dean, Ms. Kagan built a proposal to add courses on legislation, international law and problem-solving. The faculty adopted it unanimously.
 But perhaps the hallmark of Ms. Kagan's tenure as dean was breaking the logjam that had bogged down the hiring of new professors.
 The faculty was divided into ideological factions and each could stop a new hire. Ms. Kagan convinced her colleagues that the law school needed fresh blood. She went after star professors at other universities and helped raise significant amounts of money to lure them to Cambridge. In less than six years, she added 22 slots to a faculty of 81.
 Her hiring binge became the subject of an April Fool's parody in 2008 in The Harvard Law Record. ''Dean Kagan Hires Every Law Professor in the Country,'' the headline blared.
 Critics have noted that most of the hires were white men, though law school officials say more women and minorities received offers than they accepted.
 But Ms. Kagan broadened the faculty ideologically. Mr. Manning, a conservative, was one of the first professors she hired. Another early recruit was Jack Goldsmith, a Justice Department official in the Bush administration.
 Allies have praised Ms. Kagan as a consensus-builder, but one Harvard law professor who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal politics at the school, said she was more of a coalition-builder. The faculty was essentially split in three, this person said: conservatives, liberals and those in the middle who usually backed the dean.
 ''Elena would count the votes and say, 'This crowd will vote for X and I want X, so that will be two-thirds and we'll make it happen,' '' the professor said. ''It was not that she won over people after they suddenly saw the wisdom of what she wanted.''
 To Washington
 For someone so prominent in academia, Ms. Kagan published very little. Except for her deep involvement in a fracas over whether military recruiters could use the law school's facilities, Ms. Kagan did not write or speak out on the issues of the day. On Veterans Day, she took pains to have dinner with military students. But on the matter of barring gay men and lesbians from openly serving in the armed forces, she was adamant, and her statements are bound to be a subject of her confirmation hearings.
 ''I abhor the military's discriminatory recruitment policy,'' Ms. Kagan wrote, calling it ''a moral injustice of the first order.''
 One of her biggest accomplishments at Harvard, former students and faculty members say, was simply making the campus more student-friendly. She renovated the gym and opened a skating rink and volleyball court. She put free tampons in the ladies' rooms. Her first summer, she hired contractors to create a place for students to sit outside Harkness Dining Hall and renovated the Harkness Commons. She created a faculty dining area that served free lunch.
 ''She put two big round tables in the room and created a good place where people could get to know each other,'' Mr. Manning said. ''She understands human nature very well.''
 When Ms. Kagan left Harvard to become solicitor general, the federal government's top appellate lawyer, in March 2009, she had argued no cases in the United States Supreme Court and had, indeed, just recently become a member of its bar.
 Six months later, she made her debut in a case that would turn out to be one of the court's biggest decisions in recent years, Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission.
 She lost.
 The court ruled against Ms. Kagan in January by a 5-to-4 vote, with the court's more conservative justices in the majority. Now that decision, which allowed unlimited corporate spending in candidate elections, will figure prominently in Ms. Kagan's coming hearing. Mr. Obama has used the case to argue that the court under Chief Justice Roberts is engaging in a conservative brand of judicial activism.
 Mr. Obama has been looking for a justice who can counter what he regards as the court's rightward tilt. In introducing Ms. Kagan to the nation on Monday, the president spoke of her ''understanding of the law, not as an intellectual exercise or words on the page, but as it affects the lives of ordinary people.''
 Ms. Kagan, in brief remarks, spoke of her love for the law, ''not just because it's challenging and endlessly interesting -- although it certainly is that -- but because law matters; because it keeps us safe; because it protects our most fundamental rights and freedoms; and because it is the foundation of our democracy.''
 But as she spoke in the East Room of the White House, with the president and vice president beside her, the solicitor general, a woman whose fast rise through government and academia now puts her within reach of the job she coveted as a teen, had a wistful look.
 ''If this day has a just a touch of sadness in it for me,'' Ms. Kagan said, ''it is because my parents aren't here to share it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Solicitor General Elena Kagan on Monday at the White House with President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
New York high school student/ aspiring judge, in 1977. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUNTER COLLEGE HIGH SCHOOL) (A1)
SCHOOL DAYS: In high school on a trip to Philadelphia, top left, and with members of the school government, above. At left below, from a University of Chicago Law School publication for 1992-93. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HUNTER COLLEGE HIGH SCHOOL
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO LAW SCHOOL)
INFLUENCES: Ms. Kagan worked on the unsuccessful Senate campaign of Elizabeth Holtzman, and was a clerk in Washington first to Judge Abner J. Mikva, and later to Justice Thurgood Marshall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
TIM BOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS
ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A14)
 THE NOMINATION: Ms. Kagan, with Vice President Biden and President Obama, on Monday. Ms. Kagan and Mr. Obama were colleagues at University of Chicago Law School. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); APPEALS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); SMOKING (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); HISTORY (70%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOE BIDEN (68%); DAVID SOUTER (58%); ANTONIN SCALIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



273 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Pushes Through a Bill To Furlough Workers for a Day

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
ALBANY -- The Legislature approved an emergency budget bill on Monday that would authorize Gov. David A. Paterson to furlough about 100,000 state employees, roughly half the state's work force, without pay for one day.
 Public employee unions contended that the furloughs, which officials said would be the first for state workers in New York, would be illegal, and they said they would seek a temporary restraining order in Federal District Court here to block Mr. Paterson's plan.
 While some lawmakers, including many who voted for the bill, also questioned the legality of the furloughs, they said they had little choice but to approve the legislation because failing to do so would have effectively shut down the state government. The furlough plan, which would require each affected worker to take one day off next week, was included in the emergency spending bill needed to keep money flowing to state agencies.
 ''We're not stopping government,'' said Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker. ''I think that ultimately the courts will overturn it.'' 
 The Senate Democratic leader, John L. Sampson, suggested that lawmakers would welcome a court challenge by the unions.
 ''The executive furlough plan is a potentially unlawful breach of contract, and we will be supportive of challenges to preserve the rights of hard-working families,'' Mr. Sampson said in a statement.
 Battered by the recession and short on revenue, officials in at least 11 states have sought to furlough workers to save money. But in some cases, courts have sided with the unions that represent government workers, blocking the furloughs on the ground that forcing workers to take an unpaid leave violates collective bargaining agreements.
 ''This action on the part of the governor is clearly illegal,'' said Kenneth Brynien, the president of the Public Employees Federation, one of several unions that represent state workers in New York. ''We have a contract that says that we work all year and make a certain amount of money.''
 Mr. Paterson announced last week that he would pursue the furloughs after the unions refused other concessions to save the state money, like giving up a 4 percent raise or delaying employees' paychecks by several days. The one-day furlough is expected to save the state about $30 million, and the governor has said he would seek additional furloughs every week until the Legislature reaches a deal with him on the state budget, which is now nearly six weeks late.
 The furloughs will exclude most public safety and health workers like State Police troopers, correction officers and nurses.
 ''I recognize that these furloughs represent a difficult sacrifice for many of the state's public employees,'' Mr. Paterson said in a statement issued moments after the final vote. ''That sacrifice is only necessary because their union leadership has rejected all other reasonable attempts at compromise.''
 ''In the days ahead,'' he added, ''the special interests will use every tool at their disposal to try and prevent me from doing what is necessary to put our state's fiscal house in order. My only objective is to help New York turn the corner on this fiscal crisis, and that goal guides every decision I make as governor.''
 Many legislators expressed their anguish during debate about having to choose between furloughs or a government shutdown. And Republicans attacked Democrats, who control both chambers, for failing to close a budget deal.
 The Senate unanimously approved a nonbinding resolution sponsored by Neil D. Breslin, a Democrat from the Albany area, that declared the furloughs illegal and asked Mr. Paterson to resubmit his emergency bill without the furlough language. The governor, who is also a Democrat, had said he would refuse to do so.
 ''This is a unilateral decision by the governor to force us to vote against the extender bill,'' Senator Breslin said. ''If we voted against that extender bill and it failed, everyone would be without health insurance. Motor vehicle departments would be closed down.''
 The measure passed in both chambers along party lines. The Senate vote was 32 to 29, with all Republicans voting against the bill, and the Assembly voted 82 to 56, with some Democrats joining the Republicans in opposition.
 ''We were told as soon as they blew by the April 1 budget deadline that negotiations were continuing and that weekly emergency extenders were necessary to keep government functioning,'' Dean G. Skelos, the Republican Senate leader, said in a statement. ''By voting against the budget extender, Senate Republicans are delivering a message that enough is enough.''
 As lawmakers prepared to vote, about 2,000 state employees rallied outside the Capitol, heckling and even cursing Mr. Paterson in a show of emotion that underscored his low standing with lawmakers and the public.
 ''We know the governor is furloughed at the end of the year,'' said Danny Donahue, the president of the Civil Service Employees Association, referring to Mr. Paterson's decision to abandon plans to run for election this fall. ''If we could get rid of him now, we would.''
 Gesturing to a large inflatable rat, which unions typically deploy outside nonunion work sites, that was tethered to the lawn, Mr. Donahue added: ''Some say the rat is a good symbol for our governor. I say that's an insult to rodents.''
 Union leaders said Mr. Paterson and his staff did not try to negotiate concessions until after the budget deadline and had refused to consider their suggestions for saving money, like replacing independent contractors with unionized workers.
 Protesters waved signs reading ''Cut the waste, not the workers,'' ''I Love N.Y., It's Gov. Paterson I Can't Stand'' and ''Where Is Your 20% Pay Cut, Governor?'' (Mr. Paterson voluntarily gave back 10 percent of his salary last year.)
 Joe Fox, the vice president of the Public Employees Federation, issued a blunt warning to state lawmakers. ''Do the right thing, and we'll remember you in November,'' Mr. Fox said. ''Do the wrong thing, and we'll remember you in November.''
 Workers said it was unfair for Mr. Paterson to blame them for the state's cash problems.
 ''I live paycheck to paycheck,'' said Paula Sheahan, 59, who said she has worked in state data-entry jobs for 17 years. ''I can't lose 20 percent of every paycheck.''
 Those feelings were echoed by Andrew L. King, 62, who works for the State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance.
 ''We work hard,'' Mr. King said. ''Cuts have to be done, but there are better ways to do it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption in some editions on Tuesday with an article about the New York Legislature's approving furloughs for state employees misidentified the party of Peter D. Lopez, the assemblyman shown. He is a Republican, not a Democrat.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: State workers protesting the plan on Monday tethered an inflatable rat, far left, outside the Capitol. Unions said they would seek to stop the furloughs in court. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (76%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (65%); CONTRACTS LAW (65%); FAMILY (65%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



274 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: A Scenic Village That Knew What It Wanted, and Got It

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
PELHAM MANOR, N.Y. -- A decade ago, this suburb in southern Westchester County, where well-kept 1920s Tudor and colonial houses command some of the highest prices in the county, was home to a blighted industrial area bordering the Bronx to the south and Mount Vernon to the west.
 The site, 75 acres in the southwest corner of the village with cracked pavement, vacant warehouses and a struggling strip mall, was not just an eyesore. Officials in the 1.2-square-mile village thought it should be generating enough property tax revenue to offset some of the burden carried by homeowners. 
 ''In short, it was pretty valuable real estate down there that had not been developed to its highest and best use,'' said John C. Hays, the mayor of Pelham Manor since last year. 
 Now much of that blight is gone. Big-box outlets like a 130,000-square-foot B. J.'s Wholesale Club and a 75,000-square-foot Fairway grocery store, which opened last month, are the anchor for two busy retail plazas that attract shoppers from Westchester County and New York City. The area is just west of the Hutchinson River Parkway and north of Interstate 95, along Boston Post Road and Pelham Parkway.
 The changes have not come easily. It took more than a decade to overhaul zoning in the village of some 5,500 residents, fight a court challenge to the new rules and clean up contamination in the ground, among other things, before the resurrection of the area could occur.
 The seeds were planted in 1999, when the village drew up a master plan and instituted zoning that prohibited industrial uses. Occupants of nonconforming properties were given five years to either meet guidelines or close their business, a move that residents of the village supported heartily but that was resisted by owners of warehouses and heavy-equipment businesses, said John T. Pierpont, who as village manager serves as clerk, treasurer, building inspector and superintendent of public works.
 ''Our conversations with the property owners did not work that well,'' Mr. Pierpont said. One of them, Rusciano & Son Corporation, challenged the new zoning on procedural grounds and initially won its case in State Supreme Court in White Plains. The village successfully appealed the ruling in 2003. 
 The next year, Acadia Realty Trust of White Plains and two partners signed a 95-year ground lease on the 17-acre site owned by Rusciano & Son. Joel Braun, a senior vice president and chief investment officer of Acadia, would not divulge financial details of the lease, but at the time said the company planned to spend $35 million to raze a number of brick warehouses and build a 200,000-square-foot retail center where the B. J.'s Wholesale Club and a Michaels arts and crafts store now stand. 
 About that time, Levin Management of North Plainfield, N.J., decided to upgrade its 280,000-square-foot Post Road Plaza strip mall across Pelham Parkway from the Rusciano site, which was built in the mid-1960s, said Matthew Harding, the company's president. 
 There are about 20 stores in the plaza now, including a Modell's, a Dress Barn and an A. J. Wright, with the new Fairway as the centerpiece. A decade ago, the mall was not performing well. A series of department stores, including E. J. Korvette, Caldor and Kmart, had occupied the space where Fairway is now. Before construction of Fairway could proceed, though, the village required that Con Edison, which previously occupied the site, spend $100 million to clean up chemical contamination in the ground.
 The village drove a hard bargain as the new retail space was developed, officials with both developers said. ''They knew what they wanted,'' said Mr. Braun of Acadia, ''and that included no signage facing the Hutchinson River Parkway. They were insistent.''
 Village officials rejected any plans that called for unadorned big-box stores, neon signs or large areas of asphalt without landscaping, among other things. 
 ''We didn't want to take a cookie-cutter approach, so we spent a lot of time considering the architectural aspects of what would be built there,'' said Mr. Hays, who was a member of the zoning board of appeals at the time. ''It had to be in keeping with the tone of the rest of the village.'' 
 Yet, at the same time, village leaders wanted the new construction to recall the area's industrial roots, said Nanette H. Bourne, a senior vice president and director for AKRF, an environmental, planning and engineering firm in White Plains that served as consultants to the village.
 On the Acadia site, where brick warehouses were razed, new design standards called for rooflines and large, multipaned windows that resembled those of old factories and warehouses.
 ''We had a clear vision of what we wanted,'' Ms. Bourne said. 
 With an eye to further development on the sites, the village has also required that new retail buildings have large windows on all sides so that they were not oriented only toward the street.
 Already, the village is realizing an economic benefit from its rezoning and redevelopment effort, Mr. Pierpont said. A Pelham Manor homeowner with a four-bedroom house worth about $1.5 million with annual taxes of about $40,000 is saving about $700 a year because of it, he said.
 Of the village's $10.3 million annual tax levy, about $8.3 million comes from residential property taxes, but that is shifting. Last year, a $200,000 increase in the tax levy was ''virtually absorbed by the new commercial development,'' Mr. Pierpont said. 
 ''This year, the shift is continuing,'' he said. ''Clearly, we've been moving in the right direction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A B. J.'s Wholesale Club and a Fairway grocery store, which opened last month, are the anchors for two shopping plazas in the southwest corner of Pelham Manor, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (88%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); RETAILERS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); MAYORS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%); APPEALS (60%)

COMPANY: BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (70%); ACADIA REALTY TRUST (51%)

TICKER: AKR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (70%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (70%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



275 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Teachers Face Calls for Concessions as Schools in Region Confront Fiscal Troubles

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Teachers are giving up raises in at least five Long Island districts, including Brentwood, where the 1,400 teachers will also take individual pay cuts of $900 that will be repaid to them without interest when they leave or retire.
 Teachers are facing a wage freeze in 44 of the 69 Connecticut districts that reached new teacher contracts this year, something virtually unheard of in a state where the average raise has been about 2.5 percent. 
 And in Pelham and Scarsdale, two places in Westchester County that have long been synonymous with well-paid teachers, they voted to reopen their contracts and shave off a portion of their scheduled raises. 
 Such concessions come amid threats of widespread layoffs, state and local government budget cuts and insistent public calls that teachers make sacrifices in a tough economy.
 ''Nobody wants to give up money,'' said Joe Hogan, president of the Brentwood teachers' union, whose members unanimously agreed to give up their raises to prevent hundreds of layoffs and save music, art and sports programs. ''Did everybody do this happily? I don't think so. But did they do this because of the times we're in? Yes.''
 In the past year, cost-saving measures like wage freezes, pay cuts, furlough days and higher insurance premiums have spread from cash-poor metropolises like Detroit and Los Angeles to upscale suburban communities that pride themselves on their schools.
 In the New York region, at least 121 school districts -- 67 in New York, 34 in New Jersey and 20 in Connecticut -- have reported concessions from teachers, according to state education departments, school board associations and advocacy groups.
 Nowhere has the call for teacher givebacks been louder than in New Jersey, where Gov. Christopher J. Christie, a Republican, has demanded that every teacher accept a wage freeze and urged voters last month to reject budgets in districts where they refused. A record 58 percent were defeated. 
 In New York State, where school budget elections will be held next week, Long Islanders for Educational Reform, a citizens' group, has started Operation Rollback to oppose budgets in districts that did not freeze either teachers' wages or school taxes. 
 ''We deserve a tax break and the kids deserve to keep their programs more than the teachers need a raise,'' said Fred Gorman, one of the group's founders.
 School superintendents and board members say they have been caught in the middle, left with no choice but to reduce teacher payrolls -- either through salary concessions or layoffs -- to offset sharp revenue drops from state aid cuts, declining property values and resistance to higher taxes. ''At a certain point, there's nowhere else to go'' to achieve savings, said Michael V. McGill, the superintendent in Scarsdale, whose 460 teachers are among the best paid in the nation, earning $54,442 to $135,000. Faced with the prospect of 20 layoffs, a majority of Scarsdale's teachers voted to reopen their contract to shave one percentage point off an expected raise of 3.25 percent in each of the next two years. That would save $1.9 million.
 Agreeing to such concessions is not the same as being happy about them.
 John Yrchik, executive director of the Connecticut Education Association, which represents 37,000 teachers and has spent $300,000 since January on statewide television advertisements and billboards in Hartford, said: ''Whenever there have been shortfalls in revenue, teachers have been asked to make up the difference. The climate has not been one of collaboration or respect for teachers.'' 
 Schools across New York State could lay off more than 15,000 teachers this summer, according to projections by union leaders and education officials; that includes 6,400 in New York City, where teachers have not agreed to salary concessions (but they also have not received any raises this year, because their contact expired in October). New Jersey is facing more than 9,000 layoffs, and Connecticut, more than 1,000.
 Kate Walsh, president of the National Council on Teacher Quality, a nonpartisan advocacy group in Washington, said ''it seems like a no-brainer'' that teachers' unions were better off accepting salary concessions than risking widespread layoffs. The council tracks teacher contracts in the nation's 100 largest school systems, and it found that 38 had wage freezes in place for this year and 10 others had pay cuts.
 But Robert J. Rader, executive director of the Connecticut Association of Boards of Education, noted ''a lot of concern, and a lot of anger'' over teachers' unions that have steadfastly refused to make concessions even as practically every other school group has.
 In Waterford, Conn., the teachers' union rejected a proposal to replace two professional-development days with unpaid furloughs next year but reversed itself after the district agreed to provide some training at other times, said Randy Collins, the superintendent. In Pelham, N.Y., where schools are the center of town life, some residents began speaking up at school board meetings last year to ask why teachers were not doing more to help.
 ''I have never heard such accusations against teachers,'' said Frank Orfei, a social studies teacher for 32 years. ''Many teachers feel like we've been made scapegoats of an economic crisis that we didn't have anything to do with.''
 In response, Pelham teachers voted 205 to 26 in favor of taking smaller raises of 2.9 percent and 2.7 percent over the next two years, instead of the 3.5 percent and 3.8 percent in their contract -- a savings to the district of more than $850,000. Mr. Orfei, president of the Pelham teachers' union, said he was gratified when Pelham's PTA leaders recently wrote a letter to a local newspaper commending the teachers for their sacrifice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (79%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (79%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (79%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (65%); TAX RELIEF (65%); EDUCATION REFORM (64%); SUBURBS (64%); SPORTS (52%); SPORTS & RECREATION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



276 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Japan Shops Its Bullet Train Technology, Aiming to Profit From U.S. Ambitions

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI; Makiko Inoue contributed reporting from Tokyo.

 BODY:
TSURU, Japan -- The experimental MLX01 maglev is the world's fastest train. But it is confined to a 12-mile track. And like the train itself, its technology has been trapped in Japan.
 Now, though, Japan wants to begin exporting its expertise in high-speed rail. 
 On Tuesday, the Central Japan Railway Company took the visiting United States transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, on a test run -- a 312-mile-an-hour tryout for the lucrative economic stimulus contracts that the United States plans to award to update and expand its rail network.
 ''Very fast,'' Mr. LaHood said after stepping off the maglev at a track nestled here in mountains west of Tokyo. ''We're right at the start of an opportunity for America to be connected with high-speed, intercity rail,'' he said.
 The overseas push is a big turnabout for Japan, which long jealously protected its prized bullet train technology. But lately Japan has been forced to rethink that, prompted by a declining market for passenger and freight traffic at home, as well as a flurry of overseas opportunities.
 Japan has also been goaded into a new export boldness by the rise of China, a rival whose surge in construction of high-speed rail networks could give Beijing an economies-of-scale edge in the global railway market.
 In recent months, top Japanese government officials, including the transport minister, Seiji Maehara, have traveled to the United States angling for a piece of the $13 billion that the Obama administration has pledged for the development of 11 high-speed rail lines throughout the country.
 Of particular interest to the Japanese has been a planned $1.25 billion, 84-mile high-speed link between Tampa and Orlando -- the first leg of a corridor that state officials hope will eventually reach Miami. Twenty-two companies are bidding for the contract, and Washington is set to announce a winner this year.
 Japan has also been keen to market its high-speed rail technologies to emerging economies. Earlier this month, Mr. Maehara visited Vietnam to negotiate financing for a 1,570-kilometer (975-mile) high-speed rail link that will link the country's south to the capital, Hanoi, in the north.
 Japan has confidence in its bullet train technology. In the decades since its first bullet train pulled out of Tokyo Station on Oct. 1, 1964 -- just 10 days before the nation held its first Olympics -- the high-speed rail network has had no fatal accidents. Japanese officials are also quick to point out the trains' down-to-the-minute punctuality, despite a heavy passenger flow of 300 million people a year.
 Central Japan Railway, which is based in Nagoya and is more commonly known as JR Central, is promoting its N700-I trains, which are in use in Japan and can run at a top speed of about 330 kilometers (205 miles) an hour.
 But JR Central has also been showing off its MLX01 maglev bullet train, still in its testing phase, which in 2003 clocked the world's fastest trial run of 581 kilometers (361 miles) an hour.
 Maglev, short for ''magnetic levitation,'' uses powerful magnets that allow the train to float just above the track, reducing friction. The train starts off on wheels, then gravitates upward after reaching high speeds.
 But cost is a problem, with even a limited maglev system costing millions of dollars, said Hitoshi Ieda, a professor in civil engineering at the University of Tokyo. Inexperience with marketing and negotiating overseas could also hamper Tokyo's overseas push, he said.
 If Japan does not start selling maglev trains overseas, it risks losing its technological edge, Mr. Ieda warned. ''There is a limit to developing technology in a laboratory,'' he said. ''To truly advance technology, you need experience, new and challenging projects, and economies of scale.''
 The high costs have meant that JR Central, struggling with a decline in passenger traffic, is not set to open its own maglev line anytime soon.
 Meanwhile, the Obama administration wants to make sure that any foreign companies that supply high-speed rail works also bring jobs to the United States.
 ''The only thing that we ask of manufacturers is, come to America, find facilities to build this equipment in America and hire American workers,'' Mr. LaHood said Tuesday.
 Deadlines are looming. Of the $13 billion planned in the United States for high-speed rail projects, $8 billion is included in the budget for this fiscal year. Other railroad powerhouses include Bombardier of Canada, Siemens of Germany and Alstom of France, as well as General Electric and Lockheed Martin of the United States.
 Unless JR Central can win a contract, the maglev, for now, could stay nothing more than a novelty. On Tuesday, a handful of tourists cheered at an observation deck as the train zipped by.
 ''It's so fast, it's shocking,'' said Hiroko Koda, 69, a homemaker from Mie in western Japan who was visiting the track with her husband. ''This is the kind of technology that Japan should be proud of,'' she said. ''I do hope they find customers overseas.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 2010, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about Japan's interest in exporting its bullet train technology referred imprecisely to the safety record of high-speed trains in that country. While there have been no fatal crashes since the trains began operating in 1964, there has been at least one fatal accident. (A passenger died in 1995 when his coat was caught in a door and he was dragged along a platform.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ray LaHood, the United States transportation secretary, was in Japan on Tuesday for a test run of the experimental MLX01 maglev train, the fastest in the world. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ITSUO INOUYE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (95%); MAGNETIC LEVITATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (72%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%)

COMPANY: CENTRAL JAPAN RAILWAY CO (73%)

TICKER: 9022 (TSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485112 COMMUTER RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); NAICS482112 SHORT LINE RAILROADS (73%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (73%); SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (73%); SIC4013 RAILROAD SWITCHING & TERMINAL ESTABLISHMENTS (73%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (73%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); VIETNAM (79%); VIET NAM (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



277 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Despite Recalls, Toyota Reports $1.2 Billion Profit

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI; Makiko Inoue contributed reporting from Tokyo.

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Despite being mired in recalls and inquiries into its safety record, Toyota roared back to a profit in the fiscal year that just ended and forecast on Tuesday a further increase in earnings. 
 Toyota had a particularly strong performance in the three months through March -- the period when the Japanese automaker recalled millions of cars and was under the intense scrutiny of consumers and governments around the world.
 Profit for the three months was 112 billion yen ($1.2 billion), in contrast to a 766 billion yen loss the year before, as the automaker slashed costs and introduced aggressive sales incentives that lured customers back to its showrooms. 
 Quarterly revenue jumped to 5.28 trillion yen, from 3.54 trillion yen the previous year, when car sales slumped in the middle of the global financial crisis. Revenues showed an especially strong rebound in the Chinese market and in the United States, while sales in Europe and Japan continued to slump.
 In March, global sales rose 26 percent from the previous year, partly because of generous incentives offered in the United States, while global production surged 80 percent.
 ''After taking over amid a storm, I wanted to do anything to avoid a third straight year in the red,'' Akio Toyoda, president of Toyota, said after the earnings announcement.
 ''These results follow tough and anguishing decisions'' on the part of Toyota's management, he said, referring to the automaker's dismissal of workers both in Japan and overseas amid companywide cost cuts.
 Toyota estimated that its profit would rise to 310 billion yen ($3.34 billion) in the year that will end in March 2011. It expects to sell 7.29 million units, or 53,000 more than it sold this year, the automaker said. Toyota also announced a cash dividend for the full fiscal year of 45 yen a share.
 For the business year that just ended, net income rebounded to 209.4 billion yen ($2.25 billion), from a loss of 437 billion yen the previous year.
 ''We're still in a storm -- there's been no change on that front,'' Mr. Toyoda said. ''But from the storm, we've begun to see glimpses of sunny but faraway skies,'' he said. ''I feel that we're starting to approach safer waters.''
 Still, the automaker faces tough challenges ahead. It has come under renewed scrutiny in the United States, where the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration opened yet another inquiry Monday into the company's handling of potentially dangerous problems.
 The agency said it was investigating whether Toyota had waited too long to inform the agency of steering-relay rod defects in Hilux trucks after a 2004 recall in Japan for the same flaw. Automakers have five business days to report safety flaws to regulators under American law.
 Toyota sells the Tacoma truck, similar to the Hilux model, in the United States. At that time, Toyota told regulators that the defect was in vehicles sold only in Japan and the company had not received similar information in the United States, the agency said. In 2005, Toyota told the agency that the defect was indeed in models sold in the United States and conducted a recall.
 The Transportation Department is also looking through 500,000 pages of documents to determine whether to levy additional fines against the Japanese carmaker, a process that could take months.
 Toyota has recalled more than nine million vehicles worldwide for faulty accelerator pedals and other problems that have tarnished the company's reputation for making safe and reliable cars.
 Toyota also faces multiple shareholder lawsuits, as well as consumer lawsuits claiming injuries or deaths caused by sudden acceleration incidents in Toyota vehicles.
 In April, Toyota agreed to pay a $16.4 million fine imposed by the Transportation Department, the largest allowed by American law, which charged that the company had hidden information about one of the pedal-related recalls.
 Toyota has not admitted fault. But it faces the possibility of at least two more such fines, although it could be several months before action is taken, the transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, said on Monday in Japan after a visit to Toyota's headquarters in Toyota City.
 Last month, Moody's Investors Service cut Toyota's credit rating, warning that the effects of recent recalls and a still-sluggish economy would weigh on the automaker's bottom line for some time.
 But Takahiko Ijichi, senior managing director at Toyota, suggested those fears were overblown. ''The effects of the recall have been smaller than we'd expected,'' Mr. Ijichi said. The company has said it spent 100 billion yen on recall-related measures, and lost 70 billion yen to 80 billion yen in sales during the year that ended March 31.
 Mr. LaHood said Monday that he sensed a change of attitude at Toyota since February, when Mr. Toyoda solemnly faced questions before a Congressional panel and spoke with Toyota dealers, choking back tears.
 The automaker, which faced ''very, very serious credibility problems'' after the crisis, has changed gears, while Mr. Toyoda has ''listened and paid attention,'' Mr. LaHood said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I wanted to do anything to avoid a third straight year in the red,'' Akio Toyoda, president of Toyota, said on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCK ROBICHON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TOYOTA RECALLS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TRUCK SAFETY (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); PRODUCT RECALLS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (74%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (73%); SALES & SELLING (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



278 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Tidying Up the Lot

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN; Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The tussling in Washington over financial regulation has focused on the merits and dangers of derivatives, establishing a procedure for the orderly liquidation of failed banks and setting up a new consumer protection agency. 
 But on the edges of that debate, consumer advocates are railing against the business practices of car dealers, which they say should be reined in by the new legislation. 
 Even the Pentagon has weighed in, insisting that automobile purchases and dealer-assisted financing should be part of any new financial legislation because low-income military people are victimized in large numbers by shady car dealers that set up shop just outside many bases. 
 Officials say distractions caused by these bad auto deals could affect the readiness of the armed forces. 
 In February, Clifford L. Stanley, the under secretary of defense responsible for troop readiness, wrote in a letter addressed to a Treasury official that the Pentagon would ''welcome and encourage'' increased protections against ''unscrupulous automobile sales and financing practices.'' 
 Mr. Stanley reached that conclusion, he wrote, after an internal survey of domestic military bases revealed cases of '' 'bait and switch' financing, falsification of loan applications or other documents, failure to pay off liens on trade-in vehicles, 'packing' loans with items whose price tag bears little or no relationship to their actual cost or value, and discriminatory lending.'' 
 For Matthew Garcia, a 25-year-old Army specialist stationed at Fort Hood in Texas, a car deal gone sour has been ''one more giant thing to worry about'' as he prepares for a deployment to Afghanistan as early as June. 
 Consumer advocates call it the ''yo-yo deal.'' In September, Mr. Garcia found a 2005 Dodge Neon he liked at a used car lot near the barbershops, tattoo parlors and check cashing stores that invariably line the main roads just outside any military base. 
 He agreed to a deal in which he would pay 19.9 percent interest on a $12,000 loan and signed what he believed was a binding contract. He drove off. But several days later the salesman summoned him back to the lot, Mr. Garcia said, to tell him the financing had fallen through. 
 He had signed only a conditional contract, he was told. If he wanted to keep the car, he would need to put up an additional $2,500 in cash. Mr. Garcia refused, but by that time someone had blocked his car so he could not leave. He said the dealership would not return his $1,500 down payment. 
 ''I was tricked, manipulated and lied to,'' said Mr. Garcia, who earns about $20,000 a year. ''And I feel like it was intentional.'' 
 Ross G. Lavin, a lawyer for the dealership, Payless Car Sales, said a change of heart by the company putting up the financing for the car was to blame, and not his client. ''Nobody lied to anybody,'' he said, but he also acknowledged the dealership had made a mistake by not immediately giving Mr. Garcia his money back. The case was settled last week for an undisclosed amount. 
 The sweeping regulatory changes being debated in the Senate are intended foremost to avoid a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. The legislation would empower regulators to seize and dismantle a failing financial firm to reduce the chance of a disorderly collapse; force giant banks to hold more capital and more liquid assets; and designate the Federal Reserve as the primary regulator for the biggest financial institutions, not just banks. 
 The bill would also create a new consumer protection agency within the Fed; require derivatives trading to be cleared through an exchange; and strengthen oversight of credit rating agencies.
 Despite numerous partisan disagreements over specific provisions, lawmakers in both parties expect the legislation to be adopted. The Senate version would have to be reconciled with a similar bill approved by the House in December.
 The Senate bill dictates that car dealers -- and not just institutions that provide financing -- fall under the purview of the proposed consumer protection agency. That decision baffles Edward C. Tonkin, a car dealer in Oregon and chairman of the National Automobile Dealers Association. 
 ''The impetus for this legislation was to correct the ills that caused the economic meltdown,'' Mr. Tonkin said. ''We don't belong in this bill.'' 
 The House, in its financial regulatory bill, granted the auto dealers the exemption they sought, but that bill passed several months before the Defense Department weighed in on the issue.
 ''We frankly find it offensive, this charge that auto lending has something to do with military readiness,'' Mr. Tonkin said. 
 The trade association is pinning its hopes on an amendment sponsored by Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, that would grant the car dealers the exemption contained in the House bill. Including the car dealers, Mr. Brownback said in a speech on the Senate floor last month, would ''add another level of regulation on auto dealers that are already struggling to get cars to market.''
 Kathleen E. Keest, a senior policy lawyer at the Center for Responsible Lending in Washington, says the nation's auto dealers play a central role in the financing of a car, a point driven home when she was working as an assistant attorney general in Iowa. There she took up the case of a recent widow steered into a high-rate, double-digit loan, despite a strong credit score, because that particular finance company was offering dealers a larger financial incentive to place people in its loans.
 ''The car dealers do the selling,'' Ms. Keest said. ''They explain the terms of the financing. And in many cases they mislead consumers about the terms of financing.'' 
 Studies by consumer groups suggest that black and Latino car buyers are more likely than white buyers to be steered into double-digit subprime car loans. 
 Low-income car buyers are especially vulnerable to abusive lending practices, consumer advocates say. A 2009 study by the Center for Responsible Lending found that one in four car buyers earning $25,000 or less who sought dealer-arranged financing claims to have been the victim of a yo-yo loan.
 Military personnel often fall into these categories -- they are frequently young people with low incomes and little financial expertise, their advocates say, making them ripe targets for unscrupulous lenders and dealers. 
 ''This is a big problem, especially with our junior sailors,'' said Kathy Nelson, director of the Navy-Marine Corps Relief Society in Norfolk, Va., home to a giant naval facility. ''They don't have sufficient financial literacy or life experience to make good choices, not unlike 18-, 19- and 20-year-olds not in the military.'' 
 Ms. Nelson added: ''Unfortunately, in a lot of military towns, we find dealers who are targeting military buyers knowing there are all these younger people getting a steady paycheck for the first time in their life.''
 The Better Business Bureau said there were more complaints against new and used car dealers last year than any other enterprise.
 Mr. Tonkin, of the automobile dealers association, disputes the contention that abusive dealer practices are common. But even if they were, he says, that would be a failure of enforcement, not evidence of a lack of consumer protections. Car dealers are overseen by state regulators and are subject to federal laws like the Truth in Lending Act, he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Payless Car Sales, near Fort Hood in Texas, sells cars to military personnel, often young people with little financial expertise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Matthew Garcia, a 25-year-old Army specialist stationed at Fort Hood, bought this 2005 Dodge Neon. He agreed to pay 19.9 percent interest on a $12,000 loan, but was later told the financing had fallen through. (B2) CHART: Financing a Bubble: Before the recent recession, automobile finance companies significantly increased their lending -- and often to customers who were less creditworthy. (Source: Federal Reserve Board) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); ARMIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FAIR LENDING (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); TATTOO PARLORS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (66%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (66%); CONTRACTS LAW (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



279 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Market Inquiry Focuses on One Trader

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT and GRAHAM BOWLEY; Edward Wyatt reported from Washington and Graham Bowley from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Regulators examining the causes of the brief stock market free fall last Thursday are looking closely at heavy selling in the market for stock-index futures by a single trader, beginning 10 minutes before stock prices began to plummet.
 Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said at a Congressional hearing on Tuesday that during that crucial time period, the futures trader, whom he would not identify, accounted for about 9 percent of trading volume in the most actively traded stock-index derivative contract, known as the 500 e-mini futures contract. 
 All of the trader's orders were to sell, Mr. Gensler said, while most of the other 250 traders who were active in the same market that day were both buying and selling securities.
 As the trader's orders went through, the futures index on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange began to plummet. 
 The identity of the trader remained unclear. Terrence A. Duffy, executive chairman of the CME Group, which operates the Chicago exchange, said on Tuesday: ''We obviously won't divulge that market information. We are in contact with the folks that did the trade. There is no question that it is a bona fide hedger'' and not someone intending to disrupt the markets.
 Moments after the trade, individual shares traded on markets around the country started to drop sharply, and regulators are looking at whether the trade in the futures market could have been a catalyst for the spiral.
 Mr. Gensler emphasized that regulators were continuing to search for the causes of the brief panic and were likely to find other trades that could also have contributed to the plunge.
 In singling out the trade in the Standard & Poor's e-mini futures contract, however, regulators are suggesting they view that trading activity as critical to understanding the sequence of events that erased more than 600 points from the Dow Jones industrial average in minutes on May 6.
 As stock markets began to decline, regulators say they believe, other factors came into play that accelerated the fall, including the absence of circuit breakers on several electronic exchanges even as the New York Stock Exchange's own circuit breakers kicked in. 
 Three rival exchanges stopped routing trades to the exchange's electronic market after they perceived technical problems there. Market experts say they believe this prompted high-frequency computer traders, who account for a vast swath of trading, to withdraw from the market.
 Mr. Gensler and Mary L. Schapiro, the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, both emphasized on Tuesday that their agencies' investigations had not yet settled on a single cause of Thursday's volatile trading and that numerous factors could have contributed. Their comments were in testimony prepared for the House Capital Markets Subcommittee. 
 ''Ultimately, we may learn that the extraordinary disruption in trading, however it may have been triggered, was the result of a confluence of events,'' Ms. Schapiro said, ''which, taken together, exacerbated what already had been a down day and led to an extraordinarily steep price drop and recovery. However, we are not prepared at this time to draw that conclusion.''
 Mr. Gensler's comments about the potential cause were the most pointed of any regulator in the five days since the markets suffered what Ms. Schapiro called a ''profoundly disappointing and troubling'' break in the stock market's stability and integrity.
 For now, both regulators said that they had largely ruled out several other potential causes that had been widely discussed since Thursday, including erroneous or so-called fat finger trades, unusual trading in Procter & Gamble stock, and hacker or terrorist activity.
 The regulators' testimony provided the first official timeline of the events that preceded the mini-crash. 
 At the time the futures trader entered the market at 2:32 p.m. Eastern time on Thursday, stock prices had already fallen significantly. The Dow Jones industrial average was down by about 1.5 percent by 2 p.m., Ms. Schapiro said, and Mr. Gensler noted that in the next 24 minutes, several closed-end mutual funds, which trade on stock exchanges in a manner similar to stocks, fell by 50 percent or more.
 Shortly after the futures trader began entering sell orders at 2:32, ''the market decline began to steepen,'' Ms. Schapiro said. By 2:42, the Dow was down 3.9 percent. Then, the bottom fell out, with the Dow diving nearly 5.5 percent in the next five minutes, before rebounding by about 5 percent in the next minute and a half.
 ''Our preliminary analysis shows that this precipitous decline in stocks, and the subsequent recovery, followed very closely the drop and recovery in the value of the e-mini S.& P. 500 future, which tracks the normal relationship between futures and stock prices for the broader market,'' Ms. Schapiro said. 
 She cautioned against drawing too direct a conclusion, however. ''It must be recognized, however, that the fact that stocks prices follow futures prices chronologically does not demonstrate what may have triggered the price movements,'' she said.
 Mr. Gensler also pointed to several factors in the market for individual stocks that could have led to the market's decline, including the overall turbulence in the global economy, particularly in Europe, which had made traders edgy. 
 The two agencies said Tuesday that they would form a joint committee of academics, market participants and former regulators to address regulatory questions raised by last Thursday's market turmoil. 
 Ms. Schapiro said the S.E.C. had issued several subpoenas to unidentified people or entities to help gather information related to the market crash. She said regulators needed the subpoenas to gather information from nonregulated entities, a group that would include some hedge funds.
 Ms. Schapiro said the enormous increase in trading volume in recent years was complicating efforts to draw clear conclusions about the plunge. 
 When a special commission examined the market crash of 1987, for example, investigators looked at a day when trading on the New York Stock Exchange totaled about 600 million shares. Last Thursday, 10.3 billion shares of stocks listed on the exchange changed hands.
 Ms. Schapiro said the S.E.C. had already begun to examine whether high-frequency traders, whose computer-driven systems trade millions of shares of stocks daily, should be subjected to stricter trading rules to protect market integrity and quality.
 The evolution of electronic stock markets in recent years has resulted in high-frequency traders taking over many of the market functions previously filled by stock exchange specialists and market makers who provided the bulk of stock market liquidity, Ms. Schapiro said. 
 The major stock exchanges also testified to the subcommittee on Tuesday, with each generally pointing fingers at the others. 
 In its testimony, the Nasdaq exchange pointed to technical problems related to the New York Stock Exchange's electronic trading system called Arca. 
 During the market chaos this caused three exchanges to stop routing orders to the New York Stock Exchange because of what they saw as slowness in response times or unreliable quotes being posted by the exchange. 
 The New York Stock Exchange says there was no problem with its technology. But market experts said the decision by the exchange's rivals -- Nasdaq, BATS Trading and CBOE -- to make that move added to the nervousness of high-frequency traders who abruptly withdrew from the market. 
 ''The normal stabilizers were pushed out by the systems glitches,'' said James J. Angel, a professor at Georgetown University who studies financial markets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary L. Schapiro, chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, during a House hearing Tuesday on Capitol Hill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) (B10) CHART: Moments That Shook the Market: The reasons for the stock market plunge last Thursday are still not entirely clear. Regulators are examining the role of a decline in an S. & P. 500 futures contract. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (95%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); TESTIMONY (77%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



280 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'CLIMATE OF CHANGE'; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Environmental Action

BYLINE: By DANIEL M. GOLD

 BODY:
If shopping for an examination of the science of climate change, or of the political and economic debates surrounding it, be warned: the title of this documentary is misleading. It concerns environmental action, yes, but only tangentially refers to the effects of global warming. Instead, the director, Brian Hill, has traveled the planet to assemble portraits of citizens who are thinking globally and acting locally. 
 The grass-roots initiatives spotlighted in ''Climate of Change'' include those of an activist in Togo fighting deforestation; Appalachians organizing against mountaintop mining; and youngsters in India educating their communities to reduce the use of plastics. There is no resolution here; these are only snapshots of struggles. Nor is the film a manifesto; by and large its subjects are sunny, calm, almost relentlessly upbeat. (The confident and hyperarticulate 13-year-olds in Patna, India, are reason enough to feel better about the next generation.)
Credited to four directors of photography, the movie is never less than stunning, especially when visiting the Svalbard Global Seed Vault in Norway, which houses thousands of samples to safeguard against crop devastation, or poking around a gritty recycling plant in Mumbai. Mr. Hill, a longtime British documentarian, stitches together the episodes with narration written by Simon Armitage, Britain's Millennium Poet -- and spoken with cool elegance by Tilda Swinton -- that employs Seussian simplicity to often stirring effect. 
 If anything, this affable call to environmental arms has little patience for those who say that the problems are too large, that there's nothing to be done. Mr. Armitage urges us to consider the earth 
 a knowable, local everyday place, 
 a world you can shape by action and deed,
 closer to home, belonging to each.
 That world at least is within your reach.
 CLIMATE OF CHANGE
 Opens on Wednesday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Brian Hill; written by Simon Armitage; narrated by Tilda Swinton; directors of photography, Roger Chapman, Tony Coldwell, Michael Timney and Wayne Vinten; edited by Stuart Briggs; music by Nitin Sawhney; produced by Katie Bailiff; released by Tribeca Film. At the Tribeca Cinemas, 54 Varick Street, at Laight Street. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In ''Climate of Change,'' a call to arms, a scene from Patna, India. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PARTICIPANT MEDIA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); DEFORESTATION (73%); PLANT CONSERVATION (67%); WRITERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (72%) INDIA (94%); SVALBARD & JAN MAYEN (79%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOGO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



281 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Serving Up Musical Comfort Food

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
MADISON AVENUE is alive with the sound of ''The Sound of Music'' -- and other mainstay musicals like ''Carousel,'' ''The King and I,'' ''Oklahoma'' and ''South Pacific'' -- as more than a dozen marketers use songs by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II in commercials. 
 The rival packaged-goods giants Procter & Gamble and Unilever seldom agree on anything, but they are harmoniously singing the praises of Rodgers and Hammerstein. 
 Procter ran a commercial during the Vancouver Winter Olympics that used ''You'll Never Walk Alone'' from ''Carousel,'' while the Dove line of hair-care products sold by Unilever is using ''My Favorite Things'' from ''The Sound of Music'' for a television and online campaign that features Lea Michele of the hit series ''Glee.'' 
 So popular have Rodgers and Hammerstein become for advertising purposes that sometimes marketers are treating consumers to duets. 
 For instance, both Hyundai Motor America and State Farm insurance have run commercials that use ''Sixteen Going on Seventeen'' from ''The Sound of Music.'' (The State Farm spot stopped at the end of March; the Hyundai spot is still appearing.)
 To be sure, Rodgers and Hammerstein, who also collaborated on musicals like ''Cinderella,'' ''Flower Drum Song'' and ''State Fair,'' have long been a favorite of advertisers. 
 But the recent increase in the commercial use of their music -- 13 spots in the last year, by one count -- seems to be taking place for two reasons.
 One reason is a shift in the public mood because of the economy.
 The familiar tunes of Rodgers and Hammerstein are ''really like comfort food,'' said Josh Rabinowitz, an expert in music in advertising, who described them as ''comfort songs, uplifting and heartwarming.''
 ''In times like these, you hear a lot of anthemic music, a lot of music that goes for the sweet spot in consumers instead of taking a risk,'' said Mr. Rabinowitz, senior vice president and director for music at the Grey Group in New York, part of WPP.
 Marc Pritchard, global chief marketing officer at Procter & Gamble in Cincinnati, agreed that ''You'll Never Walk Alone'' is ''a little bit'' old-fashioned.
 ''It's not a modern song, but it's a timeless song,'' he said, ''and it hits people in the heart.''
 ''Music is one of the most important elements you'll use in building a brand because it expresses your voice,'' Mr. Pritchard said. ''The recession caused everyone to hit the reset button. People want brands and companies they can trust and feel good about.''
 David Rubin, hair-care marketing director for Unilever in Chicago, said that for the consumers who are the focus of Unilever's Dove hair-care-product advertising -- women ages 30 and older -- ''The Sound of Music'' was ''part of their growing up.''
 ''It still resonates,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''I don't know if it matters what decade it is.'' 
 One reason is that the 1965 film version of ''The Sound of Music'' has become a TV perennial; ABC shows it each year around Christmas and the ABC Family cable channel shows it each year around Easter.
 ''It's kind of corny, we admit,'' Chris Perry, the interim head of marketing at Hyundai Motor America in Fountain Valley, Calif., said of ''Sixteen Going on Seventeen,'' which is heard in a commercial for the Hyundai Sonata created by Innocean Worldwide Americas, ''but the juxtaposition between the song and the modern-day setting gets your attention.''
 Mark Gibson, assistant vice president for advertising at State Farm in Bloomington, Ill., said he became aware that Hyundai was also using ''Sixteen Going on Seventeen'' when his 15-year-old daughter told him about it. 
 The State Farm commercial, by the Chicago office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, did not use the version of the song from the movie soundtrack, as Hyundai's did, but rather a rock-style version from a company, Modern Music, that supplies songs for commercials.
 The echoing song choice did not matter, Mr. Gibson said, because the State Farm spot -- focused on a teenage driving safety program called Steer Clear -- ''performed very well for us; it was memorable, likable and catchy.''
 Among the other marketers using Rodgers and Hammerstein songs are Microsoft, with a snippet from the title song of ''Oklahoma,'' in a commercial for the Bing search engine; Honda Motor, with ''Getting to Know You,'' from ''The King and I,'' in a commercial in Canada; and Suntory beer, with ''Shall We Dance?,'' also from ''The King and I,'' in a commercial in Japan.
 ''We do represent comfort food, in a way,'' said Theodore S. Chapin, president at the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization in New York, adding that the songs are ''simple, but they're not simplistic.''
 A year ago, the organization, which was founded by Rodgers and Hammerstein, was sold by their estates to the Imagem Music Group, which represents musicians as diverse as Phil Collins, Rachmaninoff and Vampire Weekend. That sale is another reason for the upswing in the licensing of Rodgers and Hammerstein songs for commercial use.
 Although the songs have been heard often in commercials, ''I do think that the sale helped advertising agencies think these songs would be more available than in the past,'' Mr. Chapin said. 
 Also, the number of employees devoted to what is known as synchronization rights -- using the music in commercials, movies and TV shows -- increased considerably, he added.
 What must accompany the ''great deal of interest'' in the songs, Mr. Chapin said, is a careful scrutiny of the requests to use them and working closely with those advertisers like Dove that want to rewrite Hammerstein's lyrics for commercials.
 Mr. Chapin discreetly declined to describe changes he has rejected, but pointed to ''the quintessential'' example of what not to do: For a commercial for a toilet-bowl cleaner, a song by Cole Porter became ''I've Got You Under My Rim.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lea Michele, top, of the TV series ''Glee'' sings ''My Favorite Things'' in a Dove hair-care commercial. Above, a Procter & Gamble spot that featured the song ''You'll Never Walk Alone.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); MUSIC (89%); TOILETRIES MFG (89%); PACKAGED GOODS (76%); OLYMPICS (70%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (69%); BRANDING (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (55%); WINTER OLYMPICS (55%)

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (82%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (57%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (55%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); UNIA (AMS) (57%); UNA (BIT) (57%); UNA (AMS) (57%); UN (NYSE) (57%); ULVR (LSE) (57%); UL (NYSE) (57%); HYUD (LSE) (55%); 005380 (KSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (57%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



282 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Booker Is Re-elected Newark Mayor, but Council Ally Loses

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
NEWARK -- Declaring ''a thunderous victory,'' Cory A. Booker easily won re-election as Newark's mayor on Tuesday, and at least seven of his allies on the nine-member Municipal Council appeared headed to victory. 
 With 98 percent of the election districts reporting, Mr. Booker had 59 percent of the vote in a field of four, while his nearest competitor, Clifford J. Minor, had 35 percent.
 ''Newark is going to continue to rise,'' Mr. Booker told raucous supporters at the Robert Treat Hotel. ''Newark, New Jersey, has great days ahead.''
 But he warned that in a city battered by poverty and recession, progress would not come easily. ''The reality is Newark has a mountain to climb to create an economy that serves all of its people,'' he said. Speaking to reporters, he called the election results ''a pretty profound statement in an economy and a nation that seems to be throwing incumbents out left and right.''
 Impressive as it was, the Booker team's showing fell short of its clean sweep four years ago. In 2006, Mr. Booker won 72 percent of the vote, and his slate won all nine Council races.
 On Tuesday, a Booker critic and former council member, Ras Baraka, won the South Ward seat, easily defeating the incumbent, Oscar S. James II, who was allied with the mayor. Another member of Mr. Booker's slate, Charles A. Bell, the Central Ward councilman, had a wide lead but was just under 50 percent of the vote, forcing a runoff against Darrin Sharif.
 Another candidate who was seen as posing a threat to the mayor's slate was John Sharpe James, son of the former mayor, Sharpe James. But in the race for four at-large Council seats, the younger Mr. James finished fifth.
 It remains to be seen whether Mr. Booker has a harder time dealing with the often-fractious Council than he did in his first term. Many of the mayor's political alliances are with former antagonists, and several council members have ambitions for higher office. The city also faces a budget deficit and declining state aid.
 Mr. Booker, 41, is widely seen as a potential candidate for higher office, but the prospects of that will ride on his ability to govern the state's largest city, with its deep-rooted problems, political intrigue and shifting allegiances.
 In 2002, Mr. Booker, then a council member, made his first run for mayor, narrowly losing to Sharpe James, who won his fifth term. But in 2006, Mr. James opted not to run for re-election.
 Mr. James was convicted in 2008 on corruption charges, and was recently released from a federal prison to a halfway house.
 Mr. Booker's campaigns and a gift for speechmaking made him a national celebrity even before he took office, and in this campaign, he raised millions of dollars.
 In office, he has been credited with ethics reforms and a drop in crime, but he said Tuesday, ''we've made progress, but this is not success.''
 Several other New Jersey cities also held elections, including Paterson, where Mayor Jose Torres, who had been favored to win re-election, lost to Jeffery Jones.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CELEBRITIES (73%); BUDGETS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); CORRUPTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



283 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Disney Movie Unit Drives Strong Results in Quarter

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- The Walt Disney Company appears to be having some success in repairing its movie operation, but now its television business is springing a leak.
 Disney, reporting results for its fiscal second quarter, said that operating income at its movie studio shot up to $223 million from $13 million in the year-ago period. The release of ''Alice in Wonderland'' on March 5 was the primary reason for the rebound.
 In contrast, Disney's normally high-flying TV operation had flat income of $1.3 billion on a 6 percent increase in revenue. The company's cable channels, including ESPN, surged as usual with higher advertising revenue and subscriber fees offsetting increased costs. But ABC, where income decreased by 24 percent primarily because of drooping prime-time ratings, weighed sharply on results. 
 Growth at Disney's television operation is normally robust, with income in the first quarter increasing by 11 percent over the previous year and the fourth quarter recording a 26 percent uptick.
 ABC will unveil new programs to advertisers on Tuesday in New York, and Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, told analysts in a conference call that he remained hopeful that a turnaround was on the horizon.
 ''I'm confident in the team's long-term track record,'' he said, referring to ABC management. Mr. Iger added that he expected upfront ad sales for the fall season to be ''very good.'' He also said the network had recently completed a series of cost cuts in its news division. 
 For the three months ended April 3, Disney had net income of $953 million, or 48 cents a share, a 55 percent rise from $613 million a year earlier. Revenue rose 6 percent to $8.6 billion. The results beat analyst forecasts.
 Disney's consumer products division, where income soared 37 percent to $133 million, contributed to the strong overall results. The company said sales of ''Toy Story'' merchandise has been strong and Marvel, which Disney acquired in August for $4.3 billion, chipped in healthy publishing sales.
 But the movie studio was the primary driver. ''Alice in Wonderland'' had $960 million in global ticket sales. During the quarter Disney also released ''The Last Song,'' an inexpensive Miley Cyrus vehicle that sold about $72 million in tickets worldwide. Aggressive cost cutting also buoyed the studio's results.
 Because movie operations work far in advance, Disney is now reaping rewards from pictures that were put into production by a management team that was jettisoned in the fall, after a fallow stretch at the box office. Disney's new movie managers, however, deserve credit for the effective marketing and completion of these films. But it will not be clear for at least six months whether a true turnaround is at hand at the studio.
 The financial health of Disney's theme park division, closely watched as a barometer of consumer confidence, worsened slightly. The unit reported a 12 percent decline in income to $150 million. Revenue inched up 2 percent.
 The drop was partly because of higher fuel costs and promotions at Disney Cruise Line. Also contributing were increased labor costs and a 6 percent decrease in attendance at Walt Disney World in Florida. 
 James A. Rasulo, Disney's chief financial officer, said the attendance decline was caused partly by a decision to ease off deep discounting -- something that had kept the parks full of visitors during the economic downturn but had also hurt margins.
 ''Consumers are still out there waiting for bargains,'' Mr. Rasulo said in the conference call. But he added that ''we are determined and confident we can take our pricing back to normalized levels.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); FILM (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); PUBLISHING (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WALT DISNEY CONSUMER PRODUCTS (64%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (64%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (64%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (58%); ROBERT A IGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



284 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: A Derby Victory Is Nice, but at WinStar Farm, Business Is Business

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
They love their horses at WinStar Farm. The owners, Bill Casner and Kenny Troutt, have played at every level of horse racing. The farm's top management, Doug Cauthen and Elliott Walden, grew up in the horse business. When Super Saver galloped home first in the Kentucky Derby on May 1, WinStar had reached horse racing's mountaintop.
 Now it hopes to sell the colt that took it there. No offense to Super Saver, the likely favorite in the 135th running of the Preakness Stakes on Saturday. It is what WinStar does: it is a horse-trader. 
 ''Everybody is going to be sold, it is just a matter of when,'' said Cauthen, WinStar's president. ''We sell in every market and we buy in every market. We try to find value. We don't have an unlimited budget, and our goal is to be profitable.''
 The farm has sold horses it has bred at yearlings sales -- WinStar fetched $3.1 million at Keeneland in 2002 from Ireland-based Coolmore Stud for the eventual European champion One Cool Cat.
 WinStar has sold interests in horses en route to the Triple Crown trail -- in 2008, it sold 50 percent of Court Vision to International Equine Acquisitions Holdings for several million dollars.
 The farm has sold horses as stallion prospects, too, even though WinStar stands seven studs of its own and considers them the core of its business. In 2007, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum's Darley America reportedly offered more than $30 million to stand the 2007 Haskell Invitational champion Any Given Saturday. He was sold in a heartbeat.
 ''We've sold six Grade 1 winners because you can't keep them all because costs are high and we need to generate cash,'' Cauthen said.
 When Casner and Troutt purchased what was then Prestonwood Farm in Versailles, Ky., 10 years ago, they not only wanted to win the Derby and every other big race but also wanted to build a commercial breeding and racing operation that would rival Coolmore and Darley.
 Casner and Troutt met 37 years ago at the old Ak-Sar-Ben racetrack in Omaha, where Casner was a trainer and Troutt owned some claiming horses. They struck up a friendship, which led to a series of business endeavors, not all of them successful, until they landed in the long-distance telephone business just as it was becoming deregulated.
 Building Excel Communications into a multibillion-dollar company took their attention away from the horse business but eventually paid huge dividends. They went public in 1996, merged into Bell Canada and became wealthy. Still, Casner and Troutt did not have what appears to be the bottomless pockets that Sheik Mohammed and Coolmore often dig into.
 ''We were heavily involved in horses in our youth,'' said Casner, who grew up in El Paso and as a teenager began galloping horses at Sunland Park in New Mexico. ''We learned how not to do this business, and that was at the low end of the game. We also knew that horses are volatile and fragile commodities, and losing money is no fun. So we needed to be profitable to survive. We are not a folly; this is not a plaything.''
 The bluegrass of Central Kentucky is littered with the burnt cash and trampled dreams of wealthy people from other industries who thought they were smarter than everyone else. Most horsemen thought Casner and Troutt would join the many others. Instead, the pair hired the best and the brightest for every facet of their business.
 Cauthen, for example, whose brother Steve swept the Triple Crown in 1978 aboard Affirmed, is a lawyer by trade who has worked for Hall of Fame trainers, sales companies and breeding farms.
 ''They put a terrific team together from top to bottom,'' said Dan Rosenberg, the former president of Three Chimneys Farm and now an industry consultant. ''They made a commitment to expend resources, and they did not stop and go, stop and go, and change courses like others have done. You also need some luck in the breeding and racing business, and they have had some luck.''
 Casner's and Troutt's first stroke of good fortune came with the purchase of Prestonwood -- a smallish stallion named Distorted Humor whose runners had yet to hit the racetrack. When they did, in 2002, they were fast and won enough to make Distorted Humor the leading freshman sire.
 In 2003, after one of his sons bred by WinStar -- Funny Cide -- captured the Derby and the Preakness, Distorted Humor became not only a popular stallion but also an expensive one. He once stood for $300,000 a mating, a number that was cut to $100,000 recently but remains near the top of the market.
 Distorted Humor's offspring have won 86 stakes races and more than $66 million. The woeful horse economy, however, has led to slashed prices in all areas of the industry.
 Luck intervened again in 2006 when Cauthen and his team decided to pay $160,000 at the Keeneland November mixed sale auction for a mare named Super Charger, a daughter of A.P. Indy in foal to Maria's Mon.
 That foal was Super Saver.
 ''We're always looking for new blood,'' Cauthen said. ''We don't want our herd to get stagnant.''
 Now Super Saver is conservatively worth $12 million to $15 million -- he not only has a Derby victory but also regal bloodlines.
 Those numbers will rise substantially if he wins the Preakness and could reach $40 million if he sweeps the Triple Crown.
 So is there a spot on WinStar's stallion roster waiting for him?
 ''We'd love and hope that he would come home,'' Cauthen said. ''But we're going to have to take seriously any and all offers that we can't refuse. That's how you make a profit in this business.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WinStar Farm in Versailles, Ky.WinStar hopes to sell Super Saver, the Kentucky Derby winner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE P. THOMAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (92%); HORSES (91%); DEREGULATION (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: GVC NETWORKS LLC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



285 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Landslide Is Seen for Aquino Son in Philippines' Presidential Vote

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI; Carlos H. Conde contributed reporting from Cotabato City, the Philippines.

 BODY:
MANILA -- Senator Benigno S. Aquino III, who appeared almost certain on Tuesday to become the Philippines' next president, said he had never imagined running for the nation's highest office until he was urged on by supporters grieving over the death of his mother last August.
 But nearly complete results of Monday's election showed that Mr. Aquino apparently defeated rivals with far more experience, ambition and charisma, winning by the widest margin in a presidential election since his mother, Corazon C. Aquino, overthrew the longtime dictator Ferdinand E. Marcos in a ''people power'' movement in 1986. 
 ''I will not only not steal, but I will run after thieves,'' Mr. Aquino, 50, who is known as Noynoy, said in a news conference on Tuesday, stating that his ''first priority'' would be to fight corruption. ''We lead by example.''
 Of the main contenders for the presidency, Mr. Aquino was the one least associated with the corruption that flourished during the nine-year administration of President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo.
 ''Whether they support him or not, people believe he's sincere,'' said Steven Rood, the representative of the Asia Foundation in the Philippines. ''He's his mother's son in that sense.''
 His skimpy resume has raised doubts, however, about his ability to actually deliver change. Few voters think he will steal, but many wonder whether he will be able to stop people in his government from doing so. Despite the promise of ''people power,'' his mother's inexperience led to corruption under her watch and aborted reforms.
 Because of his low profile as a lawmaker -- he was elected to the House of Representatives in 1998 and then to the Senate in 2007 -- it is too soon to say how an Aquino presidency will affect the Philippines' relations with the United States, its former colonial power.
 In an interview in March, Mr. Aquino, who grew up watching successive American administrations back Mr. Marcos during the cold war, sounded skeptical about United States foreign policy. He said that as president he would want to review the Visiting Forces Agreement, the pact that allows the American military to hold its service members in its custody during criminal proceedings in the Philippines.
 He also said that American Special Forces troops, who have been training the Philippine military to fight against Islamic terrorists on the southern island of Mindanao since 2001, should not become a ''semipermanent or permanent'' force. Mindful of rousing anti-American sentiments, the Arroyo government and American officials have said little about the American forces' activities.
 ''The U.S. and Manila should try to assess what exactly is the purpose of the Americans in Mindanao and whether they have achieved their purpose,'' said Abhoud Syed Lingga, executive director of the Institute of Bangsamoro Studies, a research organization for Filipino Muslims based in Cotabato City. ''Noynoy should reassess, should review the terms of their presence here.''
 According to incomplete results, Mr. Aquino won more than 40 percent of the votes, garnering 15 percent more than his nearest rival, Joseph Estrada, a former president who was impeached on corruption charges but was pardoned by Mrs. Arroyo.
 The feeling that the Philippines has again failed to live up to expectations has deepened in recent years. After World War II, experts predicted that the Philippines would match Japan in economic development. Decades later, the Philippines was surpassed by the Asian Tigers; in the past decade, it has fallen behind its neighbor, Indonesia.
 ''There is a deep well of frustration among the people about the post-Marcos era, where our democracy has become ever more fragile by the year,'' said Ramon Casiple, executive director of the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform here.
 ''Since his mother established that era, the son has come to fill up this political vacuum,'' Mr. Casiple said of Mr. Aquino.
 The son's apparent victory was also in keeping with the Philippines' political culture, where, perhaps more than anywhere else, families monopolize political seats and compete, often brutally, against other clans.
 In a potential revival of the epic rivalry between the Aquinos and Marcoses, Mr. Aquino's lead in the polls and statement that he would go after the ''hidden wealth of the Marcoses'' caused the Marcoses to scramble for cover. At the last minute, Imelda Marcos, 80, the president's widow, filed to run for the House of Representatives from Ilocos Norte Province; her elder daughter, Imee, declared her candidacy for provincial governor.
 Looking ahead, some members of the family said they hoped that the Marcoses' only son, Ferdinand Marcos Jr., who ran for the Senate, would take them back to the presidential palace six years down the road.
 Mother, daughter and son were all headed for easy victories on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Benigno S. Aquino III is set to win by the widest vote margin since his mother's, in 1986. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK DE CASTRO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); COLD WAR (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); TERRORISM (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: BENIGNO AQUINO III (93%); GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); PHILIPPINES (95%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



286 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANT REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: The Fatty Crew Keeps Larding It On

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON

 BODY:
FATTY 'CUE, Zakary Pelaccio's funky new barbecue joint on South Sixth Street in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, looks like a biker bar for the kind of bikers who don't ride Harleys in leathers and boots, but stripped-down Schwinns in boat shoes and skinny jeans.
 The entrance sits low and dingy below the sidewalk, next to some stained traffic cones. It's dark and shouty inside, with spartan dining rooms spread out over three small floors. These are all faintly scented with oak smoke, and packed with people in beards or vintage dresses, everyone talking loudly over tiny tables that are not quite sticky, peering at menus in the low light, ripping into their meals.
 The food is incredibly good. Fatty 'Cue is a restaurant worth traveling to visit. To expand on the playbook of awesome, Malaysian-ish cooking on display at the Fatty Crab restaurants in Manhattan, Mr. Pelaccio's Fatty Crew -- with Corwin Kave as executive chef and Andrew Pressler as chef de cuisine -- has added to their roster Robbie Richter, the Queens-born pitmaster who helped start Hill Country in 2007. Fatty 'Cue offers smoked crabs and smoked lamb ribs, coriander-dusted bacon and pieces of pig. You can eat smoky noodle soups and pickled chilies. There is brisket and bao. 
 That said, it sure would be funny to roll up to the place with a white-shoe lawyer, some actuarial accountant from Tucson or dramaturge from the Upper West Side, anyone who goes to restaurants expecting the small courtesies that make up the usual experience of spending close to $100 for a meal for two people.
 No reservations are taken, so unless you eat in daylight or draw good luck, there's going to be a wait for a table, time spent standing at a bar that was crowded when you arrived and will be when you leave. Also, as the waiters will tell you when you do get a seat, the food comes out when the kitchen prepares it, according to the kitchen's own needs and schedule, which means there is no real structure to the meals. Indeed, the food can arrive at such a rush as to make the service at Big Wong on Mott Street seem like that of Eleven Madison Park.
 Forewarned is forearmed: Fatty 'Cue might be uncomfortable for those who hear more music at Lincoln Center than at Southpaw.
 So embrace your place. Start with a ''recession special'' cocktail: a shot of rail bourbon, a shot of spicy pickle juice and a tallboy of Pabst. The drink is best consumed in that order, pausing only to thrill to the way that pickle juice refracts the flavors of first the whiskey and then the beer. (After taking a sip or two of the Pabst you may consider the experience complete, and ask the waiter to replace it with something drinkable.)
 Then get ready to throw down.
 The menu at Fatty 'Cue comes in two main sections: snacks and specialties. Diversify your holdings in each area, aiming to bring at least a snack and a specialty per person, perhaps more. Dessert is delicious, but is not strictly necessary: fat Tumbador candy bars named for the restaurant and a selection of pies from First Prize, a newish bakery run by Allison Kave, Mr. Kave's sister.
 Really, all 10 snacks are worth trying, with the exception perhaps of the cucumber salad, over-dressed in smoked chili and brown-rice vinegar, with toasted sesame seeds. Among the best is a broth created from smoked bones, with galangal and Chinese celery: light and fragrant, slightly spicy. ''A bowl of noodles,'' meanwhile, arrives with scallions and chilies, acidic with lemon juice and young ginger, slicked with ''meat juices'' collected from resting meats. It doesn't look like much, beneath its dusting of dried, fermented baby shrimp powder. Yeah, well. It is the OxyContin of ramen.
 And coriander bacon, fatty and rich, is served with steamed yellow-curry custard, fiery and light. The combination is insanely agreeable, particularly if you pair it with an order of Chinatown white-bread toast slathered in fat rendered from every animal in the kitchen: pork mixed with beef mixed with duck mixed with lamb. Master fat: schmaltz for the deeply Reform.
 Each weekend the crew puts a whole pig in a smoker, then sells it off in pieces, with bao and more yellow curry. If this is available, it's a must as a main course. So, too, are long, elegant spare ribs, in a sauce made of palm syrup and a smoky fish sauce.
 Fatty 'Cue is pig heaven. (In keeping with the restaurant's interpretation of kashrut, even the Manila clams come with huge hunks of house-made bacon, in yet more of that bone broth, with curry leaves and a honking undercurrent of fire.)
 But for specialties, you'll want the beef brisket as well, made with way-smoked, meltingly tender American wagyu and served with chili jam, aioli and pickled red onion, with some bone broth and warm steamed bao: deckle deliciousness from psychedelic Texas.
 There is excellent red-curry-rubbed duck, too, soft and meaty and hot, with sweet pickled daikon. A smoked dorade's worth asking for, too, with a chili-garlic-lime sauce, if only so that you can tell the waiter you'd like the bones cooked crisp and edible as a second course. These are fine, indeed. (Pass on the seafood sausage, wan and damp.)
 And while hand-pulled lamb turns away from Asia to embrace the Mediterranean, with goat yogurt, mint and warm, house-made pita, it still feels of a piece with the rest of the meal: smoky and intense, with a crunchy bark outside its luscious interior.
 Best of all is smoked-crab laksa, a spicy noodle soup the proper preparation of which can start arguments up and down the Strait of Malacca. It is Chinese by way of Malaysia. At Fatty 'Cue, it has been sent to school along the Chesapeake Bay: a funky, deeply smoky crab broth that packs heat like an oven door, with cold-smoked lump crab meat, tiny anchovies, maitake and shiitake mushrooms, a lot of grated daikon, brown-rice vinegar, unrefined palm syrup and soft, thick lai fun noodles.
 The combination of American barbecue technique and South Asian flavors is brilliant and unsettling. It recalls, almost perfectly, what the Buddhist teacher Chogyam Trungpa called the magic of the present moment. To eat at Fatty Crew's new restaurant is to experience the very essence of nowness. No one else is cooking like this anywhere.
 It is difficult not to sound like Mrs. Cleaver saying so, but can you imagine what this young man could do if he straightened up his room?
 Fatty 'Cue
 This restaurant is rated 1 star.
 91 South Sixth Street (Bedford Avenue), Williamsburg, Brooklyn; (718) 599-3090, fattycue.com.
 ATMOSPHERE Williamsburg old-school, recalling both the rough edges of the original, punk-rocky Sweetwater Tavern and the art-friendly Right Bank bar.
 SOUND LEVEL Manageable if you lean close.
 RECOMMENDED DISHES Bowl of noodles, bone broth, 'Cue bacon, spare ribs, Manila clams, lamb, brisket, whole pig, crab laksa.
 WINE LIST Two whites, two reds and a prosecco. Seven canned beers, three in bottles, three on tap. Best bet? Liters of Asahi.
 PRICE RANGE Snacks, $3 to $12; specialties, $11 to $22; desserts, $6.
 HOURS Sunday to Wednesday, 5 p.m. to midnight; Thursday to Saturday, to 2 a.m.
 RESERVATIONS None taken.
 CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
 WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Restaurant entrance is down a short flight of stairs. Some dining rooms are up other flights of stairs. Restrooms are inaccessible by wheelchair.
 WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DEEP SOUTHS: Fatty 'Cue in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, serves barbecue with a Southeast Asian spin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE GLASSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MALAYSIA (77%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



287 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1850 words

HEADLINE: In Newburgh, Where Gangs And Violence Devour Youths

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
NEWBURGH, N.Y. -- It started with adolescent taunting near a frozen pond on a January afternoon and soon escalated into a brawl. 
 By the time it was over, Levi King Flores, a 17-year-old suspected gang member, was dead from a stab wound between his shoulder blades. A 13-year-old was in jail for his murder. And the year was off to a bloody start. 
 Gang violence is nothing new in this dilapidated city an hour north of Manhattan. Built along a scenic bluff on the west bank of the Hudson River, Newburgh has long been known for problems far out of proportion to its population of 29,000. In the 1960s and '70s, it was racial strife and disastrous urban renewal efforts. In the 1980s, when the city was known as ''crack alley,'' it was drug-fueled violence, which has ebbed and flowed here ever since. 
 But this latest round of violence is shining a harsh new glare on the city, both for the intensity of the attacks and the young ages of many of those involved. The community led the state in violent crimes per capita in 2008 and is on course to do so again this year. 
 Gang violence has been responsible for all but 2 or 3 of the city's 16 homicides in the last two and a half years. By law enforcement estimates, gang members with national affiliations outnumber the city's police by a ratio of three to one, not counting the hundreds of young people in homegrown groups. 
 At a Senate hearing with Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. in Washington last month, Senator Charles E. Schumer called the situation in Newburgh ''shocking.'' 
 ''There are reports of shootouts in the town streets, strings of robberies and gang assaults with machetes,'' Mr. Schumer said. 
 At the senator's urging, Mr. Holder promised to send a top-level official to Newburgh to examine the problem. Even before that assurance, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States attorney's office for the Southern District of New York had already made Newburgh one of its top priorities in the region after a spate of killings in 2008. 
 ''I think that we will see shortly some of the results of that work,'' Mr. Holder said at the hearing. 
 Newburgh's persistent violence is remarkable considering what the community is not: a big city. Though people on the streets here like to call it the sixth borough of New York, it is no such thing, either in density or geography.
 Adorned with brick row houses and 19th-century Gothic Revival mansions, relics of its industrial past, the city has a certain nostalgic charm. Pleasure boats and upscale restaurants with colorful awnings line the riverfront esplanade. From there, a grassy slope leads to Grand Street, a tree-lined avenue where the expansive homes of the city's Gilded Age stand in varying states of renovation and neglect. 
 But just a few blocks away is Lander Street, a menacing little stretch of boarded-up row houses and graffiti-tagged walls that has become one of the state's most implacable centers of poverty and violence. Young men with pit bulls occupy porch stoops at all hours, guarding barely concealed drug markets inside. It is one of several such streets within a few blocks in the city's northeast end that law enforcement officials say are mainly controlled by the Bloods street gang, the city's largest with an estimated 160 members. 
 A number of homegrown groups -- not formal gangs necessarily, but with the same territorial and violent tendencies -- occupy various blocks and bear names like Ashey Bandits, Ave World and D-Block. 
 The narrow avenues and one-way streets make it hard for police -- even in unmarked cars that are by now well known by the residents, including a green Chevrolet Suburban they call the ''Green Goblin'' -- to sneak up on anybody. 
 ''As soon as we turn the corner, they call out 'One time!' '' said Officer Joseph Palermo, on a recent night patrol.
 The city's southeast side, a largely Hispanic area known as the Heights, is controlled by Hispanic gangs like the Latin Kings, la Eme and a local group known as the Benkard Barrio Kings. 
 A sense of how embedded the gang culture has become can be gleaned at the local high school, the Newburgh Free Academy. 
 Two years ago, Torrance Harvey, a social studies teacher, and Mark Wallace, the school's violence prevention coordinator, created a class where students could come and talk about issues important to them. During a recent session, Mr. Harvey drew a diagram on the board with the word ''community'' in the center and asked the class to define it. The students rattled off the usual institutions: churches, schools, law enforcement. But high on the list they also called out ''gang-bangers,'' ''drug dealers'' and ''crackheads.'' 
 Central to the problem, Mr. Harvey and Mr. Wallace said, is the lack of jobs and activities available to young people. The city has no supermarkets, one Boys and Girls Club that is closed on weekends and a virtually nonexistent bus system, leaving young people without cars too far from the only steady source of employment, at regional malls well outside of town. 
 ''Kids are energy,'' Mr. Wallace said, ''and if they don't have some place to go, where are they going to go? The corner.'' 
 Many of those involved are not yet teenagers. Among those stabbed in the January fight was a 12-year-old who, while later testifying against Mr. Flores's killer, lifted his shirt in court to show his knife wounds. Three months later, that same boy would find himself in jail along with seven others, accused of beating and stabbing a man nearly to death with baseball bats and knives. 
 ''That's the thing: Today's victim is tomorrow's suspect,'' said Joseph Cortez, a Newburgh gang detective. 
 To complicate matters, the acting city manager, Richard F. Herbek, soberly announced earlier this year that Newburgh was broke. It needs $10 million to make it through the rest of this year and is facing a $6 million shortfall in the coming year, leading to fears of further cuts to community services, including the Police Department, which is already down to about 85 officers from a high of more than 100 a few years ago. Officials, though, say police cuts would be a last resort. 
 ''It's a tough, urban city,'' said Nicholas Valentine, a tailor who doubles as the mayor of Newburgh. ''We have pockets in this city that will rival any other area in the northeast, from Cleveland to Detroit, and we don't have the resources to deal with it.'' 
 Sitting on a stoop on Chambers Street recently, a 19-year-old woman who asked that her name not be used for safety concerns said she began ''gang-banging'' in seventh grade and stayed with it until a few months ago. She belonged to D-Back, an informal group named for nearby Dubois Street. 
 ''I had the flag going on, the clothes going on, all that,'' she said. 
 She had followed the example of her older brother, she said. ''I'd see him getting so much respect outside in the 'hood, and I'm like, 'That's my bro, I want that respect,' '' she said. 
 By 10th grade, she was selling marijuana, making as much as $2,500 a week. She had clothes, jewelry, everything she says a young girl could want. ''You hear kids with jobs and as much money as they get paid in a week,'' she said. ''I was making that in a day or two, you know.'' 
 But for her, things began to change the night of May 6, 2008. That night, Jeffrey Zachary, a baby-faced 15-year-old, was killed in a drive-by shooting across from his house on Dubois Street. Police officials said he was not a gang member and had been hit mistakenly. 
 The woman, who had been with Jeffrey earlier that day, wanted revenge. Everyone in D-Block did. But his mother, who had lost another son in nearly identical fashion three years earlier, pleaded with them not to retaliate. 
 ''She said 'Listen, that's not what I want,' '' the 19-year-old recalled. '' 'This is going to go on and on, it's never going to stop.' And she was right.'' 
 For Jeffrey's family, his death was overwhelming. His sister, Tova Zachary, 23, had been in the house when she heard the shots. She ran out to find her brother on the ground. She clutched him, pleading with him: ''Please don't go. Hold on. Hold on.'' 
 That night, she sneaked into the emergency ward at nearby St. Luke's Cornwall Hospital a few blocks away where doctors were trying to save her brother. She had done the same thing three years earlier as doctors tried in vain to save her other brother, Trent, 19. 
 ''Everyone always mentions that they died in the exact same way,'' Ms. Zachary said. ''But not everyone knows they died in the exact same emergency room.'' 
 Jeffrey Zachary's death resonated beyond the neighborhood. In his office in Goshen, about 30 miles away, James Gagliano, an F.B.I. special agent who is head of the Hudson Valley gang task force, keeps a yellowed newspaper clipping of the teenager's death under his desktop glass. 
 Mr. Gagliano had coached youth basketball in Newburgh for years. Though he never coached Mr. Zachary, he remembered him from the courts playing for a youth team at St. Mary's Church. 
 ''I can't tell you how many times I saw him there,'' Mr. Gagliano recalled. ''When he caught a bullet and he was the second kid in that family to die as a result of gang of violence -- you talk about a mother's grief.'' 
 Jeffrey Zachary's death came about the same time that Mr. Gagliano took over as agent in charge in the Hudson Valley region, armed with orders to build federal gang cases, starting in Newburgh. Over the next several months, the number of agents whose primary focus was gangs increased from 1 to 10. He also enlisted the aid of the local police, the State Police and other federal agencies to build a 30-member gang task force to go after the city's most hardened gangsters. But building federal cases takes time, and jail is only part of the solution, said Mr. Gagliano, a kinetic West Point graduate whose arms are covered with tattoos from years of undercover work. 
 For that reason, he has also taken an unusually active role in the community, lobbying city officials and business leaders to build an activity center where young people can learn job skills, play basketball or indoor soccer and find a safe place away from the street corners.
 ''Newburgh is hemorrhaging and we have to make a change,'' he said. ''And it can't just be on the law enforcement side.'' 
 Others are also taking up that charge. A group of mothers who have lost children to violence recently formed an organization called Mothers for Upward Movement. They hope to raise money to pay for recreational activities for young people like bus trips to the Bronx Zoo. 
 ''So many of these kids have never even been out of the community,'' said Jennifer Murchison, 39, whose 16-year-old son James Murchison was stabbed to death in May 2008. 
 Reflecting recently on her lost son, who was the second oldest of her five children, Ms. Murchison started doing a silent roll call in her head. 
 ''I'm almost 40, and all my friends are still alive,'' she said finally. ''My kids are young, and they've lost at least eight friends, and a brother.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a nervous child ushering younger ones away from a menacing dog passing by
above left, a street scene in downtown Newburgh, N.Y., in the afternoon
right, checking to see if a man has drugs during a night patrol by police officers. A slide show is at nytimes.com/nyregion. (A19)
James Gagliano, an F.B.I. special agent, coaches youth basketball. He has urged city officials to provide more activities for youths.
 Melanie Zachery lost two sons to violence. After the second killing, of Jeffrey, 15, she pleaded that his death not be avenged. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); GANGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOMICIDE (77%); MURDER (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); POLICE FORCES (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (66%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



288 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Luxury Rentals Help National Park Pay Its Own Way

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Renters here will soon have an unusual housing option: a 154-unit luxury apartment building inside a national park. For the last 30 years, the property was an abandoned hospital covered in graffiti, where trespassers caroused in operating rooms and shot photos of empty drawers in the morgue.
 The rehabilitation of the 78-year-old building, once the Public Health Service Hospital, is the biggest renovation project undertaken so far by the Presidio Trust, the government agency established in 1996 to oversee the Presidio, the former military base in San Francisco that is now a 1,500-acre national park.
 But unlike most parks, the Presidio has about 800 buildings, more than half of them listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Preserving and maintaining those old military barracks, officers' quarters, stables and other structures has been an expensive challenge. 
 Even more daunting is that the Presidio's Congressional financing runs out at the end of 2012, when the trust is expected to be financially self-sustaining, relying on income from the commercial and residential tenants that have gradually occupied the Presidio's renovated office buildings and homes.
 ''We're headed toward self-sufficiency in a couple years -- and we'll make it,'' said Craig Middleton, executive director of the Presidio Trust. ''In fiscal year '09, we made $70 million in revenue, and 95 percent of that was rental income.'' The Presidio's annual operating budget is about $56 million, which is used for maintaining the buildings and grounds and other administrative costs. 
 That rental income ranges from the $9 million a year paid by Lucasfilm for the Letterman Digital Arts Center, a 23-acre campus on the site of the Letterman Hospital, to the $1,700 a month renters pay for modest apartments on the base. In early April, a six-bedroom former officer's home with San Francisco Bay views was available to rent for $9,580 a month.
 While the trust has handled many renovation projects on its own, it joined with Forest City Enterprises on the Public Health Service Hospital redevelopment, which will open this summer as the Presidio Landmark apartments.
 The six-story apartment complex, on the southern edge of the park, will offer one- and two-bedroom apartments and all the amenities of modern living, including a doorman, stainless steel appliances, granite countertops, a fitness center, a wine storage room and a communal lounge. 
 Renters will have easy access to the park's miles of hiking and biking trails, bucolic views -- some looking out to the Pacific Ocean -- and a green buffer from city noise. They will also have one of the most coveted perks of any urban setting: a parking spot.
 But the level of detail involved in designing that parking lot illustrates the challenges faced by developers working on a project inside a national park.
 ''You have to think about how the parking lot is designed so there's minimal headlight spillover,'' Alexa Arena, a vice president of Forest City, said as she gave a tour of the site last month.
 Saucer-shaped hoods above the lampposts minimize the light shed on the park at night, while berms around the terraced lot keep headlight glare from spreading far and wide. Other rules restricted demolition projects during raptor nesting season and mandated that native plants be used for landscaping.
 The former hospital's historical designation presented additional renovation hurdles. The original width of the hallways had to be maintained, Ms. Arena said, and painted indentations appear along halls to show the places where doors were removed. In some cases, exposed brick had to be covered with drywall, since the modern appeal of brick interiors was not in keeping with 1930s standards -- though remnants of the graffiti still visible on some walls represented another bit of history that would be covered up.
 Forest City removed two wings added to the hospital in the 1950s, which was partly a concession to community concerns about the developer's original proposal to create 350 apartments. The hospital building, in an area of the Presidio that had mostly been abandoned for decades, was widely considered an eyesore, but some neighbors were worried about the additional traffic a large apartment complex would bring to the area.
 But the smaller scale of the project may turn out to be an advantage as the economy struggles to recover. Although rental prices have not yet been announced, Kevin Ratner, president of Forest City Residential West, said he did not think it would be a problem to find tenants because of the building's setting.
 Mr. Middleton said the overall occupancy rate in the Presidio was 97 percent for the park's residential units, which are mostly larger apartments originally built for military families. About 3,000 people currently live in the Presidio, with preference given to employees of organizations that have offices in the park. Between 12 and 19 percent of the apartments are priced based on the tenants' income level, Mr. Middleton said, although the Presidio Landmark units will be market-rate rentals.
 According to RealFacts, a research firm that surveys buildings with 50 or more apartments, the average asking rent in San Francisco was $2,219 in the first quarter of 2010, down 4.5 percent from the same quarter last year. The occupancy rate was 92.4 percent, down 3.5 percent compared with the first quarter of 2009.
 Still, compared with other parts of the country, San Francisco's rental rates have held up well. ''Because it's a blue-chip market, it hasn't depreciated as much as many other markets,'' said Sarah Bridge, the owner of RealFacts.
 The soft economy has had more of an effect on the Presidio's commercial space, according to the trust's latest annual report, with newly renovated offices taking longer to fill. Yet the roster of tenants that have moved to the Presidio includes a mix of nonprofit groups, arts organizations, athletic facilities, schools and commercial enterprises, creating a diverse and growing community within the park.
 The Walt Disney Family Museum opened alongside the Main Post parade ground last October, occupying barracks originally built in the 1890s. Near Crissy Field, a former airfield that has become a recreational area along San Francisco Bay, a hangar has been converted to a swimming school for children. 
 A rock climbing center is nearby (Planet Granite), and an indoor trampoline facility is due to open this summer. 
 Mr. Middleton said all of these tenants not only helped to restore the historical buildings, but also brought visitors to the park; meanwhile, their rent supports initiatives like hiking trails and camping programs for children.
 ''The best way to preserve a building is to reuse it,'' he said, adding that the trust's mission encompassed a larger goal, ''To take the real estate of the Presidio and use it not only to preserve the place, but also create programs for the public.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The former Public Health Service Hospital, above, in the Presidio in San Francisco is being turned into a 154-unit luxury apartment building. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HIKING (78%); BUDGETS (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE (83%)

TICKER: FCEB (NYSE) (52%); FCEA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (52%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (52%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (52%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



289 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Growth

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
PURCHASE, N.Y.
 HERE at the world headquarters of PepsiCo, the masterminds behind $60 billion worth of Mountain Dew, Cheetos and Rice-A-Roni roam polished hallways. 
 But a five-minute walk away is the organic corporate vegetable garden, where spreadsheets and performance reviews give way to basil starts and black peppermint plants. Employees can sneak out for a quick lunchtime weeding session and cart home the harvest. 
 As companies have less to spend on raises, health benefits and passes to the water park, a fashionable new perk is emerging: all the carrots and zucchini employees can grow.
 Carved from rolling green office park turf or tucked into containers on rooftops and converted smoking areas, these corporate plots of dirt spring from growing attention to sustainability and a rising interest in gardening. But they also reflect an economy that calls for creative ways to build workers' morale and health. 
 ''It's almost as if they are saying, 'Yeah, we couldn't give you a pay increase and yeah, times are tough, but this is something we can do to help improve the quality of your life,' '' said Bruce Butterfield, the research director for the nonprofit National Gardening Association.
 In corporate language, there is very little benchmarking on the numbers of gardens. But dozens of companies in several parts of the country have recently installed them or are digging them this spring.
 That Google, Yahoo and Sunset magazine have started organic gardens is not a surprise. They are, after all, based in Silicon Valley, where the work force is almost as comfortable composting as it is programming.
 But the trend has caught on at more-traditional companies, too. At the headquarters for the Kohl's department stores near Milwaukee, the organic gardens provide vegetables for a local food bank and a place for children at the company child care center to play. Abundant crops of pumpkins and tomatoes grow at the Toyota plant in Georgetown, Ky.
 Still, what seems like a good idea in the conference room doesn't always translate to the field. People don't always follow through. It's the same dynamic that fills the office refrigerator with old yogurt containers and moldy lunches.
 At PepsiCo, most of the plots are still weedy and empty. The weather has been cool and so, gardeners say, has enthusiasm. Last year when the company first turned over a plot the size of two tennis courts to peppers and tomatoes, 200 of the 1,450 employees here signed up, mailroom workers and midlevel administrators alike. This year, the volunteers dwindled to about 75, and many of them have yet to ready their plots. 
 So on Tuesday, Anu Malhotra from the food services division pulled on her gardening gloves and yanked weeds from small squares of land that weren't even her own. 
 ''Corporate strategies had two plots last year, but they were always traveling, so we just kind of took over,'' she said. 
 At Aveda, which offers on-site massage and organic cafeteria food at its headquarters near Minneapolis, the garden is a chance for its 700 employees to take a break from their desks and take home fresh produce. Workers pay $10 for the season and in return, they get a share of the bounty. Picking up a hoe is optional, but encouraged. 
 ''It does seem like work, but it's a different kind of work from our regular workday,'' said Peggy Skinner, an employee who pushed to have the garden installed.
 Aveda employees sometimes need to be cajoled to take their turn at the weeds. This year, to keep on schedule, Ms. Skinner has devised a chore calendar and suggests twice-weekly gardening sessions. Reminder e-mail messages will be sent.
 For some employees, beanpoles quickly become just another part of the office scenery. On a visit last fall, the special self-watering ''earth box'' container garden on the Google campus in Mountain View, Calif., was filled with fewer actual gardeners than with workers hurrying through on their way back to their desks, cafeteria trays filled with free food balanced on their laptops.
 Nevertheless, the editors of Human Resource Executive magazine were so taken with the corporate-garden concept that last month they named the garden run by the employees of Haberman, a Minneapolis-based public relations firm, one of the top five benefits ideas of the year. 
 True, some of the 24 workers at the firm still enjoy an afternoon mocha, but they also reach for the brussels sprouts and cucumbers packed into the company refrigerator. Even a scant crop of peas was passed around the conference room table as a snack.
 Kim McMartin, who lives in a condo in downtown Minneapolis, had never planted a thing until she stuck some green bean seeds into the ground at the Haberman garden last summer. Some were planted too deep. Others were too shallow. As a result, her beans came up crooked.
 This year, she vows to do better. 
 The new corporate green thumb is not necessarily a sign that American business culture is becoming more agrarian-minded, said Peter Cappelli, director of the Center for Human Resources at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. It's more about the popularity of backyard gardening. 
 A National Gardening Association survey done in conjunction with Harris shows that 41 million Americans grew fruits and vegetables in 2009. That's about 13 percent more than the year before.
 In many cases, employee groups asked for the gardens. Sometimes, managers suggested them to help supply a food bank or as a team-building activity. It turns out that building tomato trellises together can help erase office hierarchies.
 ''It takes the politics out of the job,'' said Sheila Golden, a senior manager at PepsiCo whose team grew what everyone agrees were the best tomatoes in the corporate garden last year. ''Everybody is on the same level in the garden.'' 
 Another beneficiary can be the company cafeteria. Best Buy planted a garden at its headquarters in Richfield, Minn., to help improve the food it serves to 4,600 employees. 
 ''I really looked at it as what difference does a little bit less shrubbery make to my employees? Not much,'' said Ian Ellis, director of corporate facilities. ''But having fresh herbs and fresh tomatoes would make a big difference.''
 A small plot or a few containers can cost a company less than $1,000 to install. At the higher end, Chesapeake Energy, a power company, is finishing a $500,000 garden this week that fills a city block just east of its main campus in Oklahoma City with container beds, gardening sheds and water sources. And there are ongoing expenses, like paying someone to tend the crops when employees can't.
 Cafeteria cooks may be delighted to get fresh herbs and vegetables, but managers can have other concerns, said Kent Buell, a resident district manager with Bon Appetit, the food service company that has installed kitchen gardens for 12 of its 80 corporate clients, including Best Buy, Intel and Target.
 ''A C.E.O. of a Fortune 500 company loses some control when they have a garden on the premises,'' he said. ''They worry about supply chain. They have the health and safety committee weighing in. They worry about what it brings to the brand.''
 Finding arable dirt can be a challenge. Many corporate headquarters are surrounded by acres of empty land, but the soil is often mixed with fill from building construction. And all that sod in the corporate business park has been kept green with chemicals.
 Then there are more mundane worries, like how to dress for a day that includes both garden work and a budget meeting with the boss.
 Harvard Pilgrim, a nonprofit health care company with 1,150 employees in New England, planted gardens at its campuses in Wellesley and Quincy, Mass., last year. Some of the neophyte farmers change into their gardening clothes at the end of the day. Others get down in the dirt every morning and then use the company showers. 
 Tammy Binette, 40, arrives at the Quincy branch 15 minutes before her 7 a.m. receptionist shift so she can water the crops. She harvests at lunch and sometimes drives extra produce to the local food bank.
 Since all the beds are raised and the paths between them well tended, Ms. Binette just goes out in her dressy work shoes, taking them off and walking barefoot in the grass on nice days.
 ''I even went out there in stiletto heels a couple times,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WINTER'S BOUNTY: Employees grew radishes, carrots and beets over the winter in cold frames at Harvard Pilgrim, a health care company in Wellesley, Mass., one of many companies that have started gardens as an economical way to encourage a healthy work force. (D1)
 INCH BY INCH: Kate Keeler, second from left, of Harvard Pilgrim in Wellesley, Mass., plants chard with gardening pros. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GARDENING (90%); BENCHMARKING (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); TRENDS (77%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CHILDREN (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); GREEN BUILDING (75%); WORKPLACE MORALE (72%); SMOKING (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (70%); WATER PARKS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (62%); CHILD CARE (62%); RETAILERS (50%)

COMPANY: KOHL'S DEPARTMENT STORES INC (65%); PEPSICO INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GARDENING ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (65%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



290 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Phoenix Counts Big Boycott Cost

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
Boycotts threatened or carried out over Arizona's new immigration enforcement law could cost the Phoenix metropolitan area $90 million in hotel and convention business over five years, Mayor Phil Gordon said Tuesday. 
 The figure, which does not include incidental spending in restaurants and shops, was calculated after four organizations canceled conventions or conferences and a dozen others said they would abandon visits if the law was not repealed, he said.
 The fallout comes as the state, heavily dependent on tourism, struggles to right its economy. ''I don't think there ever would be a good time not to have $90 million,'' said Mr. Gordon, a Democrat who opposes both the law and the boycotts.
 The law, scheduled to take effect in July, greatly expands the power of the local police to check the immigration status of people they suspect are in the country illegally and makes it a state crime, paralleling federal law, to not carry immigration papers.
 Several major civil rights groups have urged people to avoid the state in protest.
 Paul Senseman, a spokesman for Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, who signed the law on April 23, called boycotting the state ''thoughtless and harmful'' and said it was a distraction from the underlying issue of the federal government's failure to control immigration and the border.
 ''An economic boycott of Arizona just adds to the massive economic burden Arizonans have sustained for years due to the federal government's failure to secure our borders,'' Mr. Senseman said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Phil Gordon 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); BOYCOTTS (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CITIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); TOURISM (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (53%)

PERSON: JAN BREWER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



291 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Court Nominee Figures In Midterm Campaigns

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court confirmation hearings for Solicitor General Elena Kagan are weeks away, but her nomination is already becoming a flash point in midterm Congressional campaigns as candidates in both parties try to exploit the coming court fight.
 Republican strategists say the nomination is providing their candidates with another way to portray Democrats as out of touch by emphasizing Ms. Kagan's support of a policy at Harvard Law School that prohibited the military from officially recruiting on campus because of the Pentagon ban on gay men and lesbians serving openly in the military. 
 Within hours of her nomination Monday by President Obama, Ms. Kagan's stance was under attack by Republican candidates.
 ''As a member of a military family whose husband was in R.O.T.C. and served in the Iraq war, I am profoundly concerned about Kagan's radical views regarding our military,'' said Kelly Ayotte, a Republican Senate candidate in New Hampshire.
 At the same time, Democrats saw opportunity as well. 
 In Illinois, Alexi Giannoulias, the Democratic Senate candidate, pressed his Republican rival, Mark Kirk, a House member who had voiced opposition to the nomination of Sonia Sotomayor, on whether he would also oppose Mr. Obama's nomination of another woman to the court.
 The exchanges show how even the nomination of someone who is considered likely to be confirmed can still reshape the electoral landscape. It is the first Supreme Court nomination in a midterm election cycle since 1994. 
 While some Republicans said they hoped the Supreme Court battle did not become so volatile that it overshadowed issues of the economy and jobs, party leaders said the nomination fight could be a galvanizing force for conservative voters.
 ''It's a powerful reminder of how many seats we have in the Senate is important,'' Ron Nehring, chairman of the California Republican Party, said in an interview Tuesday. ''It also will raise a steady stream of issues that will be of great importance to many voters.''
 The rise of Tea Party advocates, accompanied by protesters across the country waving copies of the Constitution as they demonstrate, underscores the degree to which voters could be aroused by debate at the confirmation hearings over interpreting the Constitution.
 Democrats said they would mount an aggressive defense of Ms. Kagan that would neutralize any impact on the campaign season and maybe turn the confirmation proceedings to their advantage.
 The White House, along with the Democratic National Committee, has created a 24-hour war room. Not an hour went by on Tuesday when the forces advocating on Ms. Kagan's behalf did not fire off an e-mail statement or a video intended to either correct the record or call out their opponents.
 ''I have no doubt that Republicans want to gin it up for their base, but at the end of the day I think they are going to see a nominee who has the ability, the intellectual stamina and the right temperament to be on the court,'' said Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. 
 Republicans say the import of a Supreme Court nomination could help them over all by consuming Senate time and attention, depriving Democrats of the chance to achieve other legislative victories.
 ''A Supreme Court nomination always stops things around here,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the No. 3 Republican in the Senate. ''It takes up most of the space for two or three months.''
 He and several other Republicans pointed to the military recruitment issue as a potential obstacle to Ms. Kagan winning Republican votes. It not only allows Republicans to declare their support for the military but it also could conceivably be used against Democrats running in more conservative states -- Senators Michael Bennet in Colorado and Blanche Lincoln in Arkansas, for instance -- putting them on the spot over whether they agree with Ms. Kagan's view on recruiting.
 Rob Jesmer, executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said the idea of blocking recruiters from Harvard would not make sense to most Americans. ''We are fighting two wars, and we can't have people go recruit the best and the brightest?'' he said. ''It is elitist.''
 Democrats say that Ms. Kagan's views are being misconstrued and that she was mainly enforcing an existing ban while taking steps on her own to foster contact between Harvard and military recruiters.
 ''Her staunchest supporters are former military officers who are there at the Harvard Law School,'' said Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, an Army veteran and West Point graduate who invited Ms. Kagan to speak at the military academy. ''She just wowed them.''
 With other issues likely to surface, the confirmation battle adds one more element to an unsettled climate. While Republicans said they believed they stood to benefit from the fight, they also do not want it to overtake other topics.
 Gentry Collins, political director of the Republican National Committee, said Tuesday that the hearings could temporarily become an issue in the midterm elections, but that most voters were more concerned about the economy and unemployment.
 ''People are worried about their jobs,'' Mr. Collins said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elena Kagan's stance on military recruiting could be used against Democrats like Senator Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); JUDGES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOTOMAYOR HEARINGS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (58%); KELLY AYOTTE (57%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (57%); MARK STEVEN KIRK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



292 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Greece's Newest Odyssey

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Athens
 For a man whose country's wobbly finances have kept the world on edge for months, the Greek prime minister, George Papandreou, evinces an Obama-Zen-like calm. He is just back from meeting fellow European Union leaders, who decided to try to stave off a Greek meltdown and an E.U. crackup with a show of overwhelming force -- committing nearly $1 trillion to support the economy of any ailing member state. But over a lunch of Greek salad and grilled fish, Papandreou makes clear that he knows that the deal with the E.U. was not your garden-variety bailout-for-budget-cuts. No, if you really look closely at what it will take for Greece to mend its economy, this is actually a bailout-for-a-revolution. Greece's entire economic and political system will have to change for Greeks to deliver their side of this bargain.
 Papandreou says he is ready and so, too, he insists, is his country: ''People are saying to me, 'change this country -- go ahead and change it.' People realize that it needs change. You don't want to miss this opportunity.'' 
 How Greece performs will not only affect Greeks, but the value of the euro and the whole 27-nation European Union. Yes, I know, the E.U. is the world's most opaque and boring organization. But it is actually America's not-so-identical twin and the world's largest economy. It is, in fact, ''the United States of Europe,'' and, in my view, two United States are better than one. If this one over here fractures, it will affect everything from how many exports America has in the next year to how many allies America has in the next war.
 Sitting in a rooftop restaurant with a view of the Acropolis, I ask Papandreou to put on his safari hat and tell me what it was like to be hunted by the electronic bond herd for six months. 
 ''Because of the 2008 crisis, all the market players have become much more risk-averse, so they are on a hair trigger,'' explains the center-left prime minister, who was voted in by a large majority in October to fix this mess. Today's market players are ''like an animal that has been wounded, and so it recoils at the slightest motion. So any rumor about you can become a self-fulfilling prophecy.'' 
 Comparing bond players to some kind of living beasts may be unfair to beasts, he suggests. These markets ''are not even human anymore. Some of these things are computerized, and they just go into automatic mode'' when they see a hint of trouble.
 Because of their profligacy, Greeks have been living under this market scrutiny for so many months, he added, that today ''every Greek from age 3 to 93 knows what a 'bond spread' means. 'What's the spread today? Are they widening?' People had never heard about this before,'' and it created a paralyzing uncertainty. ''Should I buy, consume, save, invest, take my money out of the country?'' 
 The only way for Greece to end this uncertainty was with an unprecedented commitment by the European Union to backstop Greek debts and with an unprecedented commitment by Greece to put its economy on a strict diet -- set by the International Monetary Fund -- with quarterly budget targets that Athens has to meet to receive additional support.
 ''Now we will have a respite,'' said Papandreou -- not to relax, but so the Greek government can begin ''the deep changes ... the small revolution'' in how this country is governed, with particular emphasis on changing the incentive system here from one that focused way too many Greeks on getting a lifetime government job to one focused on stimulating private initiative.
 The cabinet has already approved increasing the average retirement age for public sector workers from 61 to 65. Average public sector wages have been cut 20 percent, and pensions by 10 percent. The value-added tax was raised from 19 percent to 23 percent, and there's been an excise tax increase of about 30 percent on gas, alcohol and tobacco. The number of municipalities is proposed to shrink from 1,000 to 400 and public-owned companies from 6,000 to 2,000 to save money and red tape. So far, the deficit is down 40 percent from last year.
 But Papandreou, whose official car is a Prius hybrid, says that to sustain these wrenching reforms requires Greeks to become stakeholders in the process. That will only happen, he argues, if there is a sense of ''justice'' -- Greeks want to see big tax cheaters and corrupt officials prosecuted -- and if the people feel their leaders have a vision. ''We need to give this country a dream -- where we are going,'' so the sacrifices make sense. 
 ''We're going to bring in best practices from Europe and around the world to reform this country,'' says Papandreou. ''It is difficult, and there will be protests, and people will feel bitter, but it will be one of the most creative times Greece has gone through.'' 
 Can Greece have a civic revolution? The odds are long, but you won't need to consult the I.M.F. to determine the answer. Just watch Greek young people. In six months, if you see them migrating, then short Greece. If you see them sticking it out here, though, it means they think there is something worth staying for, and you might even want to buy a Greek bond or two. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); ANIMALS (75%); POLITICS (73%); EURO (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); BUDGET CUTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE PAPANDREOU (92%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (91%) GREECE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



293 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Senate Votes Unanimously for an Audit of Fed's Actions in Financial Crisis

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate voted unanimously on Tuesday to require an audit of the Federal Reserve's emergency actions during and after the 2008 financial crisis as part of broad legislation overhauling the nation's financial regulatory system. 
 The amendment, proposed by Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, would require the Government Accountability Office to scrutinize some $2 trillion in emergency loans that the Fed provided to some of the nation's biggest banks. 
 The vote was 96 to 0. 
 Mr. Sanders, a professed socialist, has long demanded greater transparency at the central bank, and his original plan could have subjected the Fed to continuing audits of some of its routine operations. But he agreed to scale it back in the face of opposition from the White House, the Fed, the Treasury and some Senate colleagues. 
 While the Senate provision would require an audit of the Fed's emergency operations beginning on Dec. 1, 2007, the House approved tougher audit requirements late last year in its version of the financial regulatory legislation. Once the larger Senate bill is adopted, the provisions will have to be reconciled. 
 Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, put forward an amendment that would have mirrored the stricter House language. But the Senate rejected it Tuesday, 62 to 37. Mr. Sanders and six Democrats joined 30 Republicans in favor. 
 Later on Tuesday, the Senate voted by 63 to 36 to require the Treasury Department to study the prospect of ending the federal conservatorship of the government-sponsored mortgage giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 The Democrats put forward the amendment as an alternative to a proposal by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, that sought to end the government's involvement with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and potentially put them out of business within five years. Republicans denounced the proposed study as accomplishing nothing.
 The lack of provisions related to the mortgage giants in the broader bill has become a point of contention for the Republicans who say that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were at the heart of the collapse in the housing market that led to the financial crisis. 
 They have used the debate to highlight how Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac continue to lose tens of billions of dollars at taxpayer expense. Fannie Mae on Monday requested an additional $8.4 billion in taxpayer assistance and Freddie Mac last week asked for an additional $10.6 billion. 
 The federal government has already contributed $137.5 billion to the mortgage giants since taking control of them in August 2008. Meanwhile, Michael J. Williams, the chief executive of Fannie Mae, was paid $6.68 million in salary and bonuses for 2009, even as the institution lost more than $74 billion. The bonus money is being paid this year, including a $581,000 disbursement in March, according to regulatory filings. 
 ''This amendment that we'll take up will end the taxpayer-backed conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, by putting in place an orderly transition period and eventually requiring them to operate without government subsidies on a level playing field with their private-sector competitors,'' Mr. McCain said at a news conference before his amendment was defeated. 
 ''We are not saying that Freddie and Fannie have to go out of business,'' he said. ''We are saying we want them to be a business that is on a level playing field with other private sector competitors.'' 
 Democrats, however, note that few private sector competitors are left, and that Fannie and Freddie now supply a vast majority of mortgage financing in the United States. 
 The Senate on Tuesday also adopted an amendment sponsored by Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado, requiring that more than $180 billion in bailout money repaid to the Treasury under the Troubled Asset Relief Program be used to reduce the federal deficit rather than toward more bailouts or new spending.
 The majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said on Tuesday that he wanted to finish work on the legislation this week. But Mr. Reid lacks the 60 votes needed to end debate, and the Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said that he thought the bill required two more weeks of work. 
 ''This is a very, very important bill, and there are many legitimate amendments,'' Mr. McConnell said. 
 Mr. Sanders said his amendment would bring long overdue scrutiny to the Fed. 
 ''At a time when the Federal Reserve has provided the largest taxpayer bailout in the history of the world, the largest financial institutions in this country, trillion-dollar institutions, the Sanders amendment makes it clear that the Fed can no longer operate in the kind of secrecy that it has operated in forever,'' he said in a floor speech.
 Critics of the more aggressive audit provision approved by the House said that it could infringe on the Fed's independence and interfere with its ability to set monetary policy. 
 Mr. Sanders and other supporters rejected those assertions and said they were providing sufficient safeguards to protect the central bank's integrity. 
 The House bill, which was approved in December, included a proposal sponsored by one of the most conservative lawmakers, Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas, and one of the most liberal, Representative Alan Grayson, Democrat of Florida. 
 Their proposal would allow audits by the Government Accountability Office of every item on the Fed's balance sheet, and they said the Senate version would not go far enough. 
 ''While it is better than no audit at all, it guts the spirit of a truly meaningful audit of the most crucial transactions of the Fed,'' Mr. Paul wrote on his Web site. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Bernard Sanders's amendment mandated scrutiny of the Fed's response. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); AUDITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); BONUS PAY (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%)

PERSON: BERNIE SANDERS (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); DAVID VITTER (57%); MICHAEL J WILLIAMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



294 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Split Up Agency Policing The Oil Industry

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting from Washington, Susan Saulny from Kenner, La., and Andrew W. Lehren from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Tuesday proposed breaking up the agency responsible for both policing the oil industry and acting as its partner in drilling activities, seeking to end a decades-old relationship between industry and government that has proved highly profitable -- and some say too cozy -- for both.
 The administration has been under pressure to address weaknesses in federal oil regulation since the BP well blowout in the Gulf of Mexico three weeks ago. 
 On Tuesday, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar said he planned to cut the agency that oversees the industry, the Minerals Management Service, in two. One office would be responsible for public safety and environmental enforcement and the other in charge of leasing and revenue collection. Details of the proposal are still being worked out. 
 ''The job of ensuring energy companies are following the law and protecting the safety of their workers and the environment is a big one,'' Mr. Salazar said, ''and should be independent from other missions of the agency.''
 Some in Congress and outside groups expressed skepticism that the organizational change alone would end what they called perverse incentives leading to rushed safety reviews and a regulatory system that largely allows the industry to police itself. 
 As lawmakers weighed the bureaucratic reshuffling, tens of thousands of gallons of crude oil continued to pour into the gulf, threatening hundreds of miles of coastline. BP executives said they were pursing multiple lines of attack but conceded that they still were days or weeks from even a partial solution. 
 Decades of law and custom have joined government and the oil industry in the pursuit of petroleum and profit. The Minerals Management Service brings in an average of $13 billion a year. 
 Under federal law, even in the case of a major accident, the company responsible for the oil well acts in concert with government in cleanup activities and can help put out information about the response effort.
 Shortly after the gulf spill, government agencies and BP set up a joint information center and a Web site detailing remediation efforts. In this case, the communications effort, which includes the information center, based in a Shell-owned training and conference center in Robert, La., consists of roughly 65 employees, 10 of whom work for BP, Coast Guard officials said.
 As the administration scrambled to respond to the unfolding environmental and economic disaster in the gulf, two Senate committees opened hearings into the cause of the April 20 accident. Executives of the three main companies involved in the spill -- BP, Transocean and Halliburton -- took turns pointing the finger at others for the failures of the systems designed to prevent a major blowout, even as they cautioned that the cause of the explosion was not yet known. 
 In their first testimony since the spill, top executives of BP, which owns the well; Transocean, which owned the drilling rig and did much of the work; and Halliburton, which provided various services, including cement work on the drill hole, all sought to shift blame. 
 ''As a responsible party under the Oil Pollution Act, we will carry out our responsibilities,'' said Lamar McKay, president and chairman of BP America. But he added that Transocean ''had responsibility for the safety of the drilling operations.'' 
 Steven L. Newman, president and chief executive of Transocean, said that the accident had to have arisen from elements of the work done by other companies. 
 ''Were all appropriate tests run on the cement and the casing?'' he asked, apparently implicating Halliburton. 
 Tim Probert, chief of health, safety and environment for Halliburton, said that all work on the casing by his company was carried out ''as directed by the well owner,'' meaning BP. 
 The ranking Republican minority member on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, told them to stop the finger-pointing.
 ''I would suggest to all three of you that we are all in this together,'' she said. 
 If this spill leads to a cutoff of offshore drilling, Ms. Murkowski said, ''not only will BP not be out there, but the Transoceans won't be out there to drill the rigs and the Halliburtons won't be out there cementing.''
 Several senators complained of what they said was the Minerals Management Service's lax enforcement of safety and environmental standards, saying that regulators regularly rubber-stamped drilling plans that lacked detailed environmental assessments. 
 Senator Barbara Boxer, chairwoman of the Environment and Public Works Committee, said that the agency had granted BP an exemption from filing an environmental impact statement for the well that blew up, accepting company assurances that the chances of a major spill were remote. Such waivers are routinely granted when an impact statement has already been filed for a wider drilling area, but some environmentalists contend that a statement should be filed for each well.
 ''I am concerned that reports of corruption at M.M.S. -- including illicit activities -- might have played a role in these decisions and this approach,'' Mrs. Boxer said. ''Clearly, stronger, more independent oversight of oil company activities is needed.''
 She was alluding to revelations two years ago that some minerals management officials in Colorado accepted gifts, trips, drugs and sexual favors from oil company representatives. The Interior Department's inspector general found numerous abuses and characterized the agency as an ethical wasteland.
 In announcing his plan to split up the minerals service, Mr. Salazar said it had become clear that the agency's two missions were often in conflict. He said that he had undertaken a number of steps to improve ethics and tighten safety enforcement at the agency but that he decided more radical steps were needed.
 Mr. Salazar also announced that he had asked the National Academy of Engineering to conduct an investigation of the causes of the Deepwater Horizon accident, a task that now falls solely on the minerals management agency and the United States Coast Guard. 
 And he said he was seeking a change in the law to provide more time for regulators to review safety and environmental plans for new wells. The law now requires government to act within 30 days on an application for a new well; Mr. Salazar would lengthen that to 90 days or longer if needed.
 The proposal to divide the agency reflects a shift in attitude by the Obama White House since the spill began.
 In March, a few weeks before the drilling rig explosion and fire that led to the spill, the president laid out plans for comprehensive energy legislation that called for new offshore drilling in the Atlantic Ocean from Delaware to central Florida. That legislation faced an uncertain path in the Senate even before the accident. 
 After the spill, Mr. Obama suspended his oil drilling plan, saying his administration would not approve any new offshore leases unless rigs had new safeguards. 
 Kieran Suckling, executive director of the Center for Biological Diversity, an environmental advocacy group, said Mr. Salazar's changes were unlikely to significantly alter the culture and practices of government oil regulators.
 ''Salazar's proposed reform doesn't commit to separating M.M.S.'s revenue and environmental permitting arms,'' Mr. Suckling said. ''Thus it ignores the true scandal and allows the worst abuses to continue. M.M.S. will still have a conflict of interest, still waive environmental reviews and still rubber-stamp drilling plans.'' 
 Some environmental groups have also objected to BP's role in the joint information center and the Web site about remediation efforts. BP, said Erich Pica, president of Friends of the Earth, ''is spinning the agencies and spinning the public.'' 
 But Coast Guard officials said that the Coast Guard was the ultimate arbiter of what information was released, and that BP released announcements separately on topics not directly related to the response efforts. 
 ''We tell them every single day that if there's something that's going to be impacting on them in that capacity, they need to put that on their Web site,'' said Senior Chief Petty Officer Steve Carleton.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the Rainforest Action Network listened Tuesday at a hearing of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, right, as oil company executives, center, waited to testify. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Testifying before the Senate committee were, from left, Lamar McKay, president of BP America
Steven Newman, president and chief executive of Transocean Limited
 and Tim Probert, president of Global Business Lines and a leading Halliburton officer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); COASTAL AREAS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (62%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: RAINFOREST ACTION NETWORK (59%); MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); KEN SALAZAR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



295 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Greece, Debt And a Lesson

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's easy to look at the protesters and the politicians in Greece -- and at the other European countries with huge debts -- and wonder why they don't get it. They have been enjoying more generous government benefits than they can afford. No mass rally and no bailout fund will change that. Only benefit cuts or tax increases can.
 Yet in the back of your mind comes a nagging question: how different, really, is the United States?
 The numbers on our federal debt are becoming frighteningly familiar. The debt is projected to equal 140 percent of gross domestic product within two decades. Add in the budget troubles of state governments, and the true shortfall grows even larger. Greece's debt, by comparison, equals about 115 percent of its G.D.P. today. 
 The United States will probably not face the same kind of crisis as Greece, for all sorts of reasons. But the basic problem is the same. Both countries have a bigger government than they're paying for. And politicians, spendthrift as some may be, are not the main source of the problem. 
 We, the people, are.
 We have not figured out the kind of government we want. We're in favor of Medicare, Social Security, good schools, wide highways, a strong military -- and low taxes. Dealing with this disconnect will be the central economic issue of the next decade, in Europe, Japan and this country.
 Many people, including some who claim to be outraged by the deficit, still haven't acknowledged the disconnect. Just last weekend, Tea Party members helped deny Senator Robert Bennett, the Utah Republican, his party's nomination for his re-election campaign, in part because he had co-sponsored a health reform plan with a Democratic senator. Economists generally think the plan would have done more to reduce Medicare spending than the bill that passed. So, whatever its intentions, the Tea Party effectively punished Mr. Bennett for not being a big enough fan of big government. 
 Or consider the different fates of two parts of President Obama's agenda. Mr. Obama has unrealistically said that taxes do not need to rise on households making less than $250,000, and this position has come to be seen as an ironclad vow. He has also called for billions of dollars in sensible cuts to agribusiness subsidies, tax loopholes and the like. The news media and Congress have largely ignored these proposals. 
 The message seems clear: woe unto the politician -- in Washington, Athens or London -- who tries to go beyond platitudes and show some actual fiscal restraint. 
 This situation obviously can't continue, as Robert Greenstein, perhaps the leading liberal budget expert, points out. Mr. Greenstein's politics make him sympathetic to the worry that all the deficit talk will become an excuse to pull back on stimulus spending while unemployment remains high or to gut social programs. But he also knows the numbers well enough to understand that our Greece moment, whether it takes the form of a crisis or not, is coming.
 ''Most of the public thinks, 'If only the darn politicians could get their act together to cut waste, fraud and abuse, and to make tax avoidance go away and so on,' '' Mr. Greenstein, head of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, says. ''But the bottom line is, there really is no avoiding the hard choices.'' 
 For Greece and possibly other European countries, change will come from the outside. The countries lending the money for the Greek bailout -- chiefly Germany -- are demanding big cuts to the welfare state. Greek citizens will soon have a harder time retiring in their 40s. 
 Here in the United States, we're likely to have the chance to solve our problems before our lenders demand it. Those lenders continue see the American economy as a safe haven, thanks to our history of strong economic growth and political flexibility. 
 It is even possible that future growth will make the current deficit projections look too pessimistic. That sometimes happens when the economy is weak. In the wake of the early 1990s recession, for example, almost no one imagined that the budget would show a surplus by the end of the decade.
 But the main issue isn't the near-term deficit -- the one created by the recession, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Bush tax cuts and the Obama stimulus. The main issue is the long-term deficit. 
 As societies become richer, citizens tend to want better schools, better medical care and other government services. This country is following that pattern, but without paying the necessary taxes. That combination has us on a course to Greece-like debt.
 As a rough estimate, the government will need to find spending cuts and tax increases equal to 7 to 10 percent of G.D.P. The longer we wait, the bigger the cuts will need to be (because of the accumulating interest costs).
 Seven percent of G.D.P. is about $1 trillion today. In concrete terms, Medicare's entire budget is about $450 billion. The combined budgets of the Education, Energy, Homeland Security, Justice, Labor, State, Transportation and Veterans Affairs Departments are less than $600 billion. 
 This is why fixing the budget through spending cuts alone, as Congressional Republicans say they favor, would be so hard. Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin has a plan for doing so, and it includes big cuts to Social Security and the end of Medicare for anyone now under 55 years old. Other Republicans have generally refused to endorse the Ryan plan. Until that changes or until the party becomes open to new taxes, its deficit strategy will remain unclear.
 Democrats have more of a strategy -- raising taxes on the rich and using health reform to reduce the growth of Medicare spending -- but it is not nearly sufficient. 
 What would be? A plan that included a little bit of everything, and then some: say, raising the retirement age; reducing the huge deductions for mortgage interest and health insurance; closing corporate tax loopholes; cutting pensions of some public workers, as Republican governors favor; scrapping wasteful military and space projects; doing more to hold down Medicare spending growth. 
 Much of this may be unpleasant. But by no means will it doom us to reduced living standards or even slow economic growth. We can still afford to spend more on Medicare -- even more per person -- than we do today, and more on education, the military and other areas, too. We just can't afford the unrealistic promises that the government has made. We need to make choices. 
 ''It's not a matter of whether we have the resources to solve our problems,'' as Alan Krueger, the chief economist at the Treasury Department, says. ''It's a matter of political will.''
 For now at least, our elected officials are hardly the only ones who lack that will. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers in Athens. In Greece and the United States, citizens expect the government to provide social services for the elderly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ORESTIS PANAGIOTOU/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A3) CHART: Depths of the Debt: With the exception of wartimes and their aftermath, the finances of most advanced countries are in a worse state than at any point since the 18th century. (Sources: Citi Investment Research and Analysis, based on data from Eurostat and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); TAX LAW (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (65%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%)

PERSON: ROBERT BENNETT (77%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



296 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: A Powerful Friend ...

BYLINE: By BERNIE BECKER

 BODY:
Senator Arlen Specter started running this advertisement on Tuesday. It will be shown in Pennsylvania.
 THE SCRIPT In the main section of the ad, President Obama says: ''Now, I want to say a few things about Arlen Specter. He came to fight for the working men and women of Pennsylvania. And Arlen Specter cast the deciding vote in favor of a Recovery Act that has helped pull us back from the brink. Because you know he's going to fight for you regardless of what the politics are.'' 
 ON THE SCREEN At the beginning of the spot, Mr. Specter is seen greeting Mr. Obama on a stage. For most of the rest of the spot, the president is seen speaking, with intermittent shots of Mr. Specter at his side.
 ACCURACY A case can certainly be made that Mr. Specter was a decisive vote for the stimulus package. In February 2009, the Senate gave final approval to the measure by a vote of 60 to 38, with Mr. Specter one of three Republicans to vote for it. (The others were Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine.)
 SCORECARD Representative Joe Sestak has maintained that Mr. Specter is not a true Democrat and switched parties merely to save his seat in the Senate. The spot employs the country's top Democrat -- Mr. Obama -- to rebut that first argument and to validate Mr. Specter's credentials as a Democrat. The advertisement also highlights the senator's support of the stimulus bill, which remains very popular among Democratic primary voters.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); WOMEN WORKERS (72%); APPROVALS (67%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (59%); JOE SESTAK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



297 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Wholesale Inventories Rise for Third Month

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Inventories held by wholesalers rose for a third consecutive month in March while sales increased more than expected.
 Wholesale inventories rose 0.4 percent in March, slightly lower than the 0.5 percent gain that had been expected, the Commerce Department said Tuesday. Sales rose by 2.4 percent, more than double the 1.1 percent increase economists had forecast. 
 It was the 12th consecutive month that sales rose at the wholesale level, an encouraging sign for the economic rebound as it might lift production at factories and prompt them to rehire laid-off workers.
 The 0.4 percent rise in March inventories followed gains of 0.6 percent in February and 0.1 percent in January.
 Inventories have risen for five of the last six months. A 0.5 percent increase in October was the first gain after 13 consecutive declines. Before October, businesses had gone through a broad liquidation of their stocks as they struggled to contain costs during the recession.
 Mike England, an economist with Action Economics, said the sales gain among wholesalers reinforced earlier reports of March sales increases at the retail and manufacturing levels. Those gains are out-performing market assumptions and bolstering the outlook for the overall economy in the months ahead, he said.
 The move away from slashing inventories has played an important role in supporting growth over the last two quarters. Increased orders have helped make manufacturers the standout performers in the recovery so far.
 The rise in inventories and even bigger jump in sales pushed the inventory to sales ratio down to 1.13 in March. That means it would take 1.13 months to deplete existing stocks at the March sales pace. The ratio had been at 1.16 in February and stood at 1.39 in March 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (94%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



298 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Super Bowl Bid Exalts New York, And Winter

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
There could be the commissioner's party at the American Museum of Natural History and another party with a view of the Statue of Liberty from Liberty State Park. Maybe a breakfast at Tiffany & Company for team owners and their families. Perhaps even a Super Bowl float in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.
 The bid to host the 2014 Super Bowl at New Meadowlands Stadium, portions of which were obtained by The New York Times in advance of its Wednesday unveiling, dresses the Super Bowl in a giant ''I Love New York'' T-shirt, spinning even the prospect of bad weather as a chance to go ''old school'' and embrace a link to some of the N.F.L.'s storied cold-weather games.
 Yet for all the spectacular possibilities proposed, the mundane realities of dealing with winter are likely to dominate the conversation about the bid. The plan includes elaborate contingencies for Super Bowl week, everything from providing hand warmers to fans at the game to having hundreds of people standing by with shovels to dig out the stadium. No wonder the proposal calls other public spectacles that have played out in the area, like papal Masses, ''practice'' for the Super Bowl. 
 ''The focus was on those things that only this community and this stadium can provide,'' said one bid official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the plans were not final.
 A Super Bowl bid is a document of eye-blurring detail. It covers a description of the stadium seating (19 inches wide and plastic, except for the padded club and suite seats), the availability of 1,000 taxis (no problem, although it also notes the owners can land at two helipads at the stadium), which three golf courses are recommended (none, because they are closed in February) and whether bowling is an option (it is). There are sections about the necessity of police escorts for taking the teams to practice, the news media to interview sessions and the officials to the game, and where there is space to rehearse the halftime show (Rutgers University).
 The host committee, enamored of compact Super Bowl locations like New Orleans, has put nearly all major events and sites in Midtown and in the area around the Meadowlands. And the bid encourages the use of public transportation, noting that the New Jersey Transit station yards from the stadium entrance can move 10,000 fans per hour from Penn Station to the stadium.
 ''That's about the fear of the unknown -- we wanted to feature that so we could try to address what some people have in the back of their mind, that's it's going to be impossible to get around New York,'' the bid official said.
 Owners will award the 2014 Super Bowl at a meeting May 24, and the New York/New Jersey bid is the favorite to prevail over Tampa and South Florida, two traditional hosts.
 In recent years, the N.F.L. has used the Super Bowl as a carrot for communities to contribute to the construction of new stadiums. Among owners, this is viewed as an opportunity to reward the Giants and the Jets, and the area, for building a billion-dollar-plus stadium.
 Still, there is no escaping the snowplow in the room: the weather gives many owners pause, presenting the bid's most significant hurdle and producing incredulity among some fans who imagine sitting outdoors. The N.F.L. has put Super Bowls in cold climates before, but those stadiums had roofs. The New Meadowlands Stadium does not. In the bid materials, the average high temperature in February is listed as 40 degrees with an average low of 24.1 degrees, and average precipitation of 2.7 inches.
 Some team owners and Commissioner Roger Goodell have little problem with the game being played in the elements, pointing to memorable games -- the Ice Bowl, for one. Robert K. Kraft, the New England Patriots' owner, whose team played one of its most important games in snow-globe conditions -- the Tuck Rule playoff victory over the Raiders -- said playoff games in frigid Foxborough were the franchise's most memorable. The Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank said he was not concerned with game conditions.
 ''It's going to be cold and what you hope for is that the worst it will be is snow,'' Blank said in a telephone interview. ''Snow, cold -- players have done that their whole lives. To fans, it's a different experience. You have to ask yourself, are people going to come for three or four or five days and deal with the elements? Are people prepared to come to New York and deal with cold weather? Without a Super Bowl, they do it now.''
 The bid tries to make the best of the weather.
 ''Playing the game in a cold weather outdoor setting will add yet another element of intrigue,'' it reads. ''The game will take on the 'old school' feel of the great outdoor contests of the past, yet it will be played in one of the league's most technologically advanced stadiums.''
 The committee is prepared for the worst, though. The teams, which will practice at the Giants' and the Jets' new facilities in New Jersey, which both have indoor fields, will stay at hotels within a few miles of the sites. The bid is built on having up to 800 people with shovels ready to clear the stadium, although more could be added if needed.
 Part of the bid calls for covering some of the openings in the stadium to cut down on the wind and for using heaters to warm the concourses. There will be seat and hand warmers. And perhaps fire pits in the parking lots before the game.
 ''We're really trying to embrace the weather and make it more of a communal experience,'' the bid official said.
 That may be a tough sell to even the most enthusiastic owners. But the appeal of putting the league's showcase event in the world's news media and business capital is obvious. The bid also says that 36 percent of the 20 million people who live in the region were born outside the United States, a boon for a league with ambitious goals to increase the game's popularity.
 There is little doubt that staging a Super Bowl in the New York region will be more expensive than anywhere else, said Robert Baade, an economics professor at Lake Forest College. The host committee is responsible for raising $40 million toward the cost. While the host committee estimates a gain for the region of $550 million, other estimates vary widely.
 Baade said the region might benefit more than warm-weather cities because February is not a traditionally tourist-heavy month in New York. But he said conventions and residents could stay away for fear of Super Bowl crowds. Baade estimates that the region might realize just a $55 million uptick.
 The biggest beneficiary of any bid, Baade said, is the N.F.L. The owners, after all, are the host committee's most important constituency.
 With South Florida needing stadium renovations, the race for the 2014 game is between Tampa and New York.
 For some owners, though, the bid needs little selling.
 ''Come on,'' Kraft said in March. ''It's New York.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Liberty State Park in Jersey City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Izod Center in East Rutherford, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS)
American Museum of Natural History. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B18) MAP: The Lineup: Proposed sites for New York's 2014 Super Bowl XLVIII bid. (Sources: 2014 New York Super Bowl Bid
 Image by Google Earth)(B18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); STATE PARKS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); SPORTS FANS (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (71%); THANKSGIVING (71%); GOLF (63%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (91%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (91%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (91%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010



299 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Benefits

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
Helping Rwanda
 A benefit for Foundation Rwanda to help women and children affected by the genocide in 1994 will be held on May 13 from 7 to 9 p.m., with food and drinks from restaurants, and an auction, at Bonhams, 580 Madison Avenue (57th Street). Tickets are $125 in advance from foundationrwandafoodandfotos.com, $150 at the door. Early admission at 5:30 p.m. is $350. 
 For Arts in Schools
 A Taste of TriBeCa, with more than 60 restaurants participating to help arts programs in Public Schools 234 and 150, will run on May 15 from 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m., rain or shine, on Duane Street between Hudson and Greenwich Streets. Tickets, for six tasting plates, cost $40 from tasteoftribeca.org, $45 at the event. Reserved seats are $175.
 A Brooklyn Fund-Raiser
 Tastings of food and drinks from restaurants in Williamsburg and Greenpoint, Brooklyn, to help raise money for the construction of the Northside Town Hall Community and Cultural Center will be held on May 16 from noon to 4 p.m. on North 11th Street between Berry Street and Wythe Avenue. Tickets from brownpapertickets.com/event/101127 and at the event are $35 for 6 tastes, $55 for 10, $95 for 18.
 For Share Our Strength
 The annual Taste of the Nation to benefit Share Our Strength will have its New York event on May 17 at 8 p.m. with food from more than 50 restaurants, as well as cocktails, wine, book signings and a silent auction at the Grand Hyatt. Tickets are $275, or $350 for admission at 7. When buying tickets at newyorktaste.org, use the code NYCMAY, and there will be a 20 percent discount.
 Support a Caring Hand
 More than a dozen restaurants will participate in a fund-raising tasting on May 17 from 6:30 to 10 p.m. for A Caring Hand, an organization that helped families after Sept. 11 and continues to help families with emotional and financial support. Tickets for the event, at Tribeca Rooftop, 2 Desbrosses Street (Hudson Street): $175 from acaringhand.org, (212) 229-2273, $200 at the door.
 For Bellevue Children
 A tasting of restaurant food and wine to benefit children's services at Bellevue Hospital will be held on May 18 from 7:30 to 10 p.m. at Gotham Hall, 1356 Broadway (36th Street), with dozens of chefs participating. Tickets are $250 from (212) 562-4130, or from childrenofbellevue.org. Tickets for those 35 or younger are $150.
 To Help in Queens
 More than 40 Queens restaurants will offer a global array of dishes to taste at a benefit for the Queens Economic Development Corporation, which supports the businesses and residents of the borough, on May 18 from 6 to 9 p.m. at Citifield. Tickets are $100, $185 for two, at discoverqueens.info, click on Taste 2010; (718) 263-0546.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); TICKET SALES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); GENOCIDE (73%); CHILD WELFARE (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%)

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (54%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (54%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



300 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: All Is Not Well in Rwanda

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Rwanda's Mix: Order, Tension, Repressiveness'' (front page, May 1): 
 Rwanda in the several decades preceding the 1994 genocide was considered a star economic performer by the World Bank and other major donors. With growth rates well above the average for sub-Saharan Africa, little corruption, good roads and a reliable power supply, Rwanda dazzled those looking for a ''model'' African development narrative.
 So we should be very wary of mistaking the surface glitter of Rwanda today -- the tall buildings, clean streets and Internet cafes -- as signs that all is well. Ethnic divisions and political authoritarianism have not disappeared from Rwanda, nor has a tendency to use violence to resolve differences dissipated.
 Until the country can have an open, honest discussion of the 1994 genocide and its aftermath, while building a society that respects human rights and freedoms, the risk of large-scale violence remains all too real.
 William G. O'Neill Brooklyn, May 4, 2010
 The writer, a lawyer who led the United Nations Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda in 1997, is director of the Conflict Prevention and Peace Forum, Social Science Research Council.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH COUNCIL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) RWANDA (94%); AFRICA (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (91%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



301 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Side by Side, but Divided Over Immigration

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
ALBUQUERQUE -- As the Arizona Legislature steamed ahead with the most stringent immigration enforcement bill in the country this year, this state's House of Representatives was unanimously passing a resolution recognizing the economic benefits of illegal immigrants.
 While the Arizona police will check driver's licenses and other documents to root out illegal immigrants, New Mexico allows illegal residents to obtain driver's licenses as a public safety measure.
 And if Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican, has become, for now, the public face of tough immigration enforcement, Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a Democrat, has told any interviewer who will listen about his effort to ''to integrate immigrants that are here and make them part of society and protect the values of our Hispanic and multiethnic communities.''
 They may sit side by side on the border, they may share historical ties to Mexico; they may have once even been part of the same territory, but Arizona and New Mexico have grown up like distant siblings. 
 People on all sides of the immigration debate have taken notice.
 ''If a burglar breaks into your home, do you serve him dinner? That is pretty much what they do there with illegals,'' said State Representative John Kavanagh of Arizona, a Republican. Mr. Kavanagh is one of the staunchest supporters of the new law there, which will give the local police broad power to check the legal status of people they stop and suspect are in the country illegally.
 But Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, a liberal group in Washington that advocates reworking immigration law, offered New Mexico as a model of balancing a push for border security -- Mr. Richardson once declared a state of emergency there -- with coping with the illegal immigrants already in this country.
 ''Richardson has got it,'' Mr. Sharry said.
 Even supporters of Arizona's law here -- and there are some -- agree that such a measure would never pass in New Mexico, given the outcry among legislators and immigrant advocates that the police in Arizona might detain and question Latinos who are legal residents and citizens but are mistaken for illegal immigrants.
 Why the difference?
 First, New Mexico (population two million) has the highest percentage of Hispanics of any state -- 45 percent, compared with 30 percent in Arizona (population 6.5 million), and they historically have commanded far more political power than their neighbors do. The New Mexico Legislature is 44 percent Hispanic, a contrast to the 16 percent in Arizona, according to the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials.
 Both were once part of Mexico and, later, the same United States territory. But since they became states in 1912, New Mexico has had five Hispanic governors (including Mr. Richardson, whose mother is Mexican), and Arizona has had one, according to the group.
 New Mexico's legislators embrace the civil rights protections in the state's Constitution -- including so-called unamendable provisions akin to a Bill of Rights that historically protected Spanish-speaking citizens of the former Mexican territory -- and often mount a ''protective stance'' toward immigrants regardless of legal status, said Christine M. Sierra, a political science professor at the University of New Mexico.
 ''When the community at large feels threatened, folks close ranks and join in solidarity to protect the group,'' Professor Sierra said, noting that Arizona Latinos have struggled to assume the same kind of a power in a state where a greater influx of Anglos (the general term for non-Hispanic whites) over the decades has diluted their strength.
 The flow of drugs and illegal immigrants over the sparsely populated, remote border here, moreover, pales compared with that in Arizona, whose border, dotted with towns and roads facilitating trafficking, registers the highest number of drug seizures and arrests of illegal crossers of any state.
 The estimated 460,000 illegal immigrants in Arizona, whose population explosion of the past few decades has been a magnet for low-wage work, is more than eight times that of the estimated 55,000 here in Albuquerque, where the economy turns more on government, military and high-skill jobs.
 Though concerns about immigration and the border arise, particularly in the southern ''boot heel'' of New Mexico, the burner setting is low.
 ''It's not that there isn't social tension between Hispanics and non-Hispanics,'' said Jose Z. Garcia, a political scientist at New Mexico State University. ''We just have learned to tolerate each other and get along.''
 Illegal immigrants here agree. Where fear and anxiety pervade their communities in Arizona to the point that some do not venture outside or have left the state, here they live more openly and are less guarded.
 ''People give us food, a place to sleep,'' said Samuel Duran, 35, a day laborer looking for work in a Santa Fe park. ''The police bother us when they have a reason, like a fight, but in general they leave us alone.''
 Marta Nebarez, who manages a grocery store in a heavily immigrant neighborhood in Albuquerque, said that newly arriving illegal immigrants had an easier time here and that word was spreading. Some customers have told her that a few families from Arizona have moved here.
 ''This government helps people a lot more than over there,'' she said, noting several measures, including a state law enacted in 2005 that allows illegal immigrants to pay the same tuition rate as legal, in-state residents.
 In an interview, Mr. Richardson promoted that measure as only fair to children who had no choice in being raised here, and said that other measures improved public health, like the Department of Health's cooperation in a health referral service run by the Mexican Consulate for Mexican citizens.
 But New Mexico's patience could be tested, and some fear that the Arizona law will push more illegal immigrants into the state, though they typically go where the most jobs are found.
 Steve Wilmeth, a cattle rancher near Las Cruces, 30 miles north of the border, said he had grown frustrated with finding illegal immigrants crossing his property and recalled a harrowing confrontation a couple of years ago with a group of 20 near a watering tank. ''SB 1070,'' Mr. Wilmeth said, referring to the Arizona law, which he supports, ''is a desperate attempt by the people of Arizona to do something about the onslaught they face.''
 Violence on the Mexican side of the border -- one of the bloodiest cities, Ciudad Juarez, is an hour's drive from Las Cruces -- has heightened anxiety. So, too, has the shooting death of a rancher in southern Arizona near the New Mexico border by someone the police theorize may have been connected to smuggling.
 Mr. Richardson responded by sending 35 National Guard troops to the boot-heel area and repeating a call for more help from the federal government.
 Border and immigration issues have spilled into political campaigns, but the issue has not topped residents' concerns, said Brian Sanderoff, a veteran pollster here.
 One Republican running in her party's primary for governor this year, Susana Martinez, a southern New Mexico prosecutor, has filmed a commercial promoting border security and a promise to revoke the law granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants and deny taxpayer-supported scholarships to illegal immigrants.
 Last year, the mayor of Albuquerque, Richard J. Berry, won office after a campaign that included a vow to give the city police more discretion to check the immigration status of offenders. Five months into office, Mr. Berry has said he is still reviewing the policy.
 Mr. Richardson, who believes that illegal immigrants should pay back taxes, learn English and take other steps as a condition of getting legal status, makes no apologies for seeking to integrate them, calling them a net plus for the state.
 ''I just have always felt that this is part of my heritage,'' he said, noting his early years spent in Mexico City. ''There is a decided positive in encouraging biculturalism and people working and living together instead of inciting tension. The worry I have about Arizona is it is going to spread. It arouses the nativist instinct in people.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2010, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A map on Wednesday with an article about contrasting immigration policies in New Mexico and Arizona misidentified the capital of New Mexico. As a listing of state facts with the map correctly noted, the capital is Santa Fe -- not Albuquerque, which is about 60 miles southwest of Santa Fe. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE BORDER: Officials on patrol near Columbus, N.M. Migrant workers and immigration authorities say New Mexico has fewer problems with the flow of drugs and illegal immigrants at the border than neighboring Arizona does. Although the two states have much in common, their laws and their residents show different attitudes on immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PHOENIX: A new law in Arizona gives the police broad authority to check the legal status of people they stop. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK OZA/ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
SANTA FE: Immigrants in New Mexico say they live relatively openly, with little attention from local police officers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHICS: ARIZONA: Year became a state: 1912 Capital: Phoenix Notable recent legislation: The most stringent immigration enforcement law in the country Governor: Jan Brewer, Republican Population: 6,500,180 (2008 Census Bureau estimate) Percentage of Hispanic residents: 30 percent Percentage of state legislators who are Hispanic: 16 percent Illegal residents' rights: Under the new law, the police will check driver's licenses and other documents to root out illegal immigrants. Under federal law, all illegal immigrants must be given emergency medical care. Length of international border: 372.5 miles, including 19.1 miles along the Colorado River State insect: Two-tailed swallowtail butterfly (according to stateanimals.com)
 NEW MEXICO: Year became a state: 1912 Capital: Santa Fe Notable recent legislation: A resolution recognizing the economic benefits of undocumented immigrants Governor: Bill Richardson, Democrat. Fifth governor with Hispanic origins. Population: 1,984,356 (2008 Census Bureau estimate) Percentage of Hispanic residents: 45 percent Percentage of state legislators that are Hispanic: 44 percent Illegal residents' rights: Allows illegal immigrants to have driver's licenses and to attend public colleges and universities on in-state tuition Length of international border: 179.5 miles State insect: Tarantula hawk wasp (according to stateanimals.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US TERRITORIES (73%); POLITICS (73%); DRIVERS LICENSES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (90%); LAURA RICHARDSON (79%); JAN BREWER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (92%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (99%); NEW MEXICO, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



302 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 IRAN DENIES FAMILIES 
 Bodies of Executed Kurds
 The authorities in Iran have refused to allow the families of five Kurdish activists hanged on Sunday to bury them, and have arrested the sister and mother of the only woman among the executed, one of the activists' lawyers said. PAGE A10
 National 
 COURT NOMINEE FIGURES
 In Midterm Campaigns
 The Supreme Court confirmation hearings for Solicitor General Elena Kagan are weeks away, but her nomination is already becoming a flash point in midterm Congressional campaigns as candidates in both parties try to exploit the coming fight. PAGE A16
 DECLINE IN NASA RESEARCH
 A panel of scientists and engineers has found that the decline of basic research at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration jeopardizes the agency's ability to study and explore the cosmos. PAGE A18
 OFFICER CLEARED IN SHOOTING
 A jury in Houston acquitted a white police officer accused of shooting a young black man in a case that attracted widespread attention in Texas because the victim's family accused the police of racial profiling. A defense lawyer for the officer, Sgt. Jeffrey Cotton, had argued that the sergeant felt his life was in danger when he shot Robert Tolan, a 23-year-old waiter, in the driveway of the young man's family home. PAGE A15
 New York
 IN A SMALL CITY,
 Gang Violence Reigns
 Gang violence is nothing new for Newburgh, N. Y., a dilapidated city an hour north of Manhattan. Newburgh has long been known for problems far out of proportion to its population of 29,000, but the latest round of violence is shining a harsh new glare on the city, both for the intensity of the attacks and the young ages of many of those involved. PAGE A19
 Business
 A PROPOSAL TO END 
 Shady Car Dealers
 On the edges of the debate in Washington over financial regulation, consumer advocates are railing against the business practices of car dealers, which they say should be reined in by the new legislation. PAGE B1
 A BOLD MEDIA VENTURE
 Peter A. Chernin, who left the News Corporation as Rupert Murdoch's second in command, is in the early stages of assembling an entertainment company of considerable ambition. The venture could test whether the large-scale businesses engineered by media moguls in the 1990s can be built in the current media landscape. PAGE B1
 A NEW ROLE FOR THE I.M.F.
 Bolstered by a big new balance sheet, the International Monetary Fund is now presenting itself as the indispensable institution in the sovereign debt crisis. Trying to shed its image as a policy taskmaster, the fund is refashioning itself as the investment bank of multilateral institutions, doing whatever it takes to get the deal done. PAGE B1
 Sports
 TEST RESULTS RAISE CONCERN ON HORMONE DRUGS
 The N.F.L. suspended the star linebacker Brian Cushing for the use of a drug that helped jump-start his body's production of testosterone. It was one of the latest in a string of positive tests for similar drugs by professional athletes. The results surprised league officials and antidoping experts. Is this a trend? Why this drug? Is this the latest chess move in the cat-and-mouse game of drug testing? PAGE B18
 Arts
 FLOATING A WILD PLAN 
 To Defeat the Nazis
 ''Operation Mincemeat'' by Ben Macintyre tells the story of an elaborate ruse employed by the Allies in World War II involving a dead body, a suitcase and planted documents. Dwight Garner writes that Mr. Macintyre has got his hands around a true story that's so wind-swept, so weighty and so implausible that it would be impossible to tell it poorly. PAGE C1
 Dining
 WHITE HOUSE PASTRY
 Meets Health Policy
 Because of Michelle Obama's campaign for healthy eating, the first family's day-to-day meals have taken on national significance. That has meant new responsibilities for Bill Yosses, the White House pastry chef, which now include apprentice beekeeping, weeding and the pursuit of the perfect pie crust, and he has blossomed in the roles. PAGE D1
 Op-ed
 THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A25
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); JURY TRIALS (76%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (76%); ACQUITTAL (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (75%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); GANGS (73%); RACIAL PROFILING (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); JUDGES (72%); RACE & RACISM (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT (63%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (63%); NEW CAR DEALERS (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); LEGISLATION (62%); ATHLETES (60%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (60%); DEBT CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (81%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (56%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); PETER CHERNIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010



303 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Introducing She Owns It: 'I Didn't Know There Were Women Out There Like Me'

BYLINE: ADRIANA GARDELLA


HIGHLIGHT: The constant focus on fast-growth firms can obscure the contributions of female entrepreneurs. This blog intends to share their stories and start a conversation. 

 BODY:
When I first considered blogging about women who are business owners and entrepreneurs, I wondered whether they really needed to be singled out any more than business owners with green eyes or entrepreneurs whose names begin with the letter "M." I was leery of addressing a vast and varied population of women as if they were all the same but somehow different -- in a bad way -- from their male peers. As a former editor with Fortune Small Business, I was aware that many businesses owned by women did not grow as quickly as those of some of their male counterparts -- the result of complex factors that include financing challenges, the lingering effects of centuries of gender discrimination and the vastly different socialization of women and men.
But despite the challenges, women start and run businesses in huge numbers, contributing $3 trillion to the American economy annually, and employing more than 23 million people, according to the Center for Women's Business Research. Behind these statistics are ambitious, hard-working and inspiring women -- innovators who are passionate about their businesses and, in many cases, striving to change the world. They are the reason that I became excited about creating She Owns It, a new channel of You're the Boss.
Why do these stories seem to slip through the cracks? Julie Kirk, a cashed-out technology entrepreneur and an instructor with a University of Maryland program that helps women start businesses by licensing technologies from universities and government labs, thinks she may know why: "We're too busy doing what we do to go out and seek the publicity - our time is precious." She added that her students were bright but often lacked confidence, networks and role models. But they do have a common refrain, she said: "The thing we hear most often from program graduates is, 'I didn't know there were women out there just like me.'"
The business media focus on fast-growth firms may also be hurting the cause of the women (and men) who start equally significant businesses but on their own terms. "I want to change the world and to do that I've got to be big," said Janice Shade, founder of True Body Products, a soap company. "But I need to grow in a way that is true to my values and mission. Often, a full-on pursuit of short-term growth leads to myopic decision making that proves detrimental in the long run."
With this blog, I hope to highlight the challenges and successes of women who are business owners and entrepreneurs across industries and disciplines, and at many different stages in the growth of their businesses. I think the women we highlight will be sources of information, inspiration and connections to your peers. She Owns It is intended to help you reach your business goals, whether that means getting your tech start-up financed, earning a spot for your consumer product on Costco's shelves, making your first hire or conducting less painful layoffs.
Most important, it will be a conversation. I want to hear from you and provide a forum in which you can connect with other owners. This blog will be what we make it, and I look forward to beginning this adventure with you. Please share your thoughts in the comment section below, or, if you prefer, by e-mail (adriana.gardella@nytimes.com) and please follow me on Twitter, where I hope we can connect and work to develop the stories that are most important to you.

        
How a Low-Tech Soap Maker Raised $400,000 From Investors
        
A Start-Up Soap Maker Starts to Get Traction
        
Yes, You Can Say No to Whole Foods
        
Can a Small Company Say No to Whole Foods?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); WOMEN (91%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); GENDER EQUALITY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (50%) Center for Women's Business Research; Janice Shade; Julie Kirk; True Body Products; She Owns It

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012



304 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Weighing the Costs in Asian Trade Talks

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ADAMS

 BODY:
YONGKANG CITY, Taiwan -- In a dimly lighted factory off a dusty road in southern Taiwan, Liao Li-hsin, 29, smacks a leather sandal into shape. 
 He pulls a shoe from a pile, snugly inserts a bright yellow plastic fake foot, and gives the leather straps a few thwacks with a hammer. Then he tosses the sandal on a pile and repeats.
 Mr. Liao is one of tens of thousands of workers making shoes in Taiwan, mostly for consumers on the island.
 As negotiations move ahead on a Taiwan-China trade deal that could lower tariffs on handmade shoes and hundreds of other products from the mainland, fears are mounting that the island's traditional industries -- like shoemaking -- may suffer, even as high-tech, financial services and other sectors gain from freer access to the giant market across the strait. 
 The government, however, contends that the benefits would far outweigh the costs, and Taiwan's president, Ma Ying-jeou, hopes to use the agreement to fully normalize economic relations with Beijing while expanding the island's access to other markets.
 ''We can handle diplomatic isolation,'' Mr. Ma said last month, ''but economic isolation is fatal.''
 The Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement, the Ma administration says, would be a prelude to similar deals with Malaysia, Singapore and, eventually, Japan or the United States. ''Once E.C.F.A. is signed, we want to sign other free trade agreements and try to use mainland China to link with international markets,'' a trade official involved in the negotiations, Hsu Chun-fang, said. 
 In recent years, Taiwan has watched as rivals like South Korea have signed free-trade deals throughout Asia, becoming more competitive in industries like machinery making and pushing their per capita gross domestic product ahead of the island's.
 Taiwan has been hampered in negotiating similar agreements because Beijing views the island as a part of China and objects to other countries' signing formal treaties that could strengthen Taiwan's claims to independence. The island has trade deals only with five Latin American countries, which buy a tiny slice of its exports.
 The economies of Taiwan and China are already connected. Taiwan has invested $150 billion in China since the early 1990s, according to a Taiwan government estimate. About 40 percent of Taiwan's exports already go to China, where they face average tariffs of 9 percent. Half of those exports are semifinished goods that are shipped to factories for assembly and other value-added services and then re-exported, according to Mr. Ma.
 Yet many of the details remain vague, and that has fueled economic as well as political worries.
 The pro-independence opposition says the deal would make Taiwan's economy too dependent on China and would help conglomerates at the expense of small companies. It is gearing up for protests and is likely to employ stalling tactics in the legislature, where it holds 33 of 113 seats.
 The opposition Democratic Progressive Party says the agreement would worsen income inequality and would not create jobs. It says the negotiations lack transparency and that the deal is politically dangerous given China's goal of unification with Taiwan.
 ''China is always ambitious when dealing with Taiwan,'' said Hsieh Huai-hui, deputy director of international affairs for the opposition party. ''So we wonder if sovereignty has been the price for China opening its market for Taiwan.'' 
 Mr. Ma's government has sought to allay fears by insisting that the deal would not allow mainland workers into Taiwan or remove restrictions on mainland agricultural imports -- at least at first. As for shoes, the government says they are not on the list of sectors to see the first tariff cuts.
 The government says it will establish a 10-year fund of 95 billion Taiwan dollars ($3 billion) to help traditional businesses compete. Officials have identified 17 industries, including shoemaking, as particularly vulnerable. A special ''Made in Taiwan'' consumer label has been developed to promote high-quality products made locally.
 The government has promoted a study that it sponsored that found that cross-strait trade liberalization could create 260,000 jobs and add 1.65 to 1.72 percent to Taiwan's G.D.P., depending on the scope of changes. 
 Economists and research groups affiliated with the opposition dispute that forecast. 
 In a report on the trade agreement, the Standard Chartered bank did not estimate how the deal would affect the island's G.D.P. but said it would ''boost Taiwan's long-term growth potential.'' 
 The government said most new jobs would be in sectors like machinery, where exports could increase. Most of Taiwan's machine products are produced for export, and China buys about 30 percent, followed by Southeast Asia at 15 to 20 percent, according to Wang Cheng-chin, president of the Taiwan Association of Machinery Industry. 
 But Taiwan's machinery faces tariffs of about 10 percent in China and 3 to 5 percent in Southeast Asia. South Korea, in contrast, has a trade deal with the 10 members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and now exports machines there tariff-free, Mr. Wang said. South Korea and China are studying a trade deal.
 The framework agreement would help Taiwan's machine makers compete, especially with South Korea, though Mr. Wang emphasized that companies needed more than the trade deal. ''First, we need good relations with mainland China,'' he said. ''Then, after signing E.C.F.A., we can talk with Southeast Asia, the E.U. and other countries.'' 
 Petrochemical companies and automakers like Yulon Motor, which has partnerships with Chinese carmakers, could also benefit.
 In the financial sector, recent agreements have paved the way for cross-strait mergers and acquisitions. But Taiwan banks want the framework agreement to give them preferential access that could, for example, shorten the waiting time for doing retail business in renminbi on the mainland.
 Ms. Hsu, the trade negotiator, said talks had so far focused on issues like rules of origin, dispute settlement and ''safeguard'' tariffs that could, under some conditions, be slapped on Chinese imports if they were found to be damaging local industries. The list of sectors to see the first tariff cuts was likely to be ''very limited,'' she said, without giving details.
 Past cross-strait agreements have become law after 30 days without legislative debate or a vote. But Ms. Hsu that said because the framework agreement was so wide-ranging and involved tariff cuts, more legislative involvement was required by the Constitution, though the exact process remained to be negotiated. 
 Though the opposition does not have the votes to block a deal, lawmakers could stall it with filibustering tactics. Taiwan's legislative speaker often tries to broker compromises on crucial bills out of respect for the minority. One opposition party has proposed a referendum on the agreement; that application is under review.
 To drum up public support, the government has begun a media campaign that includes rap videos and advertising. Mr. Ma and the opposition leader, Tsai Ying-wen, tangled over the agreement in a widely watched television debate last month.
 Ms. Tsai accused Mr. Ma of recklessly pushing through a deal, saying he was creating a ''false sense of urgency'' when careful study was needed. The biggest difference between the ruling and opposition parties, she said, was that ''we want to face China together with the world,'' while Mr. Ma's party ''wants to go through China to deal with the world.''
 But most commentators declared Mr. Ma the winner with his upbeat, folksy pitch to the cameras.
 Accusing Ms. Tsai of lacking faith in Taiwan companies' ability to adapt and compete, he asked, ''Are we going to choose self-confidence, or are we going to choose fear?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lower tariffs could hurt some Taiwanese industries like shoemaking. (B1)
 Hydraulic stamping presses in Linkou, Taiwan, and the Hui Cheng shoe factory in Yonkang City, Taiwan. Its neighbors have become more competitive in industries like machinery making, but Taiwan has had difficulties in negotiating free-trade treaties. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN ADAMS/INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE)(B4) CHART: Adversary, Partner: So far this year, more than 40 percent of Taiwan's exports have gone to mainland China and Hong Kong, with a growing share going to the mainland. (Source:Taiwan Ministry of Finance)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); FOOTWEAR MFG (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



305 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING EDUCATION; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Colleges Seeing No Downturn In Freshman Acceptances

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
One measurement that selective colleges use to compare themselves is their respective admissions yields: the percentage of applicants offered acceptance who ultimately decide to enroll. A few institutions -- including Harvard, Dartmouth, Cornell and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill -- have begun to report those figures for the freshman class that will take its seats next fall, and so far none have experienced any downturn in the midst of the sluggish economy. 
At Harvard, for example, more than three of every four applicants who received an acceptance letter had committed by the May 1 deadline to enroll, a slight increase over last year. (The university said it still expected to offer acceptance to as many as 75 applicants on its waiting list.) At Dartmouth, the yield for the new freshman class was 55 percent, an increase of seven percentage points; the increase was so large that the college said it might not have room for anyone on its waiting list. North Carolina said its yield was 53.3 percent (compared with 53.9 percent at this time last year). But that figure is likely to rise, as it does not include all responses to the nearly 350 wait-list offers the university made and whose replies are due next week. Cornell said its yield rate was relatively flat, 49 percent, as was that of the University of Pennsylvania, at 63 percent. Neither institution said it had decided its waiting-list offers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATISTICS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



306 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: SAP to Buy Sybase, Ally In Software

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- SAP's top executives, who have recently talked about making bolder and more decisive moves, did just that on Wednesday by agreeing to buy a fellow business software maker, Sybase, for $5.25 billion. 
 The acquisition puts SAP into the database software market, where its products will overlap with those of its longtime rival, Oracle, more than ever. As such, the deal heats up competition to gather, store and analyze the huge amounts of sales, customer and employee data being produced by modern companies. 
 Executives of SAP and Sybase said they intended to focus on creating new types of number processing software that rely on Sybase's strengths in transporting data to and from the smartphones of customers. 
 ''This will literally connect the shop floor to the corner office,'' said Bill McDermott, the co-chief executive of SAP, during a conference call with Wall Street analysts to discuss the deal. 
 Under the terms of the deal, SAP plans to pay $65 a share for Sybase through a tender offer, a 56 percent premium to Tuesday's closing price of $41.57. A report by Bloomberg News on Wednesday about the merger talks sent Sybase shares up 35 percent, to $56.14. SAP will also assume Sybase's debt of $400 million.
 Sybase, based in Dublin, Calif., will operate as a stand-alone unit within SAP under its current management. Assuming a majority of Sybase shareholders tender their shares to SAP, the deal is expected to close in the third quarter.
 SAP, based in Walldorf, Germany, will finance the deal with cash on hand and a 2.75 billion euro ($3.5 billion) loan arranged by Barclays Capital and Deutsche Bank.
 SAP's traditional strengths revolve around selling often complex business software that helps companies deal with their day-to-day computing jobs like payroll, inventory tracking and sales. 
 Oracle has been invading SAP's turf with its own products and by acquiring smaller companies at a furious clip. I.B.M. and Microsoft are also rivals. 
 All of these SAP competitors sell the database products that are needed to connect with the business applications, leaving SAP in the position of partnering with its foes -- a situation that may change by acquiring Sybase and its database business. 
 Noel Yuhanna, an analyst at Forrester Research, chided SAP for not acquiring the database technology sooner because Oracle has been able to offer customers a more complete, tightly linked collection of software. ''SAP is feeling the impact of that,'' Mr. Yuhanna said. 
 SAP's flagship software does not currently work with Sybase's database. Mr. Yuhanna expects it to take at least six months to rectify this situation and about a year before customers would start buying a combined product from SAP. 
 An Oracle spokeswoman said the company declined to comment on the deal. 
 Sybase trails Oracle, I.B.M. and Microsoft by a significant margin in the database market, according the research firm Gartner. Sybase closed out last year with 3 percent of the market, compared with 43 percent for Oracle, 24 percent for I.B.M. and 19 percent for Microsoft.
 But Mr. McDermott and other executives argued that the combined company has a chance to shake up both the business software and database segments. SAP has spent years working on a new type of data-handling technology that it claims will run jobs much faster than standard databases. The idea would be to create a fresh breed of business software that blends software from SAP and Sybase and uses this technology as its underpinning. 
 While Sybase trails its larger competitors, John S. Chen, the chief executive of Sybase, highlighted the company's strength in dealing with investment banking customers, stock exchanges and insurers. Last year, Sybase sold about $800 million worth of database software and increased its software licenses 22 percent during the recession. 
 Sybase's chief value may be the prominent position it has carved out in the mobile business software market. A flagging company when Mr. Chen stepped in to run it in 1998, Sybase now handles the short message (S.M.S.) traffic for close to four billion mobile phones and links the message systems of the phone companies, Mr. Chen said during a recent interview. 
 Executives from SAP and Sybase have already started talking about creating more involved mobile applications that will give remote workers access to floods of information. 
 Yvonne Genovese, an analyst at Gartner, described this mobile technology as ''a big deal.'' Large companies already started to push their standard business software out to mobile phones, and now they are trying to do more with the data that returns from the devices. 
 In February, SAP tapped Mr. McDermott and Jim Hagemann Snabe as its co-chief executives. Leo Apotheker, the previous chief executive, resigned as the company struggled through the recession.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Chen, chief executive of Sybase. The sale to SAP is expected to close in months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS)(B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (89%); TENDER OFFERS (89%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (77%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); MERGERS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: SAP AG (92%); ORACLE CORP (85%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: SAP (NYSE) (92%); SAP (FRA) (92%); SAP (BIT) (92%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (85%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



307 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: An Economic Rebound Of Surprising Strength

BYLINE: By JACK STACK

 BODY:
After spending the last six months on the road talking to hundreds of business owners around the country, I have come to a conclusion that might surprise you: the economic recovery is already well under way. And, if you don't start putting a strategy in place to take advantage of it, you're risking the future of your company.
 Especially given all of the turbulence out there related to the debt problems in Europe and the ups and downs of the stock market, I know the idea that things are already turning around might shock some of you. I'm pretty sure my message surprised the folks who heard my speech at the Gathering of Games conference last week in St. Louis. 
 But I've been speaking eyeball-to-eyeball with entrepreneurs all across the country -- in places like Pittsburgh, New York City, Richmond, Va., and Fresno, Calif. -- and when I ask them how they did in the fourth quarter of 2009 or the first quarter of 2010, I keep getting responses like, ''amazing,'' ''fantastic,'' ''record-breaking'' and even ''best we've done in years.'' The funny thing is that despite their recent success, most of these folks seem reluctant to acknowledge that things have gotten better. Why? Well, I have two theories about that: one, people feel so burned by the last few years that they still fear a double dip -- and they're still waiting for another shoe to drop. Two, I think some people are staying quiet because they don't want to give anyone in Washington credit for the recovery. They feel that they have recovered due to their own innovation, creativity and hard work and not due to anything related to the stimulus.
 But regardless of why no one is talking about it, the recovery is happening. Here are some signals I've been watching:
 Consider what's happening at our company, SRC. Keep in mind that we sell into a lot of different markets, such as energy, housing, construction, agriculture, automotive, marine and rail, which makes us a great overall economic indicator. I'll admit that I've been caught looking in the rearview mirror since the fourth quarter of 2008. When the economic tsunami hit, our businesses came to a halt, and we had to create new products and find new markets and new customers. I've been so focused on expanding new businesses to help us survive the downturn that I missed what was happening right under my own nose -- the resurgence of our existing businesses.
 All of a sudden, we experienced a surge in growth in the parts of our business that were hit the hardest, including our automotive division. We just had a record-breaking month for sales of brake-shoe kits in the heavy-duty truck aftermarket. These kits replace worn-out brakes on trucks. When trucks are putting on a lot of extra miles, it means they are moving goods from one place to another -- a clear sign that orders are increasing. Meanwhile, Guildmaster, an SRC affiliate that makes home furnishings, recently attended an important industry trade show held in High Point, N.C. The company experienced a 70 percent increase in sales over a similar show held last October, suggesting that consumers had begun spending money on their homes again.
 Here's another signal: lead times -- the time between when you order and when you actually get your parts -- are becoming longer and longer. So many companies cut back on inventories and labor over the last two years that they're not ready to handle an uptick in orders. At SRC, for example, we suddenly have $3,000 gasoline engines that we can't finish building because they're waiting for $30 worth of parts that we can't get delivered. Those lead times are increasing because demand is on the rise.
 But I'm also seeing clues beyond SRC. A friend of mine, Shawn Askinosie, who runs Askinosie Chocolate in Springfield, Mo., just called to tell me he's running out of cocoa beans because his sales are so much greater than last year -- and he can't get a fresh supply from Ecuador until August. Fortunately Shawn has some great contingency plans to maximize the returns he gets from the beans he has left. But the point is that cocoa beans are suddenly in demand. Another friend of mine told me that Caterpillar just called up its suppliers and told them to expect to double their orders over the next year. Have you checked the price of copper lately? It has begun to rise rapidly and because copper is a critical component to many industries, a surge in demand can be a key signal that the economy is on the move.
 If you're still not convinced, do some research of your own. Ask your customers and peers how they're doing (and tell us in the comment section below how you're doing). Do your own eyeball-to-eyeball research. Just as important, start putting together a strategy to take advantage of the recovery whenever you believe it's going to hit. If you keep looking in the rearview mirror and forget to look at what's headed your way, not only might you miss a golden opportunity to build your business, you might just give your competitors the chance to move ahead of you or, worse, to eat your lunch right out of your hands.
 Next: Why managing in a recovery can be as hard as managing in a recession.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jack Stack, founder and chief executive of SRC Holdings, said small businesses were posting strong results. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLY PRATT PHOTOGRAPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (67%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (63%); TSUNAMIS (60%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); FRESNO, CA, USA (71%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (56%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



308 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: New Help to Free Legs From a Web

BYLINE: By CATHERINE SAINT LOUIS

 BODY:
LEG-BARING weather inspires come-out-of-hibernation rituals. The fake tan. The depilation of winter hair. The springtime jog, when even layabouts acknowledge that the season of calf definition is nigh.
 But what if a man or woman is bothered by gnarled, enlarged leg veins? Once heat rolls in and hosiery retires, what is there to do? 
 There are plenty of minimally invasive treatments to tackle varicose veins, including a new injectable solution that the Food and Drug Administration approved in March. Come June, the drug -- called Asclera, widely used in Europe -- will be available in the United States, giving American doctors another option for injecting the unsightly veins with fluid that makes them collapse. 
 Asclera -- distributed by BioForm Medical, a subsidiary of Merz Aesthetics -- is the brand name of polidocanol, a drug approved to treat either tiny, spider veins or bulging varicose veins up to three millimeters in diameter. Polidocanol has been the most popular vein injection drug in Europe for decades, in part because of its safety record. 
 ''We've known for a long time that polidocanol causes untoward events the least often,'' said Dr. Nick Morrison, the president of the American College of Phlebology, a member organization for vein specialists. That means fewer cases of temporary brown discoloration or an open sore near an injection site as well as fewer cases of matting (when very fine red veins appear after treatment of another vein). 
 Varicose veins are a result of weak, stretched-out vein walls. Veins contain valves that, when stretched, no longer keep blood moving back toward the heart efficiently. Risk factors include genetics, age and standing still for prolonged periods. 
 Eighty-seven percent of people with varicose veins do not seek treatment, according to a 2008 survey of roughly 1,000 adults conducted nationwide by Vein Clinics of America and Opinion Research Corporation. But doctors say they should: these veins are not just a cosmetic problem, but can also lead to aches, pain, swelling and heaviness from blood pooling in the legs. 
 The treatment known as sclerotherapy -- an alternative to surgery -- entails injecting a solution to irritate and collapse vein walls, so the vein eventually disappears. A series of sessions is usually required for a large area.
 Vein specialists across the country often inject one of two drugs. One, sodium tetradecyl sulfate, or STS, has long been F.D.A. approved. The other, polidocanol, had not been legal, although some doctors used it, importing it from abroad or obtaining it from pharmacies that make drug compounds. ''You have some legal exposure by doing so,'' said Dr. Morrison, a vein specialist in greater Phoenix. 
 That said, polidocanol was the ''second most commonly used sclerosing agent'' because, he said, ''most physicians want to give their patients the best available treatment.'' 
 F.D.A. approval of polidocanol should benefit patients several ways. Often the concentrations of polidocanol from compounding pharmacies were ''wrong'' and had ''lots of contaminants'' that could damage the skin where injected, according to Dr. Robert A. Weiss, a Baltimore dermatologist who directs the Maryland Laser, Skin and Vein Institute. By contrast, he said by e-mail, Asclera ''is very safe for skin.'' 
 An injector's experience matters, because if the injection misses the vein, ulcers (or open sores) can occur. In these rare, worst-case scenarios, Asclera is relatively forgiving and less likely to lead to ulceration. 
 Vein specialists must first figure out which patients would benefit from sclerotherapy alone, and which need inner varicose veins treated before injections. Using ultrasound to map inner veins as well as visible ones is crucial for patients who complain of enlarged veins and symptoms like achy pain. ''The underlying veins have to be addressed before you can even think of addressing the visible bulging veins,'' said Dr. Robert J. Min, radiologist in chief at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. ''Otherwise they'll just come back.'' 
 Today, sluggish underlying veins are best addressed with radio-frequency or laser treatment, said Dr. Min, who developed such a laser. Yet, he said both are ''very safe and effective, and a heck of a lot better than surgery.'' (It entailed ripping out the groin-to-ankle vein with a wire via an incision.) 
 For Dianne Brought, who manages a clothing shop in Ocean City, Md., each time Dr. Weiss injected her with STS, she felt only ''a little tiny pinch.'' But she cautioned that if ''anybody hates needles they will mind it.'' Ms. Brought, 57, said her legs used to have ''very nasty veins'' and her calves hurt. She is still due for treatments, so some veins remain visible, but they are no longer raised. She now wears sundresses instead of just selling them in her boardwalk shop. 
 Some vein specialists use liquid irritants like STS or polidocanol to make an injectable foam that targets larger varicose veins. Why? A ''sudsy foam will fill up the vein, come into full contact with the lining of the vein wall, whereas liquid works for very small veins only,'' said Dr. Nisha Bunke, a vein specialist. She said veins as large as a Sharpie marker can be tackled with foam sclerotherapy. But the F.D.A. considers a foam version of STS or polidocanol to be a different product from the liquid. So injecting it is an off-label use. 
 Dr. Min said in an e-mail message that foam sclerotherapy was ''very safe,'' but that ''it is associated with higher risks than liquid sclerotherapy.'' Foam injections have been blamed as the cause of blood clots in leg veins, he wrote, adding that one known stroke ''may have been caused by foam sclerotherapy.'' 
 But foam sclerotherapy has been a big relief for some patients. Judson Emerick, an art history professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., had varicose veins so troublesome that he kept getting skin ulcers that failed to heal. Plus, his ''legs looked like a sack of walnuts,'' he said. 
 After a series of injections with Dr. Bunke, his ulcers have subsided and he is thrilled. ''My wife looked at me, and my veins had disappeared,'' said Mr. Emerick, 68. ''My calves and definition were visible again.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FEWER BULGES: Dr. Nick Morrison and Diana Neuhardt, treat a patient in Tempe, Ariz. Dr. Morrison, left, with a patient with varicose veins. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK PETERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (76%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (76%); US FDA APPROVALS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MINIMALLY INVASIVE SURGERY (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%)

COMPANY: OPINION RESEARCH CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (64%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (50%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



309 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Mysterious Blight Destroys Large Portion of Afghan Poppy Harvest

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

 BODY:
Up to one-third of Afghanistan's poppy harvest this spring has been destroyed by a mysterious disease, according to estimates revealed Wednesday by United Nations officials, potentially complicating the American and NATO military offensives this summer in the country's opium-producing heartland.
 The Taliban's public relations strategy against the offensives includes trying to convince local residents that Western troops will destroy their poppy crops, and in recent weeks Afghan farmers have started blaming the American and NATO militaries for spreading the disease, United Nations officials say. In many places, the blight has wiped out more than half of individual poppy fields. 
 The American military -- which has decided that widespread eradication can be counterproductive to winning over Afghans -- emphatically denies any involvement, and United Nations officials say the disease is naturally occurring. 
 Besides fueling the propaganda war, the blight might also help the insurgency by giving prices a boost. Reduced production is causing prices for fresh opium to soar as much as 60 percent, after years of declining prices, according to the executive director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Antonio Maria Costa. 
 While there is no evidence that the disease will return next year, the rising prices may make it harder to persuade farmers to give up the crop, he said.
 The price increase is also raising by hundreds of millions of dollars the value of opium stockpiles held by traffickers and insurgents. The opium trade is believed to provide the Taliban with a large portion of their budget.
 The disease is expected to wipe out as much as 2,500 tons of opium production, mostly in Helmand, Kandahar and Oruzgan Provinces, Mr. Costa said in an interview in New York.
 The United States and NATO have been sending tens of thousands of new troops into Helmand and Kandahar in an attempt to wrest control of Taliban strongholds. Some NATO officials fear that if the military operations do not show significant results this year, President Obama's strategy in Afghanistan could be doomed. 
 Before the effects of the disease became clear in recent weeks, United Nations officials had expected this year's harvest to be little changed from last year's haul of 6,900 tons. Afghanistan produces 90 percent of the world's opium.
 The disease is likely to have been caused by an aphid, but it could also be the result of a fungus or virus, Mr. Costa said. A similar ailment struck poppy crops in northern Afghanistan four years ago.
 He said that Afghan farmers' fears that Western forces spread the disease were without foundation. While farmers were suffering, he said that if the increased prices persisted, they would deliver ''a very significant windfall'' for drug barons and insurgents who control thousands of tons of opium stored in Afghanistan and other locations.
 A crucial part of the new American and NATO military strategy has been a soft-glove approach to opium cultivation, which dominates the economy of much of southern Afghanistan. The military has abandoned tougher measures like widespread eradication, and now troops are trying to induce poppy farmers to switch to other crops by using financial incentives.
 American military officials who have analyzed the issue agree with the United Nations that the disease could reduce yields from this year's opium harvest by as much as one-third, said Capt. John Kirby of the Navy, a spokesman for Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
 ''Would we like to see the poppy trade go away eventually -- yes,'' Captain Kirby said. ''Would we do it this way? Absolutely not. This crop loss is a natural occurrence and absolutely in no way connected to the United States or NATO militaries.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marines patrolled in Helmand Province in April while an Afghan girl harvested poppy. This year's blight might drive up opium prices, aiding insurgents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASMAA WAGUIH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPIUM (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS OFFICE ON DRUGS & CRIME (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



310 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE NEW POOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1804 words

HEADLINE: In a Job Market Realignment, Some Workers No Longer Fit

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- Many of the jobs lost during the recession are not coming back. 
 Period.
 For the last two years, the weak economy has provided an opportunity for employers to do what they would have done anyway: dismiss millions of people -- like file clerks, ticket agents and autoworkers -- who were displaced by technological advances and international trade.
 The phasing out of these positions might have been accomplished through less painful means like attrition, buyouts or more incremental layoffs. But because of the recession, winter came early.
 The tough environment has been especially disorienting for older and more experienced workers like Cynthia Norton, 52, an unemployed administrative assistant in Jacksonville. 
 ''I know I'm good at this,'' says Ms. Norton. ''So how the hell did I end up here?''
 Administrative work has always been Ms. Norton's ''calling,'' she says, ever since she started work as an assistant for her aunt at 16, back when the uniform was a light blue polyester suit and a neckerchief. In the ensuing decades she has filed, typed and answered phones for just about every breed of business, from a law firm to a strip club. As a secretary at the RAND Corporation, she once even had the honor of escorting Henry Kissinger around the building.
 But since she was laid off from an insurance company two years ago, no one seems to need her well-honed office know-how. 
 Ms. Norton is one of 1.7 million Americans who were employed in clerical and administrative positions when the recession began, but were no longer working in that occupation by the end of last year. There have also been outsize job losses in other occupation categories that seem unlikely to be revived during the economic recovery. The number of printing machine operators, for example, was nearly halved from the fourth quarter of 2007 to the fourth quarter of 2009. The number of people employed as travel agents fell by 40 percent. 
 This ''creative destruction'' in the job market can benefit the economy. 
 Pruning relatively less-efficient employees like clerks and travel agents, whose work can be done more cheaply by computers or workers abroad, makes American businesses more efficient. Year over year, productivity growth was at its highest level in over 50 years last quarter, pushing corporate profits to record highs and helping the economy grow.
 But a huge group of people are being left out of the party. 
 Millions of workers who have already been unemployed for months, if not years, will most likely remain that way even as the overall job market continues to improve, economists say. The occupations they worked in, and the skills they currently possess, are never coming back in style. And the demand for new types of skills moves a lot more quickly than workers -- especially older and less mobile workers -- are able to retrain and gain those skills. 
 There is no easy policy solution for helping the people left behind. The usual unemployment measures -- like jobless benefits and food stamps -- can serve as temporary palliatives, but they cannot make workers' skills relevant again.
 Ms. Norton has sent out hundreds of resumes without luck. Twice, the openings she interviewed for were eliminated by employers who decided, upon further reflection, that redistributing administrative tasks among existing employees made more sense than replacing the outgoing secretary. 
 One employer decided this shortly after Ms. Norton had already started showing up for work.
 Ms. Norton is reluctant to believe that her three decades of experience and her typing talents, up to 120 words a minute, are now obsolete. So she looks for other explanations. 
 Employers, she thinks, fear she will be disloyal and jump ship for a higher-paying job as soon as one comes along. 
 Sometimes she blames the bad economy in Jacksonville. Sometimes she sees age discrimination. Sometimes she thinks the problem is that she has not been able to afford a haircut in a while. Or perhaps the paper her resume is printed on is not nice enough. 
 The problem cannot be that the occupation she has devoted her life to has been largely computerized, she says. 
 ''You can't replace the human thought process,'' she says. ''I can anticipate people's needs. Usually, I give them what they want before they even know they need it. There will never be a machine that can do that.''
 And that is true, up to a point: human judgment still counts for something. That means some of the filing jobs, just like some of the manufacturing jobs, that were cut during the recession will return. But a lot of them probably will not.
 Offices, not just in Jacksonville but all over the country, have found that life without a secretary or filing clerk -- which they may have begun somewhat reluctantly when economic pressures demanded it -- is actually pretty manageable. 
 After all, the office environment is more automated and digitized than ever. Bosses can handle their own calendars, travel arrangements and files through their own computers and ubiquitous BlackBerrys. In many offices, voice mail systems and doorbells -- not receptionists -- greet callers and visitors.
 And so, even when orders pick up, many of the newly de-clerked and un-secretaried may not recall their laid-off assistants. At the very least, any assistants they do hire will probably be younger people with different skills. 
 Economists have seen this type of structural change, which happens over the long term but is accelerated by a downturn, many times before.
 ''This always happens in recessions,'' says John Schmitt, a senior economist with the Center for Economic and Policy Research. ''Employers see them as an opportunity to clean house and then get ready for the next big move in the labor market. Or in the product market as well.''
 Economists like Erica Groshen at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York have argued that bigger structural job losses help explain why the last two economic recoveries were jobless -- that is, why job expansion lagged far behind overall growth.
 But there is reason to think restructuring may take a bigger toll this time around. The percentage of unemployed workers who were permanently let go has hovered at a record high of over 50 percent for several months.
 Additionally, the unemployment numbers show a notable split in the labor pool, with most unemployed workers finding jobs after a relatively short period of time, but a sizable chunk of the labor force unable to find new work even after months or years of searching. This group -- comprising generally older workers -- has pulled up the average length of time that a current worker has been unemployed to a record high of 33 weeks as of April. The percentage of unemployed people who have been looking for jobs for more than six months is at 45.9 percent, the highest in at least six decades. 
 And so the question is what kinds of policy responses can help workers like Ms. Norton who are falling further and further behind in the economic recovery, and are at risk of falling out of the middle class. 
 Ms. Norton has spent most of the last two years working part time at Wal-Mart as a cashier, bringing home about a third of what she had earned as an administrative assistant. Besides the hit to her pocketbook, she grew frustrated that the work has not tapped her full potential.
 ''A monkey could do what I do,'' she says of her work as a cashier. ''Actually, a monkey would get bored.'' 
 Ms. Norton says she cannot find any government programs to help her strengthen the ''thin bootstraps'' she intends to pull herself up by. Because of the Wal-Mart job, she has been ineligible for unemployment benefits, and she says she made too much money to qualify for food stamps or Medicaid last year. 
 ''If you're not a minority, or not handicapped, or not a young parent, or not a veteran, or not in some other certain category, your hope of finding help and any hope of finding work out there is basically nil,'' Ms. Norton says. ''I know. I've looked.''
 Of course, just as there is a structural decline in some industries, others enjoy structural growth (the ''creative'' part of ''creative destruction''). The key is to prepare the group of workers left behind for the growing industry. 
 ''You can bring the jobs back for some of these people, but they won't be in the same place,'' says Thomas Anton Kochan, a professor of management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 The White House has publicly challenged the idea that structural unemployment is a big problem, with Christina D. Romer, the Council of Economic Advisers chairwoman, instead emphasizing that stronger economic growth is what's needed. Still, the administration has allocated dollars for retraining in both the 2009 stimulus package and other legislation, largely for clean technology jobs.
 Ms. Norton, for her part, may be reluctant to acknowledge that many of her traditional administrative assistant skills are obsolete, but she has tried to retrain -- or as she puts it, adapt her existing skills -- to a new career in the expanding health care industry. 
 Even that has proved difficult. 
 She attended an eight-month course last year, on a $17,000 student loan, to obtain certification as a medical assistant. She was trained to do front-office work, like billing, as well as back-office work, like giving injections and drawing blood.
 The school that trained her, though, neglected to inform her that local employers require at least a year's worth of experience -- generally done through volunteering at a clinic -- before hiring someone for a paid job in the field. 
 She says she cannot afford to spend a year volunteering, especially with her student loan coming due soon. She has one prospect for part-time administrative work in Los Angeles -- where she once had her own administrative support and secretarial services business, SilverKeys -- but she does not have the money to relocate. 
 ''If I had $3,000 in my pocket right now, I would pack up my S.U.V., grab my dog and go straight back,'' she says. ''That's my only answer.''
 With so few local job prospects and most of her possessions of value already liquidated she has considered selling her blood to help pay for the move. But she says she cannot find a market for that, either; blood collection agencies, she said, told her they do not buy her blood type. 
 ''Sometimes I think I'd be better off in jail,'' she says, only half joking. ''I'd have three meals a day and structure in my life. I'd be able to go to school. I'd have more opportunities if I were an inmate than I do here trying to be a contributing member of society.''
 The New Poor: Articles in this series are examining the struggle to recover from the widespread strains of the Great Recession. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cynthia Norton, an administrative assistant in Jacksonville, Fla., has not found comparable work since being laid off. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LORI MOFFETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (73%); TICKET AGENCIES (72%); TRAVEL AGENTS (61%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (67%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



311 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; UP CLOSE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: You Never Know Where Her Gallery Will Pop Up Next

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
WHEN the downtown gallery owner Amy Smith-Stewart gave Kate Gilmore a solo show two years ago, the artist paid her back by leaving the space in apparent ruins. Ms. Gilmore had divided the gallery with walls, then ripped giant holes through them, creating jagged portals for visitors to enter the exhibition. Inside, a video loop showed the artist struggling to claw and kick her way out of similar walls. 
 The gallery, covered in drywall dust and plaster, lay in shambles for weeks after. ''People were like, 'Amy, you destroyed your gallery!' '' said Ms. Smith-Stewart, 35, over lunch last week at Bottino in West Chelsea. If only they knew what was coming. Within a year, Ms. Smith-Stewart would blow holes in the very concept of the art gallery itself. She gave up her lease on Stanton Street to pursue an unusual approach to displaying art: the roving gallery. 
 Like voguish pop-up clothing shops, where retailers open temporary ''guerilla'' stores in locations like bus depots, her gallery, named Smith-Stewart, has no fixed home. It has held shows at borrowed gallery spaces on the Lower East Side and in West Chelsea, and in a gritty warehouse in Harlem. Ms. Smith-Stewart is planning shows in a Manhattan restaurant and in an empty storefront in Beverly Hills, Calif.
 Pop-up art exhibitions are popular in London and have been springing up more in American cities, but it is unusual for an established gallerist to give up her space and embrace the concept as a business model. 
 While the act of constantly relocating the gallery is an opportunistic response to the empty retail space typical of a recessionary economy, it is also a form of performance art. 
 ''When you have a gallery with a particular location, a particular address, people take it for granted,'' Ms. Smith-Stewart said. ''That's the way it has been, because collectors come to you, they know how to find you. That's why galleries cluster. But, totally antithetical to the model, I'm more interested in the discovery of art -- not only going to see art, but going to find art.''
 Ms. Smith-Stewart comes across as anything but the brooding art-world iconoclast. With her Ivory Snow dimples and flowing golden hair, the Rye, N.Y., native and New York University art history graduate looks as if she stepped out of a song by the Beach Boys, not the Velvet Underground. Last week, five months' pregnant with her second child (she is married to Christopher S. Stewart, a journalist), she was padding around the David Krut Projects gallery, on West 26th Street -- the temporary home of her third pop-up show, ''Compose!'' -- in red patent-leather sandals and a patterned sundress. 
 Her demeanor belies a hefty resume as a scout of emerging talent. In 2002, at 26, she became a curator at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center (now MoMA PS 1), in Long Island City, Queens. Working under Alanna Heiss, P.S. 1's founder, and Klaus Biesenbach, now its director, she was on a small team that put together the Greater New York show in 2005, which gave artists like Paul Chan, Mika Rottenberg and Matthew Day Jackson significant exposure. In 2006, Mary Boone, one of the city's brand-name gallerists, hired Ms. Smith-Stewart to work in her Fifth Avenue gallery to help recruit next-generation artists from the unheated studios of Bushwick and Harlem. 
 The next year, she left to open her own gallery on Stanton Street. But Ms. Smith-Stewart felt confined by the traditional gallery model from the outset. 
 ''If you look at galleries in Chelsea, they have a particular look,'' she said. ''No matter how big or elegant, they're all a series of white boxes. I felt when I opened my gallery, I had a little white box.'' 
 For her, a gallery is a place where art happens, not just a retail space meant to squeeze profits by the square foot. So, Ms. Smith-Stewart (a bit like Kate Gilmore) decided to break out of those white walls that confined her. Now, she said, each show ''exists a little bit like a rumor,'' since no one knows where the next one will happen.
 IN February, she mounted ''Another Circle,'' which invited art-world insiders to 128th Street to see a video installation by Jen DeNike featuring a ballerina doing an endless pirouette, projected on a wall of a warehouse that used to store furs and beer (guests had to sign waivers to enter the decrepit space). Nothing sold. But that, she insists, was not the point. She just wanted to find a dramatic context to illuminate the work, she said. As Fabienne Stephan, another gallerist, explained, ''she still thinks like a curator.'' 
 The floating gallery concept, however, is not without hazard, she acknowledged. By giving up a physical location, Ms. Smith-Stewart risks confusing the city's gallery-hoppers and deep-pocketed buyers who may not be used to trekking all over the city in the art-world version of a scavenger hunt.
 ''If it means I lose a little bit of that audience, or have to work a little harder to get that audience to come to me, that's O.K.,'' Ms. Smith-Stewart said. Sometimes, it's more about altering perceptions than making money. 
 ''This is what the art world is all about,'' she added. ''You have to find your own ways of seeing things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HIDE AND SEEK: Amy Smith-Stewart at her pop-up gallery, left, in its temporary home at 526 West 26th Street. Above, Ms. Smith-Stewart in front of a painting by David Malek. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); ART HISTORY (73%); CITIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



312 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan And Times Sq.

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
If we want Times Square to be safer from terrorists, we need to start by helping make Pakistan safer as well. 
 People with links to Pakistan have been behind a hugely disproportionate share of international terror incidents over the last two decades: the 1993 and 2001 World Trade Center attacks; Richard Reid's failed shoe bombing in 2001; the so-called Bojinka plot in 1995 to blow up 12 planes simultaneously; the 2005 London train and bus bombings; the 2001 attacks on the Indian Parliament; and attacks on two luxury hotels and a Jewish center in Mumbai in 2008.
 So it came as little surprise that the suspect in the attempted car bombing in Times Square, Faisal Shahzad, is a Pakistani-American. 
 Why does an ostensible ''ally'' seem to constitute more of a threat than, say, Iran? Or Lebanon or Syria or Iraq? Or Egypt, birthplace of the Muslim Brotherhood brand of militant Islam? Or the West Bank and Gaza, where resentment of America's Middle East policies is centered? 
 One answer, I think, is that Pakistan's American-backed military leader of the 1970s and 1980s, Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, drove the country off course, seeking to use fundamentalism as a way to buttress the regime. Instead of investing in education and infrastructure, he invested in religious sanctimony. 
 The public education system, in particular, is a catastrophe. I've dropped in on Pakistani schools where the teachers haven't bothered to show up (because they get paid anyway), and where the classrooms have collapsed (leaving students to meet under trees). Girls have been particularly left out. In the tribal areas, female literacy is 3 percent.
 There's an instructive contrast with Bangladesh, which was part of Pakistan until it split off in 1971. At that time, Bangladesh was Pakistani's impoverished cousin and seemed pretty much hopeless. Henry Kissinger famously described Bangladesh as an ''international basket case.''
 But then Bangladesh began climbing a virtuous spiral by investing in education, of girls in particular. It now has more girls in high school than boys, according to Unicef. This focus on education has bolstered its economy, reduced population growth rates, nurtured civil society and dampened fundamentalism.
 Educated girls formed the basis of a garment industry, making shirts for Americans. This brought in currency, boosted employment and provided an economic lifeline to the country. Those educated girls went to work for poverty-fighting organizations like BRAC and the Grameen Bank.
 In Pakistan's tribal areas, you can hear American drones buzzing faintly overhead, a reminder of our focus on military solutions. Drones and hard power have their place, but not to the exclusion of schools and soft power. An important 2008 study from Rand, ''How Terrorist Groups End,'' concluded that ''military force has rarely been the primary reason for the end of terrorist groups.''
 I can't tell you how frustrating it is on visits to rural Pakistan to see fundamentalist Wahabi-funded madrassas as the only game in town. They offer free meals, and the best students are given further scholarships to study abroad at fundamentalist institutions so that they come back as respected ''scholars.''
 We don't even compete. Medieval misogynist fundamentalists display greater faith in the power of education than Americans do.
 Let's hope this is changing under the Obama administration. It's promising that the Kerry-Lugar-Berman aid package provides billions of dollars for long-term civilian programs in Pakistan, although it's still unclear how it will be implemented. One useful signal would be for Washington to encourage Islamabad to send not only troops to North Waziristan but also teachers.
 We continue to be oblivious to trade possibilities. Pro-American Pakistanis fighting against extremism have been pleading for years for the United States to cut tariffs on Pakistani garment exports, to nurture the textile industry and stabilize the country. Pakistan's foreign minister, Shah Mehmood Qureshi, told me that his top three goals are ''market access, market access, market access.'' But Washington wants to protect North Carolina textile mills, so we won't cut tariffs on Pakistani goods. The technical word for that: myopia.
 Education and lower tariffs are not quick fixes, sometimes not even slow fixes. But they are tools that can help, at the margins, bring Pakistan back from the precipice. It has been reassuring to see the work of people like Greg Mortenson, whose brave school-building in Pakistan and Afghanistan was chronicled in ''Three Cups of Tea.'' Ditto for Developments in Literacy, or D.I.L., which builds schools for girls in Pakistan that are the most exhilarating things I've seen there.
 It costs $1,500 to sponsor a D.I.L. classroom for a year, and that's just about the best long-term counterterrorism investment available. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); WOMEN (68%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (65%); LITERACY RATES (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%)

COMPANY: GRAMEEN BANK (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



313 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Pledges $2 Billion to Fight Hunger

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The Wal-Mart Corporation announced plans Wednesday to contribute $2 billion in cash and food to the nation's food banks, one of the largest corporate gifts on record.
 Over the next five years, the giant retail company will distribute some 1.1 billion pounds of food to food banks and provide $250 million to help them buy refrigerated trucks, improve storage and develop better logistics.
 ''Hunger is just a huge problem, and as the largest grocer in the country, we need to be at the head of the pack in doing something about it,'' said Margaret McKenna, president of the Wal-Mart Foundation. 
 While the economy seems to be turning around, the number of people turning to charities to help put food on their tables continues to grow. A recent survey by Feeding America found that 37 million people a year now use its national network of food banks, a 46 percent increase from 2006. The survey drew on interviews with more than 61,000 people who use food banks, as well as reports from 37,000 food banks across the country.
 Put another way, 1 in every 8 Americans uses a food bank to make ends meet, the survey said.
 More than one-third of those surveyed said they would not have been able to pay for basics like rent, utilities and medical care without relying on food banks to offset the cost of their meals -- and more than a third said at least one person in their household was working.
 ''It is not just the unemployed that are going hungry,'' said Vicki B. Escarra, chief executive of Feeding America.
 Wal-Mart began taking on hunger as a cause in 2005, when it distributed 9.9 million pounds of food to food banks; last year, it provided 116.1 million pounds of food. The company also has donated the services of its staff to help food banks improve lighting and refrigeration and develop ways to increase the amount of fresh food on their shelves.
 ''We've learned a lot about this problem and the kinds of things we can do to help,'' Ms. McKenna said. ''We've learned, for instance, that there is a huge gap in terms of the protein and fresh produce that food banks can deliver, so we've learned how to fast-freeze things like meat and dairy. You can't put 100 pounds of bananas on a truck that isn't refrigerated and expect them to be edible for long.''
 Almost one-third of the food Wal-Mart is donating this year will be fresh, and one of the first cash gifts out of the new grant will go to increasing the number of refrigerated trucks delivering food to food banks. ''These are the types of resources we don't get much from other sources,'' Ms. Escarra said.
 Feeding America puts the retail value of donated food at $1.59 per pound.
 Wal-Mart and other companies are focusing on how to get food to children to expose them to fruits, vegetables and meats that traditionally have not been available to poor families because of limited supplies or high cost. For instance, the Target Corporation on Tuesday announced a $2.3 million program to create pantries in schools that can be used to teach children about good nutrition at the same time they are fed.
 Target provided an additional $1.2 million to Feeding America to support other school-based feeding programs.
 Ms. McKenna said she was concerned about getting food during the summer to children who rely on school breakfast and lunch programs. ''We know about sending kids home with backpacks of food for the weekends,'' she said, ''but what do we do to feed them when they aren't going to school?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (95%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (92%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); CORPORATE GIVING (90%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (89%); CHARITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (93%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (93%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



314 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: A Broad Wall St. Rally, And Gold Climbs Again

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Wall Street indexes climbed higher on Wednesday amid new evidence that the United States economy could be staging a recovery. 
 ''The rally is pretty much across the board,'' Peter Cardillo, a chief market economist at Avalon Partners, said. ''It appears that some of the fear factors that have been in the market have started to subside a bit.'' 
 Global markets have been buffeted by weeks of uncertainty over the European debt crisis. And worries about the possibility of inflation from governments printing money to ease deficits persisted. That led gold prices to another record high, rising $6.05 to $1,238.93 an ounce. 
 ''It is a bit of an insurance policy against the financial market broadly,'' said Bart Melek, global commodity strategist for BMO Capital Markets.
 William Smith, president of Smith Asset Management, said he thought much of the rush to buy gold was now momentum trading, and attention could return to stock markets in America.
 ''The United States economy is way stronger than most people think,'' said Mr. Smith, referring to the higher equities market. ''Corporate earnings are unbelievable. We are going back to where we were before the circus event of last week.''
 The latest economic data released Wednesday supported that view. The government reported that America's trade deficit widened in March, but it also showed a 3.2 percent increase in exports. 
 ''The trade deficit may have widened in March, but this was a positive report for the U.S. and global growth outlook,'' Nigel Gault, the chief United States economist for IHS Global Insight, said in a research note. ''It showed sharp increases in both export and import volumes, indicating that the world trade recovery still has plenty of momentum.'' 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 148.65 points, or 1.38 percent, to 10,896.91. The Dow has recovered all of its losses since it plunged nearly 1,000 points in less than 20 minutes on Thursday.
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.37 percent, or 15.88 points, to 1,171.67 and the Nasdaq rose 2.0 percent, or 49.71 points, to 2,425.02.
 Shares in Morgan Stanley fell 2 percent to $27.80 after The Wall Street Journal reported that prosecutors were looking into several mortgage-based investments the firm created several years ago. 
 According to Bloomberg News, James P. Gorman, Morgan Stanley's chief executive, told reporters in Tokyo on Wednesday, ''We have no reason to believe there is any substance behind any supposed investigation that appeared in The Wall Street Journal article.''
 Mr. Cardillo noted that the financial sector appeared to have been spared any immediate impact. ''The rise today is pretty much across the board,'' he said.
 Technology shares led the rise. I.B.M. was 4.5 percent higher at $132.68 and Intel rose 3.6 percent to $23.09. Cisco was up 3 percent at $26.74 in anticipation of its earnings report, which was released after the markets closed.
 Industrials and energy stocks were also strong. Exxon Mobil was actively traded, ending up 0.7 percent at $64.91.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 12/32, to 100 14/32. The yield rose to 3.55 percent, from 3.52 percent late Tuesday.
 Crude oil spot prices fell 72 cents, to $75.65 a barrel. 
 The euro continued to struggle, trading at $1.26 against the dollar.
 Still, European stock markets seemed to stabilize after Spain announced budget cuts and Portugal had a successful bond sale. The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, rose 1.24 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London was up 0.92 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris gained 1.1 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt rose 2.41 percent.
 As part of an effort involving the European Union and International Monetary Fund to give European nations like Greece time to sort out their troubled finances, the European Central Bank said it would buy government and corporate bonds directly ''to ensure depth and liquidity in those market segments which are dysfunctional.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EURO CRISIS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (83%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (51%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



315 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Senate Gets a Climate and Energy Bill, Modified by a Gulf Spill That Still Grows

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The long delayed and much amended Senate plan to deal with global warming and energy was unveiled on Wednesday to considerable fanfare but uncertain prospects. 
 After nearly eight months of negotiations with lawmakers and interest groups, Senators John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, produced a 987-page bill that tries to limit climate-altering emissions, reduce oil imports and create millions of new energy-related jobs. 
 The sponsors rewrote the section on offshore oil drilling in recent days to reflect mounting concern over the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, raising new hurdles for any future drilling off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts while allowing it to proceed off Louisiana, Texas and Alaska. 
 Mr. Kerry said the United States was crippled by a broken energy policy and falling behind in the global race for leadership in clean-energy technology.
 ''We're threatened by the impacts of a changing climate,'' he said in a packed Senate hearing room. ''And right now, as one of the worst oil spills in our nation's history washes onto our shores, no one can doubt how urgently we need a new energy policy in this country. Now is the time to take action.''
 It may be difficult, however, for him to persuade the Senate to act. The country is nervously watching efforts to halt the gulf spill, the Senate is torn by deep partisan hostility and the public is uncertain whether the benefits of combating global warming are worth the costs. There is also no assurance that the bill will break through the crowded Senate calendar to reach the floor this year. 
 No Republicans have stepped forward to support the two senators' efforts.
 President Obama endorsed the proposal. 
 ''Americans know what's at stake by continuing our dependence on fossil fuels,'' Mr. Obama said Wednesday. ''But the challenges we face -- underscored by the immense tragedy in the Gulf of Mexico -- are reason to redouble our efforts to reform our nation's energy policies. For too long, Washington has kicked this challenge to the next generation. This time, the status quo is no longer acceptable to Americans.''
 He called on the Senate to move ahead so that a final bill could be enacted this year. 
 One of the central elements of the Senate bill -- incentives to increase domestic offshore oil production -- was changed in the aftermath of the explosion and fire on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the gulf on April 20, which left an undersea well leaking oil. Instead of providing for a broad expansion of offshore drilling, the measure would have the effect of sharply limiting oil operations off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts by giving states the right to veto any drilling plan that could cause environmental or economic harm. 
 The original oil drilling provision was drafted in part by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, a supporter of expanded drilling and an important envoy to other Republicans. Mr. Graham had been a partner in drawing up the climate legislation, but he dropped out of the effort last week over the problems raised by the gulf spill and an unrelated dispute with the Senate leadership over immigration. 
 Mr. Graham said Wednesday that while he agreed with many of the goals of his former partners, he did not think that the Senate was likely to act this year. 
 ''The problems created by the historic oil spill in the gulf, along with the uncertainty of immigration politics, have made it extremely difficult for transformational legislation in the area of energy and climate to garner bipartisan support at this time,'' he said. 
 The Kerry-Lieberman proposal would treat each major sector of the economy differently, while providing something for every major energy interest: loan guarantees for nuclear plant operators, incentives for use of natural gas in transportation, exemptions from emissions caps for heavy industry, generous pollution permits for utilities for years, modest carbon dioxide limits for oil refiners and substantial refunds for consumers. 
 The bill's overall goal is to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by 17 percent (compared with 2005 levels) by 2020, and by 83 percent by 2050. The targets match those in a House bill passed last year and in the Obama administration's announced policy goal.
 There is no economywide cap-and-trade system like that in the House measure, but electric utilities will face limits on their greenhouse-gas emissions and a market will be established to allow them to trade pollution permits. The leader of the main utility industry trade group, Thomas R. Kuhn of the Edison Electric Institute, stood with Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lieberman on Wednesday and endorsed their bill.
 The oil industry will have to buy emissions permits, based loosely on the price set in the utility-trading markets. It is expected they will pass along added costs to consumers in the form of higher fuel prices. The American Petroleum Institute said it was withholding judgment until the measure's effects on the oil and gas industry could be analyzed. Some oil companies, however, including BP and ConocoPhillips, have indicated their support.
 It cannot yet be known whether the concessions and compromises embodied in the bill will let it attract the 60 votes needed to thwart a filibuster.
 Some environmental advocates were involved in drafting the bill and were highly supportive. But other environmentalists said the bill did not go far enough and offered too many concessions to win industry support. 
 The United States Chamber of Commerce, whose support was avidly courted, refused to endorse the measure, calling it a ''work in progress'' that may prove too costly to business. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Kerry, left rear, and Joseph I. Lieberman met Wednesday with conservation advocates before unveiling their measure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); VETO (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); HISTORY (52%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (91%); JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



316 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: A Bad Bet On Carbon

BYLINE: By ROBERT BRYCE. 
Robert Bryce, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, is the author, most recently, of ''Power Hungry: The Myths of 'Green' Energy and the Real Fuels of the Future.''

 BODY:
Washington
 ON Wednesday, John Kerry and Joseph Lieberman introduced their long-awaited Senate energy bill, which includes incentives of $2 billion per year for carbon capture and sequestration, the technology that removes carbon dioxide from the smokestack at power plants and forces it into underground storage. This significant allocation would come on top of the $2.4 billion for carbon capture projects that appeared in last year's stimulus package. 
 That's a lot of money for a technology whose adoption faces three potentially insurmountable hurdles: it greatly reduces the output of power plants; pipeline capacity to move the newly captured carbon dioxide is woefully insufficient; and the volume of waste material is staggering. Lawmakers should stop perpetuating the hope that the technology can help make huge cuts in the United States' carbon dioxide emissions. 
 Let's take the first problem. Capturing carbon dioxide from the flue gas of a coal-fired electric generation plant is an energy-intensive process. Analysts estimate that capturing the carbon dioxide cuts the output of a typical plant by as much as 28 percent.
 Given that the global energy sector is already straining to meet booming demand for electricity, it's hard to believe that the United States, or any other country that relies on coal-fired generation, will agree to reduce the output of its coal-fired plants by almost a third in order to attempt carbon capture and sequestration.
 Here's the second problem. The Pacific Northwest National Laboratory has estimated that up to 23,000 miles of new pipeline will be needed to carry the captured carbon dioxide to the still-undesignated underground sequestration sites. That doesn't sound like much when you consider that America's gas pipeline system sprawls over some 2.3 million miles. But those natural gas pipelines carry a valuable, marketable, useful commodity. 
 By contrast, carbon dioxide is a worthless waste product, so taxpayers would likely end up shouldering most of the cost. Yes, some of that waste gas could be used for enhanced oil recovery projects; flooding depleted oil reservoirs with carbon dioxide is a proven technology that can increase production and extend the life of existing oilfields. But the process would be useful in only a limited number of oilfields -- probably less than 10 percent of the waste carbon dioxide captured from coal-fired power plants could actually be injected into American oilfields. 
 The third, and most vexing, problem has to do with scale. In 2009, carbon dioxide emissions in the United States totaled 5.4 billion tons. Let's assume that policymakers want to use carbon capture to get rid of half of those emissions -- say, 3 billion tons per year. That works out to about 8.2 million tons of carbon dioxide per day, which would have to be collected and compressed to about 1,000 pounds per square inch (that compressed volume of carbon dioxide would be roughly equivalent to the volume of daily global oil production). 
 In other words, we would need to find an underground location (or locations) able to swallow a volume equal to the contents of 41 oil supertankers each day, 365 days a year. 
 There will also be considerable public resistance to carbon dioxide pipelines and sequestration projects -- local outcry has already stalled proposed carbon capture projects in Germany and Denmark. The fact is, few landowners are eager to have pipelines built across their property. And because of the possibility of deadly leaks, few people will to want to live near a pipeline or an underground storage cavern. This leads to the obvious question: which members of the House and Senate are going to volunteer their states to be dumping grounds for all that carbon dioxide? 
 For some, carbon capture and sequestration will remain the Holy Grail of carbon-reduction strategies. But before Congress throws yet more money at the procedure, lawmakers need to take a closer look at the issues that hamstring nearly every new energy-related technology: cost and scale.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIVIENNE FLESHER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (93%); POWER PLANTS (91%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (77%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (88%); JOE LIEBERMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



317 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: BP Says Leak May Be Closer To a Solution

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN and MATTHEW L. WALD; Henry Fountain reported from New York and Matthew L. Wald from Washington. John M. Broder contributed reporting from Washington, Campbell Robertson from Kenner, La., and Susan Saulny from New Orleans.

 BODY:
After days of deepening gloom, BP and two Obama administration officials suggested on Wednesday that the company was closer to a solution that might halt the seemingly uncontrollable oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. 
 The officials said engineers and scientists at BP's command center in Houston had drafted plans to work on and around an underwater blowout preventer, a massive safety device that is designed to seal an oil well in an emergency but failed to do so after the explosion at the rig on April 20. 
 The oil giant has ''increasing confidence that we can intervene directly in the B.O.P. at acceptably low risk,'' a BP spokesman, Andrew Gowers, said. Successive efforts to plug the spill over the past three weeks have failed. 
 Sent by President Obama to Houston, Energy Secretary Steven Chu and Interior Secretary Ken Salazar met with top engineers and scientists at the BP command center for several hours on Wednesday. 
 ''Things are looking up,'' Dr. Chu, a Nobel laureate in physics, told reporters after the meeting. ''Progress is being made.'' He cautioned that the situation was still not under control and declined to detail the reasons for his optimism. But when pressed, he said, ''I'm feeling more comfortable than I was a week ago.'' 
 In Washington, a House subcommittee investigating the disaster raised the possibility that BP wrapped up work on the oil rig even though a seal at the top of the well had failed a pressure test a few hours before the explosion. Representatives also suggested that a hydraulic leak may have disabled the blowout preventer.
 Yet as patches of oil washed ashore on a barrier island in Louisiana over 60 miles west of the Mississippi, a BP official said equipment was being put in place on the seabed for three intervention options that potentially could stop the spill within weeks rather than months. 
 He said a decision would be made, most likely by Sunday, on whether to proceed with any of them. Work would begin a few days later, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the subject. 
 He said 10 robotic submersibles were carrying out the preparations 5,000 feet under the gulf's surface in the meantime.
 As the oil company that rented the drilling rig, BP is one of the parties responsible for stopping and cleaning up the spill. One option it has undertaken for halting the gush of oil is drilling relief wells that could be used to plug the damaged well with cement, but that will take several months. 
 Engineers have described three other approaches that could stop the leak: a so-called junk shot that would clog the blowout preventer with materials including shredded tires and golf balls; adding a second blowout preventer atop the first and using it to shut the flow; or cutting the collapsed riser pipe and installing a valve that would do the same thing. 
 The junk shot would be followed by a ''top kill,'' the pumping of heavy drilling mud into the well to overcome the pressure of the rising oil.
 The official said a junk shot might be used first even if another option was chosen because it could further restrict or stop the flow of oil and make the other repairs easier and safer. 
 Installing a valve or a second blowout preventer, he said, would keep the well under control until a relief well was finished and heavy mud and cement could be pumped in to seal it permanently.
 The BP official said the material for the junk shot would be pumped from a ship on the surface through new pipe down to the blowout preventer, which the submersible robots have been working on for several days. 
 Officials noted that these kinds of approaches had never been tried at such depths and that they could fail -- just as a plan to use a large containment dome to capture some of the oil failed over the weekend.
 The junk shot technique was used successfully in the Kuwaiti oilfields in the 1991 Persian Gulf war. But those wells were on land and, even in harsh desert conditions, could be repaired by people, not by robots working in extremely cold water at a pressure of 2,300 pounds per square inch.
 But the BP official said pressure data made engineers hopeful that undertaking the work would not make the leak worse.
 That data was obtained from above the blowout preventer and below it, and the difference in readings showed that the blowout preventer is partly closed and actually restricting the flow. At the same time, gamma-ray inspection of the device showed that it ''has external integrity,'' the official said.
 Engineers had been concerned that if the device was damaged, working on it might make the leak worse. 
 The data from below the blowout preventer became available Sunday through a bit of serendipity, the official said: a robotic submersible suddenly started receiving a signal from a wireless gauge down in the well.
 BP also said Wednesday that it had lowered a containment box known as a ''top hat'' to the sea floor. A far smaller device than a containment dome that failed over the weekend, it could be connected by the end of the week, the company said. 
 In Washington, a House subcommittee interrogated executives of the four companies at the heart of the accident: BP, which owns the well; Transocean, which provided the drilling rig and much of the manpower; Halliburton, which provided the cement to seal the well; and Cameron, which provided the blowout preventer.
 ''This catastrophe appears to have been caused by a calamitous series of equipment and operational failures,'' said Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. ''If the largest oil and oil service companies in the world had been more careful, 11 lives might have been saved and our coastlines protected.'' 
 Information released by the committee was contradictory on a key point: whether the well had failed a pressure test hours before the blowout. 
 Mr. Waxman said in an introductory statement that a test conducted in the afternoon appeared to show that the well was not tightly sealed and that natural gas was flowing into it. But on Tuesday, he said, BP lawyers told the committee that additional tests had been performed that day and that at 8 p.m., two hours before the explosion, company officials determined that well operations could proceed. 
 Those operations included removing a heavy substance called drilling mud from the pipe leading down to the well, and replacing it with sea water, which is lighter and would have made a blowout more likely if the well were not properly sealed.
 For the second day, officials from the Coast Guard and Minerals Management Service continued grilling their own officials at a public hearing about the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon.
 On Wednesday, the Obama administration proposed a $118 million package of actions to combat the gulf oil spill, most of it to be paid for by BP, including unemployment benefits for fishermen put out of work and food aid for those hurt by the spill. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vessels including a relief drilling platform, oil containment ships and support ships worked on Wednesday at the site of the rig. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY W. SMITH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 The main oil leak at the end of the riser pipe, underwater in the Gulf of Mexico, nearly 5,000 feet below the water's surface. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BP VIA GETTY IMAGES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); OIL SPILLS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); STEVEN CHU (73%); KEN SALAZAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%) GULF OF MEXICO (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



318 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Senate Beats Back Efforts To Ease Regulation Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a defeat for major Wall Street banks, the Senate on Wednesday rejected a Republican effort to ease some of the tight new rules included in the bill for trading derivatives, the complex financial instruments that were at the center of the 2008 financial collapse. 
 The question of how to regulate derivatives has generated fierce debate in the Senate, as lawmakers wrestled with a desire to bring new transparency and safeguards to the market while not hurting businesses that routinely use derivatives to hedge against risks, like swings in energy prices, foreign currency rates or other commodities. 
 The regulatory legislation now includes some extremely tough provisions, put forward by Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas and chairwoman of the agriculture committee, including language that would most likely force most of the major financial institutions on Wall Street to spin off their lucrative derivatives businesses. 
 The Obama administration and even some Democrats have expressed apprehension about that proposal. But the Senate rejected an amendment by Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the senior Republican on the agriculture committee, that would have let banks keep their derivatives units and would have loosened other proposed rules. 
 The vote was 39 to 59. 
 So for now at least, Mrs. Lincoln's proposal, which includes new requirements that all derivatives be traded on a public exchange and processed, or cleared, through a third party, remains intact. Parties to derivatives contracts, including existing contracts, would be required to post collateral to help protect against potential default. 
 Trading in derivatives is dominated by the nation's five biggest banks, JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo, and by one count, the banks had enlisted a cadre of more than 130 lobbyists to help reshape the legislation. 
 They may yet succeed. Given the Obama administration's concerns, some lawmakers say they expect the derivatives rules to be modified before the bill is approved. The majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, is pressing to complete the legislation by early next week, though Republicans say it may take more time. 
 In floor debate, Mrs. Lincoln defended her tough rules. ''The Chambliss amendment does not meet the test of what our markets require,'' she said. ''It is a stark reminder that if we do not act boldly in the face of the near collapse of our economy, tragic Wall Street abuses and abysmal regulatory failures, we will all suffer the consequences.''
 Mr. Chambliss, echoing arguments from some bankers, warned that the legislation would harm businesses and drive derivatives trading to overseas markets outside the reach of American regulators. 
 ''Our approach on transparency, on clearing, on end users, on capital requirements and on trading mandates are much more appropriate, much more reasonable, much more business-friendly,'' he said. ''My amendment will ensure that Main Street businesses will still be able to appropriately use derivatives in hedging their daily business risks.'' 
 In an unusually aggressive foray into the Senate floor debate on Wednesday, President Obamaissued a statement in opposition to another Republican amendment, by Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, that would exempt auto dealers from coming under the purview of a proposed new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. 
 In his statement, Mr. Obama said the amendment would create a ''special loophole for auto dealer-lenders'' that ''would carve out a special exemption for these lenders that would allow them to inflate rates, insert hidden fees into the fine print of paperwork and include expensive add-ons that catch purchasers by surprise.'' 
 And he added, ''Unfortunately, countless families -- particularly military families -- have been the target of these deceptive practices.'' 
 Later in the day, the Senate voted 98 to 1 to create a ''consumer protection liaison'' for military service members and their families. 
 Separately on Wednesday, the Senate approved an amendment to the financial regulatory bill that allows the Federal Reserve to retain its supervision of state-chartered banks and bank holding companies with less than $50 billion in assets that are now in the Fed system rather than transfer authority to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
 Under the amendment, sponsored by Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, and Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, the Fed can retain supervision of more than 4,900 bank holding companies and about 900 state-chartered Fed-member banks, though the institutions could choose to be overseen by the F.D.I.C. 
 The vote, 90 to 9, was a big victory for the Fed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Sam Brownback proposed exempting auto dealers from new scrutiny. President Obama opposed that plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); APPROVALS (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (78%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (78%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (58%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



319 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: With Obama, Regulations Are Back In Fashion

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON; Reporting was contributed by John M. Broder, Jackie Calmes, Gardiner Harris, Robert Pear and Matthew L. Wald.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a burst of rule-making, federal agencies have toughened or proposed new standards to protect Americans from tainted eggs, safeguard construction workers from crane accidents, prevent injuries from baby walkers and even protect polar bears from extinction.
 Over the last year, the Obama administration has pressed forward on hundreds of new mandates, while also stepping up enforcement of rules by increasing the ranks of inspectors and imposing higher fines for violations. 
 A new age of regulation is well under way in Washington, a fact somewhat obscured by the high-profile debates over the health care overhaul and financial oversight system and by fresh calls for greater federal vigilance spurred by the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and the deaths of coal miners in West Virginia.
 The surge in rule-making has resulted from an unusual confluence of factors, from repeated outbreaks of food-borne illnesses to workplace disasters. Some industry groups, wanting foreign competitors to adhere to the same standards they must meet, have backed new federal mandates. The push for some of the measures began at the end of the Bush administration, a tacit acknowledgment that its deregulatory agenda had gone too far. 
 Still, the new aggressiveness reflects the new cops on the beat, and the contrast with the Bush administration is an intentionally sharp one. While the Bush administration mostly favored voluntary compliance by industry, senior Obama administration officials argue that carefully crafted regulation can be a positive force.
 ''We start from the perspective that we all want a cleaner environment, longer lives, improved safety,'' said Peter R. Orszag, director of the Office of Management and Budget, which reviews major regulations. ''Smart regulation can make people's lives better off.''
 But complaints from industry leaders are intensifying. Manufacturers, home builders, toymakers and others say that Washington has been overzealous about imposing new requirements, and they warn of serious consequences for businesses and consumers.
 ''I am all for clean water, but this really isn't helping,'' said Bobby Bowling IV, president of the Tropicana Building Corporation in El Paso, who objects to rules adopted by the Environmental Protection Agency last year requiring larger construction sites to prevent turbid storm-water runoff. ''All this is one more obstacle to development,'' Mr. Bowling said.
 The National Association of Manufacturers made a similar complaint about the cost of many of the new proposed mandates. ''Dollars spent on compliance with cumbersome regulations are dollars not spent on hiring new employees,'' said Erin Streeter, a spokeswoman for the group.
 Obama administration officials reject the criticism, saying that the benefits associated with the dozens of major rules adopted between President Obama's inauguration and the end of 2009 outweigh the costs by an estimated $3.1 billion, a savings they assert is greater than that attributed to new regulations in the first years of the Clinton and Bush administrations.
 They arrived at that figure by factoring in upfront costs -- like the price of stronger brake systems being mandated in new tractor-trailers -- with the estimated long-term savings -- like reduced property damage and an estimated 227 fewer highway deaths each year.
 ''I don't want to put anyone out of business,'' said Inez Tenenbaum, chairwoman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, who was appointed by Mr. Obama. ''But if anything will help the marketplace, it is to make sure that people have confidence in the products that they buy.''
 The Environmental Protection Agency is perhaps the most aggressive advocate of the new regulatory philosophy in Washington. It has moved quickly to reverse or strengthen Bush administration policies on power plant pollution, lead paint and toxic chemical discharges.
 Last month, along with the Transportation Department, the agency mandated that automakers significantly cut greenhouse-gas emissions while increasing fuel economy standards, an issue the Bush administration had put on hold, citing the industry's weakened financial condition. The car companies pronounced themselves happy with the result because it eliminated the possibility of even stricter regulation by California and about a dozen other states.
 The agency's administrator, Lisa P. Jackson, has made clear that she would prefer to have Congress tackle climate change through broad legislation in what would be one of the largest regulatory actions in American history. But if Congress fails to pass a law, she has already started the process of mandating standards on her own. 
 The shift is also evident at major agencies charged with policing worker safety, health and consumer products. Many of the rules those agencies have adopted or are now pushing to impose -- including a requirement that farmers refrigerate eggs and kill rodents to combat salmonella contamination on eggshells, which sickens 79,000 people a year -- languished during previous administrations.
 Now, a newly muscular Food and Drug Administration will have more authority, money and staff for greater scrutiny of products. Since bottoming out at 1,309 inspectors in the 2007 fiscal year, the agency now has 1,800 inspectors with 150 more on the way. Inspections rose 5 percent in 2009 after years of declines and are expected to increase steadily in coming years.
 David Michaels, who became head of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration in December, has asked Congress to allow the agency to impose much larger fines and criminal penalties on employers that knowingly leave their workers at risk. The agency also is adding dozens of inspectors. 
 ''Fourteen workers die every day in preventable events all across the country,'' Dr. Michaels said. ''We have to turn up the volume to make it very clear that OSHA is on the job.'' 
 Dr. Michaels typifies the new breed of regulator installed by the Obama administration. Many are former academics, government officials, union leaders or consumer advocates, a contrast with the many former industry officials appointed by the Bush administration.
 An epidemiologist, Dr. Michaels published a book in 2008 titled ''Doubt Is Their Product: How Industry's Assault on Science Threatens Your Health.'' It argues that ''corporate interest successfully infiltrated the federal government from top to bottom'' during the Bush administration and concluded that federal regulatory agencies ''are intimated and outgunned, and quiescent.''
 Some of the regulatory changes have drawn cheers from consumers, like a rule put into effect last month by the Department of Transportation that imposes fines of up to $27,500 per passenger on airlines for holding domestic flights on the tarmac for more than three hours.
 But other recent proposals have provoked strong protests. For example, the F.D.A. announced in October that it intended to ban the sale of raw, untreated oysters harvested from the Gulf of Mexico in warm months. Fifteen deaths a year are attributed to eating oysters with a cholera-like bacteria. 
 Oyster farmers, restaurateurs and members of Congress campaigned to block the rule. Within a month, the F.D.A. announced that it was reconsidering, a move consumer advocates condemned. ''This political victory for the Gulf Coast oyster industry is a health tragedy for their consumers,'' said David Plunkett, a senior staff attorney at the Center for Science in the Public Interest.
 Executives at coal mining and offshore oil rig companies have also protested proposed expansions of federal regulations or a significant increase in fines -- although those complaints have become decidedly more muted after last month's catastrophes at a West Virginia coal mine and on an oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico left dozens of workers dead. 
 Toymakers are also vigorously challenging rules imposed as part of a 2008 law that Mr. Obama helped push while he was still in the Senate that effectively bans lead in all children's products and then requires follow-up testing.
 Anne M. Northup, a former Republican congresswoman from Kentucky whom Mr. Obama appointed to the Consumer Product Safety Commission, said an excessive number of new mandates was harming the toy market.
 ''Companies who put products on store shelves that consumers want should not be treated like the enemy,'' she said in a statement explaining her vote in March against new agency guidelines for imposing larger fines. ''I want the agency to be perceived by consumers as protecting them and by industry as a fair cop -- not as a mindlessly punitive bureaucracy.''
 Other conservative critics have assailed the administration as creating a big-government nanny state that threatens the nation's global competitiveness. James L. Gattuso, an expert on regulatory policy at the Heritage Foundation, said the Obama administration was most likely inflating the cost savings and other benefits associated with many of its rule changes, disguising the negative impact they are having on the economy.
 ''The agencies that prepare these estimates are the same ones that proposed the new rules,'' said Mr. Gattuso, who released a report in 2008, ''Red Tape Rising,'' on the rising cost of federal regulation. 
 Mr. Orszag defended the administration, saying if each new regulation is based on good science, and drafted to maximize the benefit while minimizing the costs, the country will be better off. 
 ''If the assertion is that we are more willing to adopt policies that have benefits far in excess than cost, rather than being motivated by dogmatic opposition even when it generates huge benefits, then sure, guilty as charged,'' Mr. Orszag said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Toys from China were inspected in California by Stephen Gardner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) CHARTS: Ticking Up: Many of the federal agencies that enforce health and safety standards have seen recent increases in the size of their inspection staffs, or authority to impose higher fines. The total number of inspectors is still small, but these increases have translated into a jump in inspections and in the value of fines imposed. (Sources: The agencies)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (77%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (77%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); OIL SPILLS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (55%); COAL MINING (54%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PETER ORSZAG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



320 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutors Ask If 8 Banks Duped Rating Agencies

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Gretchen Morgenson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The New York attorney general has started an investigation of eight banks to determine whether they provided misleading information to rating agencies in order to inflate the grades of certain mortgage securities, according to two people with knowledge of the investigation.
 The investigation parallels federal inquiries into the business practices of a broad range of financial companies in the years before the collapse of the housing market. 
 Where those investigations have focused on interactions between the banks and their clients who bought mortgage securities, this one expands the scope of scrutiny to the interplay between banks and the agencies that rate their securities.
 The agencies themselves have been widely criticized for overstating the quality of many mortgage securities that ended up losing money once the housing market collapsed. The inquiry by the attorney general of New York, Andrew M. Cuomo, suggests that he thinks the agencies may have been duped by one or more of the targets of his investigation. 
 Those targets are Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, UBS, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Credit Agricole and Merrill Lynch, which is now owned by Bank of America.
 The companies that rated the mortgage deals are Standard & Poor's, Fitch Ratings and Moody's Investors Service. Investors used their ratings to decide whether to buy mortgage securities.
 Mr. Cuomo's investigation follows an article in The New York Times that described some of the techniques bankers used to get more positive evaluations from the rating agencies. 
 Mr. Cuomo is also interested in the revolving door of employees of the rating agencies who were hired by bank mortgage desks to help create mortgage deals that got better ratings than they deserved, said the people with knowledge of the investigation, who were not authorized to discuss it publicly. 
 Contacted after subpoenas were issued by Mr. Cuomo's office late Wednesday night notifying the banks of his investigation, spokespeople for Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank declined to comment. Other banks did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
 In response to questions for the Times article in April, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, Samuel Robinson, said: ''Any suggestion that Goldman Sachs improperly influenced rating agencies is without foundation. We relied on the independence of the ratings agencies' processes and the ratings they assigned.''
 Goldman, which is already under investigation by federal prosecutors, has been defending itself against civil fraud accusations made in a complaint last month by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The deal at the heart of that complaint -- called Abacus 2007-AC1 -- was devised in part by a former Fitch Ratings employee named Shin Yukawa, whom Goldman recruited in 2005.
 At the height of the mortgage boom, companies like Goldman offered million-dollar pay packages to workers like Mr. Yukawa who had been working at much lower pay at the rating agencies, according to several former workers at the agencies. 
 Around the same time that Mr. Yukawa left Fitch, three other analysts in his unit also joined financial companies like Deutsche Bank.
 In some cases, once these workers were at the banks, they had dealings with their former colleagues at the agencies. In the fall of 2007, when banks were hard-pressed to get mortgage deals done, the Fitch analyst on a Goldman deal was a friend of Mr. Yukawa, according to two people with knowledge of the situation.
 Mr. Yukawa did not respond to requests for comment. 
 Wall Street played a crucial role in the mortgage market's path to collapse. Investment banks bundled mortgage loans into securities and then often rebundled those securities one or two more times. Those securities were given high ratings and sold to investors, who have since lost billions of dollars on them. 
 Banks were put on notice last summer that investigators of all sorts were looking into their mortgage operations, when requests for information were sent out to all of the big Wall Street firms. The topics of interest included the way mortgage securities were created, marketed and rated and some banks' own trading against the mortgage market. 
 The S.E.C.'s civil case against Goldman is the most prominent action so far. But other actions could be taken by the Justice Department, the F.B.I. or the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission -- all of which are looking into the financial crisis. Criminal cases carry a higher burden of proof than civil cases. Under a New York state law, Mr. Cuomo can bring a criminal or civil case.
 His office scrutinized the rating agencies back in 2008, just as the financial crisis was beginning. In a settlement, the agencies agreed to demand more information on mortgage bonds from banks.
 Mr. Cuomo was also concerned about the agencies' fee arrangements, which allowed banks to shop their deals among the agencies for the best rating. To end that inquiry, the agencies agreed to change their models so they would be paid for any work they did for banks, even if those banks did not select them to rate a given deal. 
 Mr. Cuomo's current focus is on information the investment banks provided to the rating agencies and whether the bankers knew the ratings were overly positive, the people who know of the investigation said.
 A Senate subcommittee found last month that Wall Street workers had been intimately involved in the rating process. In one series of e-mail messages the committee released, for instance, a Goldman worker tried to persuade Standard & Poor's to allow Goldman to handle a deal in a way that the analyst found questionable.
 The S.& P. employee, Chris Meyer, expressed his frustration in an e-mail message to a colleague in which he wrote, ''I can't tell you how upset I have been in reviewing these trades.''
 ''They've done something like 15 of these trades, all without a hitch. You can understand why they'd be upset,'' Mr. Meyer added, ''to have me come along and say they will need to make fundamental adjustments to the program.''
 At Goldman, there was even a phrase for the way bankers put together mortgage securities. The practice was known as ''ratings arbitrage,'' according to former workers. The idea was to find ways to put the very worst bonds into a deal for a given rating. The cheaper the bonds, the greater the profit to the bank.
 The rating agencies may have facilitated the banks' actions by publishing their rating models on their corporate Web sites. The agencies argued that being open about their models offered transparency to investors.
 But several former agency workers said the practice put too much power in the bankers' hands. ''The models were posted for bankers who develop C.D.O.'s to be able to reverse engineer C.D.O.'s to a certain rating,'' one former rating agency employee said in an interview, referring to collateralized debt obligations.
 A central concern of investors in these securities was the diversification of the deals' loans. If a C.D.O. was based on mostly similar bonds -- like those holding mortgages from one region -- investors would view it as riskier than an instrument made up of more diversified assets. Mr. Cuomo's office plans to investigate whether the bankers accurately portrayed the diversification of the mortgage loans to the rating agencies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Cuomo, the attorney general of New York, sent subpoenas to eight Wall Street banks late Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (92%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (55%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (91%); DBK (FRA) (91%); DBK (BIT) (91%); DBETN (JSE) (91%); DBA (ASX) (91%); DB (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); ACA (PAR) (55%); ACA (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



321 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Starting Over Small

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
For Jon S. Corzine, it has come to this: a bare Manhattan office still littered with mementos from the previous occupant, at a company few outside Wall Street have heard of.
 It is a long way from Goldman Sachs, which he once ran, or Drumthwacket, the New Jersey governor's mansion, from which he was booted by the voters in November. 
 Comedown though it may be, this is where Mr. Corzine, 63, finds himself, having returned to Wall Street in March as the chief executive of MF Global Holdings, a brokerage firm that specializes in futures and derivatives trading and is one-twentieth the size of Goldman.
 Showing the kind of political poise that sometimes eluded him as governor, and before that, senator, Mr. Corzine professes to be thrilled, even energized, by the new job. ''This was like a starburst. It's hard to believe this kind of opportunity presented itself,'' he said. ''Goldman was small when I joined it, too.'' 
 Unfortunately, ex-banker from Goldman Sachs is an even less appealing credential than one-term governor these days.
 As bad as the rejection by the voters was, the fraud suit brought against Goldman by the Securities and Exchange Commission is another blow for Mr. Corzine, who ran Goldman from 1994 to 1999 and helped guide its journey from private partnership to public company. 
 ''When I ran for senator in 2000, being a Wall Street banker from Goldman Sachs was a major plus in your resume,'' he said. ''People have seen excesses. There's a different attitude about it.'' 
 Still, Mr. Corzine has always shown the ability to bounce back from setbacks, whether it was being forced out as chief executive of Goldman a decade ago, or recovering from a near-fatal car accident as governor in 2007. 
 ''He was tenacious,'' said Jack Mazzotti, a friend of Mr. Corzine since their days in high school in rural Taylorville, Ill., about a four-hour drive south of Chicago. ''He set out early on to make his mark and nothing was going to stop him.''
 Second acts may be common enough on Wall Street, but this would be a much tougher third act, especially given the fierce competition in MF Global's sector, where commissions have been whittled down and small companies have to fight for each transaction. As Mr. Corzine puts it, ''We're not too big to fail.''
 At an age when contemporaries and rivals like Henry M. Paulson Jr., who succeeded Mr. Corzine at Goldman and went on to become the Treasury secretary, are writing memoirs, Mr. Corzine is aiming for a shot at redemption. He is getting his hands dirty at a firm full of rough-edged traders, rather than the Ivy League types who populate Goldman. 
 What is more, he is not the only former Wall Street chief to return with the goal of turning around a much-smaller company. John A. Thain, the former Goldman Sachs executive who ran the New York Stock Exchange and, less successfully, Merrill Lynch, is now steering CIT after its bankruptcy filing last fall.
 Old Wall Streeters do not have a habit of fading away. There is always one more trade, especially when the last two or three have not worked out. And Mr. Corzine hardly wants to go out on a low note, not when regulation is about to transform the securities industry and he has enough contacts in Washington to help shape the process. 
 Mr. Corzine, who worked his way up from trading government bonds at Goldman, hardly needs the money. But he said his love of markets drew him back to his roots, as well as the opportunity to build up a firm that has a strong presence in futures and options trading but is still trying to expand into other areas, like bonds, and has not fully overcome a 2008 trading scandal. 
 ''I wouldn't have come here if I thought MF Global were going to be the same company in five or 10 years,'' he said. ''We have to find other ways of building revenue.'' 
 His horizons will not be limited to MF Global, however. He plans to teach a class on public policy at Princeton this fall and now also serves as a partner at J. C. Flowers & Company, the private equity firm founded by his friend J. Christopher Flowers. J. C. Flowers owns a 10 percent stake in MF Global.
 Seven months after Mr. Corzine lost a bid for a second term as governor, it is clear that the rejection at the polls still smarts. ''It's painful to lose, and anybody who tells you that it isn't is disconnected from reality,'' he said. ''It impacts you personally and how you feel about yourself for a while. And it always sets up 20/20 hindsight.''
 Unlike his loss in the election, Mr. Corzine never saw his ouster from Goldman coming. Power at Goldman has swung back and forth between investment bankers and traders for decades, and in 1999 Mr. Corzine lost out to the bankers, including Mr. Paulson, who was later the Treasury secretary under President George W. Bush. 
 ''Goldman was more of a shock,'' he said. ''It took a while to get my mind around it.'' 
 Bruising as these exits have been, Mr. Corzine is not quite ready to quit the public arena. He hopes to emulate other elder statesmen who managed to bridge the gap between finance and public life, like Felix Rohatyn, the Lazard banker who helped save New York from bankruptcy in the 1970s and has been an adviser to mayors, governors and presidents ever since. Still, Mr. Corzine does a delicate dance when the subject of Goldman comes up, not exactly defending the company but not throwing it under the bus, either. 
 Goldman was among many big players in the market for synthetic collateralized debt obligations, the complex mortgage securities at the heart of the S.E.C.'s civil fraud suit, he said. ''This transaction isn't unique relative to what other people have done. They're a proxy for the industry, so maybe that calls on you to carry yourself with a little more discretion.''
 He cannot help sympathizing with Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman's chief executive and a former subordinate of Mr. Corzine's on the trading floor. 
 ''You had a prosecutor's mentality in terms of how the senators acted,'' he said. ''The committee has a mentality and a mandate to discover wrongdoing.''
 What about the charges? ''It looks like a thin legal case to me,'' he said. ''You had people identified as suitable customers. Ultimately, it's an issue of whether you wanted to be in synthetic C.D.O.'s.''
 But as he knows well from politics, public attitudes are a whole different story. ''On a public relations basis, Goldman was going to lose to begin with when you see civil fraud on the table,'' he said.
 For all the negative publicity surrounding Goldman, Mr. Corzine's presence could help restore investor confidence in MF Global's top management. 
 MF Global had a scandal of its own in 2008, when a rogue trader made unauthorized bets on wheat, incurring a $141 million loss and sending MF Global's shares 93 percent lower. The company was fined $10 million, and late last month, the trader was indicted on fraud charges.
 Shares of MF Global have never recovered from that plunge, and with estimated 2010 revenue of $1.86 billion, MF Global is a minnow compared to Goldman and its $45 billion in revenue. 
 Still, Mr. Corzine is having more success so far with MF Global shareholders than he did with New Jersey voters. The stock is up 25 percent since he joined, and Wall Street was pleased that MF Global was able to snag him.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jon S. Corzine, center, chief executive of MF Global Holding, talking with Jim O'Sullivan, left, chief economist, and Mac Budd, head of rates trading. (B1)
 Mr. Corzine's firm, MF Global, is one-twentieth the size of Goldman Sachs. ''Goldman was small when I joined it, too,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); LITIGATION (72%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (70%); FUTURES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (62%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (91%); HENRY PAULSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



322 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: From Oysters to Oil Rigs, a Host of New Rules

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
Energy and Environment
 FUEL ECONOMY STANDARDS
 Final rule, April 2010
 Automakers must reduce greenhouse-gas emissions fleetwide and improve fuel economy by about 5 percent every year, reaching 35.5 miles a gallon by 2016, four years earlier than the existing law required. 
 STORM RUNOFF 
 Final rule, December 2009
 Developers must prevent soil runoff from damaging area streams or waterways, with any site disturbing 10 or more acres required to monitor discharges. 
 GREENHOUSE GASES
 Final rule, October 2009
 The first federal requirement to report and monitor greenhouse-gas emissions from about 10,000 industrial facilities representing 85 percent of such emissions in the United States. 
 POLAR BEAR PROTECTION ZONE
 Proposed rule, October 2009
 Would create a 200,541 square mile ''critical habitat'' zone for the polar bear in Alaska and adjacent waters; oil and gas exploration and other activities can continue if they do not harm the bears' habitat.
 Food Safety
 SALMONELLA AND EGGS
 Final rule, July 2009
 Mandates measures to prevent salmonella on eggshells during production, storage and transportation, like refrigeration of eggs or rodent-control efforts, to prevent an estimated 79,179 illnesses a year. 
 RAW OYSTERS
 Informally proposed, October 2009
 Requires all restaurants and markets that serve oysters harvested from the Gulf of Mexico from April to October to irradiate or sterilize them or take other steps to prevent a disease that kills an estimated 15 people a year. After protests from oyster farmers, the Food and Drug Administration delayed action. 
 Transportation
 ROOF CRUSH STANDARD
 Final rule, May 2009
 Doubles the current roof strength requirement for passenger cars and light trucks starting in 2012.
 STOPPING DISTANCE FOR TRUCKS
 Final rule, July 2009
 Cost: At least $50 million a year. Savings: at least $169 million a year. New tractor-trailers will be required to be able to break from 60 m.p.h. to a complete stop within 250 feet, a 30 percent reduction, a change that is estimated to prevent 227 deaths annually and 300 serious injuries.
 AIRLINE PASSENGERS
 Final rule, December 2009
 Airlines will be fined if they violate a three-hour limit on how long a domestic flight can sit on the tarmac. 
 Worker Safety
 'COMBUSTIBLE DUST'
 Proposed rule, October 2009
 Would impose factory limits on airborne particles of wood, coal, plastics or other substances that can ignite, causing fatal explosions.
 CRANE SAFETY 
 Final rule expected this summer
 After nearly eight years of deliberations, the Department of Labor is about to issue a rule intended to combat fatal crane accidents, including a requirement that operators be certified. 
 OFFSHORE OIL RIGS
 Proposed rule, June 2009
 Oil rigs would be required to develop safety plans -- examining items like mechanical equipment and operating procedures -- and the rigs would be audited at least once every three years to ensure compliance.
 MUSCULOSKELETAL INJURIES
 Proposed rule, January 2010
 Rejecting a Bush administration stand, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration proposes that employers be required to keep records on injuries related to musculoskeletal disorders. ERIC LIPTON 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (87%); AIRLINES (86%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); RIVERS (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (74%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (74%); PARTICULATE MATTER (73%); PRODUCT SAFETY (73%); FOOD SAFETY (73%); BACTERIA (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); OIL EXPLORATION (68%); AQUACULTURE (66%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (66%); SHELLFISH FARMING (66%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



323 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Greetings From Tampa, Where Hopes Soar -- or Die

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
TAMPA, Fla.
 This old port city in the nation's most populous swing state won the Republican convention with its finest offerings -- beaches, big venues, and a well-earned reputation for successfully handling major events like the Super Bowl.
 But the Grand Old Party's choice is also based on political pragmatism. The road to the White House in 2012 will once again pass through the Sunshine State, most Democrats and Republicans agree, and Floridians in particular seem likely to appreciate the attention.
 But Republicans be warned: Florida is a place of big dreams and big guffaws. Democrats (Gary Hart) and Republicans (Rush Limbaugh) have both drowned in scandal here, while the 1968 convention in Miami Beach brought together Richard Nixon, race riots, Norman Mailer, and Ana, a 2-and-half-year-old, 1,266-pound elephant.
 ''Florida is always capable of surprising people,'' said Carl Hiaasen, the famed Florida novelist and columnist. ''The Republicans have been surprised here before. It could happen again.'' 
 Here's a clip-and-save guide to what delegates and party leaders can look forward to here, and what they should worry about.
 THE SUNSHINE ...
 FRIENDLY TERRITORY Tampa residents describe their city as the cultural midpoint between Charleston, S.C., and Miami. It is a sprawling city of around 333,000 people, where car radios twang with country music, and the button-down oxford seems to be the dress code for football games, church and barbecue stands.
 Many Republicans will feel at home here --an urban setting with an element of Southern charm, and conservatism. In 2008, Barack Obama carried most of the area, but the campaign offices for John McCain were busy places were filled older volunteers who ran out of Sarah Palin signs and T-shirts. Now, local Tea Party activists have taken up the cause, and residents are looking forward to the cheering sections of the convention in two years.
 ''I think it's the most fantastic thing that could happen to our city,'' said Natalie Bryant, a native Tampa resident working at the local visitors' bureau, and wearing a 2012 pin that said ''catch the win.''
 BIG UPSIDE As Florida goes, so goes the nation -- and Republicans hope the trip starts with Tampa Bay. The area is an urban hub for counties and towns that represent some of the most hotly contested, swing-state communities in the country.
 The I-4 corridor, running east from here to Daytona Beach, gets all the attention. But Pasco County to the north, and down the coast through Sarasota and Fort Myers to the south, are no less vital to victory. These are the areas political strategists from both parties are watching in the Senate battle between Charlie Crist, Marco Rubio and Kendrick B. Meek.
 These are also the residents who will see blanket coverage of the Republican convention on their local television news at noon, 5, 6, and 11 p.m. With a big local splash, Republicans are hoping they will go home with votes, not just T-shirts.
 ISSUES Modern Tampa began with an Army base to keep watch over the Seminoles in the 1800s, and ever since, the area has had a large military presence. Today, Gen. David H. Petraeus oversees military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq from the Central Command at nearby MacDill Air Force Base, and the veterans hospital in Tampa is among the biggest in the country.
 This is another example of Tampa playing to party strengths: national security is an issue that Republicans like to own, and the visuals of military support will probably play a major role at the convention.
 Tampa is also an area hit hard by the recession, so Republicans will have a chance to play the economic populist card as they bring dollars to the city.
 ''We need it,'' said Ryan Defreitas, a gallery assistant at Paintings of the World, in the Channelside shopping complex near the St. Pete Times Forum, where the convention will be held. ''It's almost a shame it's two years away, but everything helps.''
 ... AND THE CLOUDS
 LOGISTICS Tampa Bay has plenty of hotel rooms to accommodate conventioneers -- but many of them are across long bridges, in nearby beach communities. In an area without much public transportation, and not nearly enough cabs, that can mean headaches.
 Convention season is also hurricane season, and even without that threat, it can take an hour to get from downtown Tampa, where the convention will be held, to the fancy resorts of St. Pete Beach.
 The web of Interstates earned nicknames like ''malfunction junction.'' Forbes.com recently ranked the area dead last for pleasant commuting out of 60 cities. Even Mayor Pam Iorio of Tampa, a Democrat, admitted this was an issue. ''We are a community that has so many assets,'' she said about the rankings. ''But we fall miserably short when it comes to transportation.''
 TEMPTATION Just a short drive from center stage at the convention, on an otherwise average street with Thai restaurants and steakhouses, debauchery awaits. ''Nude girls -- blast off in our space ship,'' says the sign at 2001 Odyssey. Up and down Dale Mabry Highway, a stretch that claims to have more lap-dance emporiums per square mile than any other city in the country, the message is much the same: come hither, join the fun.
 This is exactly what party officials will discourage, after being caught with a bill of nearly $2,000 from a bondage-themed club in California earlier this year. But one prominent strip club owner in Tampa doubts the warnings will all be heeded. ''We offer a good time,'' said Joe Redner, the owner of Mons Venus, the city's most famous gentleman's club, in business for 28 years. ''We welcome a cross section of society, from age to political party to color to everything.''
 OUT OF TOUCH Tampa as a Republican comfort zone also brings risk: if the party plays too much to its base, will it look out of touch? This, after all, is a city settled largely by Cuban immigrants in the 1880s, who came here to roll cigars. Now it is more diverse than the party it is hosting. As of the 2000 census, Tampa was at least 19 percent Hispanic and 26 percent black. And economically, the gap between rich and poor is particularly pronounced.
 On one side, there is Derek Jeter, building what will most likely be the area's largest home -- a 30,000 square foot, nine-bathroom behemoth roughly the size of a Best Buy. On the other, there are the homeless people recently pushed out of a proposed tent city to be run by Catholic Charities.
 The wrong mix of poverty juxtaposed with Republicans partying -- perhaps against a backdrop of oil-stained beaches -- could give Democrats just what they need to portray their opponents as woefully disconnected from the middle class. ''I just don't think it's a lock that everything is going to go wonderfully,'' Mr. Hiaasen said. ''This is not necessarily Tea Party country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Republicans may or may not find the path to victory in Tampa, but they will have no trouble finding nice beaches, good shopping and even some establishments best avoided when news photographers are around. And did anyone mention the traffic? (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CASSI ALEXANDRA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP
 CHART: Margin Of Victory: In past presidential elections (Source: Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (64%); RIOTS (54%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (58%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); CHARLIE CRIST (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (97%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010



324 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; THE GIMLET EYE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: They Stalk The Banded Mink

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
HUNG from the doorknob of a modest brick house in Flushing, Queens, is a laminated government flier advising the homeowner, ''It's not too late to mail back your census form!''
 But, in fact, it is too late for Gertrude Wetterhahn to register for the census. In late February, Mrs. Wetterhahn permanently quit both 144-26 73rd Avenue and this life at age 94.
 And now, at 8:45 on a cool spring morning, strangers have lined up outside her two-story home, one in a series of attached houses in this leafy neighborhood. Each person is clutching a number. Each is impatient for 9 a.m., when the door will swing open and the material remains of Mrs. Wetterhahn's existence will be scoured and gone over by estate-sale scroungers, advancing as relentlessly as a column of ants.
 It is a small group -- just 25 people -- and a modest sale, one of scores listed weekly on Web sites like estatesales.net. But for Peter and Jaroslava Cole, it will turn out to be a choice one, the best of a day that will take them from their apartment in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, on a circuit that leads, after Flushing, north to Rockland County and then to Yonkers and Harlem as they hunt for fresh stock to sell at the Brooklyn Flea. 
 Mr. Cole is a sculptor. His wife spends much of her time raising their 8-year-old daughter. Anyone who has visited the Brooklyn Flea -- the wildly popular weekend market held in a lot behind Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School in Fort Greene -- will recognize the couple, seasoned vendors with tastes so catholic that at times they seem utterly random.
 Asking what in particular they seek is like asking a magpie to provide its organizing principle. And that is what makes their booth so magnetic to people with the ''finder aesthetic'' New York magazine assures us is so pervasive just now. ''We don't deal in good, we deal in low and middlebrow,'' said Mr. Cole, 45, who supports his sculpture habit with a day job as a welder serving wealthy clients who think nothing of asking why a particular screw head has to be so round.
 On any given weekend, a flea-market hound stopping at the Coles' stand is likely to happen upon a painted kitchen stool from the 1950s or else a canvas dog tote from Hermes or a beaded grass fetish figure from New Guinea or a silk peignoir washed and refreshed by Mrs. Cole or a jaunty cloth bag filled with hand-hewn clothespins found in Mrs. Wetterhahn's laundry room.
 These treasures are typically uncovered when their owners die or divorce or fall into debt or tire of them. Then, as Alastair Clark, a Sotheby's auctioneer, recently noted, the material goods carefully accumulated over a lifetime ''go back into the slipstream,'' much as the furniture from the London apartment of the philanthropist Jayne Wrightsman did last month.
 Superficially the ballyhooed Wrightsman auction had little in common with the dispersal of Mrs. Wetterhahn's modest estate. Yet a person who happened to stop by Sotheby's pre-auction viewing would have seen storage bags hand-labeled by their owner -- ''A Table for 10 People,'' ''Miscellaneous Items Not in Daily Use'' -- and concluded that those goods looked little different from the stuff at the Wetterhahn sale. It is true that the strangers who came to bid on Mrs. Wrightsman's things were not welcomed, as pickers at Mrs. Wetterhahn's house were, to rummage through drawers containing a poignant assortment of underclothes and a selection of souvenir silk travel scarves. But they were enacting a similar ritual, in which once-cherished objects, having lost their original purpose, die briefly and are then reborn.
 ''The first 10 people at these sales always get the really good pieces,'' Mr. Cole said on a recent Friday. He was referring to the midcentury modern stuff whose popularity never seems to wane. And sure enough the first picker into the house scored a walnut coffee table with a nougat marble top for $200.
 ''It's better for us this way, because we don't really know what anything is,'' Mr. Cole added. It is also better in another sense because, in the rush to grab the best stuff on this Friday, the competition swept past a hall closet in which Mrs. Cole later happened upon a leather-banded mink of 1970s vintage with labels from Bergdorf Goodman and Revillon. The sale supervisor, Michal Landor, priced the coat for a mere $25. Thus before breakfast the Coles' day was made. ''Our niche is the stuff that's left after all the freaks have had their pick.''
 They mark their finds up from four to 10 times. And while it is not obvious how this can amount to a living, given that much of what the two buy costs under $10, they said they have lost money only once on a Brooklyn Flea weekend, netting $13 less than the $100 to rent a patch of flea market asphalt in Fort Greene.
 ''It looks pretty good when you make $200 a day from your day job and you can suddenly earn $1,000 at the Flea,'' Mr. Cole said.
 The best day the two ever had, ''we made $1,500,'' said Mrs. Cole, who met her future husband at a flea market stall she once operated in Vienna. That includes the years when they sold together in San Francisco and later in Santa Barbara, Calif., where Mr. Cole was raised in part and where they moved a decade ago in the hope that a laid-back life on land his parents owned in the mountains would help them conceive a child. Their daughter Charlotte, called Charlie, is usually on hand at the Brooklyn Flea. On a recent Saturday she was there offering $6 polka-dot manicures.
 Charlie seldom accompanies the Coles on their scavenging rounds, and a day spent scrounging through the Freudian nightmare that was one upstate collector's house made clear why. Prowling through moldy basements or the stale-smelling racks of castoffs at the Salvation Army takes work and an unexpected degree of passion and also possibly a hand-hewn clothespin clipped to one's nose. ''The essence of all this is really in the getting of the object,'' said Mr. Cole, a ''deep accumulator of shallow objects'' who over his lifetime has assembled collections of beer cans, matchbooks, ashtrays, European apothecary bottles -- and who is currently stockpiling string.
 ''Once I put something up on a shelf, I'm not nearly as interested as I was at that one little moment of discovery, when it's just you and the object,'' he said as he piloted the couple's 2007 Chrysler Town and Country through Yonkers, where a Day-Glo orange tag-sale sign stapled to an electric pole triggered his U-turn reflex.
 As it happened, the tag sale was held at a house whose occupant had also stumbled into the used-goods economy. ''I always got fired from every job,'' said Michael Stephens, whose business card reads, ''Michael's House of Elegant Junk.'' Standing amid folding tables filled with neatly displayed crockery, straw hats and a plastic wrapped Lady Godiva wig, Mr. Stephens laid out a trajectory that led him one day from a human resources office where he'd been pink-slipped to a thrift shop in Yonkers where he found a Gucci bag for $1.99.
 ''I hada light bulb moment, as Oprah says,'' said Mr. Stephens, who resold that bag and another one of alligator for 100 times the purchase price.
 There is gold lying on the ground, Mr. Stephens preached to the Coles, who required no conversion. From among the elegant junk on Mr. Stephens's lawn they had already picked up a $5 felt fedora and a sheath from the 1940s to add to their earlier finds.
 ''Stuff I get from the garbage is the first thing that people want to buy,'' Mr. Stephens said.
 ''New York is great for that,'' added Mr. Cole, who recently found three paintings leaning against a lamppost in Chelsea and had the last laugh on the colleagues who called him crazy when he went on to sell the found pictures for $75 at the Brooklyn Flea.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 27, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Gimlet Eye column on May 13, about Manhattan flea markets, misstated the address of a house in Flushing, Queens, where the deceased owner's possessions were being sold to flea market dealers. It is at 144-26 73rd Avenue, not 73rd Street. The column also referred incorrectly to the neighborhood. It is not largely Hasidic.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SALE VETERANS: Jaroslava Cole, left, and her husband, Peter, at the Brooklyn Flea market. (E1)
 PICKERS AND CHOOSERS: The Coles, top, prepare for a day at the Brooklyn Flea by organizing their goods in their art studio and storage area in Brooklyn. Items at their stand include an old bag for clothespins and vintage bathing suits for women. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(E9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (89%); CENSUS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); AFFLUENT MARKET (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



325 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: U.A.W. Wants to Share in Big 3's Gains After Years of Pain

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- As better times return, the United Automobile Workers is not the union it was before Detroit's carmakers hemorrhaged billions of dollars.
 The union is now a part owner of General Motors and Chrysler through a union trust fund, and its members are barred from striking against the two companies over compensation for the next five years. All told, hourly workers gave up pay and benefits worth $7,000 to $30,000 each a year during the downturn, the union estimates.
 But while those changes might blur the traditional battle lines between management and union, the incoming president of the U.A.W., Bob King, is making it clear some things are not about to change. 
 As one automaker, the Ford Motor Company, restores some perks for salaried workers, Mr. King is putting the companies on notice that he expects hourly workers to be given back some of the benefits they surrendered as the bottom lines of all three car companies improve -- at least to the extent that management and other stakeholders are rewarded.
 The union is expected to ask that some of its givebacks be reversed during contract talks with the carmakers in 2011, when the contract signed in 2007 -- and modified last year with more concessions as General Motors and Chrysler approached bankruptcy -- expires.
 ''When there's equality of sacrifice, there's got to be equality of gain,'' Mr. King said during a speech to executives and analysts this week. ''We just want to make sure when things turn around we share in the upside.''
 Mr. King's muscle flexing is bound to be popular with his rank and file, but it comes at a delicate time. Some of the carmakers are just getting their footing back, and during much of the crisis, critics have portrayed his union as a major hindrance to Detroit's ability to compete with foreign rivals. 
 There is also the difficult task of navigating volatile public sentiments about the $62 billion in taxpayer money given to G.M. and Chrysler.
 ''The bankruptcies were structured to protect the union interests at the expense of the creditors and investors,'' said Paul Kersey, director of labor policy at the Mackinac Center for Public Policy, a conservative research group in Midland, Mich. ''So I don't see there being a whole lot of public support for them pursuing a restoration of the concessions.''
 That might be one reason that Mr. King, the nominee to succeed the retiring Ron Gettelfinger next month, is trying to frame the union's position around the issue of equality. He said that while U.A.W. members had agreed to give up pay and benefits in recent years, the quality of the vehicles they built have improved amid many plant closings and uncertainty about their future.
 ''They're making it quite clear that they don't want an upstairs-downstairs kind of industry where Champagne is poured in the boardrooms but the U.A.W. members are largely excluded from the festivities,'' said Harley Shaiken, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who specializes in labor relations.
 The U.A.W. already is upset with Ford, which was the only one of the three big Detroit automakers to avoid bankruptcy. Ford remains publicly held and took no government loans.
 Ford has been profitable for four consecutive quarters, and this year has restored some compensation for salaried workers, including merit pay increases, tuition reimbursement and matching contributions to retirement accounts. 
 Mr. King, currently a U.A.W. vice president in charge of the union's work force at Ford, said the union has filed grievances on the matter, accusing Ford of violating its U.A.W. contract.
 ''We had an understanding about equality of sacrifice,'' Mr. King told reporters after his speech this week. ''None of that, in my view of what the contract is, should have happened without our membership getting the same thing.''
 A Ford spokeswoman, Marcey Evans, said Wednesday that the company was honoring its contract and said any increases in pay or benefits for hourly workers would need to be negotiated. The cuts that affected salaried workers were made with ''a commitment that the company would reinstate them as business conditions allowed,'' she said.
 Ford did not issue merit-based raises in 2007 and 2009. Tuition reimbursement was suspended in 2008, and 401(k) matches were halted in 2009. Some benefits for salaried workers, including bonuses, have yet to be reinstated.
 Ford told workers the merit pay increases this year will average about 3 percent of their pay.
 Ms. Evans said that this year Ford gave profit-sharing checks averaging $450 to all of its union workers, in accordance with a formula dictated by the contract. The checks were based on Ford's 2009 earnings of $2.7 billion. Workers would get larger checks next year if the company, which earned $2.09 billion in the first quarter, meets its profit forecast for 2010.
 Mr. King said that the two sides are close to resolving ''one piece'' of the grievances but that the issue could go to arbitration soon.
 Ms. Evans and Mr. King each said it was too early to discuss what either party planned to request during next year's negotiations. ''The economic situation at that time will have a huge impact,'' Mr. King said.
 Another complicating factor is that the U.A.W. will enter the contract talks as part owners of both G.M. and Chrysler through a union-controlled trust fund. The fund, which took over liability for retiree health care coverage this year, has a 17.5 percent stake in G.M. and is the majority owner of Chrysler, holding 55 percent.
 ''The U.A.W. has a powerful incentive to act responsibly,'' Professor Shaiken said. ''They want to see competitive companies, but competitive companies that they share in -- not where the competitiveness comes at their expense.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob King is the incoming president of the United Automobile Workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); CLOSINGS (65%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (87%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



326 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 BLIGHT DESTROYS LARGE PART 
 Of Afghan Poppy Harvest
 Up to one-third of Afghanistan's poppy harvest this spring has been destroyed by a mysterious disease, according to estimates revealed by United Nations officials, potentially complicating the American and NATO military offensives this summer in the country's opium-producing heartland. PAGE A12
 POPE PRAYS FOR PRIESTS 
 A day after acknowledging the church's responsibility for the sexual abuse crisis, Pope Benedict XVI traveled to the popular pilgrim shrine in Fatima, Portugal, and prayed for priests not to fall short of their ''sublime vocation'' or ''succumb to the temptations of the evil one.'' PAGE A6
 National
 WITH OBAMA, REGULATIONS
 Make a Comeback
 Over the last year, the Obama administration has pressed forward on hundreds of new mandates, while it has stepped up enforcement of rules by increasing the ranks of inspectors and imposing higher fines for violations. PAGE A15
 KAGAN ON THE HILL
 Elena Kagan, President Obama's nominee for a vacated seat on the Supreme Court, participated in a series of closed-door interviews, and comments from lawmakers suggested that her judicial experience and her stance on the military's ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy emerged as potential flashpoints in her confirmation hearings. PAGE A16
 New York
 JUDGE BLOCKS FURLOUGH 
 Of State Workers
 A federal judge temporarily blocked a one-day furlough of state workers scheduled by Gov. David A. Paterson for next week, reversing a plan that Mr. Paterson has said is necessary to keep the state from running out of money at the end of the month. PAGE A25
 Business
 NEW TREASURER TAKES ON 
 Britain's Budget Deficit
 The task of bringing Britain's record budget deficit under control is now in the hands of George Osborne, country's youngest chancellor of the exchequer in more than a century. In his first pledge at the helm of the treasury, the chancellor said that he planned to ''significantly accelerate'' efforts to reduce spending. PAGE B1
 PUSH TO EASE RULES REJECTED
 In a resounding defeat for Wall Street banks and their lobbyists, the Senate rejected a Republican effort to ease some of the tight new rules included in the bill for trading derivatives, the complex financial instruments that were at the center of the 2008 financial collapse. PAGE B2
 Obituaries
 DAVE FISHER, 69
 In 1958, he joined with four other freshmen at Wesleyan University to form the Highwaymen, one of the most popular, and improbable, folk music groups of the early 1960s. PAGE A29
 Sports
 PLAYOFF STUMBLES SEND
 Cleveland Fans Reeling
 After falling to 3-2 in their playoff series with the Boston Celtics, the Cleveland Cavaliers and a legion of panicked fans are trying to come to grips with an unsettling present, an uncertain future and the puzzling play of LeBron James, the city's greatest sports icon, who is likely to become a free agent this summer. PAGE B14
 Arts
 THE INTERSECTION 
 Of Fantasy and Faith
 The travails of performing in the ancient Christian drama of the title are a recurring theme in Sarah Ruhl's ''Passion Play,'' an epic-length but light-spirited romp through several centuries of religious pageantry, individual morality and global politics. Review by Charles Isherwood. PAGE C1
 GLORIFYING A BAD MOVIE
 With a Devoted Following
 The documentary ''Best Worst Movie,'' about the cult following surrounding ''Troll 2,'' a 1990 straight-to-video dud that was universally panned, is an act of reclamation: an effort to make sense of a senseless film and an argument that no movie with a fan following can be totally without value. PAGE C1
 Thursday Styles
 SHOPPERS SEARCH
 For Houlihan Pants
 J Brand, a clothing company based in California, is widely distributed, but one particular style of cargo pant -- the Houlihan, named for a character on ''M*A*S*H'' -- has done exceptionally well, and been the buzz of fashion blogs for months. PAGE E1
 Op-ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A31
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); RELIGION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); BUDGETS (86%); OPIUM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (72%); JUDGES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (87%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%); DAVID PATERSON (68%); ELENA KAGAN (68%); GEORGE OSBORNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010



327 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'ENTRE NOS'; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: An Immigrant Story

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

 BODY:
Mariana and her two children, Gabriel, 10, and Andrea, 6, have been abandoned by Mariana's husband after leaving their native Colombia to join him in Jackson Heights, Queens. Now Mariana -- unemployed, not knowing English, kicked out of her apartment and pregnant again -- is starting to crack under her mounting misfortunes. 
 Terrified of the police and reduced to collecting cans from the street, she is largely without anyone to turn to. Hers is an immigrant story, and though ''Entre Nos'' never says so outright, it is an illegal-immigrant story.
 ''Entre Nos'' is directed and written by Paola Mendoza, a screenwriter and actress (she plays Mariana), and Gloria La Morte, an editor. Both are deft with pacing, composition and atmosphere, and scenes with the children in particular (Sebastian Villada Lopez and Laura Montana Cortez, each remarkable) have charm and authenticity.
 While the threats to Mariana's family are palpable, the three manage to avoid drastic suffering. Given the maternal fortitude displayed by Ms. Mendoza (who based the film on her mother's early experiences in the United States), it's not surprising. 
 If there's any defect in her portrait, it's Mariana's lack of flaws. Certainly there's no inkling that she might be partly responsible for her plight, despite her husband's fecklessness. Still, it's bracing to find a narrative in which a heroine rights her own situation without a Hollywood knight galloping to her rescue.
 For all its soot and concrete, ''Entre Nos'' only suggests the brutal rigors of the immigrant experience. But it's nice to be reminded that striving newcomers have long strengthened this country. 
 ENTRE NOS
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Written and directed by Paola Mendoza and Gloria La Morte; director of photography, Bradford Young; edited by Ms. La Morte; music by Gil Talmi; production designer, Adriana Serrano; costumes by Vera Chow; produced by Joseph La Morte and Michael Skolnik; released by Indie Pix. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. In Spanish, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated. 
 WITH: Paola Mendoza (Mariana), Sebastian Villada Lopez (Gabriel), Laura Montana Cortez (Andrea), Sarita Chaudhury (Preet), Andres Munar (Antonio) and Anthony Chisholm (Joe). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paola Mendoza plays an immigrant mother abandoned by her husband in ''Entre Nos.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ADOLPHUS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (89%); WRITERS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); PHOTOGRAPHY (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Entre Nos (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



328 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: We're Not Greece

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
It's an ill wind that blows nobody good, and the crisis in Greece is making some people -- people who opposed health care reform and are itching for an excuse to dismantle Social Security -- very, very happy. Everywhere you look there are editorials and commentaries, some posing as objective reporting, asserting that Greece today will be America tomorrow unless we abandon all that nonsense about taking care of those in need.
 The truth, however, is that America isn't Greece -- and, in any case, the message from Greece isn't what these people would have you believe. 
 So, how do America and Greece compare?
 Both nations have lately been running large budget deficits, roughly comparable as a percentage of G.D.P. Markets, however, treat them very differently: The interest rate on Greek government bonds is more than twice the rate on U.S. bonds, because investors see a high risk that Greece will eventually default on its debt, while seeing virtually no risk that America will do the same. Why?
 One answer is that we have a much lower level of debt -- the amount we already owe, as opposed to new borrowing -- relative to G.D.P. True, our debt should have been even lower. We'd be better positioned to deal with the current emergency if so much money hadn't been squandered on tax cuts for the rich and an unfunded war. But we still entered the crisis in much better shape than the Greeks.
 Even more important, however, is the fact that we have a clear path to economic recovery, while Greece doesn't.
 The U.S. economy has been growing since last summer, thanks to fiscal stimulus and expansionary policies by the Federal Reserve. I wish that growth were faster; still, it's finally producing job gains -- and it's also showing up in revenues. Right now we're on track to match Congressional Budget Office projections of a substantial rise in tax receipts. Put those projections together with the Obama administration's policies, and they imply a sharp fall in the budget deficit over the next few years.
 Greece, on the other hand, is caught in a trap. During the good years, when capital was flooding in, Greek costs and prices got far out of line with the rest of Europe. If Greece still had its own currency, it could restore competitiveness through devaluation. But since it doesn't, and since leaving the euro is still considered unthinkable, Greece faces years of grinding deflation and low or zero economic growth. So the only way to reduce deficits is through savage budget cuts, and investors are skeptical about whether those cuts will actually happen.
 It's worth noting, by the way, that Britain -- which is in worse fiscal shape than we are, but which, unlike Greece, hasn't adopted the euro -- remains able to borrow at fairly low interest rates. Having your own currency, it seems, makes a big difference.
 In short, we're not Greece. We may currently be running deficits of comparable size, but our economic position -- and, as a result, our fiscal outlook -- is vastly better.
 That said, we do have a long-run budget problem. But what's the root of that problem? ''We demand more than we're willing to pay for,'' is the usual line. Yet that line is deeply misleading.
 First of all, who is this ''we'' of whom people speak? Bear in mind that the drive to cut taxes largely benefited a small minority of Americans: 39 percent of the benefits of making the Bush tax cuts permanent would go to the richest 1 percent of the population.
 And bear in mind, also, that taxes have lagged behind spending partly thanks to a deliberate political strategy, that of ''starve the beast'': conservatives have deliberately deprived the government of revenue in an attempt to force the spending cuts they now insist are necessary.
 Meanwhile, when you look under the hood of those troubling long-run budget projections, you discover that they're not driven by some generalized problem of overspending. Instead, they largely reflect just one thing: the assumption that health care costs will rise in the future as they have in the past. This tells us that the key to our fiscal future is improving the efficiency of our health care system -- which is, you may recall, something the Obama administration has been trying to do, even as many of the same people now warning about the evils of deficits cried ''Death panels!''
 So here's the reality: America's fiscal outlook over the next few years isn't bad. We do have a serious long-run budget problem, which will have to be resolved with a combination of health care reform and other measures, probably including a moderate rise in taxes. But we should ignore those who pretend to be concerned with fiscal responsibility, but whose real goal is to dismantle the welfare state -- and are trying to use crises elsewhere to frighten us into giving them what they want. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BONDS (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX RELIEF (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); DEFLATION (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); DEVALUATION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



329 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Number of New Applicants For Jobless Benefits Falls

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- The number of people filing for jobless benefits fell only slightly last week, the Labor Department said Thursday, maintaining the year's modest downward trend. 
 Initial claims for state unemployment aid slipped 4,000, to 444,000, in the week ended May 8, the department said, above the 440,000 that economists had been expecting.
 ''The labor market is clearly improving, but it has a long, long way to go before it gets to any semblance of normalcy,'' said Joseph LaVorgna, chief United States economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York.
 The four-week moving average, which smoothes out weekly fluctuations, fell by 9,000, to 450,500, the department said.
 Though claims continued to fall, the number of people still receiving jobless benefits after an initial week of aid unexpectedly rose 12,000, to 4.63 million, in the week ended May 1, the department said.
 In a second report, the department said import prices increased 0.9 percent last month, on higher petroleum costs, after rising 0.5 percent in March. Excluding the volatile petroleum category, prices were up 0.3 percent.
 ''In spite of higher commodity costs, prices for imported finished goods appear sluggish, suggesting firms' pricing power remains limited,'' said Anna Piretti, an economist at BNP Paribas in New York.
 The tame inflation outlook was underscored by the mild rise in nonpetroleum import prices, which were up 3.3 percent in the 12 months through April.
 Analysts generally expect the strength of the dollar and excess capacity in the global economy to keep a lid on prices of imported merchandise, excluding petroleum.
 The department also said export prices rose 1.2 percent in April, building on the previous month's 0.7 percent advance. In the 12 months through April, export prices increased 5.7 percent, the largest gain since July 2008.
 Separately, in another positive sign for the economy, lenders initiated far fewer new actions against struggling homeowners last month, RealtyTrac said Thursday.
 April foreclosure filings fell 9 percent from March and 2 percent from a year ago, the first year-over-year drop since RealtyTrac started tracking annual foreclosure rates in January 2006.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TRENDS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); EXPORT PRICES (72%); GLOBALIZATION (64%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (57%); BNP PARIBAS SA (54%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (54%); BNP (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



330 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Growth of CUNY Chancellor's Salary Outpaces Rise in Faculty's Pay

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
In his 11 years as chancellor of the City University of New York, Matthew Goldstein has been credited with increasing enrollment, helping raise more than a billion dollars and restoring rigor and energy to a system that had seeped both for decades.
 He has also received a series of raises that have nearly doubled his base salary. His total compensation package, which includes a $90,000 housing allowance, is now just over $600,000. Last fall he was granted a 9 percent salary increase, at a time when some other college presidents had chosen to turn down raises out of support for campuses pinched by the economic downturn.
 The CUNY trustees, who determined the raises, say Dr. Goldstein is worth it. Benno C. Schmidt Jr., the board chairman, said that if anything, Dr. Goldstein was underpaid. 
 ''If you look at his compensation in terms of the size and the complexity of CUNY and compare it to those running other systems of similar size, you see that he's below the median and his performance is in a class by itself,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''This university was in really serious trouble 10 years ago, and he has turned it around.'' 
 But some members of the faculty question the heft of the chancellor's compensation.
 ''Lavish salaries for top management are unfortunately standard in American higher education,'' said Barbara Bowen, president of the Professional Staff Congress, the faculty and staff union for CUNY. 
 ''But what's also standard is underfinancing of the core activity of the university, which is instruction. 
 ''The gap between the chancellor's salary and the salary of a faculty that includes 9,000 adjuncts, or the standard of living of many of our students and their families, is huge.''
 Across the country, executive compensation on college campuses has surged in the past decade. Constantine W. Curris, president emeritus of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities, recently called for an end to the ''arms race in presidential pay.'' 
 According to a survey in The Chronicle of Higher Education, one public university chief topped $1 million last year -- the president of Ohio State University, E. Gordon Gee, received $1.6 million -- while two dozen presidents of private institutions, including Columbia University and New York University, received more than $1 million a year. 
 ''What we have is a system in which presidential salaries on campus are compared to those of other C.E.O.'s,'' said Dr. Curris, a past president of three universities, including Clemson. ''Everyone wants to be at least average, so this creates upward pressure.''
 Dr. Goldstein's latest raise came in the midst of one of the worst recessions in New York history. CUNY, which has 260,000 students in 11 senior colleges, 6 community colleges and several professional schools, is now facing more than $100 million in cuts under the budget proposed by Gov. David A. Paterson. 
 Dr. Goldstein started in the job in 1999 earning $250,000 a year; his base salary remained flat until 2003, when it jumped 40 percent. Half of the $100,000 raise for that year came from private sources, a growing trend in higher education, but the board of trustees converted that to public money after 2006. His base salary has grown, on average, 7 percent a year over the past decade, to $490,000; about half of the most recent $40,000 raise was also courtesy of private funds. He declined to be interviewed about his pay. 
 Mr. Schmidt, the former president of Yale University, said he was frequently under pressure from fellow trustees to pay Dr. Goldstein more. ''I have tried to increase his compensation, but he won't do it,'' he said. ''He's very conscious of not wanting to appear to be out of line.''
 Mr. Schmidt credited the chancellor with expanding the full-time faculty by 20 percent, increasing donations, attracting federal research money and managing a surge in enrollments. ''In his 10 years, Matt has taken a university that was in a spiral of decline -- losing enrollment, losing faculty -- and he's completely reversed that,'' Mr. Schmidt said. 
 Terry W. Hartle, senior vice president of the American Council of Education, a nonprofit higher education group, agreed. ''His compensation, while a significant amount of money, is relatively modest for the best public university presidents in the country, and I would certainly put Matt in that class,'' Mr. Hartle said. 
 Still, Dr. Goldstein's 9 percent raise this year, which followed a 7 percent increase the previous year, runs counter to recent national trends. 
 In its annual survey of the salaries and benefits of 185 public university leaders, The Chronicle of Higher Education reported in its January issue that the median rose to $436,111 in 2008-9, an increase of 2.3 percent from the year before. The Chronicle's survey also found that the base salaries of the heads of more than one-third of the institutions surveyed ''stopped growing'' last year, while the total compensation of 10 percent of the presidents actually declined. 
 By contrast, in the preceding four years, the compensation packages of the public university presidents had climbed, on average, by at least 7.5 percent a year, and in 2005, by 19 percent. 
 Dr. Bowen, the union leader, complained that CUNY's trustees had rammed through the raises for Dr. Goldstein and the other presidents. She said the trustees had not put the issue of compensation on the agenda for a public hearing last fall before the board meeting when they approved his latest raise. 
 ''We've noticed that in the most recent instance of raises that there's been this pattern of shielding them from public scrutiny,'' she said. ''After the hearing but before the board meeting, they publish an addendum to the calendar, so there's no opportunity to comment.'' 
 A CUNY spokesman, Michael Arena, said Mr. Goldstein's compensation had been ''voted upon in open and public session'' that was ''webcast, podcast and aired live on CUNY TV'' in the same manner as the collective bargaining agreement for CUNY faculty and staff members.
 The board also approved raises ranging from 4 percent to 11 percent for several key vice chancellors. Three of them -- the chief operating officer (with a base salary of $290,689), the university provost ($270,900) and the general counsel ($265,703) -- earn more than any college president in the system. 
 Mr. Arena said that full-time professors had themselves received attractive salary increases during the time that Dr. Goldstein has been chancellor. Between collective-bargaining increases and additional raises tied to seniority, a hypothetical professor hired in 2000 at $55,014 could have advanced to $91,511 this year, for an increase of 66 percent. 
 While not denying that those figures were accurate, Dr. Bowen said they were not ''representative.'' 
 She said more than half of all courses were now taught by adjunct professors who almost all made less than the chancellor's $40,000 raise this year; CUNY said that adjuncts teach fewer than half of courses. 
 While acknowledging the need for CUNY to remain competitive nationally, some faculty members said they wished that Dr. Goldstein and other executives had chosen to forgo pay increases for the current year. Mr. Arena said that there would be ''no raises'' this fall for the university's top executives.
 ''Every day we're hearing that there are these very big cuts looming and that we're in a serious budget crisis,'' said Rosalind Petchesky, distinguished professor of political science at Hunter College and the Graduate Center. 
 ''This would seem the most appropriate time to make a public statement saying, 'I'm not going to accept this raise now.' This is a time for everyone to be more restrained and think about the larger good.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matthew Goldstein, chancellor of the City University of New York, at an Albany hearing in January. In his 11 years in the job, Dr. Goldstein's base pay has risen to $490,000 from $250,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Paygrade Inflation: Compensation of top officials in the City University of New York has outpaced the cost of living. (Sources: SUNY
CUNY
 The Chronicle of Higher Education) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



331 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Rumors of Conspiracies Rattle Madagascar, Unstable Since a Coup in 2009

BYLINE: By BARRY BEARAK

 BODY:
ANTANANARIVO, Madagascar -- A few weeks ago, 22 provocateurs -- among them five connivers from the military itself -- planned a predawn mission to murder the prime minister. Fortunately, their seditious scheme was discovered before the plot could unfold.
 Or, maybe not. Was this all a fiction, a ''cinema'' as the scoffers contend?
 ''No, no, this was real,'' Prime Minister Camille Vital insisted. ''They were coming to assassinate me. We know this. They have confessed.''
 The prime minister is also a brigadier general, recently promoted from colonel. He leaned forward across his big desk as if he had something special to confide. ''I sleep with a gun under my pillow, and also a grenade,'' he said boldly. ''I wish they had come for me. I would have given them a training lesson.'' 
 Antananarivo, the capital of this vast island, is a nervous and peculiar place these days. Rumors pass up and down the winding cobblestone roads that climb to the city's scenic ridges. Did you hear the military is meeting with the gendarmes? We've heard they plan to seize the government this week, if not the next. So-and-so will be in charge.
 For more than a year now, Madagascar has been a renegade nation trying to return to the good graces of the world. There was a coup here in March 2009. Mutinous members of the military provided the muscle. The twice-elected president, Marc Ravalomanana, fled into exile. His position was then handed to the 33-year-old mayor of Antananarivo, Andry Rajoelina, who was pleased to get such a momentous promotion. According to the Constitution, he was too young for the job.
 For international observers, this was backsliding of the worst sort, the fourth coup in Africa in eight months. Mediators soon tried to maneuver a U-turn toward democratic elections. Mr. Rajoelina and three of the nation's past presidents -- their mutual hatreds barely suppressed -- have met in Maputo, Mozambique; in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; in Maputo once again; and in Johannesburg. Deals are made. Hands are shaken. Deals are broken.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Rajoelina unilaterally announced that there would be a constitutional referendum in August, legislative elections in September and a presidential vote in November in which he would not run. But he has proposed several ballots before, then postponed them, canceled them, rescheduled them, put them off again.
 In the meantime, the government, such as it is, has stumbled along. Mr. Rajoelina does not seem to be in charge of very much. Many of his ministers don't respect him. Some skip cabinet meetings.
 ''I don't think anyone is really running the country,'' said the American ambassador, R. Niels Marquardt. ''It's kind of a free-for-all.''
 Tales of corruption compete with rumors of a coup.
 ''The young president is not that powerful, and the ministers -- some of them anyway -- don't know how long they'll be around, so they chase the money while they can,'' said Ramilison Guilot, a journalist who is now deputy minister of telecommunications.
 Madagascar, the fourth largest island in the world, is also one of its most precious, a landmass in the Indian Ocean that broke free of the African mainland 165 million years ago and developed in splendid isolation.
 Nearly the size of California and Oregon combined, it is a wonderland of nature: goggle-eyed lemurs, delicately perfumed orchids, baobab trees that seem stuffed into the soil upside down. By most estimates, 80 percent of its plants and animals exist nowhere else on earth.
 But many do not thrive absent a government to protect them. ''It's difficult to work without a state,'' said Guy Suzon Ramangason, director general of the organization that manages many of the national parks.
 The Malagasy, like most people, love a good myth, and they seemed to have one in their former president, Mr. Ravalomanana. So the story goes, he once sold yogurt off the back of a bicycle and steadily built his business until he was the island's dairy king. This was a great rags-to-riches tale, but it later came to seem that he pulled himself up by his bootstraps only to stomp out the competition. As president, his conglomerate, the Tiko group, elbowed its way into construction, radio and television, rice, energy and a dozen other things.
 To his credit, while Mr. Ravalomanana was gobbling up the economy he was also gnawing away at the nation's poverty rate. The island became a favorite of international donors. Money was provided for roads and other infrastructure; half the government's budget arrived from the outside.
 But after the coup, Madagascar was reclassified as a pariah. Humanitarian aid continued but other funds were withheld. The new government was being punished; the nation's 20 million people were the collateral damage.
 The island is a former French colony, and the heart of Antananarivo has the feel of a European town rising up a hillside, its brightly colored buildings ornamented with gabled windows. But the city then spreads out into the less quaint: rock quarries, hideous slums, paddy fields, clusters of factories.
 Recently, garment manufacturers were a flourishing source of jobs, in part owing to favored, duty-free treatment from the United States. But in January this special status was withdrawn as a result of the retreat from democracy. Tens of thousands of workers have been sidelined.
 ''They just told us to stop and go home,'' said Ravololonjatovo Ariane Nirina, a single mother with three young children.
 Now, each day, she joins the hundreds waiting outside another garment factory. The bosses sometimes hire for two or three days. ''Nothing will be normal again until our politicians make up their minds,'' she said.
 The stilled factories are dismal in their emptiness. One of them, MKLEN International, used to turn out as many as 35,000 blue jeans each day, said the manager, Suresh Sakhrani. The pants were destined for stores like Wal-Mart and J. C. Penney, readied for American consumer, sandblasted to look old, sprayed with potassium to look dirty, splattered with glitter to look chic. ''We had 4,500 employees,'' said Mr. Sakhrani. ''Now we're down to 500, and they're probably soon to go.''
 It is not hard to find casualties of the newly choked economy. At the city's biggest hospital, the ward for children with acute malnutrition still provides therapeutic milk but no longer antibiotics or diagnostic tests. Infants with twig-thin legs languish like lifeless dolls in oversize beds.
 ''Sometimes -- even if we try to convince them otherwise -- parents sneak out and take their children home to die,'' said Dr. Raobijaona Honore. ''It's less expensive for them. A living child can go home in a bus. A dead one needs to go in a car or taxi.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 29, 2010, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of a production error, an article on May 14 about the aftermath of a coup in Madagascar, including worsening economic conditions that have contributed to malnutrition among some children, omitted, in some editions, the final eight words of a quotation by Dr. Raobijaona Honore, who works at the biggest hospital in the country's capital. Dr. Honore said: ''Sometimes -- even if we try to convince them otherwise -- parents sneak out and take their children home to die. It's less expensive for them. A living child can go home in a bus. A dead one needs to go in a car or taxi.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Women waiting for work at a textile factory in Antananarivo, Madagascar in April. Madagascar is losing jobs as a result of a change in American policy. (A4)
 American revocation of a duty-free status has imperiled textile jobs in Madagascar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED OU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) MAP: Nerves are on edge in Antananarivo, Madagascar's capital. (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION (91%); CONSPIRACY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); GENDARMERIE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%) MADAGASCAR (99%); MOZAMBIQUE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



332 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Imminent End of Secrecy to Shake Up Swiss Banking

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
As Swiss lawmakers appear poised to resolve a tax dispute between UBS and Washington, one thing is becoming clear: an end to absolute banking secrecy will change the country's pre-eminent financial sector. 
 Niche private banks that previously specialized in undeclared assets in Geneva and Zurich will have to adapt, and some may fail, analysts and academics predict. Those that remain will have fewer assets to manage. 
 The changes are being wrought not only because of what is known in Switzerland as the UBS bill, which Parliament is expected to pass early next month. Several updated tax treaties with the United States, France, Germany and other countries, by promising government cooperation, also aim to dissuade would-be tax dodgers from trying to shelter undeclared assets in Switzerland. 
 ''In my view, it's over, and it's not a bad thing,'' Luc Thevenoz, a professor of law at the University of Geneva, said of using Swiss banks to hide from the tax collector. 
 The switch was not Switzerland's idea. Its neighbors, painfully aware of the tax receipts they were losing, have been increasing the pressure for years. But it was not until the United States government threatened UBS, the biggest Swiss bank, with criminal prosecution slightly more than a year ago that the wall really began to tumble. 
 In August 2009, UBS agreed to disclose the names and accounts of 4,450 wealthy Americans suspected of evading taxes and to pay a $780 million fine, in return for the suspension of United States legal action. But in February, Switzerland's top court said the deal violated Swiss law, prompting the Swiss government to seek retroactive approval from Parliament. 
 The Swiss are well aware of the stakes in the UBS case. Failure to back the settlement would probably reopen the lawsuit against UBS. The bank's license to do business in the United States could be revoked. The bank expanded in the United States with its takeover of PaineWebber in 2000; about 37 percent of its employees are in the Americas. 
 ''There could ultimately be collateral damage across the field if this is not passed,'' said Martin Naville, chief executive of the Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce in Zurich. ''If push comes to shove and Switzerland is declared a tax haven in the U.S., it would be very negative for Switzerland. U.S. companies would have to leave.'' 
 Switzerland is the host of regional operations for several American companies, including Yahoo, eBay, Caterpillar and Microsoft. American companies directly employ about 70,000 people in Switzerland. 
 Failure could also accelerate new tax cases against other Swiss banks, though Mr. Naville said ''there is no indication for now that any other Swiss bank was behaving in the systematic way that UBS was in the United States.'' 
 Not everyone in Switzerland is in favor of scrapping bank secrecy. 
 The largest group in Parliament, the nationalist Swiss People's Party, plans to vote against the UBS bill, which it views as an infringement of national sovereignty. 
 But three other parties appear ready to offer the support needed to pass the bill, although they are still jockeying over details, members of Parliament said. In particular, the Social Democrats, the main center-left party, are trying to exchange support for government concessions to tighten rules on bonuses and bank supervision. 
 Both issues have resonated in placid Switzerland, where citizens have been shocked by recent bank payouts -- especially after a government bailout of UBS last year. 
 ''I believe that in the end there will be a majority in favor, because most M.P.'s are aware that there would be serious repercussions if it doesn't go through,'' said Manuel Ammann, director of the Swiss Institute of Banking and Finance at the University of St. Gallen. 
 The Swiss economy leans heavily on finance. About 195,000 people, or 5.8 percent of the work force, are employed in the financial sector, which pays 12 percent to 15 percent of all taxes and contributes almost 12 percent of national income, according to the Swiss Bankers' Association. 
 The Swiss People's Party has said it might seek a referendum to restore banking secrecy in the next few years, but prospects for success appear limited for now. 
 In parallel, Switzerland has now signed at least 18 treaties with its most important partners, which incorporate Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development standards on exchanging information on tax evasion and fraud, provided there are formal requests based on credible information.
 This has removed the country from a so-called gray list at the O.E.C.D. 
 The Swiss have said they will not cooperate with cases involving data theft, which recently has become something of a cottage industry. In Germany, governments have paid for computer data stolen from Swiss banks, which they then used to pursue tax cheats. The French last year received a disk containing information on thousands of clients of HSBC's private banking business in Switzerland and have said they will use it to pursue investigations in France. 
 The Swiss banking sector still has significant strengths: a pool of experienced managers, linguistic skills, currency stability and low taxes. 
 But whether that will be enough to stanch a decline in assets managed is unclear. 
 In February, foreigners held 689 billion Swiss francs, or $621 billion, in securities in Swiss custody accounts, down from a recent peak of 1.04 trillion francs in 2007, before the financial crisis and a Group of 20 crackdown on tax havens, according to the Swiss National Bank. 
 Analysts point out that the figure has been stable since 2007, during a period of weakness in markets. 
 And despite its legal problems -- and tens of billions in outflows over the last couple of years -- UBS remains among the world's largest asset managers, with more than $2.3 trillion under management. 
 ''Switzerland remains very attractive for offshore wealth management, even in a fiscally transparent world,'' Mr. Thevenoz said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Swiss senators debated bank secrecy last year in Bern. Lawmakers are expected to pass a bill that would hobble tax dodgers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER KLAUNZER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); TAX TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); TAKEOVERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (93%); ZURICH (93%); BERN, SWITZERLAND (79%) SWITZERLAND (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



333 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Entrepreneur's Distress Sale Highlights Auction of Contemporary Art

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
After watching millions and millions of dollars being casually spent on Warhols and Rauschenbergs, Picassos, Calders and Johnses at the spring art auctions of the last two weeks, it might seem that the money troubles of the recent past were little more than a bad dream. But a distress sale that took place at Phillips de Pury, the third-place auction house, on Thursday night was a reminder that the ghosts of the recession have not been fully exorcised. 
 The auction's first 22 works -- primarily by trendy artists like Richard Prince, Takashi Murakami and Marc Newson -- were from the collection of Halsey Minor, the technology entrepreneur and co-founder of CNET, who was a big spender for the last decade, buying high-end art and contemporary designer furniture. 
 Now he is being forced to sell the spoils of shopping sprees past. The proceeds of the Phillips sale -- ordered by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York -- are to be used to pay a $21.6 million delinquent loan to ML Private Finance L.L.C., an affiliate of Bank of America's Merrill Lynch. 
 To compete with Christie's, which also tried to get the property for sale, Phillips agreed to give 8 percent of the buyer's premium back to ML Private Finance, according to court papers. Phillips also published a separate catalog of the collection with an admiring essay in which Mr. Minor is interviewed about collecting and says, ''It is my mission to collect only the best.'' 
 His best went up on the block on Thursday night and the auction drew an impressive crowd that packed Phillips's Chelsea salesroom -- a makeshift space with a concrete floor and views of a car wash, the Hudson River and the West Side Highway. Many seasoned collectors showed up, including the Miami collector Donald Rubell; Jane Holzer, the New York socialite who was known as Baby Jane Holzer when she was a regular in Andy Warhol's entourage in the 1960s; the hedge fund manager David Ganek; the Chicago collector Stefan T. Edlis; and the fashion designer Marc Jacobs. But curiously, almost none ever raised a paddle. 
 Mr. Minor was noticeably absent. When asked whether he had come to the sale, Michael McGinnis, head of Phillips's contemporary art department worldwide, said, ''We didn't see Halsey this week.'' 
 Mr. Minor has had a checkered past with art at auction. There was a memorable and still-unresolved dispute over the Edward Hicks painting ''The Peaceable Kingdom With the Leopard of Serenity,'' among other troubles.
 After securing Mr. Minor's collection, Phillips was able to cobble together an auction filled with a wide variety of contemporary art. Throughout the night, bidding was often thin, and the results were mixed. Of the 73 works for sale, 16 did not sell. The sale totaled $37.9 million, against an estimate of $33.4 million to $48.4 million. 
 Mr. Minor's collecting taste reflected many of the most popular figures of the past decade. The star of the sale was ''Nurse in Hollywood #4, 2004,'' one of Richard Prince's ''naughty nurse'' paintings, which had been owned at one point by Steven A. Cohen, the hedge fund billionaire. The painting, which had been estimated to bring $5 million to $7 million, went for $6.4 million to a telephone bidder. It was the most expensive work of the evening. One of Mr. Prince's ''joke'' paintings -- ''The Chatterbox Hotel,'' from 1990, was estimated at $800,000 to $1.2 million. Another telephone bidder bought the painting for $750,000 or $902,500 with Phillips's fees. 
 Mr. Minor owned many paintings by Ed Ruscha, including ''Angry Because It's Plaster, Not Milk,'' a 1965 canvas of a colorful bird hovering over a glass of milk that looks as though it is about to spill. Three bidders wanted the painting, which was expected to fetch $2 million to $3 million and sold to Deborah McCleod of the Gagosian Gallery in Los Angeles for $3.2 million.
 (Final prices include the buyer's commission to Phillips: 25 percent of the first $50,000, 20 percent of the next $50,000 to $1 million and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.) 
 Urs Fischer, the Swiss artist who was the subject of an exhibition at the New Museum of Contemporary Art this fall, was represented. ''The Grass Munchers,'' a 2007 sculpture of cast aluminum, pigments and wax of the artist's arms and hands, brought a record price for the artist at auction, selling to a telephone bidder for $902,500, well above its $600,000 high estimate.
 Warhols had been performing well all week -- at Sotheby's on Wednesday night, one of the artist's self-portraits brought $32.6 million -- but Thursday was spotty for the artist. ''Jackie,'' from 1964, estimated at $800,000 to $1 million, failed to sell. But ''Brillo Soap Pads Box,'' from 1964, had five bidders. It went for $638,500 by telephone, well above its $350,000 high estimate. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Nurse in Hollywood #4, 2004,'' by Richard Prince. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILLIPS DE PURY & COMPANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (92%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FASHION DESIGN (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



334 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; EXHIBITION REVIEW; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: You Can Fight City Hall

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
What on earth happened? We enter the fine new exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York and see that handsome patrician, boyishly grinning on posters and magazine covers: John V. Lindsay, Park Avenue-born son of privilege, graduate of Yale and Yale Law School and, in 1965, newly elected mayor of New York City. He is just out of his early 40s and is so charismatic, striding through the city streets with such casual authority, that he might have been a gift of the Fates to replace another boyish, privileged political leader, a president assassinated just two years before. 
 ''He is fresh and everyone else is tired,'' proclaims one of the campaign posters on display, quoting the journalist Murray Kempton. 
 But then look at him at the end of his two mayoral terms, on a 1973 cover of The New York Times Magazine blown up on a wall at the close of this exhibition. Lindsay is graying, somber, grim. What happened between these two images? New York happened, the 1960s counterculture happened, racial radicalization happened, budget crises happened, urban renewal and urban despair happened. On the magazine cover, each crease in his face is labeled with a supposed cause: the sanitation strike, the Tombs riots, the presidential debacle, the school strike, the transit strike, the long, hot summer, and on and on. 
 And that's just epidermal. 
 The initial impulse of this show, whose curators are Steven H. Jaffe and Sarah M. Henry, clearly leaned toward celebration: ''America's Mayor,'' it is triumphantly called, ''John V. Lindsay and the Reinvention of New York.'' It is accompanied by an online exhibition (lindsay.mcny.org) and a catalog of essays, edited by Sam Roberts, a reporter for The New York Times. 
 But in the various Lindsay commemorations now at large, which appear to have ample budgets but no apparent anniversary inspiration, only a documentary, ''Fun City Revisited: The Lindsay Years,'' created by WNET, Channel 13 (and available for viewing at thirteen.org/lindsay), leans toward more fulsome celebration. Look closely at this exhibition with its photographs, screaming headlines, posters, pamphlets, city-planning documents, video interviews, news footage and political artifacts, and the celebration is controlled, inquiring, cautious, as it must be. Whatever your take on the Lindsay years, this show will both challenge and expand it. 
 Clearly, an immense transformation occurred between January 1966, when Lindsay took office accompanied by a city transit strike, to his aborted attempt to run for president in 1972. Lindsay presided over a remaking of urban life, not all of which he can take either credit for or blame; the political world pre-1966 and the political world post-1973 seem to have little in common. 
 Before 1966 Robert Moses, for example, was a considerable force in the city; after 1973 he was dethroned, along with many other urban power brokers. Before 1966 there were no black officials in the mayor's cabinet; after 1973 it was difficult to imagine that world. Even the nature of conservatism and liberalism was transformed. Before 1966 liberalism was associated primarily with individual rights and freedoms; by 1973 it was linked with ethnic, racial and communal rights and representation. 
 Some of this was deliberately sought by Lindsay, and the exhibition gives us a sense of the man's ambitions and the range of his enterprise. We are introduced first to a ''City in Crisis,'' as a New York Herald Tribune series in early 1965 put it, but the cascade of events chronicled here make that seem an understated forecast.
 To enter the main gallery we pass through a 1960s-era BMT turnstile that recalls the way Lindsay was welcomed into office by a transit strike that began that New Year's Day; it nearly brought the city to a standstill before ending 12 days later. The show notes that ''virtually all'' the transit workers' demands were met, costing the city ''at least $43 million over two years, foreshadowing a host of expensive future contracts with teachers, sanitation workers, policemen and other municipal workers.''
 Those costs, though, may have been more readily absorbed than strains from other confrontations yet to come, including demonstrations over civil rights and the Vietnam War, accompanied by mounting racial tensions that erupted into city riots in 1966 and 1967. Lindsay won much praise for his readiness to walk the streets and appeal for calm. His stance led to his appointment to the national Kerner Commission, which in early 1968 famously declared: ''Our nation is moving toward two societies, one black, one white -- separate and unequal.'' 
 On the night of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination in 1968 Lindsay rushed to 125th Street to make an extended appearance. We read: ''Critics charged that Lindsay held the police back from confronting looters, while allies asserted that the policy of selective restraint kept the riot from exploding into something far worse.'' Far worse did indeed take place during that era in Detroit and Newark, which have yet to recover.
 We are reminded too that Lindsay's administration gave the issue of race paramount importance, both in the mayor's attempts to bring black politicians into the government and in his hesitating to control riots with confrontation. 
 But here is where Lindsay's heritage also becomes more contested; the exhibition suggests the controversies without fully exploring them. In seeking to ameliorate racial injustice, Lindsay also became indulgent toward the most radical racial spokesmen, giving credence even to figures like Sonny Carson, who on one occasion explicitly informed the mayor that as long as his organization kept receiving money, racial riots could be kept under control. 
 These radical figures often seemed to be treated as the most authentic, in the belief that only through appeasing them would larger forces be tamed. In some ways this impulse was connected to Lindsay's lack of interest in the city's middle-class ethnic groups, often creating more divisions and tensions.
 Thus too, while Lindsay believed in making government more responsive by establishing neighborhood organizations, he apparently didn't think about how accountability and control might also be needed. In 1967 he appointed a panel to consider school reform that contained no representatives from the teachers' union or school board; the result was a ''community control system'' that was tried in three districts. Controversy erupted in May 1968 when the board in the Ocean Hill-Brownsville district in Brooklyn affirmed, in essence, that racial or community preference should trump more central concerns. 
 When that board summarily pushed 18 white teachers and administrators and one black teacher out of its district, the result the next fall was a series of teachers' strikes that lasted over seven weeks. Outbursts of anti-Semitism against Jewish teachers led to a schism between many liberal allies in the black and Jewish populations. In this case the city eventually backed down, but the issue of community control haunted the schools for more than a generation. 
 It is astonishing, though, just how much Lindsay attempted, some of which failed, some of which stuck, some of which was resurrected in later years, much of it outlined here in documents and images: a proposed civilian review board for the police, the Environmental Protection Administration, the Department of Consumer Affairs, the TKTS theater booth, an expansion of the role of the city's parks, increased attention to both preservation and urban design.
 At the same time, the exhibition reminds us, there were the staggering costs: in 1967 the city budget was $4.6 billion; in 1971 it was $7.8 billion. Two years after Lindsay left office the city was nearly bankrupt. Graphs here of welfare expenses, hospital costs, education expenses, municipal labor costs and the rise in short-term debt mark steep, dizzying climbs. (A graph of crime statistics would look similar.) Lindsay introduced the city's first income tax, the first commuter tax and other tax increases. The city lost industry and citizenry.
 One thing missing here is an attempt to put those finances in a larger context -- to suggest how they might compare with those of the present day or at least to hint at what the consequences were of various fiscal policies. But there are glimpses of the rumblings of discontent that led to the policy debates of succeeding decades, over crime, race, welfare, education, private enterprise and civic life. In many ways Lindsay's administration set an agenda that defined urban debates for two generations. 
 But the city, the exhibition seems to suggest, was left by Lindsay in a crisis that was just as serious as the one he inherited. Was it, we are asked, something he caused, or something he could not prevent? What might have been the result had other ideas held sway? The force of his personality, palpably felt here, leads us to give him a fair share of both credit and blame. Lindsay, at any rate, left office with a sense of defeat; he died in 2000 having never again achieved a position of power.
 The catalog tells of a Lindsay administration reunion in 1993 at which someone yelled out a cheery paraphrase of Kempton's aphorism: ''You still look fresh, Mr. Mayor.''
 ''Not true,'' Lindsay bluntly replied. ''We're tired, and everyone else is dead.''
 ''America's Mayor: John V. Lindsay and the Reinvention of New York'' is on view through Oct. 3 at the Museum of the City of New York, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street; (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: America's Mayor: John V. Lindsay and the Reinvention of New York, looking at the Lindsay years of the 1960s and '70s, is at the Museum of the City of New York through Oct. 3. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C21)
Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York arriving at the groundbreaking for the Flatlands Industrial Park in Brooklyn in 1966, the year after his initial election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEAL BOENZI/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The exhibition ''America's Mayor'' chronicles a tumultuous period. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WRITERS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); RIOTS (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



335 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Ground Shifts Strongly In a Democrat's District

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
LOWELL, Mass. -- Just two years ago, not a single Republican stepped forward to run against Representative Niki Tsongas, a Democrat, whose late husband, Paul, was a senator from Massachusetts and a presidential candidate.
 Now, 11 people are lining up to challenge her, seven of them Republicans and four independents.
 If the suddenly crowded field is not enough by itself to suggest that Ms. Tsongas may be vulnerable, consider this: she demurred recently in an interview when asked if she wanted President Obama to campaign for her.
 ''I have great respect for our president,'' she said. 
 But would he help or hurt her campaign?
 ''I can't say one way or the other,'' she said. ''We will cross that bridge when the time comes.''
 When a Democratic incumbent equivocates over a visit by a sitting Democratic president who won the state lopsidedly, it cannot be a good sign.
 ''It's a turbulent time,'' said Michael S. Dukakis, the former governor of Massachusetts and the 1988 Democratic presidential nominee.
 ''The Tea Party. Scott Brown,'' Mr. Dukakis said. ''People are upset, and they ought to be. And there are a lot of Democratic members who will have to work very hard to get themselves re-elected.'' 
 Here, as elsewhere, Democrats are bracing for a Republican tide that could wash away dozens of members of Congress in November and even sweep the Republicans to power. If they do win the House, Republicans will have won seats like this, which are not normally on their radar. They have lost here since 1974, when Paul E. Tsongas first won the seat.
 The picture brightened in January, when Mr. Brown, a Republican, upended the political universe by capturing the United States Senate seat held for decades by the late Edward M. Kennedy.
 His unlikely win emboldened long-shot challengers everywhere, with Massachusetts the epicenter of a ''Scott Brown effect,'' perceived or real.
 All 10 Congressional districts in this state are held by Democrats, many of whom have not seen a competitive race in years; now, most have drawn at least one Republican challenger, and some have drawn several. They face the same anti-incumbent fervor that fueled Mr. Brown's victory and galvanized the Tea Party. It is rooted in anger over the federal economic stimulus package, the new health care law and the succession of bailouts, as well as a desire by voters to feel empowered.
 ''I wish I could tell you I'm feeling good about it,'' Mr. Dukakis said of the midterm elections. ''But I'm not.''
 In this district, stretching through old mill towns and comfortable exurbs northwest of Boston, Mr. Brown won 57 percent of the vote. The district, the Fifth, has sometimes voted Republican in statewide elections, but Mr. Brown even captured Lowell, historically a Democratic stronghold.
 Jon Golnik, 44, a licensed re-seller of Boston College merchandise, is one of the seven Republicans challenging Ms. Tsongas and has raised the most money (but not as much as she has). He said over lunch at the Four Sisters Owl Diner here that he was running because ''people feel they aren't being listened to.'' 
 Ms. Tsongas's record of voting 98 percent of the time with her party, Mr. Golnik said, was proof that she was out of touch, particularly on the health bill, which she championed. (She opposes the president's troop buildup in Afghanistan, which Mr. Golnik supports.)
 Barbara Klain, a co-founder of the Greater Lowell Tea Party, said the race ''will really come down to who is listening to the people in these 29 towns.'' Ms. Klain supports another Republican, Sam Meas, a financial adviser who is an orphaned refugee from Cambodia.
 Party labels are not much help to anyone in this district. Just 12 percent of voters are registered as Republicans and 35 percent as Democrats. The rest are independents, and they are the ones all candidates are trying to reach. Ms. Tsongas, 64, has been able to aim her campaign at the independents because she has no Democratic primary opponent driving her to the right or the left.
 She emphasizes that she is listening and accessible, and she is well aware of the anger against the health care bill. In August, she faced a boisterous crowd of 1,000 people -- a few carrying pictures of Mr. Obama with a Hitler moustache -- at a town-hall-style meeting. She got credit for showing up, however, and continued to discuss the bill in telephone forums and radio call-in shows.
 But she was cautious in a recent interview at her headquarters here over how big a role health care would play in her campaign. She said she would frame it as part of a larger effort to stabilize the economy.
 The district, she said, was ''very independent-minded'' and her chief focus would be on jobs and economic development. She called the economic stimulus package an ''extraordinary response'' necessitated by ''an extraordinary situation.'' Some towns here are prosperous, but unemployment in Lowell is 11.5 percent and in Lawrence, 17.5 percent, way above the statewide average of 9.3 percent.
 Ms. Tsongas was cautious, too, about the Tea Party and did not engage in questions about voter anger. When a voter asked during a recent session at the Maynard Public Library whether the Tea Party was a real threat, she replied blandly, ''It's an effort we all have to be mindful of.'' 
 She added, ''You have to keep the tone very civil, not demonize the opposition, and try to work with people as best you can across the aisle.''
 But even Ms. Tsongas's supporters are worried. As the congresswoman canvassed a neighborhood here, one resident, Rebecca Wisniewski, 61, a teacher, said she would support her, but added, ''I do feel betrayed by the Democratic Party.'' She said she was upset mainly over education issues, and did not like the horse-trading over the health care bill.
 ''I think it will be bad for the Democrats in November,'' Ms. Wisniewski predicted of the elections.
 It is not clear yet how many Republicans will run in the Sept. 14 primary or how many independents -- who do not have to run in a primary -- may appear on the November ballot.
 David Paleologos, a pollster at Suffolk University in Boston, said Ms. Tsongas's best hope was for at least one independent to run so there would be a three-way race, which could split the anti-Tsongas vote.
 ''If it's one-on-one, it would be very difficult for her, given the environment we're in and the number of independents and conservative Democrats in the district,'' Mr. Paleologos said. ''If I'm Niki, I'm rooting for as many independents to run as possible.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barbara Klain, a co-founder of the Greater Lowell Tea Party, said it was important for candidates to listen to people.
 Representative Niki Tsongas, top left, campaigned in Lowell, Mass., with Jane and Rob Gilmor, as did Jon Golnik, a Republican. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHERINE TAYLOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (70%); BAILOUTS (63%); HEALTH CARE LAW (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (89%); NIKI TSONGAS (88%); TED KENNEDY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



336 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: A California Island, Ready for Its Face-Lift

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
Santa CATALINA ISLAND, Calif.
 ASK Southern Californians if they have been to Santa Catalina Island, an hourlong ferry ride from Long Beach, and the answer will most likely be, ''I went there when I was a kid, but haven't been back in years.''
 The Santa Catalina Island Company would like to change that. It's spending $11 million to entice a more globetrotting generation of visitors, with new attractions like a zip line that carries riders from 600 feet above sea level through a canyon down to the beach.
 ''What we're trying to do is create a little bit of a renaissance for Catalina,'' said Brad Wilson, chief marketing officer for the company. ''We want to offer activities that would better suit the current traveler.''
 Despite its proximity to the wealthy California coast, the 22-mile-long rocky island has never become the American equivalent of Capri in Italy. Once a destination for big bands and ballroom dancing at the famous Casino -- which is not actually a gambling spot -- Catalina evolved into a quaint, family-friendly destination, better known for waffle cones and glass-bottom boat rides than for fine dining or hotels with fancy sheets. 
 Not that there's anything wrong with that. For many people, Catalina's slow pace and the sense you get of stepping back in time are crucial to its appeal. Its main town, Avalon, is only one square mile, a picturesque scene as you approach the harbor by ferry, and golf carts are the primary form of transportation. (The number of cars on the island has been restricted since the 1970s.)
 ''If you were to stand out on the pier,'' Mr. Wilson said, ''and take a photo looking back at the town and compare it to one taken 60 years ago, you'd be hard pressed to see a change.''
 The challenge for the Santa Catalina Island Company, which owns 10 percent of the island, is preserving that picture while at the same time bolstering tourism -- the lifeblood of the local economy.
 Most of the remaining land is owned by the Catalina Island Conservancy, a nonprofit created in 1972 to preserve the island in its natural state. Members of the Wrigley family -- the chewing gum Wrigleys, who owned the island -- deeded 88 percent of the land to the Conservancy, guaranteeing that it would remain largely undeveloped. 
 That has set up an odd situation on the island, which resembles a less tropical version of the landscape on the television show ''Lost.'' Catalina residents (there are about 4,000) refer to the Conservancy land as the interior, and most tourists -- and many who live on the island -- never venture beyond the gates dividing the Conservancy property from Avalon's gift shops and piers (other than on packaged tram tours).
 The zip line represents a tentative effort to bridge that divide. It starts in the hills near the Conservancy gate and descends in five separate zips between platforms, where educational signs highlight facts about the wildlife and scenery. Riders harnessed to overhead cables with pulleys get to experience the island's natural side as they whiz by, with views of the ocean along the way. 
 ''There's an opt-out if it freaks you out after the first zip,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''You're pretty committed after that.''
 During a visit in mid-April, the zip line was just one of the projects construction workers were rushing to finish before the island's peak summer season begins in late May.
 The Descanso Beach Club, a short walk from Avalon, was getting a face-lift, with private cabanas and a fresh look for the outdoor restaurant and bars. The Descanso will be a hub for waterfront activities like kayaking and snorkeling, as well as a new Sea Trek Undersea Adventure, a tour that will outfit guests in special diving helmets for a walk along an underwater trail.
 No diving experience is required for that tour, but Catalina is also a popular scuba diving destination, known for its kelp forests and shipwrecks.
 What the island is not known for is great dining, though that is starting to change. When I was in town, I had sushi for dinner at C. C. Gallagher, a cafe that is also a gallery and wine store and feels refreshingly like a neighborhood hangout.
 For lunch, I bypassed the kid-pleasing pizza shops and hamburger joints along the waterfront and found healthier sandwiches and salads at Cafe Metropole, a true traveler's oasis, with patio seating. It's the kind of place anyone who eats vegetables is thrilled to find in a town that mostly caters to tourists, especially boardwalk or seaside destinations that lean heavily toward fried things.
 This month the Santa Catalina Island Company is adding another new restaurant to the mix: the Avalon Grille, which overlooks the harbor and aims to become an upscale watering hole, with a horseshoe bar as its centerpiece and doors that open to sidewalk tables. The menu I saw seemed to balance seafood and American grill fare with a few creative twists, like ahi tuna tostadas -- trying to appeal to a more sophisticated palate without alienating parents traveling with kids.
 Catalina's hotels face the same challenge. One frequent visitor described the island's lodging options as unmemorable, though that is also starting to change. I stayed at the Avalon Hotel, which was renovated a few years ago in a Craftsman style, mixing mahogany wood with tile artwork. (Catalina is known for its pottery and tile.)
 I was pleasantly surprised by the decor, the harbor view from my window -- with an even better view from the roof deck -- and all the free amenities, like Internet access, a continental breakfast and even bottled water, iced tea and a bag of microwavable popcorn in the room (brilliant idea!). The midweek, off-season rate starts at $195; summer rates are higher, but there are still affordable, if more bare-bones, options in town.
 With development on the island heavily restricted -- Avalon's buildings are limited to two stories -- most of the hotels are small and modest, which has kept the big chains away. But another recent renovation project is the makeover that the Santa Catalina Island Company gave its Pavilion Hotel, a midcentury motel that was spruced up with new furnishings, a wine bar and private lanais (outdoor sitting areas).
 For more outdoorsy visitors, five campgrounds are available on Conservancy land, and last year a new 37.2-mile Trans-Catalina Trail was completed, running the length of the hilly island. There are also shorter hiking options, including a trail near the Wrigley Memorial Garden, about a 15-minute walk from town.
 Ann Muscat, president of the Catalina Island Conservancy, said there were other ideas on the drawing board to make the island's interior more accessible to visitors, like a nature center, a tea room at the garden and higher-amenity camping options. (The existing campgrounds are rather rugged.)
 ''Our goal is to have people realize that Catalina isn't just Avalon,'' she said, explaining that exposing people to the island's landscape is part of the Conservancy's mission to preserve and protect the land. ''We have a responsibility to take care of this land forever. A slogan is 'California the way it was,' and while that may sound trite, it's true.''
 On the ferry pulling away from the island and heading back to busy freeways and life's demands, porpoises surfacing nearby and gulls flying overhead, you realize that it is.
 If You Go
 HOW TO GET THERE
 Catalina Express Ferrycatalinaexpress.com, (800) 481-3470: $66.50 roundtrip from San Pedro and Long Beach.
 WHERE TO STAY
 The Avalon Hotel 124 Whittley Avenue, Avalon; theavalonhotel.com, (310) 510-7070: rates from $195 a night.
 WHAT TO DO
 Santa Catalina Island Company 150 Metropole Avenue, Avalon; visitcatalinaisland.com , (877) 778-9399; Zip Line Eco Tour, $92.50.
 Catalina Island Conservancy 125 Clarissa Avenue, Avalon; catalinaconservancy.org,
 (310) 510-2595.
 WHERE TO EAT
 Cafe Metropole 205 Crescent Avenue, Avalon; cafemetropole.com, (310) 510-9095.
 C. C. Gallagher 523 Crescent Avenue, Avalon, ccgallagher.com, (310) 510-1278.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOWN AND COUNTRY: Catalina's main town, Avalon, top, only one square mile, is where tourists tend to congregate. Above, a view of Avalon harbor, where the ferry drops off visitors. (C28)
 ZIPPING AND NOSHING: Above, a new zip line carries riders through a canyon to the sea. Left, Joe's Place, an island restaurant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C29) MAPS (C29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); FERRIES (89%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); BEACHES (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); FAMILY (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); DANCE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



337 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Shares Falter Late in the Day on Weakness in Banks and Technology

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Julia Werdigier and David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stock prices tumbled on Thursday, with most of the declines coming late in the day, led by a drop in banking and technology shares.
 Meanwhile, the euro fell for a third straight day amid stubborn concerns over the European debt crisis and the nearly $1 trillion rescue package that was meant to address it. 
 Reports that the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, was investigating eight banks to determine whether they had provided misleading information to rating agencies dragged down shares of financial firms. Citigroup fell 2 percent to $4.09 and Bank of America was down 1.2 percent at $16.87. 
 ''That will weigh over the market until it is no longer an issue,'' said Daniel H. McMahon, head of equity trading at Raymond James and Associates. 
 Technology shares also fell, after Cisco Systems reported higher sales after the markets closed on Wednesday, but its forecast for the year lagged that of some analysts. Cisco shares fell 4.5 percent to close at $25.53.
 The department store Kohl's said Thursday that quarterly profit rose 45 percent, but its executives were conservative in their forecasts for the rest of the year. Kohl's shares declined 5.8 percent to $53.81. 
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 113.96 points, or 1.05 percent, to 10,782.95, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 14.23 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,157.44. The Nasdaq composite declined 30.66 points, or 1.26 percent, to 2,394.36.
 The Treasury's 10-year note rose 13/32, to 99 24/32. The yield fell to 3.53 percent, from 3.57 percent late Wednesday. 
 Gold, which has been hitting records this week, fell $6.23 to close at $1,232.70. Oil prices also retreated, closing down $1.25 to $74.40 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 In Europe, the Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, was little changed, while the FTSE 100 index in London rose 0.93 percent. In Paris, the CAC-40 declined 0.06 percent and the DAX in Frankfurt rose 1.1 percent. 
 The euro, started the week off with a bounce, after European finance ministers announced they were providing a financial support package of nearly $1 trillion for Greece and other weak euro zone economies. The news lifted the currency out of its doldrums, as it rose much as $1.309 on Monday in trading in New York.
 But since then the currency has fallen by the wayside. The euro was trading at $1.2568 late Thursday in New York.
 Analysts said that despite the extraordinary rescue package many questions remain, with worries about the safety of European debt continuing to put pressure on the currency. Will the member states associated with the loan guarantees remain committed? Will Greece and the other countries sustain austerity measures? 
 ''There are as many questions as answers today,'' said Rebecca Patterson, global head of the foreign exchange and commodities at J. P. Morgan Private Bank. ''It is reasonable that there is not a ton of capital going into the euro area right now, and I think that is part of the reason the euro is falling.''
 Many analysts say that simply adding to the debt of struggling euro zone countries does not get to the root of the crisis. 
 The European Central Bank said that it would buy bonds, a move analysts said simply transferred risk from private banks to the central bank.
 ''That raised eyebrows,'' said Win Thin, a senior currency strategist for Brown Brothers Harriman. ''Confidence in the euro has definitely dropped. There is nothing that makes you want to go the other way.''
 This week, the Bank of England governor, Mervyn King, said the rescue package alone could not be the solution to Europe's problems and that the euro zone needed tighter fiscal integration. And the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, Paul A. Volcker, in a speech in London on Thursday, warned of ''potential disintegration'' of the currency. 
 But he said, without elaborating, ''If you didn't have the common currency you'd have bigger problems now.'' 
 A successful future ''requires changes to European economic policies,'' Mr. Volcker said. 
 Ms. Patterson said that when she saw the news on Monday about the rescue package she was astonished that the Europeans would not also come out with measures in support of the euro, which has slipped about 17 percent since November.
 ''If they were going to mention it, what a perfect time,'' she said. ''I think they did not on purpose because they are actually pretty happy about it.''
 A weaker euro could help support growth in Greece and other struggling states like Spain and Portugal that are experiencing deflationary pressures. It would also help large exporting countries, like Germany, she noted.
 Mr. Thin said a weaker euro would help at the margin but it was not a substitute for the structural reforms that Greece, Spain and Portugal and other countries would need.
 Besides Greece, two countries -- Spain and Portugal -- have taken steps to institute austerity programs. On Wednesday, Spain announced pay cuts of about 5 percent for civil servants -- and 15 percent for government ministers -- as well as other measures totaling about $19 billion. And on Thursday, officials in Portugal moved to impose wage cuts and tax increases as well as other cost-saving measures.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); RETAILERS (68%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (74%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (74%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (74%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); GREECE (88%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



338 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: A Rescue for Affordable Housing

 BODY:
The recession has dealt a devastating blow to the federal tax credit program that encourages investors and developers to build affordable housing across the United States. Unless Congress moves quickly to restructure the program, billions of dollars in investment will be lost, along with thousands of affordable housing units and tens of thousands of desperately needed construction jobs. 
 Created by Congress in 1986, the low-income housing tax credit is responsible for just about all of the affordable housing that gets built in this country. In a typical year, it finances 120,000 apartments, supports more than 100,000 jobs and pumps more than $1 billion in taxes and other revenue into local economies. 
 Demand for the credits dropped sharply at the start of the recession, when tax liabilities dropped. According to a study by the accounting firm Ernst & Young, private investment in the credits fell from a high of about $9 billion in 2006 to about $5.5 billion in 2008. Anecdotal evidence suggests that investment shrank by another $1 billion last year.
 A Senate bill, recently introduced by Maria Cantwell, a Democrat of Washington, would get this important program back on its feet. It would boost investment by as much as $5 billion over the next few years by increasing the value of the credits and allowing investors more flexibility in using them.
 Under current law, an investor who has no tax liability in the current year can apply the tax credit to the previous year's tax bill. But that's not much help in difficult times like these when profits may have been low in the previous year as well. 
 The Cantwell bill would reassure investors by allowing companies to apply the credit to tax returns filed as long as five years earlier. In exchange, the investors would be required to reinvest any resulting tax rebate in new tax credits. The bill would make housing tax credits as attractive as the less restrictive credits for investing in wind or solar power projects. 
 The bill would also extend an existing federal program that allows states to return unused tax credits to the Treasury in exchange for cash, which would help the states finance affordable housing projects. 
 Americans need affordable housing, and they need jobs. This bill would invest in both. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%)

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%)

PERSON: MARIA CANTWELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



339 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM DOHA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Citizens of Qatar, a Land of Affluence, Seek What Money Cannot Buy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona El-Naggar contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DOHA, Qatar -- Citizens of Qatar appear to have it made. They tend to drive big cars, live in big houses and get big loans to pay for big watches and an outsize lifestyle. They have an army of laborers from the developing world to build a sparkling skyline and to work whatever jobs they feel are beneath them. And their nation has enough oil and gas to keep the good times rolling for decades.
 So why do so many people here seem so angry?
 The problem, many Qataris say, is that they resent being treated as a minority in their own country, which is what they are. Citizens make up about 15 percent of the nation's 1.6 million people -- a demographic oddity that fuels a sense of privilege and victimization. 
 ''The priority always goes to the foreigner,'' said Ali Khaled, 23, who is finishing his government-financed education in London.
 His cousin, Omar Ali, 24, a high school dropout who works as a technician in an electric company, readily agreed: ''They always think the foreigner is better at any job than a Qatari, even if the Qatari is perfect at the job.'' 
 In many ways, they appear to be right about how they are perceived.
 ''Qataris are very spoiled,'' said Mohammed Saffarini, a non-Qatari Arab who serves as research director for health science at Qatar's Science and Technology Park. ''They are only valuable in this cultural and political context,'' he added, contending that Qataris often lacked the skills, education and qualifications to be competitive in many other economies. 
 On the surface, Qatar appears to be on a roll. This peninsula of sand jutting into the Persian Gulf has leveraged its oil wealth and unbridled ambition to garner a world-class reputation on many fronts: international relations, art, higher education. But at home, there is tension, anger and frustration between Qataris and foreigners.
 ''It's all a sham; it's all a veneer,'' said Dr. Momtaz Wassef, who was recruited from the United States to serve as the director of biomedical research for the Supreme Council of Health. Now he says he is disillusioned with Qatar and is planning to leave. ''They never admit they make a mistake,'' he said. ''They only say they are the best in the world.''
 Dr. Wassef's wife asked that he not be quoted until he left Qatar, but Dr. Wassef would have none of it. ''I don't give a hoot,'' he said, clapping his hands together for emphasis.
 Qataris do not see themselves as coddled. Sure, they do not have to pay for electricity, water, education or health care, and they are given land and low-cost loans to build houses when they marry. They are eligible for public assistance if they do not have a job, often receive generous pensions and acknowledge they will not take any jobs they do not consider suitable for them. 
 But they also complain that they do not get paid as much as foreigners, and that foreigners get most of the top jobs in critical industries, like finance, higher education and the media. There is also pervasive frustration that English has become the language of employment, not Arabic, and that local hospitals, restaurants, markets and streets are always crowded with foreigners. 
 ''There is a crisis here,'' said Muhammad al-Mesfer, a political science professor at Qatar University. ''The foreigners are crowding us out.''
 The tension in Qatar is similar to what has surfaced in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, where local people are also vastly outnumbered by foreigners and are sometimes likened to colonial rulers in their own land.
 ''There are about 300 employees at my work and only 4 or 5 Qataris,'' said Mr. Ali, the technician at an electric company. ''I walk into work and I feel like I am in India.''
 He said that the foreigners were never willing to teach him new skills, so he had lost motivation.
 ''I have been working there for three years, and I still haven't fully grasped the work,'' he said. ''I go to work to drink tea and read the paper.'' 
 During a seven-day visit to Qatar, conversations with expatriate workers and Qatari citizens almost always turned to the topic of distrust, even during the most mundane of encounters. 
 ''I am Qatari, and this country is for me,'' a driver shouted as he forced his way into a parking space that a Canadian driver had also been trying for. ''This is my country.''
 Part of the frustration appears to stem from the lack of an effort to address the differences. People here said that when complaints had been raised, those who spoke up got punished. Foreigners get sent home and local people lose their positions, they said.
 Qataris and foreigners alike described a social contract that offers material comfort and financial reward in exchange for not challenging the government's choices. Qatar is a constitutional monarchy led by Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani and his council of ministers. For many, the bargain is worth taking.
 ''To be honest, I'm comfortable and the salaries are good,'' said Ibrahim al-Muhairy, 29, a Qatari high school dropout who said he earns about $41,000 a year working for the government as a security guard in a mall. ''Everyone is getting what he deserves and more.''
 But there are plenty of others who are unwilling to ride away silently in their Mercedes sedans, like Ahmed J. Abdul-Rahman Abdul-Malik, a former news anchor. He said he was furious that he had not been hired to read the news on Al Jazeera, the popular satellite news channel that broadcasts from here. He has written opinion pieces for a local newspaper complaining that Qataris are now treated as second-class citizens in their own country.
 ''I met with my friends last night, we joked, we are all 'ex,' that means unemployed,'' he said, as he climbed into the driver's seat of a Mercedes sedan. His diamond-crusted watch glistened beneath the parking lot lights.
 Moza al-Malki, a family therapist, said she was angry, too. She said that she had lost her teaching position when she complained that an Indian woman was hired to run a counseling center that she said she had set up. ''We are all angry for staying at home,'' she said. 
 A moment earlier, she turned to the Filipino woman walking one step behind her -- a servant carrying bags -- and told her to go look around the mall they were in while Ms. Malki ordered breakfast. Ms. Malki ordered a croissant with cheese, sent it back because it was too hard, and then settled on an omelet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Lebanese salesman showed a Qatari cars. Citizens make up about 15 percent of the population.
 Foreign workers in Qatar. There is tension, anger and frustration between Qataris and foreigners. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); BIOMEDICINE (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) QATAR (96%); LEBANON (79%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



340 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: With Banks Under Fire, Some Expect A Settlement

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
It is starting to feel as if everyone on Wall Street is under investigation by someone for something. 
 News on Thursday that New York State prosecutors are examining whether eight banks hoodwinked credit ratings agencies opened yet another front in what is fast becoming the legal battle of a decade for the big names of finance. 
 Not since the conflicts at the center of Wall Street stock research were laid bare a decade ago, eventually resulting in a $1.4 billion industrywide settlement, have so many investigations swirled across the financial landscape. 
 Nearly two years after Washington rescued big banks with billions of taxpayer dollars, half a dozen government agencies are still trying, with mixed success, to peel back the layers of the collapse to determine who, if anyone, broke the rules. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission, the Justice Department, the United States attorney's office and more are examining how banks created, rated, sold and traded mortgage securities that turned out to be some of the worst investments ever devised. 
 Virtually all of the investigations, criminal as well as civil, are in their early stages, and investigators concede that their job is daunting. The S.E.C. has been examining major banks' mortgage operations since last summer, but so far, it has filed a civil fraud claim against just one big player: Goldman Sachs. Goldman has vowed to fight.
 But legal experts are already starting to handicap potential outcomes, not only for Goldman but for the broader industry as well. Many suggest that Wall Street banks may seek a global settlement akin to the 2002 agreement related to stock research. Indeed, Wall Street executives are already discussing among themselves what the broad contours of such a settlement might look like. 
 ''I would be stunned if any of these cases go to trial,'' said Frank Partnoy, a professor of law at the University of San Diego. ''I think Wall Street needs to put this scandal behind it as quickly as possible and move on.''
 As part of the 2002 settlement, 10 banks paid $1.4 billion total and pledged to change the way their analysts and investment bankers interacted to prevent conflicts of interest. This time, the price of any settlement would probably be higher and also come with a series of structural reforms. 
 David Boies, chairman of the law firm Boies, Schiller & Flexner, represented the government in its case against Microsoft and is now part of a federal challenge to California's same-sex marriage ban. He said a settlement by banks might be painful but would ultimately be something Wall Street could live with. ''The settlement may be bad for everyone, but not disastrous for anyone,'' he said.
 A settlement also would let the S.E.C. declare victory without having to bring a series of complex cases. The public, however, might never learn what really went wrong. 
 ''The government doesn't have the personnel to simultaneously prosecute several investment banks,'' said John C. Coffee, a Columbia Law School professor. 
 The latest salvo came on Thursday from Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York attorney general. His office began an investigation into whether banks misled major ratings agencies to inflate the grades of subprime-linked investments. 
 Many Americans are probably already wondering why this has taken so long. The answer is that these cases are tricky, like the investments at the center of them. 
 But regulators also concede that they were reluctant to pursue banks aggressively until the financial industry stabilized. The S.E.C., for one, is now eager to prove that it is on its game after failing to spot the global Ponzi scheme orchestrated by Bernard L. Madoff, or head off the Wall Street excesses that nearly sank the entire economy. 
 The stakes are high for both sides. At a minimum, the failure to secure a civil verdict, or at least a mammoth settlement, would be another humiliation for regulators. 
 Wall Street wants to put this season of scandal behind it. That is particularly so given the debate over new financial regulations that is under way on Capitol Hill. The steady flow of new allegations could strengthen calls for tougher rules. 
 Even worse would be a criminal charge, which could put a firm out of business even if that firm were ultimately found not guilty, as was the case with the accounting giant Arthur Andersen after the fraud at Enron.
 ''No firm in the financial services field has the stomach for a criminal trial,'' Mr. Coffee said. 
 Bankers have been reluctant until now to take their case to the public. But that is changing as Wall Street chieftains like Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman take to the airwaves and New York politicians warn that the city's economy will be endangered by the attack on some of the city's biggest employers and taxpayers.
 ''In New York, Wall Street is Main Street,'' Gov. David A. Paterson has said. ''You don't hear anybody in New England complaining about clam chowder.''
 There are broader political consequences as well. At the top, there is President Obama, who was backed by much of Wall Street in 2008. Many of those supporters now privately say they are disillusioned and frustrated by his attacks on their industry, which remains a vital source of campaign contributions for both parties.
 Closer to home, the man who hopes to succeed Mr. Paterson, Mr. Cuomo, is painting himself as the new sheriff of Wall Street. Another attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, rode a series of Wall Street investigations to the governor's mansion in 2006.
 But ultimately, it is what Wall Street does best -- making money -- that is already on trial in the court of public opinion. 
 Put simply, the allegations against Wall Street were prompted by evidence that the firms may have devised and sold securities to investors without telling them they were simultaneously betting against them. 
 Wall Street firms typically play both sides of trades, whether to help buyers and sellers of everything from simple stocks to complicated derivatives complete their transactions, or to make proprietary bets on whether they would rise or fall.
 These activities form half of the four-legged stool on which Wall Street's profits and revenue rest, the others being advising on mergers and acquisitions and helping companies issue stocks, bonds and other securities.
 ''This case is a huge deal. It has the potential to be the mother of all Wall Street investigations,'' said Mr. Partnoy of the University of San Diego. ''The worry is that the government will go after dealings that Wall Street thought were insulated from review.''
 Even some Wall Street executives concede that all the scrutiny makes proprietary trading a bit dubious. ''The 20 guys in the room with the shades drawn are toast,'' one senior executive of a major bank said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Andrew Cuomo, the New York attorney general
Robert Khuzami, of the S.E.C.
and Preet Bharara, of the United States attorney's office. The agencies are investigating Wall Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 RAMIN TALAIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); LAWYERS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); MARRIAGE LAW (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

COMPANY: BOIES SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



341 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: In New York Trip, Obama Is Optimistic on Economy

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
BUFFALO -- President Obama delivered an upbeat economic forecast and a defense of his economic policies on Thursday, telling a crowd at a manufacturing plant here that job growth would continue and that ''next year is going to be better than this year.''
 Mr. Obama came to this economically depressed city as part of his ''White House to Main Street'' tour. He dropped by a local restaurant, Duff's, to sample a Buffalo delicacy -- spicy chicken wings -- and toured Industrial Support Inc., a specialty manufacturing company, where he gave himself credit for breaking the ''economic freefall'' the nation faced when he took office 16 months ago. 
 ''We can say beyond a shadow of a doubt today we are headed in the right direction,'' Mr. Obama told an audience of about 230 workers and local business leaders. ''All those tough steps we took, they're working, despite all the naysayers who were predicting failure a year ago.''
 Mr. Obama has typically been fairly cautious about heralding economic good times. With the national unemployment rate nearing 10 percent, the president typically says that while the nation is emerging from the recession, he knows that many Americans are still hurting and that there is still a long way to go. 
 He repeated that message here -- ''I won't stand here and say we've climbed all the way out of the hole,'' Mr. Obama said -- but his tone was decidedly optimistic.
 With Congressional elections just six months away and Democrats expecting to lose seats, the president has political reasons for striking an upbeat note. He needs to convince voters that he and his fellow Democrats have gotten the nation back on track.
 ''Last month we had the strongest job growth we had seen in year, and by the way, almost all of it was in the private sector, and a bunch of it was manufacturing,'' the president said, referring to last week's report that found that the economy added 290,000 jobs in April. ''So this month was better than last month. Next month is going to be stronger than this month. And next year is going to be better than this year.''
 The White House promised at the beginning of 2010 that the president would focus on ''jobs, jobs, jobs,'' but other priorities have repeatedly intervened -- a health care bill, financial regulatory reform, an oil spill, an attempted terrorist attack in New York City. 
 Congress is considering several measures to spur job growth, and Mr. Obama urged quick action on Thursday. But he has not leaned on lawmakers the way he did when he wanted them to pass his health care bill. Polls show that the economy remains the No. 1 issue on the minds of most Americans.
 The trip to Buffalo was an effort to revive the jobs message, but it was brief. After three hours here, Mr. Obama flew to Manhattan, where his focus shifted to money -- specifically, campaign cash. He scooped up $1.3 million for the Democratic Campaign Committee at a fund-raiser where the cost of a single ticket was $15,000 and where V.I.P. couples paid $50,000 for a private reception with the president.
 The president also visited the New York Police Department's Real Time Crime Center, the technological information hub established in 2005 that was instrumental in the recent Times Square terror investigation. At the front of the command center at 1 Police Plaza, he stood before a wall filled with screens of data: a live video feed of New York City traffic; an aerial photo of Lower Manhattan; and a graphic depicting the terror investigation, including a photograph of the prime suspect, Faisal Shahzad.
 Joined by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, Mr. Obama said, ''Look, I know you folks are busy, but I just wanted to come by and say thank you.''
 The president was given a jacket with the letters NYPD emblazoned on the back and Potus (president of the United States) on the front, along with a seal of the police commissioner's office.
 He put the jacket on. ''Look at that, it says Potus here,'' he said. ''I'm official.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama dropped by a police command center in Manhattan on Thursday and thanked the department's workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); OIL SPILLS (50%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: SPECIALTY MANUFACTURING CO (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333511 INDUSTRIAL MOLD MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3599 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, NEC (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



342 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: Like Spain, Portugal Hopes to Make Cuts, but It Is Mired in Structural Weakness

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
LISBON -- Jose Gago da Graca owns a Portuguese real estate company and has two identical apartments in the same building in the heart of Lisbon. One rents for 2,750 euros ($3,480.21) a month, the other for almost 40 times less, 75 euros ($94.91).
 The discrepancy is a result of 100-year-old tenancy rules, which have frozen the rent of hundreds of thousands of tenants and protected them against eviction in Portugal. Mr. Gago da Graca has been in a lawsuit for a decade over the apartment that rents for 75 euros. It started after his tenant died in 2000 and her son took over and refused to alter his mother's contract, which dates to the 1960s.
''We're the only country in Europe that doesn't have a free housing market, and that's just amazing,'' Mr. Gago da Graca said. 
 Rules like these, which economists also blame for contributing to Portugal's private debt load, help explain why this nation of 11 million has followed Greece and Spain into investors' lines of fire.
 The Portuguese government on Thursday copied Spain's lead in agreeing with the main opposition party on more austerity measures to cut the deficit faster than planned, to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product next year from 9.3 percent last year.
 To help restore investor confidence, Jose Socrates, the Socialist prime minister, will rely on tax increases and cuts in wages and corporate subsidies to erase 2.1 billion euros ($2.7 billion) more from the deficit. ''These measures are necessary to obtain what's essential, the financing of the Portuguese economy, but also to defend the euro,'' Mr. Socrates said.
 Overhauling the tenancy rules, however, was not part of Mr. Socrates's latest plan. One fear among investors is that governments across the developed world do not have the courage and power to tackle such longstanding structural weaknesses.
 They may struggle even to implement their latest promises because the cuts could bring unrest and economic paralysis.
 In Greece, recent protests against austerity measures turned deadly. In Spain, the two main labor unions called on Thursday for all public sector workers to strike on June 2 against the government's planned salary and benefit cuts.
 In Portugal, smaller political parties also urged resistance. Jeronimo de Sousa, head of the Communist Party, said on Portuguese television that ''people have to react with protest and struggle.''
 Under pressure from other world leaders, the governments in Portugal and Spain are taking similar paths to get their countries back within the euro's deficit rules. But while there are problems of profligacy common to European nations, and also to the United States, each of the 16 countries in the euro zone has its own economic problems, and differences in legal and social structures that appear most in need of reform.
 Portugal's antiquated tenancy rules, for instance, stem directly from two revolutions that cemented leftist antagonism toward owners and landlords: the first was in 1910, which ended the monarchy, and the second was in 1974, which overthrew a dictatorship and returned Portugal to democracy.
 The postrevolution rules helped protect tenants, but also led to a chronic shortage of rental housing. This, in turn, persuaded a new generation of Portuguese to tap recently into low interest rates and buy instead -- often in new suburbs -- thereby exacerbating the country's mortgage debt and leaving Portugal, at 7.5 percent, with one of Europe's lowest savings rates.
 ''This system of controlled rents is a major problem for the Portuguese economy, but we will probably be waiting for a generational change to have room for institutional reform,'' said Cristina Casalinho, chief economist of Banco BPI, a Portuguese bank. Beyond driving housing credit, she added, the system ''basically stops flexibility and mobility in the labor market because you can perhaps find a new job in another city, but it will then be very difficult to rent a house there.''
 The center-left government of Mr. Socrates, which has had to run the country with the tacit support of the opposition since losing its outright parliamentary majority last September, appears ill-prepared to scrap Socialism-inspired rules that have strained the housing market while also helping the elderly survive in Western Europe's poorest country. After Britain, Portugal has the region's most unequal income distribution, with a minimum monthly salary of just 475 euros ($601), compared with 633 euros ($801) next door in Spain.
 Even before the government announcement Thursday, Portugal's economic woes had raised social tension. This year, strikes against a freeze on public sector wages created transportation chaos and forced a temporary closing of schools and hospitals.
 ''Nobody has had the political courage to change something like these rental laws, and I don't see the situation changing in the short term, even if I don't think the Portuguese tend to react as dramatically as the Greeks,'' said Salvador Posser, who runs a family-owned company that rents out construction equipment.
 Besides distorting pricing in the housing market, the tenancy rules have left physical scars. Portugal's historic city centers are dotted with abandoned and crumbling houses that are either subject to a court dispute or have rental income that cannot cover repair and maintenance costs.
 ''This economic crisis is clearly keeping our very slow courts even more occupied because of the amount of conflict that it is creating between landlords and tenants,'' said Menezes Leitao, a law professor and president of PLA, a property owners association.
 Mr. Posser cited a recent estimate that 8 percent of the buildings in central Lisbon were deserted, in large part because of rent-related obstacles. In Porto, the second-largest city, less than 10 percent of inner-city housing is available for rent, which has helped shrink the population by a third over three decades.
 ''We're still losing about 30 inhabitants a day,'' said Rui Moreira, president of the Porto Commercial Association.
 Mr. Moreira, who has a real estate business, added: ''We used to be among the biggest savers in Europe until the 1970s and the revolution, but then people here started borrowing, not so much because they wanted to travel or have a fancy car but because they had to buy a home instead of being able to pay rent.''
 Portugal is not facing a property market collapse like that in Spain, where the construction boom added 2.8 million homes over five years, of which only 1.5 million were sold, according to research last month from Morgan Stanley.
 But in terms of mismanaged public finances, Portugal has been closing the gap with the worst countries in the euro bloc, after its budget deficit rose to 9.3 percent of G.D.P. last year, from 2.8 percent in 2008. Ireland, Greece and Spain are cutting deficits that last year reached, respectively, 14.3 percent, 13.6 percent and 12.2 percent.
 Portugal's borrowing costs have soared, along with those of other weakened euro economies.
 The country's credit rating was downgraded two notches to A-minus recently by Standard & Poor's, which said the structural weakness of Portugal's finances and its uncompetitive economy justified a cut.
 ''The government now needs to make a big adjustment on public accounts,'' said Vitor Bento, economics professor at the Catholic University in Lisbon. ''By making that and contracting the primary deficit, this will also increase the savings ratio.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 17, 2010, Monday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about structural weaknesses in Portugal's economy misstated, in some copies, the country's deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product, after the adoption of proposed austerity measures. It would be 4.6 percent, not 5.1 percent. The article also misstated, in some copies, the 2009 budget deficit of Spain as a portion of G.D.P. It is 11.2 percent, not 12.2 percent. The article also omitted the given name of a Portuguese landlord in some copies. He is Jose Gago da Graca.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Lisbon street. Portugal, like Spain and Greece, is under international pressure to cut its debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ALCOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EURO (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); POLITICS (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); STRIKES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

PERSON: JOSE SOCRATES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTUGAL (99%); SPAIN (96%); EUROPE (93%); GREECE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2010



343 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: A British Clothier Turns Its Niche Into a Global Wave

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
CHELTENHAM, England -- When the soccer player and fashion icon David Beckham was photographed leaving Los Angeles airport wearing a brown leather Superdry jacket three years ago, the small company that made the jacket had about 15 stores and was hardly a global brand.
 Since then, demand for Superdry's T-shirts, jeans and jackets with a vintage twist has soared. The company has opened dozens of new stores globally, including one in New York, and in March it defied fickle equity markets with a successful initial stock offering.
 Now, Superdry, which now has about 75 stores worldwide, plans to add at least 20 more stores every year and expand in the United States, Asia and the Middle East. Sales almost doubled over the last year, despite the economic slowdown, as celebrity magazines continue to print paparazzi shots of celebrities including Zac Efron, Helena Christensen and Bradley Cooper wearing Superdry clothes.
 Julian Dunkerton, 45, a retailing entrepreneur who co-founded the fashion label eight years ago, says he still cannot quite believe the company's recent growth. 
 ''The last few years have been incredible,'' Mr. Dunkerton said during an interview this month at the company's headquarters, three humble warehouses on the outskirts of Cheltenham. ''I'm absolutely flabbergasted.''
 Mr. Dunkerton and James Holder, a British clothing designer and Superdry's other founder, said the success was the result of capturing the attention of a niche market -- casual fashion for young men. Superdry clothes feature good-quality fabrics, vintage designs, an eye-catching logo and painstaking attention to detail. Even shirt collar stays bear a subtle Superdry logo.
 By catering to consumers in their late teens and early 20s, the brand competes with heavyweights like Abercrombie & Fitch. But Superdry items have a price advantage -- polo shirts cost $:35, or $52, compared with $:60, or about $90, at Abercrombie. 
 Mr. Holder says the brand even has many customers who are in their 50s, suggesting a broader appeal.
 The clothes range from $20 baseball caps to $450 leather jackets, and the company now has an extensive women's line. One of its best-selling items is a unisex windbreaker with three zips in the front inspired by luggage Mr. Holder spotted at an airport. More than a million of them have been sold in two years at $:65 apiece, or less than $100.
 Superdry is the main brand of Supergroup, which in March became the first retailing company to list shares on the stock market in Britain since the financial crisis started in 2007. Supergroup also sells clothing under the brands 77Breed, inspired by snowboarding, and SurfCo California, with a vintage surf look.
 Its success is in contrast to other British clothing companies. For instance, New Look, which is owned by two private equity firms, had to abandon plans to sell shares earlier this year because of falling stock markets. 
 Supergroup's initial offering raised $:120 million, or $178 million, after demand for the shares exceeded the number available for sale. The shares have risen 4.6 percent since, while Britain's FTSE 100 share index has fallen 4.3 percent in the period.
 Supergroup's sales rose 83 percent to $209 million in its financial year to May 2. Profit in the first six months of that year was $11.6 million, more than the company made during the entire previous financial year.
 In contrast, Abercrombie's sales fell 16 percent, to $2.9 billion, in its recent fiscal year ended Jan. 30, while its profit from continuing operations dropped 74 percent, to $79 million.
 The pace of growth has led some analysts to wonder whether Superdry can maintain its momentum in the competitive fashion market.
 ''We've seen brands like these emerge before and then die,'' said Nick Bubb, an analyst at Arden Partners in London. But he added that Superdry had ''done pretty well'' so far in managing to increase sales despite the recession.
 Jonathan Pritchard, an analyst at Oriel Securities, pointed out that many landlords handed over retailing space to the company for nearly nothing because Superdry stores helped to attract consumers. That meant most Superdry stores were profitable almost immediately after opening, Mr. Pritchard said.
 Mr. Holder acknowledged that fashion was a relentless business. ''Complacency is the biggest curse to any brand or company,'' he said. ''As soon as you take the foot off the gas and assume you're an established brand, it's over.''
 The company is now looking for new headquarters twice the size of its current one. But the management team -- which includes Theo Karpathios, who runs the international business -- has retained its entrepreneurial spirit. Mr. Holder still signs off on every product design.
 Mr. Dunkerton's desire to chart his own business future began 25 years ago. After abandoning plans to become a doctor because his grades were not good enough, he started to buy T-shirts and punk clothes in London to sell them at a market stall in Cheltenham, a two-hour drive northwest of the capital.
 In 1985, he opened his first shop, Cult, and expanded with the help of $:40 a week from the government's enterprise allowance program championed by Margaret Thatcher and a $:2,000 loan from his family. Mr. Dunkerton said his aversion to debt led him to repay the family loan within four months; he aims to keep his current company debt-free.
 One of the labels Mr. Dunkerton sold was Bench, a line of casual wear created by Mr. Holder that is popular with the 18-to-25 set in Britain. In 2002, the two entrepreneurs decided to combine Mr. Holder's fascination with Japan and Mr. Dunkerton's love for vintage clothing to create a new fashion label to fill what they saw as a gap in the menswear market.
 ''We all love vintage, but you put it on and the fit is wrong,'' said Mr. Dunkerton, dressed in Superdry jeans and a blue Superdry shirt underneath a gray Superdry sweater. ''But there's something that draws you to it. James finds that something and replicates it.''
 The Superdry name is the result of a brainstorming session in a Tokyo bar after the two men collected ''tons of packaging for food and from shops,'' Mr. Holder said. ''We looked at it and everything was 'super' this and 'super' that. That inspired us.''
 Back in Britain, Mr. Holder gave his designs a Japanese touch by adding the words ''super dry'' in Japanese letters above the English name to create the fashion label's logo.
 Mr. Holder's team is currently putting the finishing touches on a design for socks. Men's fragrances are scheduled to hit the shelves by Christmas and there are plans to add swimwear and tailored suits.
 Mr. Karpathios, a Greek clothing entrepreneur who met Mr. Dunkerton when he supplied the Cult stores in Britain with Lycra leggings from Greece, is overseeing an expansion plan that includes the opening of 13 stores in the United Arab Emirates, one each in San Francisco, Las Vegas and Miami and some more in South Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
 Mr. Dunkerton said he hoped the initial share sale would help to turn the company into a ''global phenomenon.''
 ''People said to me: 'Julian, you were just lucky,' '' he said. ''But I've been hearing this for a long time now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Superdry's managers, above from left, Theo Karpathios, James Holder and Julian Dunkerton. Left, headquarters in Cheltenham, England. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); BRANDING (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (75%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); SOCCER (73%); FABRICS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); MEN (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); SNOWBOARDING (50%)

COMPANY: SUPERGROUP PLC (92%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (85%)

TICKER: SGP (LSE) (92%); ANF (NYSE) (85%); AFT (FRA) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (92%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (92%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (92%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (85%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (85%)

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (92%); ZAC EFRON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



344 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: The E.P.A. Announces A New Rule On Polluters

BYLINE: By SINDYA N. BHANOO

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agencyunveiled a final rule on Thursday for regulating major emitters of greenhouse gases, like coal-fired power plants, under the Clean Air Act. 
 Starting in July 2011, new sources of at least 100,000 tons of greenhouse gases a year and any existing plants that increase emissions by 75,000 tons will have to seek permits, the agency said. 
 In the first two years, the E.P.A. expects the rule to affect about 15,550 sources, including coal-fired plants, refineries, cement manufacturers, solid waste landfills and other large polluters, said Gina McCarthy, the agency's assistant administrator. 
 She said the rule would apply to sites accounting for about 70 percent of the nation's greenhouse gas emissions. ''We think this is smart rule-making, and we think it's good government,'' she said.
 Last fall the E.P.A. had indicated that the bar would be set at 25,000 tons a year, which would have imposed the permit requirement on smaller entities like family farms and large apartment buildings. ''What we realized at the 25,000 level was that we were going to be actually reaching sources that we did not intend to reach,'' Ms. McCarthy said. 
 The announcement came a day after a climate and energy bill was introduced in the Senate, one that would effectively shift regulatory power over greenhouse gases to Congress from the E.P.A. 
 Last year the agency issued a finding that carbon dioxide and other climate-altering gases posed a threat to human health and welfare. Under the Clean Air Act, that gave it the authority to issue regulatory measures like the one announced Thursday. 
 The Obama administration made clear last year that the finding was intended to goad Congress into superseding the agency and adopting emissions limits of its own. The E.P.A.'s regulatory move faces stiff opposition from industry groups. 
 Senator John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat and one of the two sponsors of the climate bill, seized on Thursday's announcement to argue for the urgency of passing it. ''Today we went from 'wake-up call' to 'last call,' '' he warned in a statement.
 In another move, Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, introduced a resolution in January that would strip the E.P.A. of its power to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. 
 She argued that allowing the agency to regulate emissions could devastate the American economy. A spokesman for Ms. Murkowski, Robert Dillon, said on Thursday: ''The E.P.A. has made very clear that while they might start at the 75,000, they plan to ratchet that down in ensuing years to catch even the smallest emitters. It doesn't matter how fast you boil a lobster -- it's still cooked.''
 But environmental groups praised the new rule as a smart move that conveys to Congress that the agency's goal is to regulate large emitters rather than serve as a vengeful force that financially burdens small businesses.
 ''It's clear evidence that the E.P.A. is saying, 'We are no rogue agency,' '' said Frank O'Donnell, president of the advocacy group Clean Air Watch. ''They are saying, 'We're only going to be looking at the very biggest polluters.' ''
 Next year the E.P.A. is to begin another rule-making process to phase in more permits and determine whether some smaller sources of emissions can permanently be excluded from the process.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Lisa Murkowski opposes allowing the E.P.A. to oversee greenhouse gases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); CEMENT MFG (73%); LANDFILLS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); FAMILY FARMS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); LISA MURKOWSKI (68%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



345 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Senate Amends Financial Overhaul Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Edward Wyatt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In the latest sign of the zeal in Congress to get tough on Wall Street, the Senate approved two initiatives on Thursday aimed at addressing the role that major credit rating agencies played in the 2008 financial collapse, including a proposal to end the reliance on companies like Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. 
 And, in a step that could cut deeply into a huge and easy revenue source for major banks, the Senate also approved a proposal that would direct the Federal Reserve to impose new limits on the fees that banks can charge businesses to process transactions using credit and debit cards. Banks collected about $50 billion in such fees last year. 
 The initiatives were adopted as amendments to the sweeping financial regulatory legislation that Senate Democratic leaders hope to complete next week. 
 The plan to limit card fees, championed by Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, offered a particularly pointed example of how unfriendly the atmosphere on Capitol Hill has become for banks and their lobbyists this year. 
 In some cases, lawmakers are trying to outdo each other in terms of whose proposals are tougher on the entrenched Wall Street interests. 
 One measure approved Thursday, sponsored by Senators George LeMieux, Republican of Florida and Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, would remove references to the credit agencies in major financial services laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. 
 The proposal, which is intended to spur the government to find alternative rating methods, was approved by a vote of 61 to 38, with all 41 Republicans in favor and 37 Democrats and one independent opposed. 
 ''We know that one of the main reasons why we had our financial debacle in 2008 was that credit agencies failed to do their jobs,'' Mr. LeMieux said on the floor. ''They put AAA stamps of approval on products that deserve no such stamp.'' 
 ''My amendment writes these organizations out of law,'' Mr. LeMieux continued. ''In a way, we're looking here and saying the astrology that we relied upon in the past didn't work. Let's have some new and better astrology.'' 
 Ms. Cantwell said, ''It's critical that these agencies like the F.D.I.C. and the Comptroller of the Currency come up with appropriate standards of creditworthiness and not rely on the monopoly of the rating agencies.'' 
 The proposal by Mr. LeMieux and Ms. Cantwell is similar to language in the version of the financial regulatory legislation adopted by the House late last year. 
 And it would go further in clamping down on the rating agencies than another amendment, from Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, that aims to prevent conflicts of interest by randomly assigning ratings agencies to provide initial assessments. 
 Mr. Franken's proposal was approved by a vote of 64 to 35. 
 Mr. Franken's measure would create a board, overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission, that would make the assignments. Mr. Franken said his proposal would eliminate conflicts of interest and also allow smaller rating companies to compete against the major players. 
 ''There is a staggering conflict of interest affecting the credit rating issue,'' Mr. Franken said in a speech. ''The way it works now, issuers of securities are paying for their credit ratings. They shop around for their ratings, selecting those agencies that tend to offer them the best ratings and threatening to stay away from rating agencies that are too tough on them.'' 
 He added, ''My amendment would call issuers to a credit rating agency that will give them their first rating on complex financial products. They would be assigned. That means an issuer will no longer be able to shop around for a rating.'' 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and the primary author of the regulatory legislation, opposed both proposals on rating agencies. 
 In a statement, Standard & Poor's said that Mr. Franken's amendment could result in ''unintended consequences.''
 ''Credit rating firms would have less incentive to compete with one another,'' the company said. ''This could lead to more homogenized rating opinions and, ultimately, deprive investors of valuable, differentiated opinions on credit risk.'' 
 Moody's, in another statement, said that it ''supports the goals of enhancing the transparency and accountability of the ratings process, and we are hopeful that the final legislation will achieve these goals while avoiding unintended consequences for market participants.''
 Because the two Senate amendments seem to conflict, lawmakers said, adjustments would have to be made when the bill was reconciled with the House version.
 The amendment by Mr. Durbin would direct the Federal Reserve to set limits so that fees charged for credit and debit card transactions were ''reasonable and proportional'' to the cost of processing the charges. 
 It is unclear how much that would cut into the revenue of card issuers. The measure includes exemptions for all but the largest banks. 
 In a floor speech, Mr. Durbin said his amendment would protect businesses now paying 1 to 3 percent on credit or debit transactions. ''I urge my colleagues, if they are listening to small businesses across America trying to survive, trying to add new employees, give them a helping hand,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Al Franken's amendment would randomly assign financial products to ratings agencies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (69%); DEBIT CARDS (69%); INSURANCE LAW (68%); US SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (65%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (55%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (51%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: MARIA CANTWELL (79%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); AL FRANKEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



346 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Ford Chief Forecasts Solid Profit For the Year

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WILMINGTON, Del. (AP) -- The chief executive of Ford, Alan R. Mulally, said on Thursday that the automaker should be ''solidly'' profitable in 2010 as it recovered from a sharp downturn. 
 Speaking to shareholders at the annual meeting in Delaware, Mr. Mulally said that Ford should also see ''continuing improvement'' into 2011.
 His predictions follow four consecutive profitable quarters for Ford, which has rebounded better than most rivals from the plunge in auto sales during the recession. Ford posted staggering losses in 2008 and early 2009.
 Mr. Mulally, 64, has led Ford since 2006, seeing it through the industry's downturn and the current recovery in auto sales.
 Ford's executive chairman, William Clay Ford Jr., said the automaker would like Mr. Mulally to stay ''as long as he wants'' in response to a shareholder question about whether the chief executive would retire.
 The company has seized market share from its rivals, General Motors and Toyota, in the last year, with well-reviewed new models. Ford is also releasing new products this year, like the Fiesta subcompact.
 But Ford's debt remains stubbornly high -- $34 billion at the end of the first quarter -- putting it at a disadvantage to G.M. and Chrysler, which shed much of their debt in bankruptcy court last year.
 Ford also faced questions over its investments with Goldman Sachs after government fraud charges were filed against the bank over its packaging of mortgage securities.
 The chief financial officer, Lewis W. K. Booth, said Goldman accounted for less than 20 percent of Ford's investment banking business.
 Mr. Ford said there were no specific plans to reintroduce a dividend, saying the company was focused on strengthening its balance sheet first.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); LITIGATION (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%); MARKET SHARE (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (90%) DELAWARE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



347 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Program Offers a Lifeline to Struggling Homeowners

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN

 BODY:
James Warren is a columnist for the Chicago News Cooperative.
 A clerk in the courtroom of David Atkins, a Cook County circuit judge, called cases last week with a monotony belying the personal calamities they represented.
''JPMorgan v. Sanchez, 5227 West Deming Place ... Deutsche Bank v. Lockhart, 326 South Dante, Glenwood ... Wells Fargo v. Lillybridge, 6424 South Loomis ... Bank of New York v. Simpian, 6128 North Seeley.''
 It seemed unceasing. ''2501 West Touhy Avenue ... 2116 North Latrobe Avenue ... 2701 North Mobile Avenue ... 2117 West 52d Place ... 16755 South Aberdeen Avenue ... 8157 168th Place, Tinley Park ... 7126 South Ellis Avenue'' And on and on. City and suburbs, all economic levels, big houses, small condos. 
 This is the doleful world of foreclosures, a onetime sleepy legal backwater now tended to by 11 full-time judges. In a building not associated with long hours -- where hallways can be as desolate after 2 p.m. as the Outback -- they'll soon begin an 8:30 a.m. court call for a simple reason: There is way too much work to handle. But now, there is a comprehensive plan to confront it.
 There are more than 60,000 pending foreclosure cases in Cook County and roughly 50,000 expected during 2010. The system was averaging 15,000 filings a year before the housing bubble burst and the recession. And while there are fewer examples of victims of subprime loans, now one sees families from affluent Winnetka, Flossmoor and Kenilworth, with children in college and a parent out of work.
 ''It's a tsunami,'' said Judge Lewis M. Nixon, a former Chicago policeman and a federal housing official who heads the foreclosure division.
 Then he used the foreclosure court's most favored analogy. ''I even had to foreclose on a law school classmate,'' he said.
 The problem is national, but Connecticut, Ohio and Philadelphia are among the places that have exhibited foresight. Cook County, however, provides a model with one of the most comprehensive approaches yet undertaken. It's one-stop triage for housing ills, a MASH unit for a busted economy.
 Central to the effort is simplifying communications. A new mortgage-foreclosure summons, in both English and Spanish, confronts recipients with an uncomfortable reality, although many of them wrongly assume that showing up in court is an express lane to losing their house.
 ''You may still be able to save your home,'' it reads in capital letters. ''Do not ignore this document.''
 Another sheet in the summons outlines how to save their property. They can come to court for expert advice; possibly have a judge refer their case to mediation; bring their mortgage current within 90 days after receiving the summons; or sell their house, refinance or pay off the loan during a seven-month redemption period.
 Another sheet informs: ''The Circuit Court of Cook County has a Foreclosure Mediation Program to help you. The program is FREE.''
 In a nonthreatening way, the document underscores the need to show up in court. The new wrinkle is centralizing services and alternatives. Housing counselors offer no-baloney assessments, with free legal advice. The plan demystifies the court system while also pressing homeowners to dissect their financial circumstances, not merely pushing banks to modify loans.
 The board recently allocated $3.5 million for an effort that will include a hot line, community outreach, publicity, court staff and the mediators when certain criteria are triggered. A de facto foreclosure concierge, set up on the 28th floor of the Daley Center, will provide initial help.
 We're justly skeptical about government. But the county deserves preliminary kudos -- especially Judge Dorothy Kirie Kinnaird, head of the chancery division that includes the foreclosure courts, who exhaustively devised the program. Judge Kinnaird oversees a rare partnership that includes the court, the Chicago Community Trust, the Center for Conflict Resolution, the Illinois Housing Development Authority, the Chicago Bar Foundation, the Chicago Legal Clinic and Chicago Volunteer Legal Services.
 The need is clear. I watched Judge Lisa R. Curcio warn defendants that time was running out and that a foreclosure judgment was near. But she would also give some extra time and offer counsel before bidding them a sincere ''good luck.'' Then, unavoidably, she'd beckon the next case.
 Can Judge Kinnaird really pull off her improvements? We won't know for a year or so. Until then, judges in a burnout job confront a dour daily assembly line.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); FAMILY (74%); HOUSING BUBBLE (74%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); CHILDREN (69%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (69%); SUBURBS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); BK (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



348 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 4775 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'APPROACHING ABSTRACTION,' through Sept. 5. Self-taught artists are noted for producing weird, wacky and otherwise eccentric objects. This exhibition of about 60 works from the museum's permanent collection proposes that the best of them are also adept abstractionists. Few works are nonrepresentational, and most have a vibe of strangeness, but almost every piece is as compelling for its form and technique as for its idiosyncratic imagery. 45 West 53rd Street , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20100513 
 ASIA SOCIETY MUSEUM: 'PILGRIMAGE AND BUDDHIST ART,' through June 20. This deftly shaped show, not especially large, spans vast swaths of land and time, from India to Japan and from the first century A.D. almost to the present. Materially it's cornucopian, with all manner of painting and sculpture and a camping store's worth of pilgrim travel gear: rucksacks for sutra scrolls, monastic hiking staffs and fanny-pack shrines, not to mention charts and maps -- some cosmic, some not. The show traces the Buddha's life and the circular path his wandering took between his birth and death in northern India. It also looks at the paths of those who followed him through the centuries and to this day. Some have traveled alone and quietly, others in lively packs. The action in a mural-size pilgrimage painting from 18th-century Nepal looks like a raucous scene from ''The Canterbury Tales'' set in the Kathmandu Valley. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)20100513
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'KIKI SMITH: SOJOURN,' through Sept. 12. Kiki Smith's installation ''Sojourn'' was inspired by an 18th-century needlework, Prudence Punderson's ''First, Second and Last Scene of Mortality.'' There are rich ideas in that work, about the female life cycle and the life of the artist; to these Ms. Smith adds religious, mystical and personal symbolism. The installation's many drawings, peopled with women at various stages of life, can be quite affecting. But Ms. Smith has a tendency to sugarcoat death with craft: flowers, papier-mache, antique glass, gold and silver leaf and glitter everywhere. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20100513
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'AMERICAN HIGH STYLE: FASHIONING A NATIONAL COLLECTION,' through Aug. 1. This thrilling cornucopia celebrates the transfer of the Brooklyn Museum's fabled fashion collection to the very lucky Metropolitan Museum of Art. It is rich in the work of genuine geniuses like Charles James (daringly sculptural evening dresses), Steven Arpad (prescient shoes) and Sally Victor (inventive headgear). Ditto the House of Worth, which essentially invented haute couture in Paris in the 1870s and dressed generations of wealthy American women. Thumbnail sketches introduce several of these women and others in their roles as fashion plates/art patrons. A no-frills installation argues for the objects of the patrons' passion as art. And historic marvels abound, like a black satin twill gown once worn by the aging Queen Victoria, whose build provides a good reality check here. Anorexic she was not. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)20100513
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'MASTERPIECES OF EUROPEAN PAINTING FROM DULWICH PICTURE GALLERY,' through May 30. That any of the nine works in this sweet dream of an exhibition sent over from London could easily be mistaken for works from the Frick's own incomparable collection tells you all you need to know about the quality on display. Rembrandt's ''Girl at a Window'' (1645) is the star of the show. Jean-Antoine Watteau's ''Plaisirs du Bal'' (about 1717) is a poetic, happy-sad vision of privileged indolence. Gerrit Dou's Vermeerish ''Woman Playing a Clavichord'' (1665) is preternaturally lucid. Nicolas Poussin's ''Nurture of Jupiter'' (1636-37), in which the toddler-age future king of the gods suckles a goat while a nymph holds him in her lap in a rocky landscape, is otherworldly. 1 East 70th Street , (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)20100513
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'HAUNTED: CONTEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHY/VIDEO/PERFORMANCE,' through Sept. 6. Drawn primarily from the museum's permanent collection, this show haphazardly traces photography, photo appropriation and their offshoots, backtracking six decades to Warhol and Rauschenberg, when three would have sufficed. With few exceptions, the displays are liveliest when closest to the present, in film pieces by Douglas Gordon, Tacita Dean and beyond, as well as the work of younger artists who have devised ways to use appropriation, setup and regular photography (together or separately). Among those are Sarah Anne Johnson and Sara VanDerBeek. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)20100513
 JAPAN SOCIETY: 'GRAPHIC HEROES, MAGIC MONSTERS: JAPANESE PRINTS BY UTAGAWA KUNIYOSHI FROM THE ARTHUR R. MILLER COLLECTION,' through June 13. Today's graphic novelists owe a huge debt of gratitude to Hokusai, Hiroshige and the artist featured in this engrossing show, Utagawa Kuniyoshi. With wonderful formal and technical ingenuity, Kuniyoshi created woodblock prints illustrating tales of martial conflict, high-seas adventure and mythic triumph and sold them in vast quantities to the 19th-century equivalents of manga and anime fans. He also made portraits of courtesans in fashionable clothes; comical montages of anthropomorphized cats and octopuses; and antic, pornographic cartoons. 333 East 47th Street , (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Johnson)20100513
 JEWISH MUSEUM: 'MODERN ART, SACRED SPACE: MOTHERWELL, FERBER AND GOTTLIEB,' through Aug. 1. The Millburn, N.J., Conservative synagogue Congregation B'nai Israel is renovating and expanding and has lent some of its art to the Jewish Museum for a small but inspiring exhibition. The synagogue commissioned three large artworks -- Adolph Gottlieb's Torah curtain, Herbert Ferber's exterior sculpture and Robert Motherwell's lobby mural -- for its midcentury Modernist building designed by the architect Percival Goodman. Temporarily installed and amply documented at the museum, they show off the mystical-spiritual side of Abstract Expressionism. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100513
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERING THE ART OF CHINESE PAINTING: XIE ZHILIU (1910-1997),' through Aug. 1. This philosophically intriguing exhibition presents drawings and paintings by Xie Zhiliu, a 20th-century Chinese artist and professor who was trained in traditional artistic methods in his youth. That meant primarily copying and tracing drawings and paintings by past masters. Xie's elegant but unimaginative copies are interesting mainly for what they reveal about how classical artists arrived at works of seemingly effortless perfection: not by observing nature but by repeatedly imitating other artists. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100513
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERPIECES OF FRENCH ART DECO,' continuing. The largest exhibition of works from the Met's extensive holdings in French Art Deco fills a large gallery to overflowing with nearly 150 examples of art, furniture, wallpaper, decorative objects and the odd painting. Far more aristocratic than its American counterpart, French Deco devoted exquisite craftsmanship, opulent materials and historicizing design to the creation of one-of-a-kind luxury items. The desks and cabinets of the incomparable Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann quietly dominate, along with vases by Jacques Dunand and silver by Jean Puiforcat. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100513
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'SIDE BY SIDE: OBERLIN'S MASTERWORKS AT THE MET,' through Aug. 29. Oberlin College's Allen Memorial Art Museum, now undergoing renovations, has sent 19 of its best paintings and one sculpture to the Met, and they are now hanging in various historically appropriate permanent collection galleries. Follow the map provided by the museum, and you will discover unfamiliar works by Turner, Cezanne, Kirchner, Rothko and others from the Oberlin collection, and you will also revisit many old favorites from the Met's. It makes for a great scavenger hunt. Bring the kids! (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100513
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through this fall. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense; examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100513
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'YOUNG ARCHER,' continuing. Is it or is it not? ''Young Archer,'' a life-size marble carving of a naked boy drawing an arrow from his lion's paw quiver, might be the earliest known sculpture by Michelangelo. Scholars disagree. On a 10-year loan from France, the legless, armless boy with a yearning expression is in the Met's bright and airy Velez Blanco Patio, where viewers may decide for themselves if it is the real thing. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100513
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'AMERICAN WOMAN: FASHIONING A NATIONAL IDENTITY,' through Aug. 15. The latest extravaganza from the Costume Institute is one of the best and most visually exciting in its history. Laden with sumptuous evening wear, the show celebrates the Met's recent absorption of the Brooklyn Museum's costume collection while tracking the growing independence of women from the 1890s to the 1940s through a progression of stereotypes and fashion silhouettes. This limited but effective approach presents Gilded Age heiresses cosseted in House of Worth ball gowns; sportif Gibson Girls; bohemians in exotic capes by Poiret; flappers in short, sparkling chemises; and screen sirens in flowing, unstructured evening dresses. Wonderful hand-painted murals provide a seductive sense of the time. The wealthy and their ideals of feminine beauty predominate, but even so, a half-century of astounding change is encapsulated. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100513
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'PICASSO IN THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART,' through Aug. 1. This display of nearly every scrap in the Met's stodgy, lopsided Picasso holdings is strongest in the very early work and has some great pictures, including the famed portrait of Gertrude Stein. But the energy drops off as the collection thins out, beginning at exactly the point when the artist turned revolutionary, with Cubism. A concluding salon-style hanging of prints is almost as exhausting to take in as it must have been to install, but it gives a fair idea of why this artist is the awesome and exasperating presence he is. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20100513
 MUSEUM OF BIBLICAL ART: 'UNEASY COMMUNION: JEWS, CHRISTIANS AND THE ALTARPIECES OF MEDIEVAL SPAIN,' through May 30. Only about 20 years ago did scholars begin to recognize the extent of Jewish participation in the Spanish visual arts in the two centuries before the nation's expulsion of all Jews in 1492. Ranging from a near mural-scale assemblage of panels depicting scenes from the life of the Virgin by Pere Espalargues to an illuminated manuscript version of ''Guide for the Perplexed'' by the Jewish philosopher Maimonides, this historically illuminating show reveals Jewish contributions to Spanish art and a picture of Jewish life in late medieval Spain. 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street , (212) 408-1500, mobia.org. (Johnson)20100513
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON: THE MODERN CENTURY,' through June 28. Rarely has the phrase ''man of the world'' been more aptly applied than to the protean photojournalist Henri Cartier-Bresson, the subject of a large and handsome MoMA retrospective. For much of his long career, which began in the 1930s and officially ended three decades before his death in 2004, he was continually on the move, covering the better part of five continents, usually sending his film to various publishers and agencies for developing and editing. Many of his individual pictures are rightfully classics: those taken in the aftermath of World War II in Europe; at Gandhi's funeral; in China on the eve of the revolution. MoMA carefully mixes pictures chronologically, as if to avoid a comparison of Cartier-Bresson's daring in his early work and his later weakness for sentimentality and stereotypes, but the lack of cumulative moral and emotional intensity in the career, and in the show, is evident. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20100513
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MARINA ABRAMOVIC: THE ARTIST IS PRESENT,' through May 31. The long-building energy wave of performance art hits MoMA with this four-decade survey of work by one of the form's more visible and magnetic figures. And the show's combination of stressed-out bare flesh on film and live bodies, some nude, in the galleries makes pretty radical fare for the museum. The exhibition is part true endurance-test grit, part pure diva hokum. And it comes with a mission: to demonstrate that it is possible to preserve an ephemeral medium through live re-creations of past work in a museum setting. The demonstration falls flat, but Ms. Abramovic herself is performing a new piece. It consists of her sitting absolutely still and staring straight ahead in MoMA's atrium for almost the entire time the museum is open during the show's run, an estimated 716 hours and 30 minutes, all told. Visitors are invited to participate by taking a seat across from her and meeting her gaze. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20100513
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PERFORMANCE 7: MIRAGE BY JOAN JONAS,' through May 31. It helps to think of time as cyclical, or at least non-Western and nonlinear, when encountering Joan Jonas's ''Mirage'' at MoMA. The latest installation of a piece conceived in 1976, it suggests that Ms. Jonas's art has a longer-than-usual life span because it is constantly being reborn. In its current form, ''Mirage'' consists of six moving-image works arranged in a loose circle and accompanied by a series of props: metal cones, chalkboards, a mask and a wooden hoop, among other objects. Performance, drawing, dance and video combine and recombine in arcane but thrilling ways. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20100513
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: PICASSO: 'THEMES AND VARIATIONS,' through Aug. 30. This subtly excellent show brings together about 120 prints from the museum's collection, nimbly accounting for many of the pinnacles of Picasso's crafty exploration of the various print mediums. It also parses numerous themes -- Saltimbanques, wives and mistresses, Cubist nudes, hommages to the old masters, the burly Minotaur -- and includes stunning recent acquisitions. Revealing as much about the printmaking processes as about Picasso's freewheeling involvement with them, it casts a wide net and arranges its catch with penetrating clarity. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100513
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: '185TH ANNUAL: AN INVITATIONAL EXHIBITION OF CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN ART,' through June 8. This year the National Academy's Annual has been pared down to 65 artists from the usual 120 or so. Reduced finances are to blame, but happily this juried exhibition doesn't suffer. Quality is high over all, and congestion has been minimized. Painting dominates, as always here, but with everything from photorealism to geometric abstraction, the show still feels rich in variety. The lineup includes the Chelsea habitues Dana Schutz, Ghada Amer and the fast-rising Alison Elizabeth Taylor, whose impressive marquetry work graces a marbled alcove. National Academy Museum, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Rosenberg)20100513
 NEW MUSEUM: 'SKIN FRUIT: SELECTIONS FROM THE DAKIS JOANNOU COLLECTION,' through June 6. This exhibition of works from the collection of a New Museum trustee selected and installed by the art star Jeff Koons might conceivably have pulled a rabbit out of its ethically sticky headgear. Instead it teems with usual suspects, and its overcrowding benefits no one, especially the several larger, more admittedly festivalist works that form its high points. This museum has some rethinking to do, and high on the list should be coming to grips with the size and limitations of its often poorly proportioned galleries. Ultimately the air of complicity is less disturbing than the look of complacency. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)20100513
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'NOGUCHI REINSTALLED,' through Oct. 24. In anticipation of the museum's 25th anniversary this year, this show presents about 200 of Isamu Noguchi's works from the 1920s to the 1980s. They include sculptures in stone, wood, metal and clay; maquettes and models for parks and playgrounds; and props for Martha Graham dance productions. Though unfailingly suave, Noguchi's polished abstraction no longer has the urgency it once had, but the museum as a whole is a wonderful time capsule, and the sculpture garden he designed is utterly blissful. Noguchi Museum, 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Johnson)20100513
 RUBIN MUSEUM OF ART: 'REMEMBER THAT YOU WILL DIE: DEATH ACROSS CULTURES,' through Aug. 9. Sooner or later the Grim Reaper will come for each and every one of us. Evenly divided between traditional Tibetan works and Medieval and Early Renaissance pieces from Europe, this fascinating exhibition highlights profound differences in what that means to those two cultures. There are terrific works on both sides, but the West's morbid preoccupation with the perishable body yields the more arresting objects, like the beautifully carved golf-ball-size head of a famous general, half skull and half flesh, carved from ivory by an unknown 18th- or 19th-century Bohemian craftsman. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Johnson)20100513
 SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN: 'A SONG FOR THE HORSE NATION,' through July 7, 2011. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing and beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navajo, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20100513
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'COLLECTING BIENNIALS,' through Nov. 28. Start your Whitney Biennial experience on the fifth floor, with this permanent-collection show of works by artists who were in past Annuals and Biennials. It caps off an extravaganza of new art with a humbling and diverting mix of classics, oldies and one-hit wonders. Figurative paintings from the 1950s Annuals are paired with contemporaneous Abstract Expressionism, and some big names from the 1980s (Schnabel, Condo) look refreshed. Most eye-opening is the sense that some of the most influential artists (Warhol, Hammons) barely register on the Biennial scorecard. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20100513
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: '2010 WHITNEY BIENNIAL,' through May 30. In the spirit of the economically bleak two years it represents, the Whitney has made efforts to underpitch its 2010 Biennial, and the show lives up -- and down -- to its billing. There are fewer artists than in the past. Its installation is spartan. Spectacle is out. Much of what's in is quiet and hermetic to the point of looking blank. The prevailing aesthetic is the art of the tweak, minute variations on conventional forms and historical styles: abstract paintings stitched like quilts, performance pieces channeling the 1960s, and so on. The show feels empty where it reflects the retrenched, art-about-art spirit of the moment. But it also has strong work, particularly in video and photography, that speaks of life beyond the art factory. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20100513
 Galleries: Uptown
 OTTO DIX, through Aug. 30. The first Dix retrospective in this country provides heady glimpses of the achievement of this so-called wild man of German art. Few things escaped his remorseless eye -- from the horrors of World War I to the hypocrisies of the Weimar Republic. He made every stop on the itinerary of German modernism (including Realism, Dada, Surrealism, Expressionism, folk, visionary), had a few Cubist moments and, of course, qualified as degenerate under the Nazis. This exhibition of more than 100 paintings, prints, watercolors and drawings (organized with the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts) doesn't have the scope -- or the space -- to do Dix justice, but it begins to make up for lost time. Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)20100513
 ROBERT & ETHEL SCULL: 'PORTRAIT OF A COLLECTION,' through May 27. Racing from Abstract Expressionist paintings to Earthworks, this unforgivably crowded exhibition conveys the amazing instinct for the new, the next new and the next new after that that set Robert Scull, and his wife, Ethel, on one of the most influential shopping sprees in postwar American art -- until they cashed out with the 1973 Scull auction at Sotheby Parke-Bernet. In tandem with its detailed, must-read catalog, the show counts as ''It's a Wonderful Life'' for the art world. Attempting to rehabilitate the collectors most synonymous with the Swinging '60s, it demonstrates what a difference one or two people can make. Acquavella Galleries, 18 East 79th Street , (212) 734-6300, acquavellagalleries.com. (Smith)20100513
 Galleries: Chelsea
 CLAUDE MONET: 'LATE WORK,' through June 26. The Gagosian, in its kunsthalle mode, has assembled a gorgeous, where-on-earth-did-this-come-from loan show of 27 Giverny paintings dating from 1904 to 1922. The earliest pictures of water lilies are small and diaphanous; later, as Monet's world changed and his eyesight deteriorated, the images grow panoramic and dark. The rose arbor paintings in the show's final gallery, dating from 1924, two years before his death, are compact, dense and incendiary. Gagosian Gallery, 522 West 21st Street , (212) 741-1717, gagosian.com. (Cotter)20100513
 MARK RYDEN: 'THE GAY 90S: OLD TYME ART SHOW,' through June 5. Painting and drawing with the skill of a Beaux-Arts academician, Mr. Ryden creates funny and creepy pictures of big-eyed female waifs in bizarre situations. One of his baby dolls appears in a misty park wearing a pink party dress made of slabs of meat. In a Victorian-era outdoor cafe, Abraham Lincoln, wearing a loud green plaid suit, serves a young femme raw hamburger that he has processed through a meat grinder. Paul Kasmin, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, Chelsea , (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Johnson)20100513
 Galleries: SoHo
 JOSEF ALBERS/KEN PRICE, through June 5. Pairing a German abstract painter and color theorist, Josef Albers (1888-1976), and a ceramic sculptor, Ken Price (born 1935), is a bit of curatorial genius that can make your eyes feel attached to a bigger, better brain. An intricate dovetailing of works spanning several mediums and decades clarifies their individual greatness. The shared passion for strong color juxtapositions is to be expected. Less so are those for Modern architecture, pre-Columbian pyramids, stones, interior spaces (variously erotic, domestic or symbolic) and an oscillation between biomorphic and straight-edged form. Anyone interested in the curatorial arts should see this thrilling show, among the best and most timely to grace a New York commercial gallery. Brooke Alexander Gallery, 59 Wooster Street , (212) 925-4338, baeditions.com. (Smith)20100513
 Galleries: Other
 'EMILY DICKINSON'S GARDEN: THE POETRY OF FLOWERS,' through June 13. A collaboration with the Poetry Society of America, this ambitious, multipart exhibition celebrates the great American writer equally as a horticulturalist and as a poet and forges links between the two. Dickinson's 19th-century garden has been re-created in the Enid A. Haupt Conservatory in front of a replicated facade of the home where she spent much of her life. An archival show in the Botanical Garden's library places her gardening in the context of the time. And a continuing program of readings and seminar-style discussions with contemporary writers throws the spotlight on the floral content of Dickinson's poems -- and on her startling contemporary relevance. New York Botanical Garden, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, the Bronx , (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. (Cotter)20100513
 Last Chance
 ROBERT ARNESON: 'FOUNDING FUNK: SCULPTURES AND DRAWINGS 1956-66'; closes on Saturday. This exhibition -- easily a small museum show -- provides a rare look, for New York, at the early years of Mr. Arneson, the West Coast artist who revolutionized ceramics by introducing it to Pop representation in the mid-1960s. Along the way he paid homage to Japanese traditions, Gauguin and Abstract Expressionism. The fearless humor that would make him a tireless, and tiresome, jokemeister is evident, but even as the puns take over, his consummate skills with shaping and glazing remain unabated. George Adams Gallery, 525 West 26th Street, Chelsea , (212) 564-8480, georgeadamsgallery.com. (Smith)20100513
 'BLOOD OF SPACE: DRAWINGS BY DAVID CHAIM SMITH'; closes on Saturday. Inspired by the Kabbalah, alchemy and other mystical systems, Mr. Smith creates densely worked, diagrammatic drawings that look as if they'd been made by a Renaissance-era occultist. His semi-abstract, symmetrical compositions in pencil and ink feature an interplay between narrow crisscrossing, circular and serpentine bands and gnarly, rootlike systems. Finely printed words add philosophy reminiscent of the sentiments printed on Dr. Bronner's soap bottles. Cavin-Morris Gallery, 210 11th Avenue, at 25th Street, Chelsea , (212) 226-3768, cavinmorris.com. (Johnson)20100513
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WILLIAM KENTRIDGE: FIVE THEMES'; closes on Monday. This well-designed exhibition of prints, drawings, films and film installations from the last 30 years showcases this artist's dazzling fusion of charcoal drawing and stop-action animation to excellent effect. The 1990 animations that meditate on the ravages of apartheid remain especially powerful. As the show traces a kind of progression away from, and back to, political subject matter, through a gallery that offers a dreamlike visit to his studio, it also traces his growing role in his own work, first as image, then as actor. And with a forthrightness that is almost touching, the exhibition also confirms that in the contest between still and moving images, moving almost always wins. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100513
 AMY SILLMAN: 'TRANSFORMER (...OR, HOW MANY LIGHTBULBS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A PAINTING?)'; closes on Saturday. Ms. Sillman has been showing in Chelsea for more than a decade, a period in which her art has evolved from small, meandering works on paper to large, square-shaped canvases. But the new paintings are bigger, bolder and more assertive than anything she has done before. Ms. Sillman nods to Guston, Gorky, Matta, De Kooning, Bacon and other robustly gestural painters while developing her own formal lexicon of elephant trunks and other strange probosces. She takes new liberties with color, notably in ''Shade,'' an orange fireball of a painting. And she issues a manifesto of sorts, in a 'zine that's available at the gallery for $1. Sikkema Jenkins & Company, 530 West 22nd Street, Chelsea , (212) 929-2262, sikkemajenkinsco.com. (Rosenberg)20100513

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'Emily Dickinson's Garden: The Poetry of Flowers': This exhibition, at the New York Botanical Garden, includes her notebooks, as well as re-creations of her home and garden. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); PAINTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); RELIGION (74%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (74%); HIKING (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTH INDIA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (90%); NEPAL (79%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010



349 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Salaries at Water District Keep Rising Despite Poor Economy

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS and PATRICK REHKAMP; Dan Mihalopoulos is a reporter for the Chicago News Cooperative. Patrick Rehkamp is chief investigator for the Better Government Association. Joel Ebert, an associate investigator for the association, contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In an era of layoffs, unpaid furloughs and reduced benefits at most levels of government, workers for the little-known, taxpayer-financed agency that deals with Cook County's waste and storm water are a throwback to far better times: They continue to enjoy high salaries, big overtime checks and annual cash payouts for unused sick-leave days. 
 The paychecks of many agency employees have grown by more than 30 percent in the past five years, far outstripping the pace in other local government agencies and the rate of inflation.
With a $1.7 billion annual budget, the district is responsible for managing storm water and for treating sewage before pouring it into the county's waterways. Its most famous endeavors included reversing the flow of the Chicago River away from Lake Michigan in 1900 and the ''Deep Tunnel'' storm-water management project, which is designed to reduce flooding and to avoid flushing raw sewage into the lake during heavy storms. 
 An investigation by the Chicago News Cooperative and the Better Government Association found that the number of employees with six-figure salaries has more than doubled since 2005 at the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago. The ranks of district officials with salaries exceeding $200,000 a year more than tripled -- to 16 from 5 -- during the same period, payroll records show. 
 For Cook County taxpayers, the cost of financing the district has also risen. The owner of a home worth $200,000 pays about $135 a year toward the district's budget, an increase of almost 30 percent in the last decade. 
 Sixteen district employees will be paid more than Mayor Richard M. Daley this year, and some top executives for the agency receive tens of thousands of dollars a year more than their counterparts at City Hall or in other units of local government. 
 The $229,316 annual salary of the district's top lawyer, Frederick M. Feldman, is 32 percent higher than the head of the Daley administration's law department, Corporation Counsel Mara Georges. That gap does not even include 24 unpaid days off that Ms. Georges and most other city workers are required to take this year. One district board commissioner's aide, whose salary rose almost 40 percent in the past five years, was Dominic Longo, a veteran Chicago Democratic political operative who was convicted of vote fraud in 1984. 
 Terrence J. O'Brien, the longtime district board president, defended the high wages as necessary to retain hard-working, skilled employees. Mr. O'Brien said the district would not grant cost-of-living pay increases this year, after recently raising its tax levy to help plug a $24 million budget shortfall. Besides cost-of-living increases, the district gives merit pay increases based on evaluations from supervisors. 
 Mr. O'Brien said the district had avoided layoffs and mandatory furloughs because it did not face budget deficits as large as those of other government units. 
 He also noted that the vast majority of the district's 2,100 employees must pass exams to be hired. The tests were mandated when the Illinois attorney general sued the district in 1985 after news media reports and a Better Government Association investigation alleged patronage hiring. 
 ''Our people are not here because of who they know but by what they know, and that is different from other agencies,'' Mr. O'Brien said. ''Quality, professional, well-educated people do more than people who are watching the clock.'' 
 Critics question whether the big pay increases are justified in the midst of cutbacks elsewhere. ''Do you really have to pay them that much to keep them from leaving or are you paying them so much because you can?'' said David Morrison, deputy director of the Illinois Campaign for Political Reform. ''Just because a taxing body is recession-proof doesn't mean you have to lavish those raises on employees.'' 
 The agency is run by a nine-member board whose elections are far down the ballot from the higher-profile political posts. Despite operating in relative obscurity, the district's commissioners have not avoided charges of political favoritism in hiring. 
 In 2008, Fox News Chicago reported that the sons and daughters of district employees and politically connected applicants were hired as summer interns. At the time, Mr. O'Brien responded, ''There are a lot of fathers and mothers out in the community; if they can't help their children when they're in need of some experience in the workplace, you know, shame on me.'' 
 The district's full-time employees tend to enjoy long careers with the agency. 
 Mr. Feldman, the top lawyer for the district, has worked there since 1969. In addition to his salary, he has received annual cash payments of more than $4,000 for unused sick leave in recent years, according to district records obtained through the Freedom of Information Act. 
 Mr. Feldman is one of eight lawyers for the district who have salaries higher than Ms. Georges, the top lawyer for the City of Chicago. 
 Some of the biggest salary increases came in the district treasurer's office. Despite having the same title she had five years ago, Mary A. Boyle, the assistant treasurer, saw her pay rise 44 percent, to about $139,000 a year. 
 For unionized district workers, overtime costs have shot up more than 20 percent in recent years. In addition to contractually mandated wage increases, 22 workers have earned more than $100,000 each in overtime payments since 2005. Most of the biggest recipients of overtime pay are district police officers who patrol the agency's facilities, like the sewage treatment plant in south suburban Stickney. 
 ''It's just how we've treated our employees because of what they have to go through to get hired,'' Mr. O'Brien said. ''Who, when they get out of college, wants to take an exam?'' 
 Salaries for the district's part-time board of commissioners, have also increased in recent years, with the approval of the state legislature. Mr. O'Brien, who ran for county board president in the Democratic primary in February, is paid almost $80,000 a year, up 33 percent since 2005. Kathleen Therese Meany, the board vice president, and Gloria Alitto Majewski, the finance committee chairman, are the next highest-paid commissioners, at $75,000 a year. 
 ''I am here probably, sometimes five days a week,'' Ms. Majewski said. ''I'm usually here until 6 or 7 o'clock at night. Other commissioners, I can't comment on. The district is very technical. I spend a lot of my time reading through the documents.'' 
 Besides supervisors, the only district employees who can be hired and fired at the whim of their bosses are the 26 aides to the commissioners. Some have seen their salaries rise substantially in the last five years. 
 The biggest percentage increase went to Eleanor Kane, an aidessistant to Commissioner Debra Shore, whose salary jumped 44 percent, to $76,000 a year. Ms. Shore said Ms. Kane the aide hads a master's degree in environmental engineering and deserved the raise after an initial probationary period at lower pay. ''I'm not an engineer, and she's been great,'' said Ms. Shore, who worked for the Better Government Association in the 1980s. 
 One of the highest-paid aides is Donna McGowan-Watson, the daughter of Commissioner Barbara J. McGowan. Both Ms. McGowan-Watson and another aide to her mother, Lemuettia Hicks, a daughter of Alderman Carrie M. Austin (34th Ward), are paid almost $88,000 a year. 
 ''Sometimes they work on the weekends,'' Ms. McGowan said. ''None of our jobs are eight hours a day, five days a week.'' 
 Commissioner Frank Avila also employs his daughter, Audrey, as well as Mr. Longo, who in the last five years has seen his salary climb to almost $84,000 from less than $60,000. Mr. Avila noted that Mr. Longo's vote fraud conviction was more than 25 years ago. 
 ''I don't know too much about that,'' Mr. Avila said. ''He must have been very young. He does an excellent job.'' 
 Asked about the high salaries for top executives, Mr. Avila said the demands of keeping the environment clean required employees with higher technical expertise than many other local government employees had. 
 He added, ''Very few people leave the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ed Staudacher, a civil engineer at the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago, checked a map. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) GRAPHIC: Money Matters: The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago pays some of the highest government salaries in the state, with 16 district officials receiving more this year than Mayor Richard M. Daley ($198,881.38). The number of highly paid officials in the agency has increased sharply in recent years. (A17B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); MERIT PAY (78%); OVERTIME (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (77%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MAYORS (75%); RIVERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LAKES (74%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); CITIES (71%); SICK LEAVE (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); LAWYERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



350 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: In the Attendance Box Score, The Mets Are Trailing Badly

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT; Manny Navarro contributed reporting from Miami Gardens, Fla.

 BODY:
A year after moving into a sparkling new $800 million stadium, the Mets have the most home victories in the major leagues, but neither their stadium nor their record is translating into box-office success.
 After 22 home games, attendance at Citi Field is down 6,852 fans a game, the largest decline by number in Major League Baseball. That translates to an average of 31,892 fans at games this season compared with 38,744 last season. 
 The Cleveland Indians, who have a losing record at home, are second to the Mets, down 6,585 fans a game from last season. 
 The Yankees, who won the World Series last season in their first year in a new stadium, are holding steady at about the same numbers as last season.
 In baseball, attendance figures are almost as important as victories. Fewer fans in the seats mean fewer sales of hot dogs, beer and caps. Team executives obsess over the numbers, finesse them and -- when necessary -- do their best to spin them, while Commissioner Bud Selig and his deputies closely monitor each team's reports.
 In percentage terms, the Indians' decline is sharper than the Mets', 30 to 18, but the Mets' drop is especially jarring for a big-market franchise that is counted on to help generate income for the rest of the league. The Mets are also 11th in average attendance in the major leagues, down from seventh last year.
 The Mets' drop follows two September collapses, a 92-loss season in 2009, an uninspiring off-season and the loss of gloss that comes with the second year in a new stadium.
 ''The problem is last year the tickets were really expensive and the team stunk and that can really stick with fans for a while,'' said Jon Greenberg, the executive editor of Team Marketing Report, an industry publication. 
 In the mid-1990s, Greenberg said, teams could count on new stadiums to help them boost ticket sales for several years, but that trend has ended.
 ''Stadium fatigue sets in much faster than it did before,'' Greenberg said, noting that new stadiums built in Baltimore and Cleveland in the early 1990s led to long periods of increased attendance for both franchises. ''When Camden Yards and Jacobs Field were built, they were a big deal and were a complete change. The novelty has worn off.''
 The Minnesota Twins are the latest to benefit from the novelty. The Twins lead the league in increased attendance, with an average of 14,129 more fans attending games at the new Target Field than last season at the Metrodome, according to Baseball-Reference.com. 
 The Mets tried to prevent a drop-off by cutting ticket prices as much as 20 percent after last season, but signs of trouble quickly became apparent. When the team submitted its monthly report to the commissioner's office in March, ticket sales dropped 40 percent from the same period a year earlier.
 Dave Howard, the Mets' executive vice president for business operations, blamed the early-season decline on bad weather in April, the team's disappointing play in recent years and the economic downturn. (The weather in April was warmer and drier than normal in the New York area.) 
 ''We are confident as we continue to play better, the weather gets warmer and school ends that we will draw more fans and end the year fine,'' he said.
 It didn't help that the Mets started the season by losing 8 of their first 12 games before putting together a winning streak at the end of April. The team is 14-8 at home and 18-17 over all. 
 ''The winning streak has definitely helped,'' Howard said. ''The fewer season-ticket sales has allowed us to sell more walk-up sales, and we have had four record walk-up sales so far this season.''
 It may take more than one winning streak to fully win back fans after the team's failures in 2007 and 2008 and the disappointment of the first season in Citi Field. The Mets came into the new stadium with hopes of returning to the playoffs for the first time since 2006, but the glow began dimming before the team took the field. 
 Citi Field was modeled in part after Ebbets Field, and there were complaints that it seemed to be designed more to honor the old Brooklyn Dodgers than the early Mets. Fans complained about obstructed seats. The team fell apart, with one star after another going down with injuries. 
 To the dismay of many fans, the front office did little to improve the roster in the off-season, adding only one premier free agent, outfielder Jason Bay, while cutting the payroll by a little more than $10 million, although it is still among the highest in baseball. 
 Mets players profess optimism about the weeks ahead. ''I'm sure it's been the weather,'' shortstop Jose Reyes said. ''It's no big deal. The crowds will come. The fans still love us.''
 Selig adopted a similarly optimistic perspective when he addressed the issue after an owners meeting in Manhattan on Thursday. 
 ''The Mets have been playing much better lately, and let's just see what happens,'' he said. ''Sparky Anderson always used to say to me, 'Forty to 50 games, you can't make any judgment before you play 40 to 50 games.' That is true on the business side of the game.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Left fielder Jason Bay was the only major free agent added in the off-season by the Mets, who cut their payroll by a little more than $10 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); TRENDS (77%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (52%) OHIO, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



351 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: The Wavering War on AIDS

 BODY:
The global war on AIDS has racked up enormous successes over the past decade, most notably by providing drugs for millions of infected people in developing countries who would be doomed without this life-prolonging treatment. Now the campaign is faltering. 
 Donations from the United States and other wealthy countries have leveled off while the number of people infected with H.I.V., the AIDS virus, grows by a million a year. By one informed estimate, only $14 billion will be available of some $27 billion needed this year to fight the disease in the developing world. Fewer than 4 million of the 14 million people who need immediate drug treatment are receiving it -- far short of the goal of universal access set by the United States and others.
 Donor nations cite the economic crisis and tight budgets as reasons to slow their contributions to the global fight against AIDS. The Obama administration and many donor nations apparently believe that more lives could be saved by fighting other cheaper diseases, such as respiratory illnesses, diarrhea, malaria and measles.
 The results of those decisions can be seen in Uganda and other countries where, as Donald G. McNeil Jr. recently reported in The Times, the campaign against AIDS seems to be falling apart.
 Although the number of Ugandans receiving drug treatments jumped from fewer than 10,000 a decade ago to nearly 200,000 today, hundreds of thousands more Ugandans need the drugs and likely can't get them because clinics now routinely turn new patients away.
 That is partly because American funds have been frozen and clinics were told to stop enrolling new patients unless the government has a plan to pay for their treatment. It is also because Uganda has badly skewed its own priorities, such as negotiating to buy a squadron of fighter-bombers from Russia for $300 million.
 The United States has been a leader in providing financing for the war on AIDS through bilateral programs and a multilateral global fund. Now, instead of a sharp increase in donations, as once planned, the administration proposes only a slight increase in bilateral financing and a modest reduction in its multilateral contribution.
 It has shifted its focus to childhood diseases, keeping young mothers alive, and interrupting the transmission of H.I.V. between mother and child. It is pushing countries to improve their medical delivery systems, manage their own AIDS programs and contribute more of their own funds.
 Those are good goals. But the AIDS pandemic is still spreading. And the goal of universal access to treatment remains a distant dream.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2010, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An editorial on Friday erred in stating that 14 million people have the AIDS virus. That is the number of infected people who need immediate drug treatment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); MALARIA (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (76%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); VIRUSES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UGANDA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



352 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17B

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: A Thriving Business Built on Geeks' Backs

BYLINE: By MERIBAH KNIGHT

 BODY:
Barb Staples makes geek dreams come true. 
 At limebarb , Ms. Staples's company and North America's largest independent manufacturer of costumes for cosplay -- derived from ''costume'' and ''play''-- the words ''geek,'' ''nerd'' and ''dork'' are not terms of derision. Customers, who dress up as their favorite characters from popular Web and video games, often refer to themselves that way.
The subculture of cosplay began in Japan, where for years anime and comic books have been inextricably linked to popular culture. Now with a little help from the Web and from video games like ''Final Fantasy'' and ''World of Warcraft,'' cosplay conventions have sprouted up around the globe. One, Anime Central 2010, will take place this weekend in Rosemont, and because Ms. Staples provides costumes to many of the attendees, she has been in a frenzy filling commissions for the event. 
 From gravity-defying cotton-candy-pink wigs to faux-leather corsets, platform shoes and props like helmets, scepters and wings, limebarb outfits cosplayers from head to toe or, more accurately in some cases, horn to hoof. The studio includes a sewing room, a cutting room, a workshop for props and other spaces filled with mountains of fabric. 
 The Bridgeport neighborhood is famous for producing Daleys, not Power Ranger ensembles, but the limebarb studio there churns out an average of 350 orders a year, ranging in price from $250 to $4,000. Ms. Staples, who one day recently wore purple spandex leggings, platform heels and large false eyelashes while she worked, is assisted by Felicia Schwartz, her only full-time employee. Two pet ferrets, Hurley and Faraday, also inhabit the place, their names taken from characters in the television show ''Lost.'' 
 Ms. Staples, 28, has been cosplaying since high school, when she went to a convention as Nyan Nyan, a character from the popular anime comic ''Fushigi Yuugi.'' 
 ''It seemed appropriate,'' she said.
 Her obsession with engineering outfits involving latex bodysuits and plastic armor grew from there. She started limebarb eight years ago while in Columbia College for fashion design. At one point she was making about 100 garments a semester while her classmates averaged five, so she dropped out and started her business. 
 Despite a poor economy and a recent drop in sales of anime comic books, which Ms. Staples attributes more to Internet bootlegging than to a waning fan base, limebarb is weathering the recession. 
 ''I think we've managed to do relatively well,'' she said. ''Because when people are stressed they want nothing more than escapism, and cosplay offers that, for sure.'' 
 She said that lately more people have dropped out of payment plans or swapped their Princess Peach get-up for a car payment, but that has tended to weed out the less complex projects.
 ''We do fewer costumes for higher price,'' Ms. Staples said. ''Something that is obscure or really complicated, that is when people come to us.'' 
 Translating someone's fantasy into reality can be tricky. 
 ''I feel like nerds can be some of the pickiest people ever because they love this character,'' Ms. Staples said. ''They love it. They identify with it. It's their dream to be this thing, and if something is just a smidge off, that might be a big deal for them.'' 
 Elsewhere in the studio, Jeff Harris, a 31-year-old part-time props specialist who describes himself as a more of a theater performer than anime nerd, is making armor to adorn a Power Ranger costume. ''If it's plastic, it comes to my department,'' he said. 
 For the past few months, Mr. Harris has been working to build a mold for Power Ranger armor, a hot seller at limebarb. After a successful casting with urethane rubber and fiberglass, the armor stands alone, waiting to be painted. He is hoping the hard work pays off. 
 ''If one guy orders it and really likes it, all the other Power Ranger geeks are going to come looking for us, too,'' he said. 
 Other popular cosplay characters include ''Princess Peach Nintendo stuff,'' Mr. Harris said, as he pulled a dusty piece of Nintendo's ''Legend of Zelda'' armor off the shelf. 
 In the sewing room, Tara Reich, 24, stitched a pair of black polyester sleeves for a Vocaloid character, a popular singing synthesizer software developed by the Yamaha Corporation. She said the development of Wonderflux, a plastic-like material that becomes soft and malleable when heated, and craft foam meant that ''we can manipulate things like we never could before.'' 
 On May 7, a week before Anime Central, Matt Leuck, 28, stopped by to pick up his costume of King Randor, the benevolent king in ''Masters of the Universe.'' 
 ''I am an overall toy geek and an '80s cartoon geek,'' Mr. Leuck said, as Ms. Staples adjusted his golden crown. ''I sell toys for a living, so I am, like, a big nerd.'' 
 It is Mr. Leuck's ninth year attending Anime Central, but his first time dressing up as a character.
 ''I figure if I'm going to get a costume I am going to invest in something well made,'' he said of his $450 limebarb ensemble. 
 ''I'm very happy,'' Mr. Leuck said, giving the thumbs up. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barb Staples, center, overseeing a fitting of Matt Leuck in his King Randor costume at limebarb in Chicago. The company is North America's largest independent maker of costumes for cosplay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (76%); FABRICS (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (71%); FASHION DESIGN (71%); ENGINEERING (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%) ILLINOIS, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%); JAPAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



353 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Fighting a Tax Appraisal (and Perhaps Something More)

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.

 BODY:
January 2009 was pretty close to rock bottom for home sales prices in San Francisco in recent years. Few would contend that a home's value was soaring.
 But the San Francisco Tax Assessor's Office made that argument last week -- with a straight face -- in the case of Jon Stuber and his modest two-bedroom, one-bath condominium in the inner Mission.
''That just totally floored me,'' Mr. Stuber said. ''I've totally lost faith in the San Francisco government.'' 
 Mr. Stuber is one of 6,289 property owners in the city who have appealed their 2009 assessments. But what makes Mr. Stuber's case stand out is that he has been publicly critical of the policies of Phil Ting, San Francisco's assessor-recorder. Mr. Stuber complained about the department's questionable assessments in my column in The New York Times on October 16 -- his was a voice and face that represented thousands of angry taxpayers.
 Last week that face was slapped, though whether it was in retaliation is impossible to know.
 When Mr. Stuber finally received his appeal hearing on May 6 -- after waiting since August -- Teresa Contro, a senior appraiser for the assessor's office, said that there should be no reduction and argued instead that Mr. Stuber's home was underassessed and should actually be valued at $650,000, $40,000 more than he paid for it at the height of the market.
 Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller Home Price Indices, which measures the residential housing market, estimated that condominiums in the San Francisco area lost 24 percent of their value during that same time period. A retrospective analysis by Zillow.com said condominiums in the Mission lost 15.6 percent of their value in that time.
 So why did the assessor's office say Mr. Stuber's property had increased in value?
 After the hearing. Mr. Ting declined repeated requests to discuss Mr. Stuber's case in detail. Instead, his office sent a lengthy e-mail message complaining about the October article that featured Mr. Stuber. 
 Angela D'Anna, Mr. Ting's spokeswoman, said in a phone interview that the department's actions against Mr. Stuber were not retaliation. ''We did not treat this any different than any other,'' Ms. D'Anna said. 
 But while the other hearings that afternoon were collegial and completed in as few as six minutes -- and the other properties had their assessments reduced without acrimony -- Mr. Stuber was interrogated for half an hour. Ms. Contro challenged every piece of documentation he provided.
 Published guidelines for the hearings instruct taxpayers to cite examples of home sales that are within 90 days of Jan. 1, 2009. While Mr. Stuber abided by those guidelines, Ms. Contro presented only sales outside that scope, dated closer to when the market was at its peak. One was slightly adjusted for the historic decline in prices, but two were not.
 They quibbled over square footage. Ms. Contro used as an example a home 140 square feet larger than Mr. Stuber's. But when he tried to use an example 165 square feet smaller, Ms. Contro asked that it be rejected as too different to be comparable.
 The Web site of the Assessment Appeals Board specifically recommends that taxpayers bring information from Zillow or other housing databases to support their cases. But when Mr. Stuber tried, Ms. Contro objected and said, ''Zillow is notoriously inaccurate.''
 (Stan Humphries, chief economist for Zillow, said his company's analysis was based on actual property sales. ''I'm disappointed,'' Mr. Humphries said of Ms. Contro's remark.)
 By the time the session had ended, Mr. Stuber's shiny, shaved pate had turned a slight shade of crimson. When I approached Ms. Contro after the hearing and introduced myself, her eyes widened and she asked, ''Is this going to be in the newspaper?''
 Mr. Stuber had wanted his assessment dropped to $549,000, from $634,642. But after the contentious hearing, Commissioner Joseph K. Tham reduced the assessment only to $605,000 -- only slightly less than what Mr. Stuber had paid at the height of the market. 
 The assessor's office did not argue in any other hearing that afternoon that a property was underassessed.
 ''I felt totally prosecuted, like I was stealing money from the orphan's fund,'' Mr. Stuber said. ''I don't know if it was retaliation against me for bringing it up in the newspaper.''
 Anita Gore, spokeswoman for the California State Board of Equalization, which sets the rules for assessment appeals and investigates abuses, said taxpayers should understand that assessment appeals are ''adversarial,'' with each side expected to put on an argument.
 Perhaps that's all that happened to Mr. Stuber. The assessor was just making a case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); TAX ASSESSORS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); APPEALS (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%)

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (53%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



354 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 PROTESTERS IN KYRGYZSTAN TRY FOR CONTROL OF SOUTH
 Opponents of the government in Kyrgyzstan stormed administration buildings in three southern cities, installed a new governor and seized an airport. The protesters demanded power be returned to the ousted president. PAGE A8 
 NEW BRITISH CABINET MEETS
 Prime Minister David Cameron met with his 23-member coalition cabinet for the first time, calling on members to bury old ideological differences and personal estrangements. PAGE A6
 KURDS IN IRAN HOLD STRIKE
 Iranian Kurds staged a large strike to protest the recent execution of Kurdish activists. They closed their shops and the bazaars in nearly all Sunni Kurdish cities and towns in eastern Iran. PAGE A9
 U.S. Culture Wars Reach Kenya A6
 Pope Denounces Abortion A6
 Obituaries
 CHARLIE FRANCIS, 61
 The Canadian coach's unapologetic admission that he administered performance-enhancing drugs to his athletes forced the Olympic movement to confront a widespread problem. PAGE A16
 National
 SENATORS OFFER LEGISLATION ON DRILLING AND LIABILITY
 The Gulf of Mexico oil disaster spread, politically, to Washington, as six West Coast senators proposed a ban on drilling in the Pacific, and another group tried to raise oil company liability for spills. PAGE A12
 OBAMA UPBEAT ON ECONOMY
 President Obama delivered an upbeat economic forecast and a defense of his economic policies, telling a crowd at a manufacturing plant in Buffalo that job growth would continue. PAGE A11
 AND IN THIS CORNER, 11
 Just two years ago, not a single Republican stepped forward to run against Representative Niki Tsongas, a Massachusetts Democrat. Now, seven Republicans and four independents have lined up to challenge Ms. Tsongas. PAGE A11
 New York
 CONDe NAST CONSIDERS MOVE TO GROUND ZERO SKYSCRAPER
 The publishing giant Conde Nast has been talking to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey about moving to 1 World Trade Center when it is completed, a potential coup for the signature skyscraper rising at ground zero. PAGE A17
 Business
 RATING AGENCIES ARE ADDED TO PURVIEW OF SENATE BILL
 The Senate approved two initiatives aimed at addressing the role that major credit rating agencies played in the 2008 financial collapse, including a proposal to end the reliance on companies like Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. PAGE B2
 Sports
 IN PROFESSIONAL BASEBALL, AN UPTICK IN PERFECTION
 Somehow, without anyone's noticing, pitching a perfect game has started to become more common in Major League Baseball, while no-hitters over all have become harder to come by. Keeping Score by Stuart Miller. PAGE B11
 Weekend
 THERE'S A TEA PARTY IN SHERWOOD FOREST
 You may have heard from the liberal media that Robin Hood stole from the rich and gave to the poor. But in Ridley Scott's ''Robin Hood,'' which takes us back to the character's early life, the Robin that Russell Crowe plays is no socialist bandit. He is a manly libertarian rebel. A review by A. O. Scott. PAGE C1
 Op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A27 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BASEBALL (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (85%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); COUPS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STRIKES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); SPORTS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CITIES (73%); OIL SPILLS (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (72%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (68%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); APPROVALS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); PUBLISHING (63%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); STUART A MILLER (57%); NIKI TSONGAS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) KYRGYZSTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KENYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010



355 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Makes Bid for World Cup But Isn't Picky About the Year

BYLINE: By JEFFREY MARCUS

 BODY:
Three days after the United States soccer federation announced its preliminary World Cup roster, its president led a four-member team to Switzerland to attempt to win the right to host the tournament for the second time. 
 ''In some ways it culminates 16 years of planning because I think we started thinking about another World Cup the day after the last one finished in July of 1994,'' the federation president, Sunil Gulati, said in a teleconference from Zurich. 
 Thirty copies of the official bid -- a 5-volume, 1,250-page set of books and one compact disc -- was hand-delivered to FIFA on Friday by Gulati; David Downs, the president of the United States bid committee; John Kristick, the committee's executive director; and Carlos Bocanegra, the national team captain. 
 The books offer an emotional and commercial appeal to members of the FIFA executive committee, who will vote in December to award two tournaments -- in 2018 and 2022. The United States is bidding for one or the other. 
 ''Should FIFA be looking for a safe and easy World Cup, where everything is in place, or should they be looking for someplace with great legacy potential?'' Gulati asked rhetorically. ''In the case of the United States, you can meet both of those objectives.''
 But if the United States bid is to be successful, it is the commercial appeal that will most likely win over the 13 members of the committee needed to prevail in the voting.
 The ''hosting concept'' included in the first volume of the bid books argues that holding the tournament in the United States ''will help drive forward the entire world's football economy.'' 
 It cites ''higher television and sponsorship rights, increased franchise and team values, more investment in player development, and the assurance of even greater innovations across all sectors.''
 The bid books also provide details on the 18 proposed stadiums and host cities, training facilities, transportation, logistics, security and financial details.
 ''On a technical basis, our bid far exceeds the standards set by FIFA,'' Gulati said. ''I don't think anyone in the world who is bidding measures up to that.''
 No public financing will be required, Gulati said.
 The other bidders are Australia, England, Japan, South Korea, Qatar and Russia. The Netherlands and Belgium submitted a joint bid, as did Spain and Portugal. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: While Sepp Blatter of FIFA talked, another official, Jerome Valcke, examined the U.S. bid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRICE COFFRINI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (78%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (92%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ENGLAND (79%); BELGIUM (64%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



356 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Practically Speaking, Stocks May Be a Good Bet

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
AFTER a nice run, the stock market looks a lot like the movie ''Jaws 2'': just when you thought it was safe to go back into the water... (cue the menacing music). But before the concern about Greek debt and the wild ride the stock markets took at the end of last week, I had begun to hear people talking up stocks again. 
 Data from the Investment Company Institute, which tracks money into and out of various funds, verified my hunch. Money left equity funds in each of the last four months of 2009, but flowed in the first four months of this year. The numbers were not staggering but they seemed to be a first step. 
 Some wealthy investors are still shying away from the stock market, but others consider the recent yo-yo streak a blip and are thinking more seriously about equities. Those putting their money back into stocks need to understand that markets are going to be increasingly volatile, advisers said. That is influencing how they are picking stocks but it is not stopping them. 
 ''People got bullish and then we had this quick and very painful 8 or 9 percent correction,'' said John Maloney, chief executive of M&R Capital. ''As slow and painful as this recovery is, we're not likely to have a double dip.''
 But what will we have? Even if there is no double dip, there are still many questions about the stock market, where big and small investors not so long ago boasted about their winners and forgot their losers. For anyone trying to decide what to do, here is a look at some of the debate about equities. 
 WHY NOT BUY STOCKS NOW? One school of thought says equities are a great value. ''U.S. stocks in aggregate represent the cheapest asset class in the world today,'' said G. Moffett Cochran, chief executive of Silvercrest Asset Management, with $9 billion in assets. ''We're saying to clients 'We'd urge you to increase your allocation.' ''
 But the rational argument is a hard sell. ''People want to believe this, but people are very skeptical,'' Mr. Cochran said. ''What they've learned from first-hand experience is those things that can go up can also go down, and they can do down abruptly.''
 Leo Grohowski, chief investment officer at Bank of New York Mellon Wealth Management, put it more bluntly: ''Investors should be entering into the market with a strong stomach.'' 
 For others, this uncertainty has put stocks in the category of a cyclical trade: there may be some money to made on them in the short term, but be careful. Richard Cookson, global chief investment officer at Citi Private Bank, subscribes to this point of view. He said companies looked profitable -- and their stocks good -- not because of any fundamental improvements but because they had cut costs by laying off workers. 
 Mr. Cookson said that stocks over the long term could be a tough investment, but he is a pragmatist. ''You can be right over the very long term but you can get killed in the short term,'' he said. ''My argument is not that you don't buy equities, but it means you have to be quite careful when you sell.'' 
 This is not exactly a rousing endorsement of stocks right now, but Mr. Cookson said he believed that stocks could offer a good return over the next six months.
 SMALL, MEDIUM OR LARGE? There are plenty of money managers, not surprisingly, who are far more bullish on stocks. But like the story of the three bears, the managers have different views of which ones are just right. 
 Nick Galluccio, chief executive of Teton Advisers, has $300 million of the $600 million he manages in small- and micro-capitalization stocks. He said these stocks outperformed those from large-capitalization companies over the last decade by 9 percent. And he argues that smaller companies -- those with market capitalizations of $200 million to $2 billion -- will grow more quickly as the economy recovers because they often supply larger companies.
 At the other end of the spectrum is Mr. Maloney, who manages $450 million at M&R Capital. He says he believes that large cap stocks will have both steady growth and low volatility in the future. He reasons that because these companies are multinationals, they can protect themselves from any slowdown in the domestic economy. 
 In between the two is Richard Madigan, chief investment officer of the $9.2 billion Global Access Portfolio at J. P. Morgan Private Bank. He agreed that large cap stocks could benefit from a global recovery and said he liked small caps last year but felt they had had their run. Now, he prefers stocks in companies between the two extremes. His reason is that the midcap sector is guided more by fundamentals. ''It's a less aggressive sector and not driven by momentum like large caps,'' he said. 
 That reasonable arguments can be made for three different types of stocks will not clear up investors' uncertainty. Even Mr. Grohowski, who has set a year-end target of 1,250 for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, acknowledges that theories on sectors and predictions on indexes carry less weight with investors than they used to. 
 ''Investors have a right to be skeptical,'' he said, adding that investors have been more receptive to pitches on quality, dividend-paying stocks like Pepsi or ConocoPhillips than overarching theories. ''There's a high-degree of skepticism with top-down forecasts but also around past performances.'' 
 This is where the stock pickers come in. William Priest, the founder of Epoch Investment Partners, which manages $12.5 billion, is focused on what he calls ''shareholder yield.'' Instead of choosing stocks based on the traditional criteria of dividends, earnings and price-to-earnings ratios, he looks at how companies maintain and use the cash on their balance sheets. 
 ''Earnings are an accounting artifact,'' he said. ''It's all about cash flow. When Bear Stearns went broke, it had a book value of $60 per share. Cash doesn't lie.'' 
 Most of the stocks he likes for this strategy are large cap, but he said he had been able to create a stable portfolio that aimed for a 9 percent return, no more, no less. 
 ROUGH RIDE Regardless of how you go about buying equities, the consensus is that the rest of the year will probably be full of peaks and troughs. 
 ''We've probably seen the low in volatility for the year,'' Mr. Grohowski said. ''It's going to be choppy and uneven from here.''
 He pointed out that the S.& P. neared his year-end prediction of 1,250 when it closed at 1,217 on April 23. On May 7, two weeks later, it closed 100 points lower. This leaves investors three choices: Remain on the sidelines while understanding that market timing is impossible, have a long-term strategy and accept the volatility, or try to mitigate the swings. 
 Wasif Latif, vice president of equity investments at USAA's investment management unit, said he had seen a lot of interest in equity hedging to lessen and possibly profit from stock swings. He said USAA's Global Opportunities Portfolio -- which uses a simple strategy of creating bands, or collars, around stocks to manage how much they can rise or fall -- went from essentially zero to $500 million in a year. 
 ''We're getting money in because of the psychology in the market,'' he said. ''We're trying to get market exposure but limit the downside.''
 This isn't exactly a bullish sentiment. But it is a practical one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Leo Grohowski, chief investment officer at Bank of New York Mellon, says, ''Investors have a right to be skeptical.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRIVATE BANKING (75%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (80%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); SILVERCREST ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (80%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



357 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; PRINCETON JOURNAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Dinky or Bus? A Town Is Torn

BYLINE: By DAVID WALTER

 BODY:
PRINCETON, N.J. -- The run of the train known as the Princeton Dinky is both impressively long and unusually short. For 145 years, this rail link in a college town has ferried students and commuters over the briefest of distances. But Year 146 has not been kind to the nation's shortest regularly scheduled commuter route, which travels a four-minute, 2.7-mile stretch of track between a small station at Princeton University and a larger one at Princeton Junction. 
 For one thing, New Jersey Transit, which operates the train, has raised Dinky fares and cut off-peak service, much as it has done with other trains and buses in these tight economic times. It has also consulted with local and university officials on a proposal to pave over the Dinky's tracks and install a bus system that would extend through the whole town. Such a system, supporters say, could reach more people, run more frequently than the Dinky and even ease a dispute that has long delayed the establishment of a university arts complex. 
 But if these are the Dinky's final days, one might not immediately sense it from riding the train. On a recent weekday morning, most of the seats in the Dinky's one open car were filled with commuters sharing newspapers and conversation. 
 Robert Gibbs, 57, walked down the aisle, taking tickets and chatting with riders. (''How're you doing?'' ''All right, got breakfast.'' ''Good, good.'') Mr. Gibbs first worked on the Dinky 25 years ago as a trainee conductor, with his most recent stint beginning two years back. ''It's a seniority job, mostly,'' Mr. Gibbs said, his blue conductor's cap pulled snugly over his bald head. He hopes to work on the Dinky until his retirement, in 2015.
 Audra Sbarra, a talkative social worker wrapped in a bright pink coat, looked up to greet Mr. Gibbs and then, referring to the Dinky, said: ''There's nothing else like this. It's a minitrain, it's so cute.'' Behind her, a couple discussed Shakespeare. 
 On weekends, the Dinky's customers include more students and families, but the train retains some of its weekday communal spirit. 
 ''You can start talking to anybody, because you know you'll be off in three minutes,'' said Kelley Taylor, a Princeton junior who was returning to campus on a recent Sunday from a class trip to the Guggenheim Museum. Ms. Taylor said she was ''highly opposed'' to replacing the little train with a bus.
 The Dinky's interior, with its fake wood paneling and vinyl seats, is hardly romantic. Nor is the view from its windows, which reveals a second line of rails, abandoned in 1955, in the undergrowth along the train's right of way. That sight serves as a reminder of the golden days, when the route had two busy tracks. 
 Football was one factor in the train's decline. When Ivy League games were more popular at the turn of the 20th century, the PJ&B (Princeton Junction and Back) line, as the Dinky was then known, carried tens of thousands of fans into Princeton for grudge matches against Harvard and Yale. There was also much fanfare on the line in 1913, when Woodrow Wilson's inaugural voyage to the White House began at Princeton Station. Albert Einstein rode the train into Princeton, too, and John Nash, the mathematician of ''A Beautiful Mind,'' still does. 
 ''If someone knows the Dinky, then they know Princeton,'' said Lynn Harper, 29, a Baptist minister who runs a side business selling T-shirts emblazoned with the tiny train's image.
 Townspeople keen to preserve the train have flocked to a ''Save the Princeton Dinky'' Facebook group. In less than a month, the group has attracted about 4,400 members. Some of them are moved by nostalgia for the Dinky and others by practical concerns, like the difficulty a bus system would face in staying on time while navigating the often-crowded streets of Princeton. 
 ''Service has changed a lot over the last decade,'' said Marc Monseau, 43, one of the administrators of the Facebook group. But with the bus, he said, ''you're replacing a reliable, comfortable service with something that is very much unproven.''
 Marvin Reed, the chairman of the master planning subcommittee of Princeton Borough and the most vocal proponent of the bus plan, will face Dinky supporters at a meeting of the borough planning board early next month. 
 ''If people get engaged in the process, then on balance I'm hoping that they'll see that this is a way of progressing toward something better for Princeton,'' said Mr. Reed, a former mayor of the borough.
 The bus makes sense in transportation terms, he said, but he argued that it would also allow the borough and the university to sidestep their long impasse over the school's planned arts complex. The university wants to move the Dinky station 460 feet farther south to make room for the complex, but the borough is resisting that idea because it would make the station a longer walk from town. The stakes are large: The complex will be financed partly with a $101 million gift from Peter B. Lewis, an insurance executive -- the largest donation Princeton has ever received. 
 The final decision on the Dinky's fate lies with New Jersey Transit. 
 Penny Bassett Hackett, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in an e-mail message that New Jersey Transit had originally proposed that the bus system operate alongside the Dinky. But both town and university leaders said that approach was impractical. 
 If the Dinky does shut down, all sides agree, the region's rail system would lose one of its more idiosyncratic links.
 ''The Dinky brand says authentic Princeton -- it has stories and memories,'' Ms. Taylor said. ''It's not just a bus that you take somewhere.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The train called the Dinky, left, en route to Princeton, N.J., from Princeton Junction. Below, Deying Yu, left, and Yihong Wu on a ride back. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARAH RICE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



358 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Fighting AIDS: Notes From the Field

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''At Front Lines, Global War on AIDS Is Falling Apart'' (front page, May 10) conveyed an unjustifiably negative picture of the global AIDS fight and America's role in it.
 Our country's vigorous response to the H.I.V./AIDS epidemic has been one of the great public health success stories of all time. The United States government provides more than half of all donor support for the global H.I.V. response, through our own programs and contributions to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis. 
 The United States now supports more than 2.5 million people on antiretroviral treatment. In Uganda, our budget is now about $280 million per year -- well over 70 percent of all H.I.V. funding in that country.
 The United States is expanding treatment in Uganda and throughout the Pepfar (President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief) countries. By 2014, we will be supporting treatment for more than four million people with H.I.V., and we recognize the role others must play in meeting the global need.
 While challenges remain, we are building on and expanding our successes, not walking away from them. This is a global responsibility, and we are using this success story to invite other governments and donors to join us in meeting it.
 Eric Goosby U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator Department of State Washington, May 12, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Your article does a great service in painting a clear picture of the global fight against AIDS today. It reports that United States officials, because of tight economic times, are freezing American financing, and tells the story of one hospital that was told not to accept new patients.
 Such situations pose huge moral and practical dilemmas. But there are ways to save more lives, even if money is tight.
 In our research for the AIDS2031 panel, we found that countries have choices with different price tags and consequences. Leaders need to act now to get more bang for the buck.
 The cost of drugs and health workers can be brought down. Prevention must be focused on groups at highest risk (sex workers and injecting drug users in some places, people in marriages who have multiple sex partners in others), so that fewer people need treatment in the future. Middle-income countries like China, Thailand and Ukraine should pay for their own AIDS costs so that American funds can be channeled to the poorest and most affected nations.
 We have made huge progress in the fight against AIDS because those at the forefront have been constantly creative. New ideas to take us further are circulating again. Our leaders must be bold and clear-eyed in using them.
 Robert Hecht Principal and Managing Director Results for Development Institute Washington, May 11, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''As the Need Grows, the Money Runs Far Short'' (news article, May 10):
 The original Pepfar program aspired to change the course of the H.I.V./AIDS epidemic in Africa and the Caribbean, and it proved successful. One of its aims was to demonstrate that, with resources commensurate with need, high-level political leadership and good results-oriented management, health development dollars could have a real, measurable impact.
 Although well intended, the diluting of the aggressive stand of prior years against H.I.V./AIDS to finance other agendas is ultimately a disservice to all global health concerns. Rather, funding should be sought to mount an effective response on multiple health fronts.
 The current approach will result in a resurgence not only of death, instability and suffering in Africa, but also of the cynicism about public investments in global health that marked the pre-Pepfar era.
 Joseph F. O'Neill Baltimore, May 12, 2010
 The writer, director of Global Health Initiatives at the University of Maryland, was director of the White House Office of AIDS Policy under George W. Bush.
 To the Editor:
 About five years ago I was working as a nurse in a clinic in rural Ethiopia as part of a delegation financed by the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or Pepfar. We were helping to train Ethiopian nurses and doctors.
 I remember looking out once to see hundreds of patients waiting. I saw the shelves and realized there was only a small portion of the needed medications. A doctor asked, ''Who lives and who dies and how do we choose?''
 It was a moment I never wanted to face again.
 Since then, AIDS programs have grown and proved successful beyond what we thought possible. But as I read your article, I was disheartened that the Obama administration is pulling back from a promise made to those beyond our shores to join them in the long-term fight against AIDS.
 Yet I am encouraged that maybe, just maybe, the urgency of the situation is now clear to the American people, and we will join forces and call on President Obama to build upon, not shift from, the success of Pepfar.
 After all, in a 2007 speech he said: ''I believe that America is the last, best hope'' and ''it is time to show the world why this is so.''
 Pat Daoust Wellesley, Mass., May 10, 2010
 The writer is co-chairwoman of the Global Health Committee, Association of Nurses in AIDS Care.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RYAN THACKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EPIDEMICS (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); ANTIVIRALS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MALARIA (73%); DRUG PRICES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); UGANDA (92%); CHINA (79%); UKRAINE (77%); THAILAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



359 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Slides, Fearing Return To a Recession

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY; Contributing reporting were Jack Ewing, Christine Hauser, David Jolly and Bettina Wassener.

 BODY:
Investors, who had started the week reassured by the huge rescue of Europe's indebted nations, expressed second thoughts on Friday, sending markets lower and further devaluing the euro on concerns that the austerity measures required by the bailout would stunt the Continent's already anemic economic growth. 
 The euro fell to its lowest level in 18 months, and bank stocks on both sides of the Atlantic took a beating. 
 Investors seemed fearful that the $957 billion bailout package for Greece and other nations, while providing short-term protection against default, might drag out the economic pain and hurt the financial system in the process. 
 A continued hammering of the euro would make European exports cheaper, but the side effect would be weaker American exports, potentially dragging the United States -- and the rest of the world -- back toward recession.
 ''What you get is markets worrying about a whole cascading of weakness stemming from Europe being transmitted through the euro to the United States,'' said Martin Murenbeeld, chief economist at DundeeWealth Economics in Toronto.
 One by one on Friday, markets across Asia, Europe and then the United States sank lower under the renewed pessimism about European growth and the instability stemming from the Continent. 
 The price of oil continued to fall as traders bet on slower global growth, and gold continued to rise as an asset perceived by investors as a safer, long-term store of value in times of stress.
 In the United States, the Dow Jones industrial average, which had been seesawing since the rescue package was announced on Monday, declined 162.79 points, or 1.51 percent, to 10,620.16 on Friday. 
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 21.76 points, or 1.88 percent, to 1,135.68.
 The Nasdaq composite index dropped 47.51 points, or 1.98 percent, to 2.346.85.
 The Treasury's 10-year note rose 20/32, to 100 12/32. The yield fell to 3.45 percent, from 3.53 percent late Thursday.
 Bank stocks led the market decline, mainly over worries about Europe. Another factor might have been the Senate's approval of a proposal on Thursday that could cut bank revenue by imposing limits on fees they can charge businesses to process debit card transactions. 
 The Senate also approved an initiative to end reliance on major credit rating agencies, putting further pressure on financial stocks.
 Last Friday, United States markets gave back all their gains for the year amid the immediate concerns over European defaults. Then on Monday, they roared back at the opening bell on the news of the nearly trillion-dollar intervention, sending the Dow up 404.71 points. 
 Despite Friday's losses, the Dow still managed to end the week up 239.73 points and is up 1.84 percent so far this year.
 The S.& P. 500 finished 24.8 points higher for the week and is up 1.85 percent so far this year. The Nasdaq was up 81.21 points for the week and is up 3.42 percent so far this year.
 In European trading on Friday, the Euro Stoxx 50 index of blue chips ended the session down 3.7 percent. In Paris, stocks slumped 4.6 percent; in London, the FTSE 100 lost 3.1 percent; and in Germany, the benchmark DAX index lost 3.1 percent of its value. The stock market in Spain fell 6.6 percent.
 The euro had rallied briefly to start the week, signaling initial enthusiasm about the rescue package. But then it dropped steadily as the week wore on and fell again on Friday, to $1.2385.
 Since the start of the year, the currency has fallen 13 percent against the dollar and 14 percent against the yen.
 Economists have begun worrying that the dollar's appreciation might push up the price of American exports to Europe enough to place a further drag on growth in the United States.
 The sharp worldwide market decline came only five days after the European Union and the International Monetary Fund hoped their package would signal a ''shock and awe'' commitment to ending the Continent's crisis.
 But economists said that while the package had eased concerns that countries like Greece would encounter trouble in rolling over old debts or borrowing new money, it had done nothing to help them grow. 
 ''It's not a game changer, just a game extender,'' said Jim Caron, the global head of interest rate strategy at Morgan Stanley. 
 As far as the markets are concerned, Mr. Caron said, ''It does not fix the problem of whether Europe will be able to climb out of this hole.'' 
 There was also a growing worry Friday about how governments would find the $957 billion to pay for the rescue package, economists said, and a growing suspicion that central banks might eventually resort to allowing inflation to lessen groaning debt loads. 
 The European Central Bank agreed to help calm the financial turmoil by buying government bonds for the first time in its history this week. 
 Some economists regard that step as a troubling departure from the bank's mandate to focus solely on price stability, and as a result is adding to the pressures undermining the euro. 
 ''The reputation of the E.C.B. has been dented,'' said Jorg Kramer, chief economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt. 
 Although the market swoon amounted to an unwelcome return to the turmoil that preceded the bailout package, Zach Pandl, an economist at Nomura Securities in New York, emphasized that Friday's decline was different in that it did not involve a big sell-off in government bonds. 
 Interest rates on bonds in Greece, Spain, Portugal and other countries had risen sharply in recent weeks as investors feared governments might default on their debts. The rescue package appears to have quieted those fears somewhat. But now investors seem to be worried about a slowdown in growth caused by governments cutting back spending.
 On Friday, finance officials from the Group of 7 nations, including the United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, met by conference call to discuss the continuing market turmoil. They did not comment publicly afterward, however.
 The uneasy mood in the markets was not helped by remarks by Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve and now an adviser to the Obama administration, who in a speech in London on Thursday raised the possibility of a ''potential disintegration of the euro.'' 
 There are also indications that the rescue deal has worsened tensions among the European capitals.
 El Pais, the Spanish newspaper, reported Friday that President Nicolas Sarkozy of France had pressured Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, to back the rescue effort, pounding his fist and saying France would leave the common currency without Germany's support.
 At a news conference in Zagreb, the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, described the El Pais report as ''rubbish.''
 But with rumors like that swirling through markets, investors were saddled with uncertainty, a sure prescription for selling.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One by one on Friday, markets sank lower in Asia, Europe and then the United States. Above, the floor of the New York Exchange. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); DEBIT CARDS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); DUNDEEWEALTH INC (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); ASIA (92%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



360 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Slow Creep of the 'Best Interests' Clause

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sandor@nytimes.com

 BODY:
For decades, commissioners have invoked the ''best interests of baseball'' clause, to exile Pete Rose, to stop Charles O. Finley's sale of his Oakland A's players and to try to realign the National League, among other things. In each instance, the actions focused on owners, players or teams.
 In 1994, as the acting commissioner, Bud Selig wrote a commentary in The New York Times in which he declared that the ''best interests'' powers were inherently narrow and created to ensure the integrity of the game. ''The notion of an almighty commissioner directing the business of baseball is incorrect,'' he wrote. 
 Selig's legal thinking has evolved, and his interpretation of ''best interests'' has expanded. 
 Last month he cited his ''best interest'' powers to outsiders -- lenders to the Texas Rangers -- in a letter telling them he expected them to accept the estimated $575 million bid for the team by a group led by Nolan Ryan, the Hall of Fame pitcher and team president, and Chuck Greenberg.
 In essence, he said he could invalidate the liens that the lenders hold on the team to put the Greenberg group in place. Gabe Feldman, director of the sports law program at Tulane University, said Selig was testing the breadth of his vague powers. ''He's saying to lenders, 'If you don't agree to the sale, I'll take over the team, and my gaining control will impact you,' '' he said. He added, ''It's consistent with the views of commissioners and leagues that they get to decide who their owners will be.''
 But lenders have their own view: some think that Selig is using his powers to abrogate their loans and damage their bottom lines. So they spurned Selig's power play -- and await his next salvo.
 These lenders have turned into angry creditors. Hicks Sports Group, the holding company for the Rangers and the Dallas Stars of the N.H.L., defaulted on $525 million in loans in March 2009. Lenders have received no interest payments since and think that two bidders would pay more than the Greenberg group.
 If Selig were to break the stalemate to permit new bidding, the lenders insisted they would receive more from the proceeds after the Rangers' owner, Thomas O. Hicks, took his cut. If those higher offers did not materialize, Andrew Herenstein, the managing principal of the lead lender, Monarch Alternative Capital, said he was prepared to close the deal with Greenberg.
 But, until then, Herenstein wrote in a letter to owners this week, ''the lenders are not willing to allow a sale of the team to the Greenberg group at a price below fair market value.''
 After owners' meetings ended Thursday, Selig said only that he wanted to complete the sale quickly.
 Good luck on that. If Selig now takes unilateral action, he will probably start a legal war. 
 The lenders could beat Selig to court by forcing the team into bankruptcy, which would delay a sale until a judge orders an auction to maximize their payments. When the National Hockey League acquired the Phoenix Coyotes out of bankruptcy last year, it paid the team's creditors in full, and it is now trying to resell the franchise.
 Selig's interpretation of ''best interests'' is a radical leap from Finley's attempt in 1976 to sell Vida Blue to the Yankees for $1.5 million and Rollie Fingers and Joe Rudi to the Red Sox for $1 million each. Commissioner Bowie Kuhn refused to allow the sales, which prompted a lawsuit, and a victory for Kuhn's authority in federal court. 
 Fay Vincent, Selig's predecessor as commissioner, invoked ''best interests'' to realign the National League in 1992 but was sued by the Chicago Cubs, who would have moved from the east to the west. Vincent lost.
 ''I made a mistake using it for realignment; you use it when you have the political support,'' Vincent said.
 He said that the ''best interests'' clause was not intended for use against lenders. 
 In fact, he doubts that it has much power or meaning anymore.
 Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College and the author of ''In the Best Interests of Baseball? The Revolutionary Reign of Bud Selig'' (Wiley), said the provision ''is only applicable to internal relationships in baseball.'' He added: ''Creditors are not a part of baseball. The application is between baseball and Mr. Hicks.''
 But he said: ''I don't think Bud Selig and Bob DuPuy thought by invoking the clause, the lenders would lie down.'' DuPuy is baseball's president and chief operating officer.
 Selig has creatively used the ''best interests'' terminology before. In 2004 he announced the sale of the Milwaukee Brewers, which he and his family had been involved with since 1970, when the team moved from Seattle. He put his interest in a blind trust when he was elected commissioner in 1998 after serving in the acting capacity for six years. His daughter, Wendy, then took over the club. 
 Selig said that ''it was time for me to sever my ties'' with the Brewers.
 Why? It was ''in the best interests of the game.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%)

COMPANY: DALLAS STARS LP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (84%); TEXAS RANGERS (56%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (63%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (56%) TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



361 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Liberals in Limbo

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Is ''Left'' becoming a four-letter word? 
 You'd think so lately with each day bringing more news of unconscionable conservative tilts in the electorate, while the drumbeat of the Democrats' supposed death march to November gets ever louder. 
 For example, a Wall Street Journal/NBC News survey released this week found that a majority of Americans supported Arizona's hostile new immigration law, even as most allowed that the law is likely to lead to more discrimination against legal immigrants. Apparently, for some, there is an acceptable level of collateral damage.
 A May 7 Gallup poll found that 42 percent of people wanted a Supreme Court nominee who would make the court more conservative, as opposed to only 27 percent who wanted a nominee who would make it more liberal. That was before Elena Kagan was nominated. Afterward, 40 percent rated her as a good or excellent choice, but that was the lowest such rating in recent history, even 4 percentage points lower than Harriet Miers's.
 An Associated Press-GfK poll released this week found that a plurality of people still favor increasing drilling for oil and gas off the coasts even as an unprecedented natural disaster unfolds in the Gulf of Mexico. Environment be damned. 
 And Gallup released a poll on Friday entitled ''The New Normal on Abortion: Americans More 'Pro-Life.' '' It buttressed the finding from last summer when, for the first time since the question began being asked in 1995, more people self-identified as ''pro-life'' than as ''pro-choice.'' 
 This string of bad news has only compounded an already palpable sense of loss and longing on the left, an enveloping fear of the inevitable: rejection. The right, and most importantly, the middle, unnerved by spending in a recession and unhinged by Obama in the White House, have not bought into the liberal vision of a new America. In fact, they're increasingly weary of it, if not hostile to it. 
 So by most accounts, Nov. 2 is going to be a blue day in blue America. That is in part because of a sizable enthusiasm gap that favors Republicans. 
 Liberals may want to crouch in a corner, wait for the storm to pass, then resurface and survey the damage, but that would be avoidance rather than acknowledgement and acceptance.
 Better to acknowledge that the anger and frustration felt across the country, however fanatical and freighted, must find release, and it will do so in November. Then you can accept it for what it is: not a failure of philosophy, but a fear of the future. That future can be deferred, but it will not be denied.
 I am convinced that the right may win the day, but the left will win the age. That's because the right is running an intellectually bereft campaign of desperation and disenchantment, amplified by a recession. 
 Great Recessions don't last. Great ideas do. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Ebb and Flow of the Electorate: What is your preference for the outcome of this year's congressional elections: a Congress controlled by Republicans or Democrats? (Source: NBC News/Wall Street Journal Survey) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (74%); IMMIGRATION (71%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); JUDGES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); ABORTION (65%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (72%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); ELENA KAGAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



362 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Retail Sales in April Beat Expectations

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Sales continued to rise at American retail stores in April, an indication that the economic recovery was progressing.
 The Commerce Department said Friday that retail sales reached a seasonally adjusted $366.4 billion in April, a 0.4 percent increase that was slightly better than industry analysts expected.
 The sales figures coincided with the release of other indicators -- on industrial production, manufacturing and consumer confidence -- that also pointed to strengthening economic performance. 
 But there were still signs of fragility. Much of the rise in retail sales was fueled by sales of building materials, which expanded 6.9 percent, while decreases were reported at several categories of retail stores. And the rate of overall increase was lower than in March, when sales expanded at the more robust revised monthly rate of 2.1 percent, the government said.
 Still, it was the seventh consecutive monthly increase, and the results were 8.8 percent higher than in April 2009.
 ''The underlying message is that consumer spending is doing pretty well here,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist for MFR Inc.
 Mr. Shapiro and other economists said the figures indicated that consumers would probably contribute positively to the gross domestic product in the second quarter.
 ''But it is unclear where it is going to settle down,'' Mr. Shapiro said, adding, ''although further out it will be labor market conditions which determine the underlying trend.''
 The trend in retail sales growth could be affected by several factors. Spending has been influenced by temporary government stimulus plans. It is not clear how long interest rates will remain low. And much depends on the outlook for jobs. Recent data show that while the economy has been adding jobs, many of the jobless, especially the long-term unemployed, are still struggling to find work. 
 And some economists parsing the numbers of April's retail sales found the results tepid. 
 ''Outside of sales of building materials, there is not much to get excited about in this report,'' Dan Greenhaus, chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak & Company, said in a research note.
 Sales of motor vehicles and car parts rose 0.5 percent. Excluding that category, retail sales in April still rose 0.4 percent. At health and personal care stores, sales expanded by 0.9 percent. 
 But spending across a broad range of other categories fell. Retail sales were all down in sporting goods, electronics, hobbies, music stores, home furnishings, and grocery and department stores. 
 ''It is mixed, but I think the recovery is still on track,'' said Win Thin, a senior currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Company. ''I think we will see continued modest improvement.''
 Consumer spending makes up some 70 percent of American economic activity, so any indications of how households are likely to spend are closely watched.
 The preliminary reading for May from an index on consumer sentiment was 73.3 points, up from April's 72.2. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters, which distributes the results of the survey on consumer sentiment by the University of Michigan, had predicted a reading of 73.5 for May. 
 Mr. Shapiro said even though the index figure was above the low in November 2008 of 55.3, the level was still depressed. ''With household balance sheets still overleveraged, the key determinant of consumer spending growth going forward will be the pace of the recovery in the labor market,'' he said.
 New figures also showed that manufacturing activity was rebounding. The Federal Reserve said industrial production picked up for the second consecutive month, rising by 0.8 percent in April compared with a revised 0.2 percent increase in March.
 The increase was helped by a 2.8 percent rise in the production of construction supplies, according to the figures.
 Over all, industrial production has increased 5.2 percent since April 2009, the report said.
 The output of most major market groups, including construction, has risen, the report said. Consumer goods production expanded, with advances in appliances, furniture and carpeting. But those increases were slightly offset by declines in automotive products and home electronics. Manufacturing rose 1.0 percent and mining increased 1.4 percent, offset by a 1.3 percent decline in production by utilities, the report said. 
 ''The industrial sector is benefiting from increased domestic demand, a strong export expansion, and to an important extent from a cyclical inventory swing,'' said Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist for the Manufacturers Alliance-MAPI. ''We expect to see continued moderately strong growth in manufacturing activity this year as the industrial sector restocks and benefits from the economic recovery,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers at the Macy's in Manhattan. Economists say that despite recent rising retail sales, some spending trends are not good. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Retail Sales: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
Industrial Production: Index of total industrial production, 2002 = 100, seasonally adjusted.
 Capacity Utilization: Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (79%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE STORES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (63%)

COMPANY: BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



363 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Representing The Client, Your Honor, The Client

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
Every now and then we get a defendant who does not trust the system and deems himself best suited to play the role of his own lawyer in court -- better suited, that is, than someone who went to law school.
 One such case is playing itself out in a courtroom in Manhattan, where a man accused of killing his girlfriend in Chelsea could deliver his opening statement in his own defense as early as Monday. 
 As is the case in many instances in which someone goes pro se -- legalese for representing yourself -- this defendant, Robert Camarano, 62, seems ill suited for the job. Just ask Justice Carol Berkman, who criticized Mr. Camarano's lawyer skills this week. 
 ''You don't know how to ask a question,'' Justice Berkman told him in State Supreme Court. ''You don't know how to offer things into evidence. You keep making stupid speeches. You keep saying you are good at this. You are not. I do not say this to insult you.''
 Ouch!
 Mr. Camarano's attempt to fly solo with his defense is a reminder of past defendants who have followed the same path with results ranging from kooky to creepy.
 Two years ago, John Hamlett cross-examined the woman he was accused of raping at his trial in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. The woman was clearly disgusted, looking away from Mr. Hamlett and crossing her arms as he questioned her.
 Here is how The Daily News described one exchange between Mr. Hamlett and the woman:
 ''You said I put you in a choke hold,'' Hamlett said.
 ''I sure did,'' the woman replied.
 ''And you felt faint?'' he continued.
 ''Actually, I thought I was going to die,'' she said. ''Saying I felt faint was an understatement.''
 At one point, the woman told the judge she could not do it anymore, but the judge told her she had to.
 The jury convicted Mr. Hamlett of various charges, including sexual abuse and criminal sexual acts.
 Andrew M. Lankler, a former Manhattan prosecutor who is now a defense lawyer, said that a popular story when he was a prosecutor more than 20 years ago was of a defendant who gave the jury 10 reasons he was not guilty in his closing statement. During deliberations, the jurors asked that those 10 reasons be read back to them, setting off something like alarm bells in the prosecutors, who thought perhaps they were buying his argument.
 It turned out, Mr. Lankler said, that the jurors did not believe him and just wanted to hear the reasons so they could debunk them.
 ''Pro se cases are fascinating; they're terrifying,'' Mr. Lankler said. ''You're just begging to get reversed even if you convict the guy.''
 For prosecutors, he added, ''They're scary from an ego point of view, because God forbid you ever lose a pro se case.''
 Batting for the Other Team
 Remember when Johnny Damon played for the Red Sox and devoted his life to making things hard on the Yankees, only to leave Boston for the Bronx?
 Well, Michael K. Loucks (pdf) is pulling a similar move.
 For years, Mr. Loucks was one of the nation's leading prosecutors of health care fraud, working in the United States attorney's office in Boston. But on Wednesday, he joined the New York-based firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom -- the same firm whose client, the pharmaceutical giant Pfizer, had to pay a record $2.3 million fine last year because of a case Mr. Loucks brought against the company.
 So does he think it will be awkward to now represent the very companies he once was responsible for policing?
 ''I don't think so,'' he said. ''One of the principles that all lawyers operate by is your duty is to represent your client zealously.''
 He compared the move to Eric H. Holder Jr., the attorney general, leaving the Washington firm of Covington & Burling for the Justice Department.
 ''No one really asks Eric Holder if he can be a good, zealous advocate for the people of the United States,'' Mr. Loucks said.
 Mr. Loucks, who will be based in Skadden's Boston office, said he expected health care cases to be a big topic with the passage by Congress of the health care reform bill.
 ''There are so many changes, and some of the provisions in the legislation are incredibly ambiguous,'' he said. ''I just think there's going to be an enormous amount of work done by lawyers helping clients figure out what the new legislation means and how it impacts them.''
 Hiring
 Mitchell A. Frank, the former assistant general counsel for commercial law and trademarks at Unilever United States, has joined Duane Morris as a special counsel in its New York office, the firm announced this week. He will work for the intellectual property practice group. At Unilever, Mr. Frank was responsible for trademark and copyright protection for the company's North American foods and ice cream business.
 The Corporation Counsel announced on Wednesday that James McSpiritt was named chief of the Law Department's economic development division (pdf). According to a news release, the division ''plays a central role in advising and negotiating major development projects that impact the everyday lives of residents in all five boroughs as well as visitors to New York City,'' such as Atlantic Yards, the new Yankee Stadium and the redesign of Coney Island. Mr. McSpiritt was previously at Phipps Houses Group, a nonprofit developer, owner and manager of moderately priced housing, as the vice president and general counsel.
 John Eligon and other court reporters for The New York Times bring you inside the city's halls of law every Friday. Have a tip? Send an email to CourthouseConfidential@nytimes.com
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); HOMICIDE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



364 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Genetically Engineered Distortions

BYLINE: By PAMELA C. RONALD and JAMES E. McWILLIAMS. 
Pamela C. Ronald, a professor of plant pathology at the University of California, Davis, is the co-author of ''Tomorrow's Table: Organic Farming, Genetics and the Future of Food.'' James E. McWilliams, a history professor at Texas State University at San Marcos, is the author of ''Just Food.''

 BODY:
A REPORT by the National Research Council last month gave ammunition to both sides in the debate over the cultivation of genetically engineered crops. More than 80 percent of the corn, soybeans and cotton grown in the United States is genetically engineered, and the report details the ''long and impressive list of benefits'' that has come from these crops, including improved soil quality, reduced erosion and reduced insecticide use. 
 It also confirmed predictions that widespread cultivation of these crops would lead to the emergence of weeds resistant to a commonly used herbicide, glyphosate (marketed by Monsanto as Roundup). Predictably, both sides have done what they do best when it comes to genetically engineered crops: they've argued over the findings. 
 Lost in the din is the potential role this technology could play in the poorest regions of the world -- areas that will bear the brunt of climate change and the difficult growing conditions it will bring. Indeed, buried deep in the council's report is an appeal to apply genetic engineering to a greater number of crops, and for a greater diversity of purposes. 
 Appreciating this potential means recognizing that genetic engineering can be used not just to modify major commodity crops in the West, but also to improve a much wider range of crops that can be grown in difficult conditions throughout the world.
 Doing that also requires opponents to realize that by demonizing the technology, they've hindered applications of genetic engineering that could save lives and protect the environment. 
 Scientists at nonprofit institutions have been working for more than two decades to genetically engineer seeds that could benefit farmers struggling with ever-pervasive dry spells and old and novel pests. Drought-tolerant cassava, insect-resistant cowpeas, fungus-resistant bananas, virus-resistant sweet potatoes and high-yielding pearl millet are just a few examples of genetically engineered foods that could improve the lives of the poor around the globe.
 For example, researchers in the public domain have been working to engineer sorghum crops that are resistant to both drought and an aggressively parasitic African weed, Striga. 
 In a 1994 pilot project by the United States Agency for International Development, an experimental variety of engineered sorghum had a yield four times that of local varieties under adverse conditions. Sorghum, a native of the continent, is a staple throughout Africa, and improved sorghum seeds would be widely beneficial. 
 As well as enhancing yields, engineered seeds can make crops more nutritious. A new variety of rice modified to produce high amounts of provitamin A, named Golden Rice, will soon be available in the Philippines and, if marketed, would almost assuredly save the lives of thousands of children suffering from vitamin A deficiency.
 There's also a sorghum breed that's been genetically engineered to produce micronutrients like zinc, and a potato designed to contain greater amounts of protein. 
 To appreciate the value of genetic engineering, one need only examine the story of papaya. In the early 1990s, Hawaii's papaya industry was facing disaster because of the deadly papaya ringspot virus. Its single-handed savior was a breed engineered to be resistant to the virus. Without it, the state's papaya industry would have collapsed. Today, 80 percent of Hawaiian papaya is genetically engineered, and there is still no conventional or organic method to control ringspot virus.
 The real significance of the papaya recovery is not that genetic engineering was the most appropriate technology delivered at the right time, but rather that the resistant papaya was introduced before the backlash against engineered crops intensified.
 Opponents of genetically engineered crops have spent much of the last decade stoking consumer distrust of this precise and safe technology, even though, as the research council's previous reports noted, engineered crops have harmed neither human health nor the environment. 
 In doing so, they have pushed up regulatory costs to the point where the technology is beyond the economic reach of small companies or foundations that might otherwise develop a wider range of healthier crops for the neediest farmers. European restrictions, for instance, make it virtually impossible for scientists at small laboratories there to carry out field tests of engineered seeds.
 As it now stands, opposition to genetic engineering has driven the technology further into the hands of a few seed companies that can afford it, further encouraging their monopolistic tendencies while leaving it out of reach for those that want to use it for crops with low (or no) profit margins. 
 The stakes are too high for us not to make the best use of genetic engineering. If we fail to invest responsibly in agricultural research, if we continue to allow propaganda to trump science, then the potential for global agriculture to be productive, diverse and sustainable will go unfulfilled. And it's not those of us here in the developed world who will suffer the direct consequences, but rather the poorest and most vulnerable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (94%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (93%); HERBICIDES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (89%); MISC GRAIN FARMING (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (73%); INSECTICIDES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EROSION (71%); EROSION CONTROL (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); MALNUTRITION (53%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



365 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: A Surge in Trade In Some Countries, But Others Lag

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
WORLD trade is rising rapidly around the world, providing more evidence of a global recovery led by emerging economies. But some European countries are lagging, in part because they are not competitive with their neighbors. 
 The accompanying charts show the changes in exports and imports for 12 countries -- four major industrial nations, four troubled members of the euro zone and four emerging economies.
 In each of the four emerging economies, China, India, South Korea and Brazil, imports are rising at a faster rate than exports, although only India has a trade deficit.
 China is no longer running the world's largest trade surplus. In fact, the monthly average surplus for the most recently reported three months -- February through April -- was only $683 million. For a country that imports and exports $10 billion a month, that is a negligible number.
 The figures are based on each country's reported trade in goods, valued in dollars for the sake of consistency. The chart shows the change for each country's trade for three-month periods ending in the month shown, compared with the same three-month period a year earlier.
 A year ago, trade appeared to be collapsing around the world, in large part because of the credit crisis and the reactions of both companies and consumers to it. Even with the recent surge in trade, none of the countries shown are exporting goods at the highest rate ever, and only one -- China -- is importing more goods than it ever did.
 In the United States, imports are rising a little faster than exports, with both growing around 20 percent in the first quarter, compared with the year-earlier period. It was the first calendar quarter to show year-over-year growth in trade since the third quarter of 2008. It was near the end of that quarter that Lehman Brothers failed and worries of financial crisis grew.
 German trade is growing more slowly than in the United States, but the country continues to run large trade surpluses, with exports 21 percent higher than imports in the most recent three months available. By contrast, Japanese exports are 12 percent higher than imports, and the figure in China is just 1 percent.
 Growth in trade is generally more restrained in the so-called Gips countries of Europe -- Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain. But their circumstances vary widely. In Ireland, both exports and imports are running lower than they were a year earlier, but the country continues to benefit from a very large trade surplus, with exports 82 percent higher than imports. 
 In terms of growth in trade, the figures are similar in Greece, with imports falling and exports almost level with those of a year ago. But Greece continues to face a large trade deficit, and would need a real surge in exports to cut into that deficit. For the three months through February, exports were 63 percent lower than imports.
 In the United States, which faces chronic trade deficits, the margin is 31 percent, roughly half as large as the one faced by Greece.
 Making Greece's exporters competitive will be a very difficult task while the country remains in the euro zone. If it does, the likelihood is that there will be a prolonged period of deflation, with wages being reduced in an effort to cut costs.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Trends in Exports and Imports: Year-over-year change in three-month moving average of national exports and imports, measured in dollars.
Major industrialized nations
Euro zone laggards
 Emerging economies (Source: National governments, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); STATISTICS (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); CHINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (88%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



366 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Independent Inquiry Into Oil Spill Is Urged

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD; Campbell Robertson contributed reporting from Kenner, La.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the Obama administration moves to end a conflict-of-interest problem in the operation of the Minerals Management Service, a rising chorus of experts is demanding that it rectify a similar conflict and appoint an independent blue-ribbon commission to investigate the gulf spill.
 The government's main effort to get at the root causes of the April 20 oil rig explosion and spill is led by a six-member Board of Inquiry that has been holding hearings this week in Kenner, La. 
 Working in a bland hotel reception room, it has been questioning witnesses about the actions of every entity connected to the accident, from BP to Transocean to the Coast Guard to the Minerals Management Service, which both advances and regulates offshore drilling. But three of that panel's members work for the minerals service, and the other three work for the Coast Guard.
 Democratic lawmakers have introduced parallel measures in the House and the Senate proposing that a distinguished independent commission investigate the spill. And experts with long experience in investigating accidents are echoing their calls, saying that however honest or well-intentioned each internal investigator may be, no agency can effectively judge its own role in contributing to an accident. 
 Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey and a sponsor of the Senate bill, said if the investigation is left to the agencies themselves, crucial information might be ''withheld, skewed or destroyed before the public can consume it.'' 
 The White House said Friday that it would review proposals for such a commission. 
 While federal agencies often investigate accidents in areas they regulate, experts in fields like airline and nuclear safety say that in a major disaster, such an inquiry cannot objectively size up government missteps.
 The Coast Guard and the minerals service ''have a vested interest in how this comes out, in terms of what it does to their reputation and perhaps their own future,'' said Steven B. Wallace, an aviation safety consultant.
 ''This is such a colossal event, with such economic and social impact, that perhaps it would be appropriate to look at a commission of unimpeachable credentials, more unimpeachable for their integrity than their technical expertise,'' he said. 
 Representative James L. Oberstar, chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, expressed a similar view of the Board of Inquiry's role. ''There has to be something else,'' he said. ''On the face of it, this does not appear to be appropriate.''
 Mr. Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota, said that as a young Congressional aide in the 1960s he helped draft the legislation that established an independent agency for looking into plane crashes, the National Transportation Safety Board. Previously all air crashes were investigated by the Department of Transportation. But in a plane crash, the Department of Transportation itself is always at issue. It regulates the design and construction of airplanes and airports as well as the training of pilots and operates the air traffic control system, all of which can come into play in a air accident. 
 The inquiry under way in Kenner, near the New Orleans airport, is nonetheless ordained by federal law. The Coast Guard routinely convenes boards of inquiry in cases involving loss of life or major economic damage.
 It invited the minerals service to take part precisely because of its regulatory authority: it is in charge of leasing out offshore tracts, collecting royalties owed to the government and regulating the safety of the operations. 
 This week, the Obama administration announced that it would divide up the minerals agency to separate the job of promoting offshore drilling from the job of regulating it. But the administration has not made any move to supersede the Board of Inquiry's investigation. 
 Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, whose department includes the minerals service, has asked the National Academy of Engineering to evaluate the oil spill, but that group will focus mostly on technical failures. 
 Mr. Wallace, the aviation consultant, has found himself on both sides of the internal inquiry dilemma. In 2008, he retired as head of an accident investigation office at the Federal Aviation Administration, part of the Transportation Department. While the F.A.A. routinely looks into air crashes, final investigative authority rests with the National Transportation Safety Board, particularly when an accident involves loss of life. 
 Mr. Wallace was also a member of the special board that investigated the crash of the space shuttle Columbia, which disintegrated in 2003 while re-entering the Earth's atmosphere. Congress and the Bush administration did not expect NASA to be capable of investigating itself.
 Another prominent example is the Kemeny Commission, which President Jimmy Carter created to investigate the 1979 meltdown at the Three Mile Island nuclear reactor near Harrisburg, Pa. It was led by John G. Kemeny, president of Dartmouth College.
 Bruce E. Babbitt, who served on that commission, suggested that it would be a useful model for the current environmental crisis. ''It's O.K. to have an in-house inquiry, but that, by its very design, is inadequate,'' said Mr. Babbitt, who was governor of Arizona when he was named to the commission.
 He said the Kemeny Commission had studied the culture of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in a way that the agency could not have itself. It found major shortcomings that helped lead to changes in safety procedures in nuclear reactors. 
 Giving Mr. Babbitt further perspective, he served as secretary of the interior, the parent of the minerals service. ''We're never going to really get lasting and important change without the president appointing a national commission, which needs to be a mix of experts, of industry people and of regulators,'' he said. 
 Dan W. Reicher, a staff member on the Kemeny Commission and later an assistant energy secretary, said one lesson from his role in that inquiry was that ''we can't rely on agencies investigating themselves.''
 ''A federal agency charged with regulating safety and health generally doesn't have the independence from its day-to-day operations to fully investigate a major accident at a facility it oversees,'' Mr. Reicher said. 
 A senior Congressional investigator who asked not to be named because his committee does not have jurisdiction over oil spills said the BP case cried out for an independent investigator for yet another reason. ''Somebody ought to be freezing the evidence right now,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: MAP (Sources: Deepwater Horizon Incident Joint Information Center
 NOAA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (94%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (91%); OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); WITNESSES (75%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); JIM OBERSTAR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



367 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Arts Groups See Mayor's Budget Plan And Shudder

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
It has become a New York version of Washington's cherry blossoms: the springtime tussle over the city's culture budget. The mayor puts forward his plan for the coming fiscal year, as he did on May 6; arts institutions insist they will be ruined by the cuts to their allocations; and the City Council puts in additional funds -- sometimes more than the mayor has taken out -- to ease the pain.
 This year, however, the doomsayers may have legitimate reason to fear the worst. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's $63 billion budget for fiscal year 2011, which starts July 1, calls for a 31 percent reduction in financing for arts groups and a 25 percent cut for libraries -- steeper than any such measures he has proposed at this stage of the budget cycle in the last eight years. And the City Council will most likely have to draw from a smaller pool of funds to help make up the difference than it has in the past. 
 ''I don't think I can remember a more difficult time for cultural institutions in New York City,'' said Ellen V. Futter, president of the American Museum of Natural History, which she said would see its city financing decline under the mayor's proposal to about $6 million from about $12 million in fiscal year 2008, when the appropriation to the Department of Cultural Affairs was at its highest point in the last decade. ''Many are experiencing record attendance at the same time that funding from the city has been drastically reduced.''
 The budget will not become final until its details are hashed out between the mayor and the council between now and the end of June. But institutions are already steeling themselves to make do with much less. The New York Public Library says that if the mayor's proposed cut of $37 million -- the harshest in the library's history -- goes through, it will have to close 10 branches, cut service across the system to four days from six, reduce staff by 36 percent and offer 25,300 fewer programs and classes for children and adults. 
 Paul LeClerc, the president of the library, said that its proposed percentage cut was ''two and a half times what we got in '75-76, when the city was bankrupt,'' when the cut was 10 percent. 
 On Monday, the library began an Internet and print campaign called ''Don't Close the Book on Libraries'' to urge New Yorkers to write to the City Council and the mayor. Mr. LeClerc said 7,600 letters had been sent in the first four days and that the library had so far received $55,000 in donations. 
 The New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx says the mayor's proposal would reduce its city financing by 42 percent, forcing the elimination of 57 jobs, which would bring the organization's total work force down by 20 percent since 2008. 
 ''We'll be a much less desirable destination,'' said Gregory Long, the garden's president. ''We would lose hours of service.'' 
 The Metropolitan Museum of Art said that its city support would decline by nearly 40 percent, to about $7 million. 
 ''Our budget planning will be challenged deeply,'' said Harold Holzer, a spokesman for the museum. ''We have not calculated how we would recover the millions of dollars in cuts to operating funding.''
 The Department of Cultural Affairs frames the proposed reduction not as a 31 percent cut in the budget it ultimately received last year, but as an 11 percent cut in the budget for it that the mayor proposed for that year -- the same decrease he has proposed for most other city agencies. 
 ''There has never been a city administration more supportive of culture,'' said Kate D. Levin, the cultural affairs commissioner. ''The agency hasn't been cut more than other agencies -- there's no disparity going on here. We just all have to work together to come up with the most responsible fiscal plan for the city of New York.''
 In recent years, the council has restored from $10 million to $40 million to the cultural budget from discretionary funds negotiated with the mayor. This year, the council would have to restore nearly $50 million to bring the budget back to fiscal 2010 levels, an amount that seems unlikely to be at the council's disposal given the current economic climate and competing constituent demands. 
 In his effort to address a projected $5 billion deficit, Mayor Bloomberg has also called for cuts that would eliminate more than 6,000 teaching jobs and lead to the closing of 50 centers for the elderly and 16 day care centers. 
 Any money the council can find for cultural organizations ''will definitely be less than we've had in the past,'' said Councilman Dominic M. Recchia Jr., a member and former chairman of the council's Cultural Affairs Committee. ''We'll try to restore as much as we can.'' 
 ''This is the largest cut they've proposed -- it's devastating,'' he added. ''I'm concerned about some of these organizations having to close one day a week. I'm worried about the layoffs.'' 
 Arnold L. Lehman, chairman of the Cultural Institutions Group -- arts groups in city-owned buildings or on city-owned land -- said that cultural organizations understand that the mayor is in a difficult position.
 ''We are not asking for an entire restoration,'' said Mr. Lehman, who is also the director of the Brooklyn Museum. ''We're asking for a partial restoration that will hopefully prevent some of our members from closing their doors or laying off a number of staff.''
 ''We are trying to make our case that we are at the center of what this city is about,'' he added. ''We are not only about maintaining one of the bright spots, tourism; we are after-school programs and we're senior citizen programs.''
 Some suggest that the mayor is engaged in a kind of brinksmanship with the state, which is struggling to close a $9.2 billion budget gap and has yet to pass a budget. Gov. David A. Paterson has proposed a cut to the state's arts budget of 39 percent. 
 The cuts come as cultural organizations are still recovering from a recession that hurt their endowments, donations and ticket sales. 
 ''We need a stable level of ongoing support,'' said Norma P. Munn, the chairwoman of the New York City Arts Coalition, an advocacy group. ''The cuts are simply too deep.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Cultural Tug of War: Though Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has cut the arts budget since 2008, the City Council has always restored substantial funds. This year, however, the council would have to add more than $48 million to reach last year's budget. (Source: New York City Council) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); MAYORS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); LIBRARIES (74%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



368 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Jobs for Albany's Do-Nothings

 BODY:
Here are two important dates to keep in mind. April 1. That's when New York State was supposed to have a new budget. And June 1. That's when the state is scheduled to make a payment to local schools that is about $1 billion more than the cash on hand.
 Forty-five days after the April deadline and Gov. David Paterson and the leaders of the Legislature can't agree on how to close a $9.2 billion deficit in the $136 billion budget. What are they doing? Blaming each other and hoping the economy will bounce back or that somehow they can put off painful decisions until after the election. The way we hear it, they're not even negotiating in person. 
 We rarely agree with anybody in Albany, but they're right about one thing: They're all at fault. They need to get to work, now. More specifically: 
 THE GOVERNOR Mr. Paterson's original budget in January spared almost nobody. But he hasn't gotten anyone else to sign on. 
 Mr. Paterson doesn't have much clout as he fights accusations that he tried to protect a top aide from charges of domestic violence. But he is still the governor, and he needs to act like it. He needs to call in all of the state's top players, including the unions, and demand that they keep talking until they have a workable deal. He can then hand over the negotiations to Lt. Gov. Richard Ravitch, who knows budgeting and may have the only real plan for righting the state's finances. 
 THE ASSEMBLY SPEAKER Sheldon Silver and his fellow Democrats have adopted most of the Ravitch plan, including short-term borrowing and modernization of the state's budget process. But their budget proposal is still too generous, especially to the state's unions. 
 Mr. Silver needs to get into that room and promote the interests of all New Yorkers. He is the right person to tell the unions that they have to do their share -- agreeing to make modest contributions to their health care (like most other workers) or delayed pay raises and almost certainly furloughs. 
 To spread the pain fairly, Mr. Silver should be promoting luxury taxes, sales of wine in grocery stores and a fat tax on sodas. Ideally, New York's income taxes should be made fairer. But this is not a state government that has the time or will to do the hard overhaul. Even a small short-term income tax surcharge on the rich would help. 
 THE SENATE DEMOCRATIC LEADER John Sampson can't control his caucus. There are 32 Senate Democrats and 30 Republicans, and (as we have already seen) any self-absorbed Democrat can defect and cause trouble. 
 The Senate's budget proposal is, to put it generously, wacky. It calls for closing this year's deficit by taking out long-term loans that will increase the state's interest liabilities for decades to come. Senators in Long Island and the suburbs are demanding property tax relief that would only widen the huge budget gap. Mr. Sampson should concentrate on keeping his members quiet while the Assembly and the governor agree on a budget. Then Mr. Paterson, Mr. Silver and Mr. Sampson can try to shame Senate Democrats into approving the deal. 
 SENATE REPUBLICANS They complain constantly that no one is consulting them. That's true. They need to come into the room with real ideas for raising revenue and cutting spending. So far, all they want to do is cut property taxes and raise money for schools. 
 UNION LEADERS They may think they got a big win this week when a court rejected Mr. Paterson's proposal to furlough state workers one day every week to save about $30 million. But, if this drags on much longer, Governor Paterson will have no choice but to start laying off people. It is time for the unions to stop waving around lawsuits and start negotiating seriously. 
 NEW YORK'S VOTERS Keep two more dates in mind. Primary day, Sept. 14. And Election Day, Nov. 2. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POLITICS (76%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (66%); EXCISE TAX (64%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (64%); CAUCUSES (63%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (51%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



369 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's Iran Diplomacy Worries U.S. Officials

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO and GINGER THOMPSON; Alexei Barrionuevo reported from Sao Paulo and Ginger Thompson from Washington. Neil MacFarquhar contributed from New York.

 BODY:
SAO PAULO, Brazil -- As President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva heads to Tehran this weekend to make what many Western diplomats consider a last-ditch attempt at persuading Iran to temper its nuclear ambitions, officials in Washington have expressed concern that the effort could backfire, helping the Islamic republic to block -- or at least delay -- the United States and its allies from imposing sanctions. 
 Mr. da Silva is scheduled to discuss the issue on Sunday with his Iranian counterpart, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, but the trip comes at a delicate diplomatic moment. After months of negotiations, American officials said Thursday that the United States was close to securing the support of the United Nations Security Council for a resolution to impose sanctions against Iran. 
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has warned that Mr. Ahmadinejad might use his talks with Brazil to stall for time in order to move Iran closer to developing a nuclear weapon. ''We will not get any serious response out of the Iranians until after the Security Council acts,'' she said Friday. 
 Brazil opposes sanctions as ineffective and likely to intensify the conflict. As a developing country that has defended its own nuclear aspirations against international pressure, Brazil strongly identifies with Iran.
 Celso Amorim, the Brazilian foreign minister who represented the country at the United Nations when the United States used inconclusive evidence to build a case against Iraq, has described this weekend's talks as an effort to prevent that from happening again. 
 But the effort is hardly a selfless one, analysts say, arguing that Mr. da Silva sees the Iran talks as a way to stand against American dominance and advance Brazil's emergence as a major player on the international stage.
 In that new role -- which rests largely on Brazil's position as South America's largest economy -- the enormously popular Mr. da Silva has challenged the United States on everything from trade and climate change to last year's coup in Honduras to Washington's longstanding embargo against Cuba.
 But the dispute over Iran has generated an unusual amount of friction, and Brazilian officials worried that failing to achieve progress in this weekend's talks could cast Mr. da Silva as an amateur and scuttle his country's pursuit of a permanent seat on the Security Council. Critics in Brazil have also questioned why Mr. da Silva has embraced Iran in recent months at the risk of alienating the United States.
 ''There is a sense in Washington that a lot of this is a product of the tremendous confidence that Lula has in himself, that he believes he is a wizard that can perform miracles and accomplish what others have tried and failed to do,'' said Michael Shifter, the president of the Inter-American Dialogue, a policy research group in Washington. 
 On Friday, that confidence was on display when Mr. da Silva told reporters in Moscow that his chances of success were ''9.9'' out of 10. At the same news conference, Russia's president, Dimitri A. Medvedev, put the Brazilian president's chances at 30 percent.
 Earlier in the week, Mr. da Silva scolded the world's most powerful nations on Brazilian television, saying that none of the heads of state pushing hardest for sanctions had spoken directly with Mr. Ahmadinejad.
 ''Why doesn't Obama call Ahmadinejad,'' Mr. da Silva asked, ''or Sarkozy, or Angela Merkel, or Gordon Brown,'' he said of the leaders of France, Germany and, until recently, of Britain, three of the countries that strongly support sanctions against Iran.
 ''People aren't talking,'' the Brazilian president added. ''I'm going there to talk.''
 Publicly, the Obama administration has wished Brazil luck in the talks, though officials add that they are hardly optimistic about the outcome. One senior State Department official said Iran was likely to show the same intransigence it had shown in previous negotiations.
 ''This is Brazil's one big play,'' said another American official. ''If it fails, the Security Council will move forward with sanctions, and they will expect Brazil to be there with them.''
 At the United Nations, some diplomats said the trip by Mr. da Silva had cast a shadow over the talks since they started in early April, because it gave both China and Russia, which have shown little real enthusiasm for sanctions, reason to continue emphasizing the diplomatic track. 
 The text of the resolution could go to the full 15 members of the Security Council in the next few weeks, diplomats said. Since Brazil holds one of the rotating seats on the Council, its support for sanctions is crucial for the kind of unanimous vote that the Western powers want. 
 The disagreements over Iran were evident at the end of March, when the United Nations convened a meeting to focus on rebuilding Haiti.
 During a news conference at the end of the meeting, Mrs. Clinton hailed the international support for sanctions on Iran. But Mr. Amorim, Brazil's foreign minister, made it clear that his country believed negotiations would be more effective. Mrs. Clinton shot back, saying endless talks had failed to get Iran's attention. France's foreign minister echoed her comments. 
 Then Haiti's president, Rene Preval, interrupted, saying, ''Do I need to develop a nuclear program so that we come back to talking about Haiti?''
 The differences over Iran aside, American and Brazilian officials said the dispute had not stopped their two governments from reaching new agreements in other areas, including the first military cooperation pact in more than three decades, and a deal that ended a longstanding dispute over American subsidies to cotton farmers.
 Matias Spektor, a Brazilian scholar at the Council on Foreign Relations, said that nuclear nonproliferation was a particularly delicate issue for Brazil because, in the face of American opposition in the 1970s, it established a secret effort that developed the capacity to enrich uranium. 
 Brazil did not sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty for another decade, Mr. Spektor said. The country's latest Constitution prohibits the use of nuclear materials for military purposes.
 Mr. Spektor recalled a comment by a high-ranking Brazilian diplomat who told him, ''When Brazil looks at Iran it doesn't only see Iran, it sees Brazil too.''
 Julia Sweig, also of the Council on Foreign Relations, said Brazil was exercising its own version of what America often did.
 ''Americans believe that only they can cast themselves halfway around the world to refashion events on the ground, and expect the international community to defer,'' she said. ''Brazil, too, and for similar reasons, is motivated to insert itself on an issue seemingly beyond its natural interest.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil, center, with President Dimitri A. Medvedev of Russia at the Kremlin on Friday. (POOL PHOTO BY SERGEI CHIRIKOV) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); RELIGION (57%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (89%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN (90%); HONDURAS (79%); IRAQ (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



370 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger Proposes Large Cuts to Deal With a $19 Billion Budget Shortfall

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger proposed huge cuts to a host of state services Friday to close a $19 billion hole in California's two-year budget, including the elimination of a financial assistance program for poor families. 
 While California's economy is crawling back toward life -- home sales are on the rise and foreclosures are decreasing -- the state continues to be plagued by 12.6 percent unemployment, and coffers remain low. Across the state, government workers are being furloughed, school years have been shortened and services continue to be nibbled at on the margins. 
 ''California should still be in a position to safeguard its most important services and its most vulnerable citizens,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said in Sacramento. ''But we are not because our budget system is broken.''
 As a practical matter, the governor, a Republican, tends to propose large cuts to services that the Democratic-controlled Legislature has no intention of brooking. A compromise -- one that still reduces services greatly -- is no doubt in the offing, along with a hefty dose of accounting tricks and the infusion of some federal money to help the embattled state get where it needs to be. This dance usually goes right up to the new fiscal year, which begins July 1.
 ''The governor's suggestions are clearly more reflective of a hyper-partisan political agenda than in finding real solutions to our problems,'' said Assembly Speaker John A. Perez in a statement. ''Putting Californians back to work is the fundamental priority for Californians, and we do not have the luxury of another bruising summer of ideological warfare.''
 In total, the governor called for cuts of $12.4 billion. By eliminating CalWorks, the financial assistance program to families, the state would save $1 billion. The governor is also proposing to reduce the rate at which the state reimburses child care providers (a $41.1 million savings) and reduce a state drug program to almost nothing (a $53.4 million savings). The proposed budget would also eliminate 60 percent of financing for community mental health programs.
 Like the budget he proposed in January, this plan still avoids tax increases, but it calls for a 4.8 percent surcharge on residential and commercial property insurance to pay for fire protection.
 The plan also continues to call for the addition of radar to some traffic-light cameras around the state -- speeders who are caught also running the red light would face fines of $225 to $325; most of that money would pay for trial courts. This plan, which the governor had hoped would be started this winter, will no doubt enrage drivers who have already faced higher parking meter fees and other increased service fees and fines since the budget crisis began. 
 An earlier proposal to pay for state parks by allowing drilling off the coast of Santa Barbara has been tabled in light of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. The administration had sought to tighten the income requirements for families receiving health insurance for children, but it has backed away from that idea, citing new federal health care legislation, and decided to impose new co-pays instead. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger discussing his budget cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FAMILY (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); FORECLOSURE (71%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (69%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (50%); CHILD CARE (50%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



371 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 CHEATING ON GREEK TAXES BECOMES VERY PUBLIC CRIME
 Trying to crack down on rampant tax evasion, Greece has named -- in order to shame -- some of the worst offenders. The Finance Ministry made public a list of 57 Athens doctors who officials believe are guilty of various tax offenses. PAGE A4
 REACTION TO ATTACKS IN CHINA 
 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China said the government would examine the deeper social problems that might have led to the recent string of deadly attacks on schoolchildren. His remarks were the first public comments by a Chinese leader on the violence. PAGE A5
 WESTERN CHINA BACK ONLINE
 Full Internet service was restored to the vast western Chinese region of Xinjiang, 10 months after it was blocked following deadly ethnic rioting that convulsed the regional capital, Urumqi. PAGE A5
 TURKISH CONSTITUTION FIGHT
 Turkey's main opposition party asked the Constitutional Court to annul 28 Constitutional amendments passed by Parliament and approved by Turkey's president. The opposition says the changes would undercut secular institutions. PAGE A5
 AFGHANS PROTEST DEADLY RAID
 A night raid by American troops in the eastern province of Nangarhar left at least 10 Afghans dead. Within hours, protests by their relatives and friends turned violent, killing at least one person. PAGE A7
 WORRY OVER TRIP TO TEHRAN
 As President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil heads to Tehran this weekend to try to persuade Iran to temper its nuclear ambitions, officials in Washington have expressed concern that the effort could backfire. PAGE A8
 Iraqi Revels in Free Speech A6
 Obituaries
 CRAIG KAUFFMAN, 78
 In the 1960s, he helped put Los Angeles on the national art map with audacious experiments in molding industrial plastic to create ethereal, sensuous wall-mounted sculptures -- some resembling giant pieces of jelly candy. PAGE A18
 National
 GOVERNOR PROPOSES CUTS TO CALIFORNIA SERVICES
 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California proposed large cuts to a host of state services to close the $19 billion hole in the state's two-year budget, including the elimination of a financial assistance program for poor families. PAGE A12
 HOUSTON RE-EXAMINES RACE
 Two recent cases of alleged police brutality against young black men in Houston have stirred anger among civil rights leaders and left some residents wondering just how far race relations have come. PAGE A9
 CALLS TO REFORM OIL INQUIRY
 As the Obama administration moves to end conflicts-of-interest at the Minerals Management Service, some experts are calling for the elimination of a similar conflict in the government's main effort to investigate the gulf spill. PAGE A10
 ODD SMELLS IN NEW ORLEANS
 People in New Orleans have been complaining about a tinge to the air that is unsettling even by local, Bourbon Street standards. Many suspect that it has something to do with the oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. PAGE A10
 CURBING CRIMINALS' DOGS
 The use of aggressive animals as sentries and weapons by drug dealers and gangs has reached new heights, experts say. Now Tennessee legislators have passed measures aimed at curbing the use of such dogs by criminals. PAGE A12
 PROPOSAL TO DELAY HEARINGS
 President Obama's legal advisers are considering asking Congress to allow the government to detain terrorism suspects longer after their arrests before presenting them to a judge for a hearing. PAGE A12
 New York
 CITY MOVES TO TAKE LICENSES FROM 633 TAXICAB DRIVERS
 The city moved to revoke the cab licenses of 633 taxi drivers who routinely charged customers higher out-of-town rates for trips within the five boroughs. The city said some of the overcharging was so egregious that it had asked prosecutors to investigate. PAGE A15
 Business
 SENATE APPROVES LIMITS ON DEBIT CARD FEES
 In an amendment to the Senate's legislation to overhaul financial regulations, 64 senators agreed to limit the fees retailers pay when customers use a debit card. The banking industry strongly objected to the amendment. PAGE A1
 GOOGLE ADMITS MISTAKE
 Google said that for more than three years it had inadvertently collected snippets of private information that people send over unencrypted wireless networks. The admission comes a month after regulators in Europe started asking pointed questions about Street View. PAGE B1
 SEEKING CUTE AT HELLO KITTY
 Amid signs that Hello Kitty's pop-culture appeal is waning, especially in Japan where sales have shrunk for a decade, the company has struggled to find its next-generation version of adorable. PAGE B1
 FUND TIED TO MARKET PLUNGE
 Futures trades by Waddell & Reed, a conservative 70-year-old mutual fund based in Overland Park, Kan., have been linked to the May 6 stock market plunge, during which the Dow dropped hundreds of points in a matter of minutes. PAGE B1
 RETAIL SALES BEAT ESTIMATES
 Sales continued to rise at American retail stores in April, an indication that the economic recovery was progressing. The Commerce Department said retail sales increased by 0.4 percent, slightly better than analysts had expected. PAGE B3
 WARNER BROTHERS FILES SUIT
 In an aggressive move to defend its ''Superman'' franchise, Warner Brothers on Friday filed a lawsuit accusing a lawyer for the comic book hero's creators of trying to seize control of nearly half of the lucrative property. PAGE B3
 Sports
 FLYERS FINISH COMEBACK, IN GAME AND IN SERIES
 After allowing three goals to Boston in the first 15 minutes, Philadelphia scored four unanswered goals to become the third team in N.H.L. history to come back from a 3-0 playoff deficit to win a series. PAGE B10
 Arts
 SEEING MAYOR'S BUDGET,
 Arts Groups Shudder
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's budget for fiscal year 2011, which starts July 1, calls for a 31 percent reduction in financing for arts groups and a 25 percent cut for libraries. And this time, the City Council may not come to the rescue. PAGE C1
 ANIMALS IN A WAR ZONE
 Set in the first days of the American invasion of Iraq, ''Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo,'' Rajiv Joseph's bold, harrowing and surprisingly funny play, considers the long afterlife of violent acts. A review by Charles Isherwood. PAGE C1
 SAVING FORESTS, AND THE '80S
 At Carnegie Hall, Elton John and Lady Gaga performed at the annual benefit for Rainforest Fund, whose ostensible theme was '80s nostalgia. A review by Jon Pareles. PAGE C1
 'Pygmalion' at Symphony Space C3
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A17 
 CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (72%); RIOTS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); RACE & RACISM (68%); SCULPTURE (68%); POOR POPULATION (65%); OIL SPILLS (63%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (63%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (60%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (56%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (56%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (51%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ATHENS, GREECE (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (75%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (75%); XINJIANG, CHINA (72%) CHINA (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); TURKEY (93%); IRAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010



372 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: Tommy Returns to America

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
WHEN did Tommy Hilfiger become cool again?
 Once a preppy kingpin and then a megabrand designer of urban streetwear, with over $1.9 billion in sales of baggy jeans and colorful logo jerseys in the United States at his peak, Mr. Hilfiger, in the 1990s, was very cool. But then, about 10 years ago, he just wasn't. People became more interested in his divorce and his dating life and his daughter's reality television show than his clothes, all of which looked increasingly like the result of a designer who was trying too hard.
 The situation had become so bad for Mr. Hilfiger that just a few years ago the company seriously considered selling his clothes at Wal-Mart. Magazines had stopped paying much attention to him. As had his customers -- sales in department stores had dropped by as much as 75 percent.
 So the $3 billion sale of Tommy Hilfiger to the clothing conglomerate Phillips-Van Heusen that concluded May 6 was significant for any number of reasons, not the least of which is that it suggests that the fashion elite may have underestimated Mr. Hilfiger. 
 The price was nearly seven times what Phillips-Van Heusen paid for Calvin Klein in 2003 and nearly five times what LVMH paid for Donna Karan in 2001, which has to give some satisfaction to a designer whose clothes once prompted the fashion critic of this newspaper to declare, ''You wanted to get the S.U.V. out and run them over a few times.''
 How did Mr. Hilfiger and his partners turn this around so dramatically? Step one: Admit they had a problem in the first place.
 ''We were oversupplying the demand,'' Mr. Hilfiger said during an interview in his double-height office on the western shores of Chelsea, the walls covered with portraits of musicians and pop stars and a framed pair of blue jeans that once belonged to Marilyn Monroe. (Her cowboy boots are there, too.)
 ''The large logos and the big red, white and blue theme became ubiquitous,'' he said. ''It got to the point where the urban kids didn't want to wear it and the preppy kids didn't want to wear it.''
 Mr. Hilfiger was smiling in his signature style, entirely sincere if not a little overeager, as he said this -- ''that big toothy grin,'' as Jim Moore, the creative director of GQ, describes it -- almost as if he was performing an act of contrition.
 ''I think I was living in denial,'' he said.
 Since he started his business in 1985, when he was 34, with Mohan Murjani, the Indian textiles magnate behind Gloria Vanderbilt jeans, Mr. Hilfiger has had the good fortune to team up with financial partners who enabled him to create the kind of world where living in denial can be an asset.
 Few other designers would have thought another preppy brand could compete in a market long ago cornered by Ralph Lauren, but Mr. Hilfiger's idea of a youthful twist on American classics -- brightly colored oxfords and buttonholes stitched in green -- was an immediate success.
 That was helped by an audacious marketing campaign, which included a billboard in Times Square announcing his arrival as the next great men's designer alongside those recognizable by their initials: CK, RL and PE (for Calvin Klein, Mr. Lauren and Perry Ellis). ''The fashion press went absolutely crazy,'' Mr. Hilfiger said. ''They did everything in their power to bury me.''
 His company went public in 1992, just as the designer became one of the first to embrace the burgeoning streetwear market. In a strategy coordinated by Hilfiger's former top executives, Lawrence Stroll and Silas Chou (now investors in Michael Kors), the company added accessories, fragrances, a home collection and jeans, as well as franchises in Europe and Asia.
 With that growth came expectations from Wall Street that Mr. Hilfiger could keep expanding. But as Tommy Hilfiger became more widely available, the label became less desirable. By the end of the '90s, the company's stock price had plummeted to $7.50, half its original value. Fortune magazine summed up the problems succinctly: ''Now trendier brands (think Fubu) dominate urban fashion, while Tommy's clothes fill bargain bins at Bloomingdale's and Macy's.'' Mr. Hilfiger said he found himself following the orders of department stores, making stretch cotton poplin dress shirts, for example, because that was what was selling from other designers.
 ''And they wanted it for $49,'' he said. ''I would never wear that.''
 The strangest thing about Mr. Hilfiger's trouble was that his business overseas was just heating up, and new sales in Europe were making up for the loss of business in the United States. But that would ultimately mean a second chance for the brand.
 Again, it was one of Mr. Hilfiger's business partners who had sensed an opportunity. After seeing the collection's rise in the United States, Fred Gehring, a former executive for Ralph Lauren and Pepe Jeans, had started a new company in 1997 as the Hilfiger licensee for Europe. 
 The collection, sold in more than 4,000 small stores from Spain to Germany, grew to more than $1 billion at the same time sales in the United States were falling. Part of the reason, Mr. Gehring said, was that Tommy Hilfiger in Europe was positioned much as the label had originally been in America, with bright, preppy clothes and premium prices, but none of the hype. They were not actually being designed by Mr. Hilfiger, but by a team in Amsterdam.
 ''I don't know if we are super cool or anything like that,'' Mr. Gehring said. ''But we are cool enough.''
 Sarah Lerfel, an owner of the influential Paris boutique Colette, has sold Mr. Hilfiger's collaborative designs with the soccer player Thierry Henry and the estate of Keith Haring. ''He was already well known here, but to do a collaboration with Thierry Henry was a good way to come into the French market,'' she said. ''Everybody loves Thierry Henry.'' 
 In 2005, Mr. Gehring, concerned that the designer's problems in America would eventually cross over to Europe, came to its board with a proposal to take the company private. Apax Partners, a private equity firm, acquired the company for $1.6 billion. Mr. Gehring became its chief executive and set out to turn around the business by ending some licensees, returning the focus to preppy classics and breaking the promotional cycle.
 In 2007, he made a deal with Macy's to carry the line exclusively in exchange for more desirable placement in its stores and help with marketing -- which is why Mr. Hilfiger appears in those Macy's commercials dining with Martha Stewart and dodging a dinner roll thrown by Jessica Simpson.
 Terry J. Lundgren, Macy's chief executive, said the line has been one of the best performing in the store, even during the recession, and now does more business nationally at Macy's than when it was also carried at other stores like Belk and Dillard's. 
 ''Certainly, it was a bet,'' Mr. Lundgren said. ''It turned out to be a good one.''
 In February, at Mr. Hilfiger's runway show in Bryant Park at the end of Fashion Week, it was obvious that something had changed. As he had done in past collections, Mr. Hilfiger had solicited outside help, working with the young designer Peter Som this season on the final looks. Mr. Hilfiger said he could tell as soon as the clothes were on the models that it was a good collection, and the reviews were indeed enthusiastic -- ''a welcome and necessary refresh,'' said Style.com. 
 ''Tommy has been able to come back and reinvent himself and you have to give him a lot of credit for that,'' said Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue, adding that she thought Mr. Hilfiger was wise to embrace his strength as ''a designer for America.''
 ''Tommy has never had any misconceptions that he is a Balenciaga or a Christopher Kane,'' she said. ''He is more of an accessible designer, and I mean that in the best possible way.''
 Last September, the company opened a new flagship on Fifth Avenue, a 22,000-square-foot store that carries Mr. Hilfiger's runway styles as well as the denim and sportswear collections designed in Europe, for which he serves as inspiration. And the business is now highly profitable, earning about $300 million annually, largely thanks to the European operation. This was what inspired Phillips-Van Heusen, which hopes to expand its other brands internationally, to make the acquisition, said Emanuel Chirico, its chief executive. Clearly Mr. Hilfiger was doing something right.
 ''It was difficult for me because I was searching for the answer for so long, and the answer was right in front of me,'' Mr. Hilfiger said. ''Do what I do best.''
 Truth be told, Mr. Hilfiger has always come across as a little bit of a square. In interviews, his answers often sound scripted, and his personal style -- navy blazers and nautical stripes -- and boyish face, almost the same at age 59, make him seem as if he is playing a role.
 Away from the microphone, he is more comfortable in his own skin, noting at one point that he has stopped dying his hair. ''If Ralph can do it, if Giorgio can do it, if Karl can do it, then I can go white, too,'' he said. He talks warmly about his second wife, Dee Hilfiger (the former Dee Ocleppo), with whom his lives in an apartment at the Plaza Hotel. They recently sold their home in Greenwich, Conn., near his former wife, Susie, who once designed for the company. 
 Among them, there are seven children, including a 9-month-old son. While Mr. Hilfiger was being photographed earlier this month, Dee Hilfiger was busy preparing for the Costume Institute gala, for which Mr. Hilfiger could not resist mentioning his other guests, namely Mick Jagger and Mr. Jagger's girlfriend, L'Wren Scott.
 It was that sense of innocence and enthusiasm about Mr. Hilfiger, in fact, that made his clothes feel so approachable in the first place.
 ''He never wants to give up the fact that deep down inside, he loves being a tailor and he loves the Rolling Stones and that kind of Anglo-American vision to clothes,'' said Mr. Moore of GQ. ''It doesn't feel fabricated, because it's something that was cool all the time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REFRESHED: Tommy Hilfiger, center, shown with models in his designs, is returning to his all-American style. The brand was just sold for $3 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
RESCUE TEAM: Emanuel Chirico, left, Tommy Hilfiger and Fred Gehring. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CLOWER)
REVIVAL: From top, the 1985 billboard
Britney Spears
Naughty by Nature on the catwalk in 1996
the new Fifth Avenue flagship
a look from the fall 2010 collection. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE LOIS
ASSOCIATED PRESS
JOHN CATRAMBONE
 FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES FOR IMG) (ST8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); RETAILERS (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); TEXTILES (70%); DEPARTMENT STORES (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); POP & ROCK (62%)

COMPANY: PVH CORP (58%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (55%)

TICKER: PVH (NYSE) (58%); MC (PAR) (55%); LVMH (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (55%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (55%)

PERSON: BRITNEY SPEARS (56%); EMANUEL CHIRICO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



373 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Companies We Keep, And Pay For

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER; E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Just about 10 years ago, the Conde Nast publishing company moved into 4 Times Square, and newly minted No Parking signs declared that the spaces out front were reserved for ''FHVs'' -- that is, they were the exclusive domain of for-hire vehicles, the black town cars that waited in tight ranks for the company's senior officials. The FHV signs, planted in front of new skyscrapers in Midtown and Lower Manhattan, flew as the standards of the gilded age. They were the least of it.
 For all the giddy wealth that ran through the city before the economic crash, prized commercial real estate was often subsidized through state and city tax benefits, sometimes in special deals made behind closed doors. 
 And now, Conde Nast, which was granted $10.8 million in rent and tax breaks to move into a Times Square tower that was already heavily subsidized, is said to be having discussions with government officials about relocating downtown, into the tower planned as 1 World Trade Center. The Port Authority of New York and New Jerseyhas agreed to provide $1 billion in financing for the building.
 The city has not decided if it will pitch in with taxpayer money to move companies from other parts of the city into the tower, but it has ''a policy goal to help Lower Manhattan rebuild, and the new World Trade Center is a critical part of that,'' said David Lombino, a vice president at the city's Economic Development Corporation. 
 We all know that the bill has come due for lavish spending by the city and state: swelling public pensions, huge borrowing by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority that bought next to nothing, government salaries that grew faster than inflation. There is another, off-the-book cost that is also being paid: billions in public incentives given to some of the richest companies in the world. 
 For more than 25 years, they have been distributed by mayors, with little oversight or control, as an exercise of their discretion when faced with threats by companies to leave town. 
 They were criticized as forms of corporate welfare -- often by the mayors themselves -- that simply shifted the burden to other, smaller taxpayers, most of them not as well-connected.
 Many of the threats to leave were barely disguised feints, and sometimes not even that. Conde Nast, for instance, publishes some of the most exalted titles in the magazine business, and the chances that the company would move out of Manhattan are slim to none. Other businesses equally unlikely to leave the media capital -- The New York Times Company, CBS, Reuters, NBC, News America, ABC, McGraw Hill, Viacom, Hearst -- were also given public money. 
 But most of the recipients, especially of the larger deals, were in the financial industry. Goldman Sachs was given $650 million in city and state subsidies to build in Battery Park, and JPMorgan Chase was awarded $240 million for space in Lower Manhattan. Others that have been given public subsidies include the American International Group, or A.I.G.; Credit Suisse; Bear Stearns; Merrill Lynch; Bank of America; Citicorp (now Citigroup); Morgan Stanley. 
 Mayors, no matter what they say as candidates, find these deals irresistible. When Rudolph W. Giuliani was running for office in 1993, he criticized the tax breaks handed out by his predecessor, David N. Dinkins. Once he was elected, Mr. Giuliani's team quickly outdid the Dinkins administration, at times giving companies that had already received one package of benefits a second round.
 Mr. Giuliani even agreed to provide nearly $1 billion for the New York Stock Exchange to build a new trading floor -- just as electronic trading was making the physical location of the exchange less important (those plans were dropped).
 Mr. Giuliani also awarded subsidies for new baseball stadiums, but those deals were canceled by Michael R. Bloomberg almost as soon as he took office in January 2002. The city had a major deficit. There wasn't enough housing or space for schools. ''It is just not practical this year to go and build stadiums,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
 A few years later, Mr. Bloomberg used hundreds of millions in public money to help the Yankees and Mets build stadiums. 
 In 2004, Mr. Bloomberg declared that he had ''ended corporate welfare as we know it, by no longer paying companies -- who wouldn't have left anyway -- to stay in our great city.''
 He has not. But he has cut down on the number of deals, and in some cases, has put in provisions that require the companies to pay back their subsidies if they don't keep their promises to keep jobs in the city.
 Will the taxpayers now pay to move companies from one part of the city to another?
 ''An interesting policy question,'' Mr. Lombino said. ''It's something we'll have to talk and think about.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RISING: One World Trade Center, which might draw Conde Nast. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RELOCATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (55%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (80%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (55%); VIACOM INC (50%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (57%); VIA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



374 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Censors Without Borders

BYLINE: By EMILY PARKER. 
Emily Parker, a senior fellow at Asia Society's Center on U.S.-China Relations, is writing a book about the Internet and democracy.

 BODY:
The Chinese-Canadian writer Denise Chong's 1994 book ''The Concubine's Children,'' a memoir of her maternal grandparents, won admiring reviews and spent more than a year and a half on The Globe and Mail's best-seller list. But when her later book, ''Egg on Mao,'' came out in 2009, many people responded with trepidation. ''What I heard most often was, 'Is this a China-bashing book?' '' Chong told me over the phone. When I saw the cover, I understood. It features a photo of Chairman Mao's paint-splattered face underneath the bold type: ''The Story of an Ordinary Man Who Defaced an Icon and Unmasked a Dictatorship.'' The book tells the true story of Lu Decheng, who threw paint-filled eggs at Mao's portrait in Tiananmen Square during the 1989 protests. 
 Chong had underestimated the fear of offending Beijing -- not in China but in the West. She cited some strongly uncomfortable reactions. A Canadian nonprofit economic development group that had invited her to appear at a fund-raiser began playing down its association with her book once learning of the title, Chong said. (The organization was trying to encourage Chinese investment in Canada.) A reporter for a Chinese-language television station backed out of an interview because of fear of Beijing, according to a conversation Chong had with a producer there.
 The nervousness wasn't limited to Canada. The United States Library of Congress declined an invitation to hold an event with Chong, suggested by the Canadian Embassy. In a recent telephone interview, a library employee involved in the discussions acknowledged that the political sensitivity of the book was one factor in the decision, along with the library's relationship with the National Library of China.
 Taken in isolation, these incidents may seem minor, but they are part of a much larger trend. As China's influence spreads throughout the world, so does a willingness to play by its rules. In March, Google shut down its Internet search service in mainland China, saying it no longer wanted to self-censor its search results to comply with ''local'' law. But these laws may not be local anymore. Interviews with a number of writers and China watchers suggest that Chinese censorship is becoming an increasingly borderless phenomenon.
 ''I remember clearly the days when you could safely assume that as long as you wrote something abroad, it was free and clear from repercussions within China,'' said Orville Schell, the director of Asia Society's Center on U.S.-China Relations (where I am a fellow) and author of nine books on China. One turning point, he said, was the growth of the Internet, which increasingly unites the once ''discrete worlds'' of Chinese and Western reading material. Another factor is the growing business entanglement between China and the rest of the world.
 ''Suddenly we're all Hong Kong, where no one wants to offend the mainland because it's too close,'' Schell said.
 Last fall, in advance of the Frankfurt Book Fair, China pressured organizers to disinvite two dissident writers to a symposium on ''China and the World.'' (They were reinvited after a public outcry.) But more often, potential critics silence themselves pre-emptively. In a 2002 essay in The New York Review of Books called ''China: The Anaconda in the Chandelier,'' the China scholar Perry Link described Beijing's censors as a dangerous creature coiled overhead. ''Normally the great snake doesn't move,'' he wrote. ''It doesn't have to. . . . Its constant silent message is 'You yourself decide,' after which, more often than not, everyone in its shadow makes his or her large and small adjustments.''
 I asked Link, a professor emeritus at Princeton, about the anaconda's effects on writers outside China today. ''It's just become so taken for granted that it isn't even recognized as self-censorship,'' he said in a telephone interview. Link himself has been repeatedly denied a visa to China since the mid-'90s, apparently for helping the Chinese dissident Fang Lizhi seek refuge in the American Embassy during the 1989 protests.
 Link's predicament casts a long shadow over other China watchers. ''Three or four times a month I get questions from students: How can I avoid getting on a blacklist like you?'' Link said. He adds that he's seen doctoral students avoid writing about democracy in China out of fear of the blacklist.
 Jerome Cohen, who teaches Chinese law and society at New York University Law School, has similar impressions. ''There are writers who I respect who don't choose certain subjects because they will engage them in controversy with China,'' he said, adding that Xinjiang, the far western province that has been the site of ethnic and religious unrest, is ''certainly radioactive.'' For example, several Western contributors to the English-language book ''Xinjiang: China's Muslim Borderland'' (2004) were subsequently denied visas. It may not even matter what scholars actually write on contentious topics. ''Visa denials seem to be based on the subject matter more than what the individual says about the subject,'' Cohen said.
 While Beijing's censorship is well known, the self-censorship of Western writers is shrouded in uneasy silence. The idea that scholars ''collectively are compromising our academic ideals in order to gain access to China offends people intellectually, but we all do it,'' a professor at a prestigious American university told me in a telephone interview. He requested anonymity out of fear of alienating not Beijing, but his colleagues in the United States.
 This caution shapes the overall body of Western books about China, which some say emphasizes the country's economic success over its political repression. But this may also be a result of a widespread view that the Chinese model, whatever its unsavory aspects, has worked. ''China is now seen as such a success,'' said Ian Johnson, the author of ''Wild Grass: Three Stories of Change in Modern China'' and winner of the 2001 Pulitzer Prize for his reporting from China for The Wall Street Journal. ''I think on a deeper level the books on China reflect the West's deeper angst about its own position in the world, and an uncritical view on China that the Chinese themselves often don't share.''
 You can still find Western books that take a less rosy view of China, as well as critics of its government who suffer no repercussions. But Beijing's reactions can be unpredictable, which is precisely what makes its brand of censorship so effective. Those outside China have an even murkier understanding of how it works, and as a result may end up silencing themselves the most.
 Ken Chen, the executive director of the Asian American Writers' Workshop, describes an event he held in New York for ''Prisoner of the State,'' the posthumously published memoir of Zhao Ziyang, the reformist Communist Party leader who was put under house arrest after the Tiananmen Square crackdown. At the event, a reporter affiliated with the religious group Falun Gong, which is despised by Beijing, asked to interview two of the book's Chinese editors as well as an American professor. ''What I found interesting and ironic,'' Chen said, ''is that the two Chinese editors felt free to sit in front of the camera for the interview and make some highly controversial pro-democracy statements, but the American professor refused even to be interviewed out of fear of reprisal bythe Chinese government.''
 Chinese writers themselves are sometimes caught off guard by Western wariness of Beijing. Yu Hua, the author of the controversial novel ''Brothers,'' told me that Westerners often ask why his work isn't banned in China. ''Chinese readers don't think that my books should be forbidden; instead, Western readers have this viewpoint,'' Yu said in an e-mail message.
 Yu has considered various ways to respond when asked why his work isn't banned. He said he now goes with the simplest answer: ''I don't know, either.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YAREK WASZUL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CENSORSHIP (89%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (86%); TRENDS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); BESTSELLERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LIBRARIANS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); FUNDRAISING (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); SEARCH ENGINES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



375 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Building Is Booming in a City Of Houses That Stand Empty

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- In a plastic tent under a glorious desert sky, Richard Lee preached the gospel of the second chance.
 The chance to make money on the next housing boom ''is like it's never been,'' Mr. Lee, a real estate promoter, assured a crowd of agents, investors and bankers. ''We're going to come back like you've never seen us before.'' 
 Home prices in Las Vegas are down by 60 percent from 2006 in one of the steepest descents in modern times. There are 9,517 spanking new houses sitting empty. An additional 5,600 homes were repossessed by lenders in the first three months of this year and could soon be for sale. 
 Yet builders here are putting up 1,100 homes, and they are frantically buying lots for even more. 
 Las Vegas is trying to recover by building what it does not need. It is an unlikely pattern being repeated in many of the areas where the housing crash was most severe.
 ''There's a surprising rebound in the hardest-hit markets,'' said Brad Hunter, chief economist with the consultant Metrostudy. ''People are buying again.'' From the recession's lows, construction has nearly doubled in Las Vegas, Phoenix and Tucson. It is up 74 percent in inland Southern California and soaring in Florida.
 Some of the demand is coming from families that are getting shut out of the bidding for foreclosures by syndicates that pay in cash, and some is from investors who are back on the prowl.
 Land and labor costs have fallen significantly, so the newest homes are competitively priced. Some of the boom-era homes, meanwhile, are in developments that feel like ghost towns. And many Americans will always believe the latest model of something is their only option, an attitude builders are doing their utmost to reinforce.
 In Phoenix, a billboard for Fulton Homes summed up the builders' marketing approach. ''Does your foreclosure have tenants?'' it asks, next to a picture of a mammoth cockroach.
 Brent Anderson, a marketing executive with another Southwest builder, Meritage Homes, said it bought 713 lots in stricken Arizona last year, and was on the verge of starting construction in a new Phoenix community called Lyon's Gate. 
 ''We're building them because we're selling them,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''Our customers wouldn't care if there were 50 homes in an established neighborhood of 1980 or 1990 vintage, all foreclosed, empty and for sale at $10,000 less. They want new. And what are we going to do, let someone else build it?''
 All of this goes contrary to the conventional wisdom, which suggests an improved market for builders is years away. Nationwide, new home sales at the beginning of this year plunged to a level below any recorded since 1963, when the figures were first officially tabulated.
 Simply put, the country already has too many houses, the legacy of wide-scale overbuilding during the boom. The Census Bureau says there are two million vacant homes for sale, about double the historical level. Fewer new households, moreover, are being formed as families double up for economic reasons, putting a further brake on demand. 
 Even some builders agree with the pessimists when it comes to Las Vegas. Meritage Homes, for example, has largely withdrawn from the city. ''We don't think it will come back for a long time,'' Mr. Anderson said.
 American West is betting the opposite is true. The developer, which is privately held and is based here, builds nowhere else. 
 The evening under the tent with Mr. Lee was the official start of American West's new community, called Reserve at Coronado Ranch. Before it opened, buyers began putting down money for the houses, which sell for under $300,000. ''For the first time in three or four years, we have pent-up demand,'' said American West's vice president for sales, Jeff Canarelli.
 Disregard what you may have heard about how hard times may usher in an era of restraint. ''With our buyers, they always want bigger,'' Mr. Canarelli said. An American West home introduced during the recession comes equipped with an elevator. 
 One of the initial buyers at Reserve is Josh Snider, a surgical technologist who decided a year ago he wanted to buy his first home. He sought out a foreclosure, deals that were supposedly plentiful and cheap. ''What a nightmare that was,'' recalled Mr. Snider, 38. ''I put in five or six offers and was always outbid.''
 He didn't see any homes that were being sold by buyers in the traditional way. The price declines in Las Vegas have been so brutal that most homeowners with a mortgage owe more than their home is worth. If they must sell, their only option is a so-called short sale done with the approval of the lender, which can be a lengthy and frustrating process for all concerned.
 Worried the market was going to turn around before he bought, Mr. Snider started checking out the new developments. He liked the floor plan, size and price of Reserve, which ultimately will have 310 houses.
 A final incentive sealed the deal, this one courtesy of the United States government: he got a loan insured by the Federal Housing Administration, which meant his down payment was much smaller than a private lender would require.
 The house, to be done in September, cost $273,500. ''It's not a bargain for everyone,'' Mr. Snider said, ''but it's a bargain for me.''
 He plans to live in the house with his girlfriend, Cindy Rojas, and his 12-year-old daughter. 
 Another early buyer is Irving Hallman, an investor from Hawaii. ''I understand Vegas has its ups and downs, but we did the numbers and this house will hold its value,'' Mr. Hallman said.
 There is a benefit to the seeming madness in places like Las Vegas. Building homes is the traditional fuel of a recovery.
 ''Housing is construction. It's tables. It's paint. It's couches. It's toilets,'' said Sally Taylor, a specialist in liquor and gambling establishments who attended the American West festivities. ''If we build more houses, we're creating more jobs.''
 Across the street from Reserve's three model homes is a new strip mall. Only one building is occupied, a gambling parlor. Others will start to be filled when more buyers join Mr. Snider and Mr. Hallman finds a renter.
 Analysts have calculated that it could take as long as a decade for inventories to return to their precrash levels and for demand to once again exceed supply. That is a grim prospect for any owner who hopes to accrue equity through rising prices.
 A few experts, however, are starting to think the path to a better market will be much shorter. Stephen F. Auth, chief investment officer at the financial services company Federated Investors, is a housing bull. He says he does not believe that many extended families will end up all living in one place, like the Waltons in the 1930s.
 ''That's an unsustainable environment -- Grandma coming home, Johnny moving back in with his new wife,'' Mr. Auth said. ''They're going to move back out. The great housing depression is nearly over.''
 New-home sales in March rose 27 percent. But most analysts attributed the jump to the pending expiration of yet another government incentive, a tax credit for buyers, and said sales would quickly slump again.
 Even in Las Vegas, a community built on the willingness to be lucky, belief in a housing turnaround -- and Mr. Lee's portrait of a resilient city on its way to being a global ''meetspace'' -- is provisional. Agents at the party said they had their hopes but were chastened by the horrors of the last three years.
 Afterward, packing up his video equipment, Mr. Lee said the party itself heralded a recovery. ''We used to do this every two weeks, starting in the 1990s,'' he said. ''But this is the first time in 18 months. Believe me, it's been famine around here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Josh Snider and Cindy Rojas visiting the lot for their home at Coronado Ranch in Las Vegas.
 ''For the first time in three or four years, we have pent-up demand,'' said an executive at the builder of Coronado Ranch. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA RAUCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); REPOSSESSION (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: MERITAGE HOMES CORP (52%)

TICKER: MTH (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (52%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING FOR-SALE BUILDERS (52%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (52%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (52%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



376 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Snags for the Self-Employed

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MOST borrowers are facing a much tougher mortgage environment than a few years ago, but for those who are self-employed or own small businesses, maneuvering through a loan application can be even more arduous.
 Before 2008 these borrowers, many of whom have difficulty documenting their income, often used what are known as stated-income loans. Lenders focused on credit histories and earnings estimates, circumventing the need for pay stubs or W-2s. 
 But during the mortgage crisis, stated-income loans became known as ''liar's loans,'' because some borrowers falsely inflated their incomes, and qualified for more than they could afford. 
 Today, stated-income loans have nearly disappeared. Those still available through regional lenders like Hudson City Savings Bank come at a cost: interest rates around a quarter of a percentage point higher than conventional loans and down payments of at least 30 percent.
 The self-employed borrower's only choice, mortgage brokers say, is to submit two years' tax returns and hope that they qualify for a conventional loan. 
 That would not be a problem, the brokers said, if all self-employed people filled out their tax returns conservatively. But in this economic climate, the self-employed have been more likely to lighten their tax liabilities by taking business deductions, thereby lowering their official income levels, as well as the likelihood of qualifying for a loan.
 ''You have to be more conservative about how you claim your deductions, or how you approach unnecessary purchases for the business,'' said Robert Duquette, the president of the New York Association of Mortgage Brokers. 
 Mr. Duquette says that self-employed borrowers will have no trouble qualifying for loans if they have significant cash, as well as credit scores of at least 700, and stable and significant profit for the previous two years. 
 But many small-business owners, hit by the recession, are showing losses on their income tax statements. 
 ''Of course, a borrower can make an argument for extenuating circumstances, like reserve duty for a few months, or a temporary hospitalization,'' said Regina Mincey-Garlin, the president of RCG Mortgage Solutions in Montclair, N.J.
 Mr. Duquette of the New York Mortgage Brokers Association said the mortgage crisis had hurt small-business owners more than others. ''Everyone who's getting income from places other than salary and wages is getting hit harder than everyone else,'' he said, ''because they're being scrutinized more carefully.''
 And those who have only recently started a business -- perhaps after a layoff -- may face even greater difficulties, he added. During the recession, many companies laid off workers, hiring them back on a contractual basis. Because these people have no long-term history of stable earnings, Mr. Duquette said, lenders often reject their applications or impose higher rates.
 Still, self-employed applicants shouldn't give up hope, said Debra Killian, the president of Charter Oak Lending, a mortgage broker in Danbury, Conn. Many people wrongly assume they cannot qualify for a loan at all, she said, ''but 30 percent of the time -- maybe 40 -- they'll qualify. They may be frustrated at all the documentation we ask them to provide, but they can still qualify.''
 Small-business owners considering whether to qualify a purchase as a business or personal expense on their taxes, Ms. Killian said, should do the math. 
 If a business owner shows too little net income to qualify, say, for a $300,000 mortgage at 5 percent, and instead qualifies for a 5.25 percent loan, the monthly payments add up to an extra $5,520, roughly, for the first 10 years of the more expensive loan.
 ''If you save yourself a few thousand dollars in taxes in a year by taking those extra deductions,'' Ms. Killian said, ''how much will that cost you on your mortgage, or your ability to even get a loan?''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%)

COMPANY: HUDSON CITY BANCORP INC (56%)

TICKER: HCBK (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



377 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 6749 words

HEADLINE: THE RISE AND FALL OF THE G.D.P.

BYLINE: By JON GERTNER. 
Jon Gertner, a contributing writer, last wrote for the magazine about calorie restriction.

 BODY:
Whatever you may think progress looks like -- a rebounding stock market, a new house, a good raise -- the governments of the world have long held the view that only one statistic, the measure of gross domestic product, can really show whether things seem to be getting better or getting worse. G.D.P. is an index of a country's entire economic output -- a tally of, among many other things, manufacturers' shipments, farmers' harvests, retail sales and construction spending. It's a figure that compresses the immensity of a national economy into a single data point of surpassing density. The conventional feeling about G.D.P. is that the more it grows, the better a country and its citizens are doing. In the U.S., economic activity plummeted at the start of 2009 and only started moving up during the second half of the year. Apparently things are moving in that direction still. In the first quarter of this year, the economy again expanded, this time by an annual rate of about 3.2 percent. 
 All the same, it has been a difficult few years for G.D.P. For decades, academics and gadflies have been critical of the measure, suggesting that it is an inaccurate and misleading gauge of prosperity. What has changed more recently is that G.D.P. has been actively challenged by a variety of world leaders, especially in Europe, as well as by a number of international groups, like the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The G.D.P., according to arguments I heard from economists as far afield as Italy, France and Canada, has not only failed to capture the well-being of a 21st-century society but has also skewed global political objectives toward the single-minded pursuit of economic growth. ''The economists messed everything up,'' Alex Michalos, a former chancellor at the University of Northern British Columbia, told me recently when I was in Toronto to hear his presentation on the Canadian Index of Well-Being. The index is making its debut this year as a counterweight to the monolithic gross domestic product numbers. ''The main barrier to getting progress has been that statistical agencies around the world are run by economists and statisticians,'' Michalos said. ''And they are not people who are comfortable with human beings.'' The fundamental national measure they employ, he added, tells us a good deal about the economy but almost nothing about the specific things in our lives that really matter.
 In the U.S., one challenge to the G.D.P. is coming not from a single new index, or even a dozen new measures, but from several hundred new measures -- accessible free online for anyone to see, all updated regularly. Such a system of national measurements, known as State of the USA, will go live online this summer. Its arrival comes at an opportune moment, but it has been a long time in the works. In 2003, a government official named Chris Hoenig was working at the U.S. Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, and running a group that was researching ways to evaluate national progress. Since 2007, when the project became independent and took the name State of the USA, Hoenig has been guided by the advice of the National Academy of Sciences, an all-star board from the academic and business worlds and a number of former leaders of federal statistical agencies. Some of the country's elite philanthropies -- including the Hewlett, MacArthur and Rockefeller foundations -- have provided grants to help get the project started.
 Things have evolved since then. When I first visited Hoenig in Washington early last winter, State of the USA was a willfully obscure, nonpartisan, nonprofit organization operating out of an unremarkable office building near DuPont Circle. Hoenig was amassing data on subjects like Americans' education and health and getting ready to put the information online. But tucked inside the health care bill that President Obama recently signed, on Page 562, is a provision requiring Congress to help finance and oversee the creation of a ''key national indicators'' system -- that is to say, Hoenig's State of the USA will become a national-indicators panel, run by the National Academy of Sciences. Think of it as a report card meant to show a country's citizens the exact areas -- in health, education, the environment and so forth -- where improvement is called for; such indicators would also record how we improve, or fail to improve, over time. The State of the USA intends to ultimately post around 300 indicators on issues like crime, energy, infrastructure, housing, health, education, environment and the economy. All areas of measurement will be chosen by members of the National Academy; all will be reviewed for rigor and accuracy by a panel of accomplished experts. With easy access to national information, Hoenig told me optimistically, Americans might soon be able ''to shift the debate from opinions to more evidence-based discussions to ideally a discussion about what solutions are and are not working.''
 Those involved with the self-defined indicators movement -- people like Hoenig, as well as supporters around the world who would like to dethrone G.D.P. -- argue that achieving a sustainable economy, and a sustainable society, may prove impossible without new ways to evaluate national progress. Left unanswered, however, is the question of which indicators are the most suitable replacements for, or most suitable enhancements to, G.D.P. Should they measure educational attainment or employment? Should they account for carbon emissions or happiness? As Hoenig himself is inclined to say, and not without some enthusiasm, a new panel of national measures won't necessarily settle such arguments. On the contrary, it will have a tendency to start them.
 High-G.D.P. Man vs. Low-G.D.P. Man For now at least, G.D.P. holds almost unassailable sway, not only as the key national indicator for the economic health of the United States but also for that of the rest of the world's developed countries, which employ a standardized methodology -- there's actually a handbook -- to calculate their economic outputs. And, as it happens, there are some good reasons that everyone has depended on it for so long. ''If you want to know why G.D.P. matters, you can just put yourself back in the 1930 period, where we had no idea what was happening to our economy,'' William Nordhaus, a Yale economist who has spent a distinguished career thinking about economic measurement, told me recently. ''There were people then who said things were fine and others who said things weren't fine. But we had no comprehensive measures, so we looked at things like boxcar loadings.'' If you compare the crisis of 1930 with the crisis of 2008, Nordhaus added, it has made an enormous difference to track what's happening in the economy through indexes like G.D.P. Such knowledge can enable a quick and informed policy response, which in the past year took shape as a big stimulus package, for example. To Nordhaus, in fact, the G.D.P. -- the antecedents of which were developed in the early 1930s by an economist named Simon Kuznets at the federal government's request -- is one of the greatest inventions of the 20th century. ''It's not a machine or a computer,'' he says, ''and it's not the way you usually think of an invention. But it's an awesome thing.''
 G.D.P. statistics are calculated a dozen times a year on the fifth floor of a modern office building on L Street in Washington, where a government economist named Steve Landefeld huddles with a group of staff members and reviews a large pile of data compiled by his agency, the Bureau of Economic Analysis, a part of the U.S. Department of Commerce. For an entire day, the suite of offices where Landefeld's group works is placed under what he calls ''lockup.'' Cellphones are handed in; land lines and Internet connections are cut off; curtains are drawn tight. Only certain personnel are allowed in and out. The men and women with Landefeld then spend the day following a process that has been refined over the past 50 years. It is a complicated affair, involving the convergence of some 10,000 streams of data that describe recent economic activity in the U.S., but the group's goal is fairly simple: to arrive at a single number and then explain it in a press release. By tradition, no one in the room says the final number aloud -- a throwback to the old days, apparently, when the fear of hidden microphones prompted silent acclamation. The finished press release is photocopied a couple of hundred times and then locked up, except for a single copy delivered at the end of the day to the chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers. Anyone who knows the figure at this point is forbidden to reveal it, lest its premature unveiling roil the global financial markets. Not until 8:30 the next morning will Landefeld's agency release the G.D.P. number to the rest of the world.
 Government statisticians like Landefeld do not push any equivalency between an expanding G.D.P. and national progress. For them, G.D.P. is what it is and nothing more: a description of total national production that can be helpful when setting economic policy. The longtime tendency of politicians to use G.D.P. as a proxy for national well-being is not a practice the Bureau of Economic Analysis endorses or could necessarily control, even if it wanted to. That the Obama administration, for instance, has pointed to rebounding G.D.P. numbers rather than our unusually high unemployment numbers reflects a political calculation rather than a case of economists beating a drum for the glory of G.D.P.
 But criticisms of G.D.P. go deeper than just its use, or misuse, by politicians. For years, economists critical of the measure have enjoyed spinning narratives to illustrate its logical flaws and limitations. Consider, for example, the lives of two people -- let's call them High-G.D.P. Man and Low-G.D.P. Man. High-G.D.P. Man has a long commute to work and drives an automobile that gets poor gas mileage, forcing him to spend a lot on fuel. The morning traffic and its stresses aren't too good for his car (which he replaces every few years) or his cardiovascular health (which he treats with expensive pharmaceuticals and medical procedures). High-G.D.P. Man works hard, spends hard. He loves going to bars and restaurants, likes his flat-screen televisions and adores his big house, which he keeps at 71 degrees year round and protects with a state-of-the-art security system. High-G.D.P. Man and his wife pay for a sitter (for their kids) and a nursing home (for their aging parents). They don't have time for housework, so they employ a full-time housekeeper. They don't have time to cook much, so they usually order in. They're too busy to take long vacations.
 As it happens, all those things -- cooking, cleaning, home care, three-week vacations and so forth -- are the kind of activity that keep Low-G.D.P. Man and his wife busy. High-G.D.P. Man likes his washer and dryer; Low-G.D.P. Man doesn't mind hanging his laundry on the clothesline. High-G.D.P. Man buys bags of prewashed salad at the grocery store; Low-G.D.P. Man grows vegetables in his garden. When High-G.D.P. Man wants a book, he buys it; Low-G.D.P. Man checks it out of the library. When High-G.D.P. Man wants to get in shape, he joins a gym; Low-G.D.P. Man digs out an old pair of Nikes and runs through the neighborhood. On his morning commute, High-G.D.P. Man drives past Low-G.D.P. Man, who is walking to work in wrinkled khakis.
 By economic measures, there's no doubt High-G.D.P. Man is superior to Low-G.D.P. Man. His salary is higher, his expenditures are greater, his economic activity is more robust. You can even say that by modern standards High-G.D.P. Man is a bigger boon to his country. What we can't really say for sure is whether his life is any better. In fact, there seem to be subtle indications that various ''goods'' that High-G.D.P. Man consumes should, as some economists put it, be characterized as ''bads.'' His alarm system at home probably isn't such a good indicator of his personal security; given all the medical tests, his health care expenditures seem to be excessive. Moreover, the pollution from the traffic jams near his home, which signals that business is good at the local gas stations and auto shops, is very likely contributing to social and environmental ills. And we don't know if High-G.D.P. Man is living beyond his means, so we can't predict his future quality of life. For all we know, he could be living on borrowed time, just like a wildly overleveraged bank.
 G.D.P. vs. Human Development Index Simon Kuznets, the inventor of so-called national accounts -- the collection of indicators calculated by the Bureau of Economic Analysis that now includes G.D.P. and a host of other economic and financial measures -- actually harbored concerns about his creation from the start. As Steve Landefeld pointed out to me, Kuznets worried that the nation's economic activity might be mistaken for its citizens' well-being. Many years later, in Kuznets's Nobel Prize lecture in 1971, he also offered a list of ways his measures might be improved. ''It seems fairly clear,'' he said then, ''that a number of analytical and measurement problems remain in the theory and in the evaluation of economic growth.''
 Most criticisms of G.D.P. since then have tended to fall into two distinct camps. The first group maintains that G.D.P. itself needs to be fixed. High-G.D.P. Man and Low-G.D.P. Man have to become one, in effect. This might entail, for starters, placing an economic value on work done in the home, like housekeeping and child care. Activities that are currently unaccounted for, like cooking dinner at your own stove, could also be treated the same as activities that are now factored into G.D.P., like food prepared in a restaurant. Another fix might be to cease giving only positive values to events that actually detract from a country's well-being, like hurricanes and floods; both boost G.D.P. through construction costs.
 The second group of critics, meanwhile, has sought to recast the criticism of G.D.P. from an accounting debate to a philosophical one. Here things get far more complicated. The argument goes like this: Even if G.D.P. was revised as a more modern, logical G.D.P. 2.0, our reliance on such a measure suggests that we may still be equating economic growth with progress on a planet that is possibly overburdened already by human consumption and pollution. The only way to repair such an imbalance would be to institutionalize other national indicators (environmental, say, or health-related) to reflect the true complexity of human progress. Just how many indicators are required to assess societal health -- 3? 30? 300, a la State of the USA? -- is something economists have been struggling with for years as well.
 So far only one measure has succeeded in challenging the hegemony of growth-centric thinking. This is known as the Human Development Index, which turns 20 this year. The H.D.I. is a ranking that incorporates a nation's G.D.P. and two other modifying factors: its citizens' education, based on adult literacy and school-enrollment data, and its citizens' health, based on life-expectancy statistics. The H.D.I., which happens to be used by the United Nations, has plenty of critics. For example, its three-part weightings are frequently criticized for being arbitrary; another problem is that minor variations in the literacy rates of developed nations, for example, can yield significant differences in how countries rank.
 One economist who helped create the Human Development Index was Amartya Sen, a Nobel laureate in economics who teaches at Harvard. When I met with Sen on a recent evening in New York, he suggested that if I wanted to place the recent arguments about G.D.P., progress and economic growth into a historical context, I should really take a minute to hear why and how the Human Development Index came together.
 One day in October 1953, Sen said, he was on his way to a lecture at Cambridge University when he fell into a conversation with a student named Mahbub ul Haq. The two young men -- Sen was from India, Haq from Pakistan -- soon became friends. ''We often chatted in the evening,'' Sen recalled. ''Not so much about measurement. But we thought there was a silliness about identifying growth with development.'' Many professors at Cambridge suggested that if a country could increase its G.D.P., then all the good things would follow. ''But that seemed to both Mahbub and me to be wrong,'' Sen said. A decade later, when Sen was visiting his friend at his home in Karachi, the two would look out over the city in the evenings and talk more about the problems with G.D.P. ''Mahbub would say: 'If India and Pakistan were to grow as fast as we can possibly imagine, when you and I are 50, India and Pakistan's per capita income will only be getting close to Egypt's. Is that all we want?' '' In time, Haq began to consider measures (in health and education, mostly) that he thought could lead to policies that would make life in countries like Pakistan enormously better, even without large gains in G.D.P. This was not an argument against G.D.P., Sen emphasized to me. ''It was an argument against relying only on G.D.P.'' Many years afterward, when Haq asked Sen to help him devise the Human Development Index, Sen recoiled at the idea. ''I told Mahbub that it's vulgar to capture in one number an extremely complex story, just as G.D.P. is vulgar. And he called me back and said: 'Amartya, you're exactly right. What I want you to do is produce an index as vulgar as G.D.P. but more relevant to our own lives.' ''
 Sen said he eventually came around to seeing the wisdom in Haq's pragmatism. The H.D.I. made its debut in 1990; Haq died in 1998. Sen told me he thinks the index has been extremely useful for tracking the progress of the world's poorer nations. But since he and Haq did their initial work, Sen said, the world has changed. There are much better survey data now, which allow for new types of economic and social measurement. What's more, he added, the problems associated with climate change and sustainability have become far more pressing. These were two of the reasons that, a couple of years ago, Sen joined the Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz and the French economist Jean-Paul Fitoussi on a commission established by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to consider alternatives to G.D.P.
 The third reason was that he saw an opportunity to continue the work he began with Haq, but this time with respect to the world's richer nations. ''Joe has a little bit of the pragmatism that pushed Mahbub,'' Sen said, referring to Stiglitz, who was the driving force behind the commission's work. ''You can see when push comes to shove, he'd say, 'For God's sake, let's do something that changes the world.' ''
 The Stiglitz Commission and Its Dashboard Several times last fall, I visited Stiglitz's office at Columbia University, where he is on the faculty, to talk about the shortcomings of G.D.P. Sometimes we chatted about accounting issues -- why he thinks G.D.P. creates a distorted representation of our economic lives, for instance, and how that might be remedied. In his view, Americans would have had a much clearer picture of our progress over the past decade if we had focused on median income rather than G.D.P. per capita, which is distorted by top earners and corporate profits. ''When you have increasing inequality, median and average behave differently,'' Stiglitz said. Real median household income has actually dipped since 2000. But G.D.P. per capita, he noted, has gone up. A president could go on the podium, Stiglitz said, and point to G.D.P. as proof that Americans are doing very well. But if you looked instead at median income, he said, ''you could say, a) it's not sustainable; and b) most people are actually worse off.'' We need to focus on those median figures, he insisted.
 Most frequently in our conversations, Stiglitz gravitated to the philosophical questions of measuring progress. What are the best indicators beyond G.D.P.? How do you actually pick the most important ones? As Stiglitz recounted, Sarkozy gave the commission freedom to tear apart G.D.P. as its members saw fit. No doubt, the French president saw political advantages in the undertaking. With a more comprehensive set of indicators, a leader trying to steer a course through a faltering economy could conceivably point to successes in areas other than jobs or productivity. ''I can tell you what Sarkozy told me about what motivated him,'' Stiglitz said. ''What he said was that he felt this tension -- he is told to maximize G.D.P. but he also knows as a good politician that what people care about are things like pollution and many other dimensions to the quality of life. Those dimensions aren't well captured in G.D.P. And that puts him in a difficult position. When he comes up for election, people are going to grade him on G.D.P., but people are also going to grade on the quality of life. And so he sort of said, Can't you in some way resolve this tension by constructing measures that don't pose these dichotomies?''
 The Stiglitz-Sen-Fitoussi Commission, as it eventually came to be known -- its official title was the Commission on the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress -- grew to about two dozen members and met in Europe and the U.S. several times in 2008 and 2009. Many of the members leaned to the left, even as Sarkozy is characterized in French politics as leaning to the right. Stiglitz brought in, among others, the Princeton psychologist and Nobel laureate in economics Daniel Kahneman, as well as Enrico Giovannini, the president of the Italian National Institute of Statistics and the international economist most closely involved with the indicators movement over the past decade. In September, the commission issued a formidable report, nearly 300 pages long, that offered an exhaustive list of suggestions, some methodological and some philosophical, for measuring the progress of nations in the 21st century. ''We very quickly came to a consensus that you weren't going to get one number for a new G.D.P. number, but that it would have been nice,'' Stiglitz told me. In fact, the commission endorsed both main criticisms of the G.D.P.: the economic measure itself should be fixed to better represent individuals' circumstances today, and every country should also apply other indicators to capture what is happening economically, socially and environmentally. The commission sought a metaphor to explain what it meant. Eventually it settled on an automobile.
 Suppose you're driving, Stiglitz told me. You would like to know how the vehicle is functioning, but when you check the dashboard there is only one gauge. (It's a peculiar car.) That single dial conveys one piece of important information: how fast you're moving. It's not a bad comparison to the current G.D.P., but it doesn't tell you many other things: How much fuel do you have left? How far can you go? How many miles have you gone already? So what you want is a car, or a country, with a big dashboard -- but not so big that you can't take in all of its information.
 The question is: How many measures beyond G.D.P. -- how many dials on a new dashboard -- will you need? Stiglitz and his fellow academics ultimately concluded that assessing a population's quality of life will require metrics from at least seven categories: health, education, environment, employment, material well-being, interpersonal connectedness and political engagement. They also decided that any nation that was serious about progress should start measuring its ''equity'' -- that is, the distribution of material wealth and other social goods -- as well as its economic and environmental sustainability. ''Too often, particularly I think in an American context, everybody says, 'We want policies that reflect our values,' but nobody says what those values are,'' Stiglitz told me. The opportunity to choose a new set of indicators, he added, is tantamount to saying that we should not only have a conversation about recasting G.D.P. We should also, in the aftermath of an extraordinary economic collapse, talk about what the goals of a society really are.
 Taking the Environment Into Account
 The report from the Stiglitz-Sen-Fitoussi commission isn't a blueprint, exactly -- it's more like open-source software, posted online for anyone to download, discuss and modify. It doesn't tell countries how they should measure progress. It tells them how they should think about measuring progress. One challenge here -- something that the commission's members well understood -- is that recommending new indicators and actually implementing them are very different endeavors. Almost everyone I spoke with in the indicators movement, including Chris Hoenig at State of the USA, seems to agree that at the moment our reach exceeds our grasp. When I met with Rebecca Blank, the under secretary of commerce for economic affairs, whose job it is to oversee the data agencies that put together G.D.P., she noted that new national measures depend on more than a government's willingness; they also necessitate additional financing, interagency cooperation and great leaps in the science of statistical analysis. Blank wasn't averse to some of the commission's recommendations -- indeed, she recently endorsed the idea, proposed by Steve Landefeld at the Bureau of Economic Analysis, that our national accounts add a ''household perspective'' that represents individuals' economic circumstances better than G.D.P. ''But some of the constraint is we don't have the money to do it,'' she told me, referring to various new measures. ''Some of the constraint is we know how to do it, but we need to collect additional data that we don't currently have. And some of the constraint is that we don't really know how to do it quite yet.''
 Environmental and sustainability indicators offer a few good examples of how big the challenge is. A relatively easy first step, several members of the Stiglitz commission told me, would be to build in a ''depletion charge'' to G.D.P. for the natural resources -- oil, gas, timber and even fisheries -- that a country transforms into dollars. At the moment, we don't do this; it's as if these commodities have no value until they are extracted and sold. A charge for resource depletion might not affect G.D.P. in the United States all that much; the country is too big and too thoroughly based on knowledge and technology industries for the depletion costs of things like coal mining and oil drilling to make much of an impact. On the other hand, in countries like Saudi Arabia and China, G.D.P. might look different (that is to say, lower) if such a charge were subtracted from their economic outputs. Geoffrey Heal, a professor at Columbia who worked on the environmental aspects of the commission's report, told me that including resource depletion in the national accounts -- something the U.S. considered in the early 1990s and then abandoned for political reasons -- could be implemented within a year if the world's developed nations agreed to do it. After that, he suggests, a next step might be to subtract from G.D.P. the cost of the health problems -- asthma and early deaths, for instance -- caused by air pollutants like sulfur dioxide.
 But environmental accounting gets more difficult. ''We can put monetary values on mineral stocks, fisheries and even forests, perhaps,'' Heal says. ''But it's hard to put a monetary value on alteration of the climate system, loss of species and the consequences that might come from those.'' On the other hand, Heal points out, you have to decide to measure something difficult before you can come up with a technique for measuring it. That was the case when the U.S. decided to create national accounts on economic production during the Great Depression. What the Stiglitz commission ultimately concluded was that it's necessary to make a few sustainability dials on the dashboard simply raw data -- registering things like a country's carbon footprint or species extinctions -- until we figure out how to give the effects approximate monetary values. Maybe in 10 years, Heal guesses, economists would be able to do that.
 To Heal, making a real and rapid effort at calculating these costs and then posting the information is imperative. According to Heal, we have no sense of how much ''natural capital'' -- our stocks of clean air and water and our various ecosystems -- we need to conserve to maintain our economy and our quality of life. ''If you push the world's natural capital below a certain level,'' Heal asks, ''do you so radically alter the system that it has a long-term impact on human welfare?'' He doesn't know the answer. Yet, he adds, if we were to pass that point -- and at present we have no dials to indicate whether we have -- then we couldn't compensate for our error through technological innovation or energy breakthroughs. Because by then it would be too late.
 Putting a Number on Happiness As difficult as it might be to compile sustainability indicators, it's equally challenging to create measures that describe our social and emotional lives. In this area, there's a fair amount of skepticism from the academic establishment about putting happiness onto a national dashboard of well-being. William Nordhaus of Yale told me that some of the measurements are ''absurd.'' Amartya Sen, too, told me that he has reservations about the worth of statistics that purport to describe human happiness.
 Stiglitz and his colleagues nevertheless concluded that such research was becoming sufficiently rigorous to warrant its possible inclusion. At first the connection to G.D.P. can be puzzling. One explanation, however, is that while our current economic measures can't capture the larger effects of unemployment or chronic depression, providing policy makers with that information may influence their actions. ''You might say, If we have unemployment, don't worry, we'll just compensate the person,'' Stiglitz told me. ''But that doesn't fully compensate them.'' Stiglitz pointed to the work of the Harvard professor Robert Putnam, who served on the Stiglitz-Sen-Fitoussi commission, which suggests that losing a job can have repercussions that affect a person's social connections (one main driver of human happiness, regardless of country) for many years afterward.
 When I caught up with Putnam, he said that the ''damage to this country's social fabric from this economic crisis must have been huge, huge, huge.'' And yet, he noted, ''We have plenty of numbers about the economic consequences but none of the numbers about the social consequences.'' Over the past decade, Putnam has been working on measures -- having to do with church attendance, community involvement and the like -- to quantify our various social links; just recently, the U.S. Census Bureau agreed to include questions of his in some of its monthly surveys. Still, his efforts are a work in progress. When I asked Putnam whether government should be in the business of fostering social connections, he replied, ''I don't think we should have a government Department of Friendship that introduces people to one another.'' But he argued that just as registering the social toll of joblessness would add a dimension of urgency to the unemployment issue, it seemed possible that measuring social connections, and putting those measures on a national dashboard, could be in society's best interests. As it happens, the Canadian Index of Well-Being will contain precisely such a measure; and it's very likely that a related measure of ''social capital,'' as it's often called, will become a State of the USA indicator too. ''People will get sick and die, because they don't know their neighbors,'' Putnam told me. ''And the health effects of social isolation are of the same magnitude as people smoking. If we can care about people smoking, because that reduces their life expectancy, then why not think about social isolation too?''
 It seems conceivable, in fact, that including various measures of emotional well-being on a national dashboard could lead to policies quite different from what we have now. ''There's an enormous inequality of suffering in society,'' Daniel Kahneman told me recently. By his estimate, ''if you look at the 10 percent of people who spend the most time suffering, they account for almost half of the total amount of suffering.'' Kahneman suggested that tremendous social and economic gains could therefore be made by dealing with the mental-health problems -- depression, say -- of a relatively small fraction of the population. At the same time, he added, new measures of emotional well-being that he has been working on might soon give us a more enlightened perspective on the complex relationship between money and happiness.
 Currently, research suggests that increased wealth leads us to report increased feelings of satisfaction with our lives -- a validation, in effect, that higher G.D.P. increases the well-being in a country. But Kahneman told me that his most recent studies, conducted with the Princeton economist Angus Deaton, suggest that money doesn't necessarily make much of a difference in our moment-to-moment happiness, which is distinct from our feelings of satisfaction. According to their work, income over about $70,000 does nothing to improve how much we enjoy our activities on a typical day. And that raises some intriguing questions. Do we want government to help us increase our sense of satisfaction? Or do we want it to help us get through our days without feeling misery? The two questions lead toward two very different policy options. Is national progress a matter of making an increasing number of people very rich? Or is it about getting as many people as possible into the middle class?
 The Political Resistance Over the past few months, the recommendations of the Stiglitz-Sen-Fitoussi commission have been taken up for debate by the European Union's statistical office as well as by the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which serves as a kind of policy forum for the world's developed countries. To Stiglitz and his colleagues, an ideal outcome would be a consensus by these international agencies -- and, in turn, the world's governments -- to start measuring progress through a dashboard with a dozen or so dials, moving the focus away from G.D.P. and onto other aspects of the economy, society and environment.
 When I spoke with Enrico Giovannini, the head of Italy's national statistics agency, he said, ''The good news, I think, is that at the international level there are signs that something is changing.'' Giovannini then ticked off a list of a half-dozen countries -- including Germany, the United Kingdom and France -- where top officials have aligned themselves with an expanded focus on ''well-being'' rather than growth as a measure of progress. At the same time, he noted, the Human Development Index is planning its own revision later this year, a project with which Giovannini is involved. And the H.D.I. planners, Giovannini said, were considering other progress indicators that have been recommended by the Stiglitz commission.
 As for the effects of such changes, Stiglitz told me, ''What we measure affects what we do, and better measurement will lead to better decisions, or at least different decisions.'' But until the developed nations of the world actually move beyond G.D.P. -- a big if -- this remains a reasoned hypothesis only. A lingering question is whether some government officials, perceiving dangers in a new measurement system, might conclude that such an overhaul would wreak political havoc and therefore ought to be avoided. A heightened focus on environmental indicators, for starters, could give environmental legislation a far greater urgency. And a revision of economic measures presents other potential policy complications.
 It has long been the case, for example, that the G.D.P. of the United States outpaces that of European countries with higher taxes and greater government spending; it has thus seemed reasonable to view our economic growth as a vindication of a national emphasis on free markets and entrepreneurship. But things look different if you see the measure itself as flawed or inadequate. We take shorter vacations than Europeans, for instance, which is one reason their G.D.P. is lower than ours -- but that could change if our indicators start putting a value on leisure time. Some of the disparity, meanwhile, between the U.S. and various European countries, Stiglitz argued, is a statistical bias resulting from the way G.D.P. formulas account for public-sector benefits. In other words, the services received from the government in a country like Sweden -- in public education, health care and child care, among other things -- are likely undervalued. Rejiggering the measures of prosperity would almost certainly challenge our self-perceptions, Stiglitz said, perhaps so much so that in the U.S. we might begin to ask, Is our system working as well for most people as we think it has been?
 State of the USA has its own political hurdles to overcome: until Congressional leaders appoint a bipartisan commission for the administration of the Key National Indicators System (something they're required to do promptly, according to the new health care legislation but had not done by early May), the indicators system, and to some extent State of the USA, are in limbo. All the same, a huge system of measurement like State of the USA may be more politically palatable to America's elected officials than the smaller dashboard envisioned by the Stiglitz commission. For one thing, it makes the definition of progress more diffuse. If hundreds of measures -- economic, environmental, educational and the like -- are thrown into the mix, users can pick and choose their markers of progress. And argue about them. Now, this might push us into a situation akin to what Simon Kuznets found himself in when he was formulating ways to measure the national economy -- confronting all sorts of data but no real coherence. But that's not how Hoenig -- or Stiglitz, for that matter -- sees it. ''The whole idea here, in how it relates to Stiglitz's report, is that this is a dashboard, with real data, that's going to be live, now, on real issues,'' Hoenig told me. His view is that the project will make the U.S. the first country in the world whose population enjoys what he called ''a shared, quantitative frame of reference.'' The size of the indicators panel is not a stumbling block; if anything, he argued, it's an asset for an information-based society. The G.D.P. and other indexes, Hoenig said, are ''an artifact of a world before the Web.'' For his part, Stiglitz sees the State of the USA as a complement to any future dashboard system. A small dashboard of indicators could be useful for some purposes, a large panel for others. ''When you go to a good doctor today, they don't just look at one or two vital signs,'' he said. ''They look at a hundred statistics.'' State of the USA, he told me, could be a ''rich diagnostic tool'' for evaluating the health of the country.
 It's worth noting, in any event, that despite its size, State of the USA is not kludgy. When Hoenig showed me the site recently -- most of it remains password-protected until its anticipated summer unveiling -- it was simple, with a click of a tab, to see how the U.S. measured up in various ways, from health-insurance coverage to obesity, on a state-by-state basis. It was fairly evident that the site could actually fulfill one of the legislative demands of the national-indicators system, which is to allow Americans to track how (or whether) our new health care legislation changes our health care costs and perhaps our health. It was likewise possible to imagine that if new measures of happiness, say, or environmental sustainability eventually pass statistical muster, they, too, could find places as State of the USA indicators.
 Clicking around his site with me, Hoenig paused to say: ''Right now, we actually don't know where this country is going. But this is an opportunity to grasp that.'' And then he kept on clicking.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: Economically, High-G.D.P. Man is superior to Low-G.D.P. Man, a bigger boon to his country. But is his life any better? (DRAWINGS BY SETH) (MM60-MM66)
GRAPHICS: GRAPHIC (DATA (TOP RIGHT) : AMONG NATIONS RANKED BY THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND) (MM60)
 GRAPHIC (SOURCE: 2009 REPORT FROM LIMRA, A LIFE-INSURANCE-INDUSTRY RESEARCH FIRM) (MM64) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); SHIPMENTS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (70%); RETAIL SALES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (76%) ONTARIO, CANADA (76%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (53%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



378 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Richard LaMotta, Creator of Chipwich Ice Cream Sandwich, Dies at 67

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Richard LaMotta, who turned his childhood passion for dunking cookies in milk into the Chipwich -- two chocolate chip cookies embracing a chunk of vanilla ice cream dotted with chocolate chips -- died Tuesday at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 67.
 The cause was a heart attack, his daughter Kayla said. 
 On May 1, 1982, Mr. LaMotta dispatched 60 street-cart vendors, each wearing pith helmets and khakis, to the streets of Manhattan to begin selling his 4 1/2-ounce concoction (including 3 1/2 ounces of ice cream) for what at the time was a pricey $1 each. A few hours later, all 25,000 Chipwiches had been gobbled -- the start of something big. 
 Within two weeks, Mr. LaMotta was selling 40,000 a day, and by the middle of that summer, the Chipwich plants in Queens, N.Y., and Lodi, N.J., were turning out 200,000 a day. It didn't hurt that Mayor Edward I. Koch posed for a photo -- for no fee -- as he bit into a Chipwich. 
 Soon there were imitators, banking on the legal position that they could make a Chipwich-like product, using similar ingredients, as long as they called it something else; among them were Chilly Chips and Chips 'n' Chips. 
 ''That's the way it works,'' a competitor told The New York Times. ''One guy comes up with a good idea, and everybody rips him off. It's the American way.''
 Still, Mr. LaMotta did well. By the time he sold his company to Coolbrands International, a Canadian distributor, in 2002, more than a billion Chipwiches had been sold by approximately 3,700 vendors in 36 markets. The brand was eventually bought by Nestle, which stopped making the product because it competed with its own version, Ms. LaMotta said.
 Richard Edmund LaMotta was born in Brooklyn on May 20, 1942, one of two children of Joseph and Mary Gibbons LaMotta. His father was a butcher. (His cousin was the middleweight boxing champion Jake LaMotta.)
 Mr. LaMotta's first marriage, to Rosemary Tadlock, ended in divorce. In addition to his daughter Kayla, he is survived by his second wife, the former Elaine Nadel; another daughter, Marika; a son from his first marriage, Thomas; and a granddaughter.
 Though he first dipped cookies as a toddler, it took nearly four decades before Mr. LaMotta found his true calling. For 12 years, while studying at night for a bachelor's degree in economics at Brooklyn College, he had worked as a video and sound engineer for AT&T and CBS. In 1975 he earned a law degree from New York Law School. Instead of practicing law, he went into what would eventually be a series of businesses, including one that sold food through catalogs and another that created a digital printing system for converting photographs into oil paintings.
 But in the late 1970s a friend in need of financial support asked Mr. LaMotta to become a partner in the Sweet Tooth, an ice cream parlor in Englewood, N.J. There, and in the basement of his father's home in Brooklyn, he began experimenting with ingredients for a perfect marriage between cookies and ice cream that would keep the cookies from getting soggy during the freezing process. It took a lot of taste-testing for Mr. LaMotta, a somewhat rotund man at the time. 
 Although the ice cream parlor eventually went out of business, Mr. LaMotta was able to raise about $500,000 from friends to start Chipwich Inc. In 1981, as sales started climbing, he told The Times that he could not foresee selling the company. 
 ''I have devoted 20 pounds of my life to Chipwiches,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard LaMotta first sold Chipwiches from street carts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); MARRIAGE (85%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); DAIRY PRODUCT WHOLESALERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (63%); BOXING (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%)

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (53%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



379 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: At Navy Yard, Preservation Arrives Late

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
FOR three years, some of the most powerful forces in New York real estate -- including the federal and city governments, developers, preservationists and community advocates -- have fought over the fate of a cluster of historically significant turn-of-the-last-century houses known as Admiral's Row in the Brooklyn Navy Yard. 
 Last month, the parties finally arrived at a compromise that seemed to strike a balance between preservation and development, in a $60 million project that would add a large supermarket to an underserved neighborhood, while also salvaging some buildings of deep architectural and cultural significance. 
 But it now appears that those historic buildings may be in such precarious condition that they cannot be saved.
 ''This is one of the worst cases I have ever seen in terms of neglect,'' said Alex Herrera, the director of the technical services center at the New York Landmarks Conservancy. ''It is a disgrace.''
 For more than three decades, Admiral's Row, like much of the nearby industrial waterfront, was largely left to rot. Further complicating matters was the fact that even though much of the 300-acre site was turned over to New York City in 1966, 10 former officers' homes and a timber shed that was once used to repair masts of large sailing vessels remained under the control of the federal government.
 For decades, both sites languished. 
 The roofs on some of the old naval officers' homes, built from 1864 to 1901, collapsed long ago as weeds and vines took up residence. Meanwhile the storied Navy Yard -- where 11,000 Colonial patriots lost their lives aboard British prison ships during the Revolution; where the Union outfitted ships to battle the Confederacy; and where the Navy established its radio command center for the North Atlantic Fleet during World War II -- became synonymous with corruption and urban blight.
 ''The Navy Yards really had a solid 30 years of public neglect,'' said Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University. 
 That began to change in 2002 when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg pledged $250 million in city money to embark on the largest expansion of the yard since the 1940s.
 Andrew H. Kimball, the president of the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation, which manages the yard, said that although his core mission was to bring jobs to the city, the corporation had worked hard to preserve the historical character of the yards. 
 ''I don't think you will find another industrial park in the country with a full-time archivist,'' Mr. Kimball said. Contrasting the project with others in neighboring Dumbo and Williamsburg, where the shell of an industrial building is saved even as it is converted to luxury condominiums, Mr. Kimball said the corporation was interested in living preservation, in which function is maintained along with form.
 He pointed to the $31 million renovation of the 220,000-square-foot U-shaped factory built in 1899 and used as a machine shop in World War II as an example of repurposing a historical structure for a modern use. Unused for more than 50 years, it will become a green manufacturing center, creating hundreds of jobs in a growing industry, he said.
 In all, some 40 preservation projects -- including the creation of a public museum -- costing more than $200 million are under way or planned. There are now 5,000 people working in the yard, and the corporation's profit from tenant rent has grown to $7.7 million last year, from $700,000 in 2001.
 But for all the progress in the yard, Admiral's Row has continued to crumble. 
 ''This six-acre site has been by far the most complex development site I have had to deal with in my five years here,'' Mr. Kimball said. 
 And now the delicate compromise, having been reached, is under threat. The federal government agreed to sell the city the land to develop as long as it met certain conditions. Because the timber shed and the homes on the site are eligible for placement on the National Register of Historic Places, the government required that the shed and one of the homes be restored and useable. Last month, after protracted debate, negotiators accepted a proposal from PA Developers of Manhattan to build a supermarket -- serving the 15,000 residents who live in three public housing projects bordering the yards -- along with new retail stores and an additional 125,000 square feet of industrial space. 
 But after the bid was accepted, Kristin Leahy, the cultural resources manager for the National Guard Bureau, the federal agency that controls the site, said engineers had found that the historic structures, particularly the timber shed, might be beyond repair. ''We hired these engineers with tools to stabilize the buildings,'' she said, ''and that is when they came back and said we had a problem.''
 One proposal at a subsequent meeting last month was to deconstruct the building and then incorporate the salvaged pieces into a new structure. But Mr. Herrera of the Landmarks Conservancy said that deconstruction was another word for demolition.
 ''What I don't like is this attitude of 'We can't save it,' without even really trying,'' he said. ''What we are really disappointed in is that during this whole process, nothing has been done to protect the buildings.''
 Ms. Leahy said she could not explain why federal authorities had let the property basically decay for decades, except to cite confusion over issues of ownership and control. 
 Another analysis of the site by the National Guard Bureau, which still controls the site, should be complete in coming weeks, she said; all options will then be on the table again.
 As Mr. Kimball explained, ''This is the last, best hope to do something positive on this site.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AGING BEAUTIES: The historic buildings on Admiral's Row in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, like the one at left, are badly in need of restoration. (RE1)
 INDUSTRIAL WATERFRONT: A $60 million project at the Brooklyn Navy Yard will include a supermarket, along with plans to salvage architectural treasures. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); MARINE VESSELS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

COMPANY: BROOKLYN NAVY YARD DEVELOPMENT CORP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (83%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (83%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



380 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Relief for the Gulf, Again

 BODY:
No one knows how long it will take to seal off the well that is still gushing oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or how much long-term damage will be done to the gulf's fishery. But the spill has thrown thousands of people out of work and threatened the viability of communities that were already reeling from one of the worst hurricane decades on record. 
 Congress needs to act quickly to keep businesses and individuals afloat until they can secure compensation from BP, which is responsible for cleanup costs and has agreed to pay legitimate damage claims. That means passing the aid package that the White House submitted to Congress last week. 
 It also means pushing out federal disaster relief loans as quickly as possible and providing debt forgiveness to people who are already struggling to pay off federal loans in connection with the four hurricanes that ravaged the region in 2005 and 2008. 
 Federal officials must closely monitor the conduct of BP, which says that it has received nearly 7,000 claims so far, primarily from people who have lost earnings, and has issued initial payments on about 1,000 of those. Under the law, BP is responsible for the total cost of the cleanup and only $75 million in economic damage, but the company has said it would be willing to pay more.
 The Coast Guard disaster office that oversees the cleanup says that BP has complied with federal laws that require it to notify people about how to make claims. The company has also updated the office on the processing of claims. BP said on Friday that it had no estimate of the average payments it had made. Some officials in Louisiana worry they are too small to help fishing boat owners and other businesses that have been sidelined by fishery closures or the falloff in tourism. BP should make sure that none of these businesses go under while awaiting compensation. 
 The White House aid package provides for unemployment compensation for people affected by the spill and provides money for one-stop assistance centers where people can go for job placement or to file complaints or unemployment claims.
 The final bill should include a debt relief amendment by Senator Mary Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, aimed at businesses in the Gulf Coast states that will need to take out new loans even as they are already struggling to pay back loans they took after the hurricanes. By authorizing the Small Business Administration to waive up to $15,000 in interest, the Landrieu plan would lower loan payments for many businesses and give them at least a little breathing room. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (89%); HURRICANES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); FISHERIES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%)

PERSON: MARY LANDRIEU (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



381 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3148 words

HEADLINE: Bombing Suspect's Long Path to Times Square

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT, SABRINA TAVERNISE and ANNE BARNARD; Reporting was contributed by Jack Begg, Alison Leigh Cowan, Kareem Fahim, Mike McIntire, Sharon Otterman, Ray Rivera, David Rohde, Michael S. Schmidt and Karen Zraick.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Andrea Elliott, Sabrina Tavernise and Anne Barnard, and written by Ms. Elliott.
 Just after midnight on Feb. 25, 2006, Faisal Shahzad sent a lengthy e-mail message to a group of friends. The trials of his fellow Muslims weighed on him -- the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the plight of Palestinians, the publication in Denmark of cartoons lampooning the Prophet Muhammad.
 Mr. Shahzad was wrestling with how to respond. He understood the notion that Islam forbids the killing of innocents, he wrote. But to those who insist only on ''peaceful protest,'' he posed a question: ''Can you tell me a way to save the oppressed? And a way to fight back when rockets are fired at us and Muslim blood flows? 
 ''Everyone knows how the Muslim country bows down to pressure from west. Everyone knows the kind of humiliation we are faced with around the globe.'' 
 Yet by some measures, Mr. Shahzad -- a Pakistani immigrant who was then 26 years old -- seemed to be thriving in the West. He worked as a financial analyst at Elizabeth Arden, the global cosmetics firm. He had just received his green card, making him a legal resident in the United States. He owned a gleaming new house in Shelton, Conn. His Pakistani-American wife would soon become pregnant with their first child, whom they named Alisheba, or ''beautiful sunshine.''
 Four years later, Mr. Shahzad stands accused of planting a car bomb in Times Square on a balmy spring evening. After his arrest two days later, on May 3, while trying to flee to Dubai, the few details that surfaced about his life echoed a familiar narrative about radicalization in the West: his anger toward his adopted country seemed to have grown in lockstep with his personal struggles. He had lost his home to foreclosure last year. At the same time he was showing signs of a profound, religiously infused alienation. 
 But the roots of Mr. Shahzad's militancy appear to have sprouted long before, according to interviews with relatives, friends, classmates, neighbors, colleagues and government officials, as well as e-mail messages written by Mr. Shahzad that were obtained by The New York Times. His argument with American foreign policy grew after 9/11, even as he enjoyed America's financial promise and expansive culture. He balanced these dueling emotions with an agility common among his Pakistani immigrant friends.
 As Mr. Shahzad became more religious, starting around 2006, he was also turning away from the Pakistan of his youth, friends recalled, distancing himself from the liberal, elite world of his father, Bahar ul-Haq, a retired vice marshal in the Pakistani Air Force.
 And while in recent years Mr. Shahzad struggled to pay his bills, it is unclear that his financial hardship played a significant role in his radicalization. He still owned his home and held a full-time job when he began signaling to friends that he wanted to leave the United States. 
 In April 2009, the same month Mr. Shahzad got his United States citizenship, he sent an e-mail message to friends that foreshadowed his militant destiny. He criticized the views of a moderate Pakistani politician, writing, ''I bet when it comes to defending the lands, his opinion would be we should do dialogue.'' The politician had ''bought into the Western jargon'' of calling the mujahedeen, or foreign fighters, ''extremist,'' wrote Mr. Shahzad, who urged the recipients of the message to find ''a proper Sheikh to understand the Quran.''
 One of the recipients responded by asking Mr. Shahzad which sheikhs he followed.
 Writing in Urdu, Mr. Shahzad replied, ''My sheikhs are in the field.'' A few months later, he abruptly quit his job and left for Pakistan, where, officials say, he was later trained in bomb-making by the Pakistani Taliban.
 But precisely what combination of influences -- political, religious and personal -- drove Mr. Shahzad to violence remains a mystery, even to those close to him.
 ''We all know these things, what the geopolitical problems are,'' said Mr. Shahzad's father-in-law, M. A. Mian, 55. ''Every day we sit in our living rooms with our friends and we discuss these issues.''
 ''But to go to this extreme, this is unbelievable,'' he said, adding: ''He has lovely children. Two really lovely children. As a father I would not be able to afford to lose my children.'' 
 Military Upbringing
 Faisal Shahzad grew up somewhat rootless. He identified proudly with his tribal Pashtun heritage, yet knew little of his father's ancestral village, Mohib Banda, a collection of mud huts ringed by sugar and wheat fields in northwestern Pakistan. Mr. Shahzad's father, Mr. Haq, had entered the Pakistani Air Force as a common airman before climbing the ranks as a fighter pilot who excelled at midair acrobatics, with posts in England and Saudi Arabia.
 By the time Mr. Shahzad was 12, his father had been transferred from Jidda, Saudi Arabia, to the Pakistani city of Quetta, followed by Rawalpindi. As the son of a senior military officer, Mr. Shahzad was swaddled in privilege, tended to by chauffeurs, servants and armed guards in an insular world made up almost exclusively of military families. Mr. Shahzad's household was a blend of strict and liberal; Mr. Haq, who spoke British-accented English and drank alcohol socially, was stern with his children and quick to anger, friends and former colleagues recalled.
 When Mr. Shahzad entered high school in the mid-1990s, his family had settled in Karachi, a throbbing mega-city in the south. By then, Pakistan had plunged into chaos. As political instability and sectarian violence roiled the country, many Pakistanis blamed the United States. After propping up the Pakistani military dictator, Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, in the 1980s, the American government was now imposing hefty sanctions in retaliation for Pakistan's nuclear program. The economy stalled as anti-Americanism spread.
 Mr. Shahzad came of age during Pakistan's state-sponsored jihad against India's military in the breakaway region of Kashmir -- a conflict that granted legendary status to Pakistani jihadists. ''We used to see the mujahedeen as heroes,'' said one graduate of Mr. Shahzad's high school, who, like others interviewed for this article, spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution. ''When I look back, I think, 'What was I thinking? What were we all doing?' But in that era, it made sense. We all wanted to do something.''
 It is unclear how formative these events were for Mr. Shahzad, who continued to lead a somewhat sheltered existence, living with his family in a neighborhood of stately homes fringed by palm trees and bougainvillea. His school, located on a military base, taught the same rigid curriculum -- with an anti-Western slant and a strict form of Islamic studies -- imposed nationally by General Zia. 
 After graduating, Mr. Shahzad enrolled in Greenwich University, a business school in Karachi known for drawing affluent underachievers with fancy cars. Mr. Shahzad proved a mediocre student. (In high school, he had gotten D's in English composition and microeconomics, according to a transcript.) But what he lacked in academic prowess he made up for in ambition, friends recalled; he was determined to finish his degree in the United States. Taking advantage of a partnership between his college and the University of Bridgeport, in Connecticut, Mr. Shahzad applied for a student visa. 
 On Jan. 16, 1999, at the age of 19, Mr. Shahzad left Pakistan for a new life in America.
 Driven to Success
 The wide, maple-shaded streets leading to the University of Bridgeport seem a long way from Karachi. The quiet, tidy campus overlooks a tranquil stretch of the Long Island Sound, where ferries pass in the distance.
 When Mr. Shahzad started classes there, more than a third of the college's students were foreigners -- 15 of them from Pakistan. Mr. Shahzad stood out. He walked with a confident air, showing off his gym-honed muscles in tight T-shirts. He carried the air of a privileged upbringing, coming off as aloof and, at times, snobbish. 
 While the Pakistani students stuck together, playing cricket and collecting free meals at the campus mosque, Mr. Shahzad had a wider circle of friends and a fuller social calendar. A skilled cook, he drew students to his dorm room with the scent of his simmering lobia, a Pakistani lentil dish. He worked out obsessively and, on weekends, hit New York City's Bengali-theme nightclubs. He loved women, recalled a former classmate, and ''could drink anyone under the table.'' He showed little interest in Islam.
 Mr. Shahzad rarely seemed pressed for cash -- he had a large television in his dorm room and drove a Mitsubishi Galant. But he still looked for work. Nimble with his hands -- he would later take to gardening and painting -- he landed a job designing intricate gold pendants for a jeweler at a mall in Milford. While Mr. Shahzad did not seem to distinguish himself academically, he came across as witty, street smart and ''fast on his feet,'' recalled one classmate. He and his Pakistani peers were chasing the same dream, the classmate said: ''Back then, it was all about fast cars and becoming something.''
 While Mr. Shahzad seemed eager to carve out a life in his host country, his anger at America flared early. The classmate recalled walking into Mr. Shahzad's apartment a few days after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 to find him staring at news footage of the planes hitting the towers.
 ''They had it coming,'' Mr. Shahzad said, according to the friend, a Pakistani-American. The friend said Mr. Shahzad believed that Western countries had conspired to mistreat Muslims. ''He would just go off,'' said the friend, adding that he paid little heed to Mr. Shahzad's eruptions, dismissing them as a product of his fierce Pashtun pride.
 ''He was always saying, 'If these people come to my land, it's not going to be good,' '' the friend recalled.
 By late 2001, Mr. Shahzad seemed focused on his American future. Having graduated from the University of Bridgeport with a bachelor's degree in computer applications and information systems, he was working as a clerk for Elizabeth Arden in Stamford. The following year, while holding the same job, Mr. Shahzad began taking night courses at the University of Bridgeport's business school. He had bought a black Mercedes, as well as a $205,000 condominium in Norwalk. Two years later, Mr. Shahzad sold the apartment at a $56,000 profit.
 His broker, Keven Courbois, was struck by Mr. Shahzad's sense of responsibility, given that he was only 25. ''I thought it was great: Look at this guy who is handling a condo on his own,'' Mr. Courbois said. 
 At times, Mr. Shahzad seemed deeply frustrated with his job at Elizabeth Arden, complaining to a friend that the company never raised his $50,000 salary. (The company declined to discuss Mr. Shahzad's employment.)
 In July 2004, three months after selling his condo, Mr. Shahzad bought the gray, two-story house in Shelton, in a quiet, hilly neighborhood of well-tended flower beds and rambling older homes. He was preparing for marriage. His parents agreed on a suitable match: Huma Mian, an ebullient 23-year-old from Denver who had recently graduated with a degree in accounting, and whose Pakistani-American father was a prominent oil industry engineer and economist. 
 On Dec. 25, 2004, they held a lavish wedding in Peshawar, Mr. Shahzad's ancestral turf, celebrating with a rare touch of modernity: the women and men danced together.
 Mr. Shahzad's ''bachelor days'' were behind him, the former classmate recalled. He was ready to settle down.
 New Religiosity
 Two years later, when Mr. Shahzad wrote the e-mail message telling friends that Muslims must defend themselves from ''foreign infidel forces,'' he seemed to be living a stable suburban life. That June, he took a new job as an analyst at the Affinion Group, a financial marketing firm in Norwalk, telling a friend that his annual income had jumped to $70,000. Two months later, he finished his master's degree in business. On weekends, Mr. Shahzad hosted barbecues, mowed his lawn and played badminton in the yard. His wife was pregnant. 
 Mr. Shahzad had long been critical of American foreign policy. ''He was always very upset about the fabrication of the W.M.D. stunt to attack Iraq and killing noncombatants such as the sons and grandson of Saddam Hussein,'' said a close relative. In 2003, Mr. Shahzad had been copied on a Google Groups e-mail message bearing photographs of Guantanamo Bay detainees, handcuffed and crouching, below the words ''Shame on you, Bush. Shame on You.'' The following year, Igor Djuric, a real estate agent who helped him buy his house, recalled that Mr. Shahzad was angered by President George W. Bush and the war in Iraq. 
 If anything struck Mr. Shahzad's friends and family as different, it was his new religiosity. He no longer drank, and was praying five times a day, stopping into mosques in Stamford, Norwalk and Bridgeport. Some of his friends thought nothing of it; plenty of Pakistani immigrants went through more spiritual phases. What set Mr. Shahzad apart, they said, was not his Islamic devotion, but the particular religious frame through which he had begun to interpret world events.
 His 2006 e-mail message echoed the same arguments found on militant Internet forums: that the West is at war with Islam, and Muslims are suffering humiliation because they have strayed from their religious duty to fight back.
 ''The crusade has already started against Islam and Muslims with cartoons of our beloved Prophet,'' wrote Mr. Shahzad, who went on to quote verses from the Koran as proof of what ''Allah commands about fighting for Islam.''
 During casual conversations with friends, Mr. Shahzad had taken to citing Islamic theology. He was a fan of Ibn Taymiyyah, a 14th-century scholar who inspired a puritanical following, and Abul Ala Mawdudi, a chief architect of the Islamic revival and founder of Pakistan's largest Islamic political party, Jamaat-e-Islami. 
 On visits home, Mr. Shahzad began to clash with his father. 
 Mr. Haq had long been wary of political Islam, and found his son's evolution troubling, friends recalled in interviews. The scrutiny went both ways. Mr. Shahzad glared when Mr. Haq once asked him to fetch water to mix with his whiskey, a family friend recalled. ''He wanted to change his father,'' said the classmate. 
 By late 2008, Mr. Shahzad seemed to oscillate between contentment and frustration. He doted on his two small children, even changing diapers to the amazement of his more patriarchal relatives. But he felt demeaned at work, complaining of a manager who used to ''insult him,'' a close relative recalled. He felt that American Muslims were treated differently after 9/11, said the classmate. 
 ''He used to say that when they refer to us, they say 'Americans of Pakistani origin' -- they don't say 'Americans with German origin,' '' the relative recalled. ''These kinds of things, they were all the time cooking in his head.''
 During a visit to Pakistan in 2008, Mr. Shahzad gave perhaps the clearest indication yet that he was heading down a militant path. He asked his father for permission to fight in Afghanistan, friends of the father and the relative recalled. Mr. Haq denied the request and appealed to the friends for help in managing his son, they said. 
 The following year brought a turning point. Back in Connecticut, Mr. Shahzad told his former classmate that he was ready to leave the United States. He was tired of his commute. He found it stressful to keep up mortgage payments on a single income, even though he had urged his wife not to work, said Dr. M. Saud Anwar, a pulmonologist in Connecticut who shares acquaintances with Mr. Shahzad. 
 ''He was like, 'Why am I paying so much for everything -- why am I even here?' '' the classmate recalled.
 As time went on, Mr. Shahzad's pride kept him from asking for money from either his family or his wife's, according to a close relative and the classmate. His plan was to wait until he became an American citizen, so he could find lucrative work with an American company in the Middle East and live among Muslims, the classmate recalled.
 Mr. Shahzad got his citizenship on April 17, 2009. That same month, he sent the e-mail message to friends saying that his ''sheikhs are in the field.'' (Dr. Anwar provided portions of the e-mail message, which he obtained from Mr. Shahzad's friend, to The Times and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.)
 Return to Pakistan
 Over the next few months, Mr. Shahzad and his wife held yard sales. The marriage appeared to be strained; Mr. Shahzad was pressuring his wife to wear a hijab, Dr. Anwar said. He also insisted that the family return to Pakistan while he searched for a job in the Middle East; his wife wanted him to find the job first, recalled the close relative.
 On June 2, Mr. Shahzad called his wife from Kennedy Airport. He said that he was leaving for Pakistan, and that it was her choice whether she wanted to follow him, the relative recalled. Ms. Mian refused. Later that month, she packed up her children and moved to Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, where her parents were living. 
 Mr. Shahzad stayed with his parents in Peshawar. He appears to have stopped paying his mortgage; the bank foreclosed on his Connecticut home in September. One month later, at a family gathering in Peshawar, Mr. Shahzad seemed angered by the American-led drone strikes along the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan, a close friend said. He was ''condemning the attacks and the government for not doing anything about it,'' the friend said.
 Mr. Haq was reassured about his son's plans when Mr. Shahzad agreed to start working in the family's farming business. ''He bluffed them,'' said one of the father's friends. In December, he left home, saying he would be back in a couple of days, the relative recalled. He never returned. 
 By then, according to federal investigators, Mr. Shahzad had set himself on a course to attack Times Square. 
 When he returned to the United States on Feb. 3, he circled back to his first days in America. Looking for work, he dropped by to see the jeweler who had hired him in college. He took out a lease on a small apartment just miles from the university campus. His movements over the next few months remain largely a mystery. 
 Last week, his landlord, Stanislaw Chomiak, walked through Mr. Shahzad's apartment, pointing out the spot where he had been building a wooden replica of a mosque. He looked around, as if searching for clues. Mr. Shahzad had been nice, pleasant -- a perfect kind of tenant. He had even lined the burners of the stove with aluminum so they would not get tarnished.
 ''Where are you going to find a guy like this?'' the landlord said. ''Nice guy and look what happens.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Faisal Shahzad and Huma Mian at their wedding in 2004 in Pakistan. They lost their home in Connecticut.
A protest in Islamabad in 2006 over Danish cartoons portraying the Prophet Muhammad. Right, a copy of Mr. Shahzad's Pakistani passport, found in Connecticut. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP RIGHT, CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
AAMIR QURESHI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
WEALTHY ORIGINS: Above, Faisal Shahzad's family home in Peshawar. Left, Mr. Shahzad and his wife, Huma Mian. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARSHAD ARBAB/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
AN EDUCATION ABROAD: A copy of Mr. Shahzad's student visa found outside his Shelton, Conn., home.
 BRIDGEPORT APARTMENT: A bedroom and a Koran and prayer beads in Mr. Shahzad's home, three days after his arrest in connection with the Times Square bombing case. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); RELIGION (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); IMMIGRATION (72%); AIR FORCES (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (66%); COSMETICS (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); ARRESTS (64%); FORECLOSURE (62%); LIBERALISM (60%); TOILETRIES MFG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (54%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); DENMARK (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



382 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: The Neighbors Will Play the Cello

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
NEWARK
 ''WE are going to build this building!'' Mayor Cory A. Booker thundered with an intensity that made the veins stand out at the temples of his shaven head. Only moments before, at the same podium, at the same news conference early this month, Gov. Christopher J. Christie called himself a son of Newark and threw his political muscle behind the same project: One Theater Square.
 It was a veritable passion play staged at the New Jersey Performing Arts Centeron May 5, with bipartisan actors and concerted hoopla, all meant to stimulate a sense of urgency concerning a longtime plan to build a 44-story residential tower across from the center. 
 Especially among lenders.
 City officials, arts center executives and the developer Carl Dranoff -- who built the arts-district Symphony House condominiums in Philadelphia and luxury units on the Camden waterfront -- all exhibited a fierce certainty that arts-loving people would want to live in downtown Newark.
 Mr. Christie said it had been an ''easy choice'' to approve $38 million in tax credits over 10 years for the project, which he did shortly after he took office in January, because the revitalization of Newark and other cities was crucial for the health of the state.
 But that still leaves roughly $160 million in financing to be secured for the 328-unit tower, which is to have expensive amenities like a pool and fitness center while having 20 percent of its apartments rented below market rates, to artists who qualify.
 Despite the stalling of residential projects all around the Northeast for lack of lender confidence, officials are pressing forward with what was described at the news conference as a ''game changing'' plan, in a neighborhood where no new market-rate housing has been built in 45 years. Their optimism can be ascribed in part to the way arts center events, along with sporting events at the Newark arena, draw huge crowds. ''Newark needs middle-class housing,'' said Lawrence P. Goldman, the arts center's chief executive, who helped conceive the overall plan for the acreage around the arts center -- including shopping, additional parks and more residential buildings. In an interview before the conference, he said, ''We are going to put up a beautiful, slender tower on a site with the ultimate access to the arts, train service, great views -- including, for some, the New York skyline -- and attract people of means, no question.'' 
 The arts center opened on Center Street in 1997. Situated along Route 21 and the Passaic River border with Harrison Township, and near Military Park downtown, the center is within five blocks of two train stations: Newark Penn and Broad Street, which are both connected to light rail service.
 The mass-transit access is what made the Theater Square project eligible for the state tax-credit program. It is available only to developers of large projects within a mile of train stations in nine designated cities, including Newark, Trenton and New Brunswick, the home of Rutgers University.
 ''The tax credit was huge; it was critical,'' said Mr. Dranoff, whose company, Dranoff Properties, was among 12 to make proposals.
 ''The next step of securing financing is also very important,'' he said in an interview, ''and we are going to do it. For those who might have trouble believing that, I will just point out that we took on what many people said was an impossible project in Camden, one requiring a jigsaw of public and private financing, and put it together in the six months following 9/11.'' 
 The Victor Lofts in Camden were created after restoration and conversion of decrepit and long-vacant buildings that belonged to RCA Victor, which look across the river to Philadelphia.
 ''I will knock on every door, and I will not go away,'' Mr. Dranoff said. ''I will keep coming back until we get the financing to make Theater Square happen. I made that commitment to the city and NJPac, and we will not fail.'' He did not specify which or how many banks and lending institutions he had contacted so far, but in the past he has mentioned two lenders who have heard his case with ''interest.'' 
 Mayor Booker and his deputy for economic development, Stefan Pryor, emphasized that they opposed development of a solely ''middle-class enclave'' around the arts center, even though they are eager to see Theater Square introduce a new level of quality. 
 ''The message is this,'' said Mr. Pryor in an interview after the conference. ''We need to build a mixed-income downtown that includes middle-class housing and includes affordable housing. We need to ensure we provide opportunity for all to move into our newest, most state-of-the-art housing stock and don't repeat the mistakes of the past in building enclaves of superb housing stock set off from lower-income housing projects.''
 Mr. Pryor said that setting aside 20 percent of more than 300 units as ''affordable'' -- and available to qualified artists and arts-industry workers based on income -- amounted to ''a lot of units.'' 
 Also downtown, ''work force'' housing is planned at the Teachers Village project on Halsey Street, in rental buildings set around two new charter schools, the deputy mayor noted. On Rector Street, behind the performing arts center, another market-rate tower, this one condos, is to be built by the team of the basketball star Shaquille O'Neal (a Newark native) and Boraie Development of New Brunswick.
 Theater Square, which would become the tallest building in Newark, was itself originally planned as condos, switching to rental as financing was shriveled by the recession. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: MUSIC LOVERS: The One Theater Square project, a rendering at left, is located adjacent to the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark. (DRAWING BY DRANOFF PROPERTIES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); THEATER (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MAYORS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CITIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); APPROVALS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); INTERVIEWS (65%); SPORTS (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION (63%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); HISTORIC SITES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



383 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: The Case for the Calmer Side of the Pond

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BEFORE the announcement last Monday of the nearly $1 trillion European bailout, the fiscal problems of Greece and other debt-ridden nations seemed to be derailing the year-old stock market rally here at home. 
 On Monday, the market soared, averting a 10 percent ''correction'' on Wall Street. Stocks fell again later in the week, and now a new line of thinking is emerging: Rather than threatening the American bull market, Europe's woes could make domestic stocks more appealing -- at least on a relative basis.
 How's that? 
 For starters, the Standard & Poor's 500 index of domestic stocks is trading 6.7 percent below its level in late April. ''Not only has rampant optimism been gut-checked, this crisis has refreshed the market's values,'' says James W. Paulsen, the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management. 
 Mr. Paulsen says that analysts' rising expectations for corporate profits have made stocks slightly cheaper than they were earlier in the year. Based on 2010 earnings estimates, the so-called forward price-to-earnings ratio for the S.& P. 500 has slipped to 13.7, compared with 15.3 less than a month ago.
 Of course, not everyone sees a silver lining in Europe's troubles. ''There's a bear camp out there that looks at this crisis and believes that our economy could be headed in the same direction as Europe,'' says Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at the Charles Schwab brokerage firm. ''I don't happen to be in that camp, but it has plenty of members.''
 Still, some market watchers sense that turmoil abroad may be starting to change attitudes among investors. 
 For instance, after the market lows of March 2009, investors didn't have to pay much attention to risk because virtually every type of investment rebounded simultaneously. In fact, risk-taking was encouraged because speculative assets -- like shares of companies based in the volatile emerging markets -- had been performing better than the S.& P. 500.
 But the brief period of panic prompted by Greece's fiscal crisis seems to have reminded investors of how dangerous the markets can be, strategists say. 
 And ''the volatility that we have seen not just in the last week but year to date will ultimately shine a light on the United States as the most stable market in a world that's becoming more volatile,'' says Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer's equity research group.
 Indeed, Mr. Belski studied markets around the world and found that over the last five years, stocks in the United States have shown lower volatility than those in Western and Eastern Europe, Asia, Latin America and Canada.
 At the same time, domestic stocks have held up better than those of most other markets around the world. While the S.& P. 500 is up nearly 2 percent so far this year, Japanese stocks are down 0.8 percent. Chinese shares, meanwhile, are off more than 6 percent, and European stocks are down more than 11 percent. 
 In previous debt panics -- like the Asian currency crisis of 1997 and the Russian default in 1998 -- investors followed a familiar pattern, Mr. Belski says. After the initial shock wears off, investors have historically refocused their attention on the fundamentals underlying the market.
 If investors follow a similar pattern, domestic stocks should start to look relatively attractive to global investors. ''The U.S. economy is doing relatively well and, as a result, people are likely to say, 'If I have to put my money some place, I'd rather put it in the U.S. than in Europe,' '' says Sam Stovall, S.& P.'s chief investment strategist.
 Asia might also be considered as an alternative to Europe. But if this is a flight to safety, concerns about rising volatility in Asia -- as the Chinese government raises interest rates to keep that economy from overheating -- may drive some investors away, Mr. Stovall says.
 The domestic economy, though expanding much more slowly than China's, ''is probably growing around three times as fast as Europe right now,'' says Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS Global Insight. According to the firm's most recent forecasts, gross domestic product in the United States is expected to grow about 3.5 percent this year, while Europe's economy is forecast to expand by less than 1 percent.
 MR. BEHRAVESH calls this a testament to a number of factors, including the efficiency of the American economy.
 For example, productivity in the United States soared 6.3 percent in the first quarter versus the same period last year. Fostered by record cost-cutting efforts during the economic downturn, that was the fastest rate of growth since 1962,. By contrast, productivity actually contracted in many parts of Europe.
 To be sure, Europe's problems could hurt domestic manufacturing. Thanks to declining confidence in Europe's fiscal strength, the euro has lost more than 14 percent of its value against the dollar so far this year. And a strengthening dollar makes American goods sold abroad relatively more expensive, threatening the manufacturing recovery.
 But at the same time, the stronger dollar means that Americans won't necessarily reap bigger returns simply by investing abroad. When the dollar fell in recent years, it bolstered the gains that Americans enjoyed in foreign stocks and overseas equity funds. And that was a big reason for the popularity of international investments.
 But with this tailwind seemingly gone, investors will be forced to refocus their attention on domestic investments -- and the fundamentals. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (73%)

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (56%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



384 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Henry Rising

BYLINE: By TOM LeCLAIR. 
Tom LeClair is the author of a trilogy of novels: ''Passing Off,'' ''Passing On'' and ''Passing Through.''

 BODY:
THE DEAD REPUBLIC
 By Roddy Doyle
 329 pp. Viking. $26.95
 ''The Dead Republic'' tells of the later life of Henry Smart, an Irishman born in 1901: a ''handsome man'' to all the women, an I.R.A. hit man as a teenager, a con man after he arrives in the United States in 1924, and almost a dead man when the director John Ford finds him in the Utah desert in 1946. These events were recounted in Roddy Doyle's novels ''A Star Called Henry'' and ''Oh, Play That Thing.'' But if you don't already know Henry, ''The Dead Republic'' is an excellent place to meet him -- because it's the best of Doyle's trilogy and because in it Henry reviews his past while serving as Ford's consultant for a movie about the Irish revolution. 
 In testy and witty exchanges, Henry criticizes the director's earlier Irish movie, ''The Informer,'' urging him to use ''The Quiet Man'' as a more accurate representation of Irish politics, from the Easter Rising through the war of independence. So when Henry finds that this new film is turning into sentimental, stereotypical pap about the Emerald Isle, he gives Ford a beating and abandons the set in the west of Ireland.
 For most of the remaining novel, Doyle himself abandons the Hollywood conventions that made ''A Star Called Henry'' and ''Oh, Play That Thing'' more like popular entertainments: an escape-artist hero, manic pacing and seat-of-the-pants plotting, rapid scene shifts and a ''Zelig'' -like collection of historical walk-ons. In 1951, when Henry leaves Ford and heads back to Dublin, he's 50 years old and dragging a wooden leg. No more bullet-dodging runs and lucky drops into manholes for him. Instead, he settles into a suburb of Dublin, where he will live for another 50 years. He works as a gardener, then as the caretaker of a boys' school, where he institutes a nonviolent republic of his own by intimidating teachers who beat their students.
 But in 1974, after barely surviving a bomb planted in Dublin by Northern Irish Protestants, Henry suddenly returns to the limelight, becoming a slightly fraudulent symbol of the revolutionary past. Paraded around by I.R.A. Provos who have split from the more moderate ''official'' I.R.A., Henry sometimes enjoys the excitement of his new life. More often, though, he's repulsed by the random violence of the Troubles. ''Murder,'' he tells himself, has been ''trivialized.'' But he can't opt out of his arrangement with the Provos because both they and the Irish secret police have found ways to keep him in line. Forced to be a quiet man about his actual past and about his activities as a double informer, Henry unites the titles of Ford's two films as he struggles to save his family and maybe even his country.
 There are some cinematic moments as the novel progresses -- a reunion that strains credulity, a scene with men in balaclavas dashing across the countryside in fast cars -- but on the whole Doyle tailors the narrative to Henry's failing physical powers, contenting himself with muted suspense, allowing the characters to have long talks with (and against) one another and giving readers time to think about the brutal intersection of religion, economics and politics in Ireland. ''The Dead Republic'' could easily have wandered into the sentimentality Henry hated in ''The Quiet Man,'' but this sardonic narrator has seen too many deaths to permit such bathos.
 Fans of Doyle's quick-stepping earlier novels may find ''The Dead Republic'' slow in comparison, but it offers aesthetic compensations. When Doyle wrote ''A Star Called Henry,'' he identified it as the first volume in a trilogy he called ''The Last Roundup.'' Readers of the first two books can now see the mythic structure of his project more clearly: departure from home in the first book, in the second an initiation into another kind of life in America, and then in the third the return to Ireland. On the record as unimpressed by Joyce's ''Ulysses,'' Doyle has written his own response. Clever and daring like Odysseus in his youth, Henry becomes, like Leopold Bloom, smarter with age, giving the lie to the Yeats who wrote, ''An aged man is but a paltry thing.''
 Readers of Doyle's trilogy should also take pleasure from the subtle continuities threaded into this final installment. When Henry imagines but doesn't comment on a ''tap, tap'' sound, it's an echo of the noise his one-legged father made on his rounds of the Dublin streets. In ''A Star Called Henry,'' Doyle's narrator first associated himself with the planets; then he met the stars of politics and entertainment. Now he himself becomes an uncredited star in the Irish peace effort.
 One of my grandmothers came from Ireland and I collect Social Security, but identification with an ''old man'' from Dublin is not why I think ''The Dead Republic'' is the best part of Doyle's trilogy. As Henry has aged, his creator has also matured. And here he has avoided crowd-pleasing formulas to create an original and amusing octogenarian double agent, composing a thoughtful book about a sometimes thoughtless political process.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK NIXON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FILM (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (65%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (87%) IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



385 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; THE U.S. ISSUE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours: Kansas City, Mo.

BYLINE: By CHARLY WILDER

 BODY:
KANSAS CITY is known for its barbecue, bebop and easy-does-it Midwestern charm. But a decade-long effort to revitalize the city's downtown has transformed this former jazz mecca, which straddles the Kansas-Missouri border, back into a culturally rich metropolis. The city's standing will be further bolstered next year when the much-anticipated Kauffman Center for the Performing Arts opens, giving a sleek new home to the symphony, opera and ballet. True, Kansas City is no backwater, but don't expect high polish. In fact, it's the city's unvarnished grit that may be its best asset.
 Friday
 4 p.m. 1)CROSSROADS REDEFINED 
 Industrial stagnation and suburban exodus in the 1960s left the Crossroads neighborhood nearly deserted. But thanks to the recent efforts of arts advocates and city tax breaks, the Crossroads Arts District (kccrossroads.org) is now home to some 70 galleries. Two pioneering mainstays are Sherry Leedy Contemporary Art (2004 Baltimore Avenue; 816-221-2626; sherryleedy.com), which specializes in midcareer artists like Jun Kaneko, and the Byron C. Cohen Gallery (2020 Baltimore Avenue, Suite 1N; 816-421-5665; byroncohengallery.com), representing several artists from China, including the photo-artist Huang Yan. If it's the first Friday of the month, many galleries hold open houses until about 9 p.m.
 7 p.m. 2)SAUCE IT UP
 Debates over the best barbecue rouse as much passion here as religion or politics. Some swear by the old guard like Gates Bar-B-Q (gatesbbq.com) and Arthur Bryant's (arthurbryantsbbq.com), both of which have multiple branches. Others cross the state line into the Kansas side, to a relative newcomer, Oklahoma Joe's (3002 West 47th Avenue; 913-782-6858; oklahomajoesbbq.com), which opened a second location in 2005. It serves up pulled pork and beef brisket piled high on white bread, in a sauce that may just be the perfect amalgam of sweet, smoke and vinegar. At a little under $19, a full slab serves two or three people.
 11 p.m. 3)BEYOND BLUES AND JAZZ
 If the city's indie music scene hasn't garnered the same hype as those in other Midwestern cities like Minneapolis or Omaha, it's not for lack of guts or artistry. Homegrown bands like Ssion, a gender-bending art-punk music collective that has built a following with over-the-top live shows, cut their teeth in downtown galleries and dives. Hear up-and-comers at the Record Bar (1020 Westport Road; 816-753-5207; therecordbar.com) and the Brick (1727 McGee Street; 816-421-1634; thebrickkcmo.com). One of the newest spots is the Czar Bar (1531 Grand Boulevard; 816-221-2244; czarbar.com); it's owned by John Hulston, who also runs Anodyne Records, which counts the Meat Puppets, the BellRays and Architects among its better-known acts.
 Saturday
 10 a.m. 4)PARK LIFE
 Kansas City is said to have more fountains than any other city except Rome. One of the loveliest can be found at Jacob L. Loose Park (51st Street and Wornall Road), a Civil War site, where the Laura Conyers Smith Fountain, made of Italian stone, is encircled by thousands of roses in some 150 varieties. The park is popular with picnicking families and bongo-playing teenagers on furlough from the suburbs.
 Noon 5)CONTEMPORARY GREENS
 If last night's barbecue has you yearning for a salad, head to Cafe Sebastienne, an airy, glass-covered restaurant at the Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art (4420 Warwick Boulevard; 816-753-5784; kemperart.org/cafe). A dish of seasonal greens with cucumber, red onion, grape tomatoes, sheep's milk cheese and grilled pita is $11. After lunch, pop inside for a quick look at the Kemper's small but diverse collection of modern and contemporary works by artists like Dale Chihuly and Louise Bourgeois, whose gigantic iron spider sculpture looms over the front lawn.
 1:30 p.m. 6)MUSEUM POW-WOW
 In 2007, the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art (4525 Oak Street; 816-751-1278; nelson-atkins.org) was thrust into the national spotlight when it opened a new wing designed by Steven Holl. The Bloch Building -- which holds contemporary art, photography and special exhibitions -- consists of five translucent glass blocks that create what Nicolai Ouroussoff, the architecture critic of The New York Times, described as ''a work of haunting power.'' The museum, which is free to the public, also unveiled a suite of American Indian galleries in November. It's an assemblage of about 200 works from more than 68 tribes, considered one of the most important collections of its kind.
 4 p.m. 7)18TH STREET COUTURE
 The Crossroads cultural awakening extends beyond art and into fashion. Three boutiques carrying the work of up-and-coming designers occupy a former film storage unit on West 18th Street. Peregrine Honig and Danielle Meister handpick lingerie and swimwear to carry at their shop, Birdies (116 West 18th Street; 816-842-2473; birdiespanties.com). Kelly Allen selects a quirky cross-section of locally designed clothing and accessories at Spool (122 West 18th Street; 816-842-0228). And Peggy Noland (124 West 18th Street; 816-221-7652; peggynoland.com) sells Day-Glo spandex bodysuits in a space covered floor-to-ceiling with stuffed animals.
 7 p.m. 8)MIDWEST TAPAS
 Stay in the Crossroads to sample modern Mediterranean-style tapas at Extra Virgin (1900 Main Street; 816-842-2205; extravirginkc.com), the latest restaurant from Kansas City's culinary titan, Michael Smith. The fare is more playful and adventurous than that of his formal restaurant next door. And if the loud, euro-chic decor, replete with a floor-to-ceiling ''La Dolce Vita'' mural, seems to be trying a little too hard, the crowd of unbuttoned professionals enjoying inspired dishes like crispy pork belly with green romesco and chick pea fries doesn't seem to mind. The menu is diverse, as is the wine list. Single plates range from $3 to $25.
 10 p.m. 9)'ROUND MIDNIGHT
 Love it or hate it, the flashy new Kansas City Power and Light District (1100 Walnut Street; 816-842-1045; powerandlightdistrict.com) offers a wide range of bars, restaurants and clubs that can feel like an open-air fraternity party. A smarter alternative can be found in the West Bottoms, an industrial neighborhood that draws a more urbane crowd. The R Bar (1617 Genessee Street; 816-471-1777; rbarkc.com), which opened in September, features live jazz and bluegrass, as well as old-time cocktails like Moscow mules and mint juleps. When midnight strikes, head to the Mutual Musicians Foundation (1823 Highland Avenue; 816-471-5212; thefoundationjamson.org). The legendary haunt opened in 1917 and public jam sessions are held every Saturday until around 6 a.m. For $8, you can catch impromptu sets by some of the city's undiscovered musicians in the same room where Charlie Parker had a cymbal thrown at him in 1937.
 Sunday
 11 a.m. 10) VIVA BRUNCH
 As any resident will tell you, Mexican food is a big deal here. One of the most authentic spots is Ortega's Restaurant (2646 Belleview Avenue; 816-531-5415; ortegas.synthasite.com), tucked in the back of a mom-and-pop grocery store in midtown. On Sundays, Ortega's draws a lively mix of churchgoing families and hung-over art students with its $6 huevos rancheros.
 Noon 11)VINTAGE FINDS
 Kansas City has great secondhand shopping. Bargains are easy to find, and flea markets have yet to be ransacked by collectors from the coasts. Grab a copy of The Kansas City Star (kansascity.com) or search Craigslist (kansascity.craigslist.org) for current listings of auctions and estate sales. Better yet, take a drive through the sprawl of surrounding suburbs on the lookout for garage sales. Even if you don't find that perfect antique, an afternoon spent chatting with the friendly residents of this changing city will remind you that some things don't need making over. 
 IF YOU GO
 Continental, Delta and Midwest Airlines fly nonstop from New York City to Kansas City International Airport. According to a recent Web search, round-trip fares start at about $325 for travel this month. A car is recommended for getting around, though to paraphrase an old song, if you have to walk, you'll get there just the same.
 The Raphael(325 Ward Parkway; 816-756-3800; raphaelkc.com), a 126-room hotel in a neo-Renaissance manor overlooking the Country Club Plaza, recently finished a major renovation, with black marble bathrooms, flat-screen televisions and two spacious conference rooms. And with standard rooms going for as little as $139, it's one of the city's best bargains. 
 The 120-room Q Hotel + Spa (560 Westport Road; 816-931-0001; theqhotel.com) opened in 2007 in the historic Westport district and bills itself as the city's first green hotel, offering eco-friendly hand soap, energy-efficient lamps and in-room recycling service (unused paper is given to a school next door). Standard rooms start at $107, if booked 23 days in advance; otherwise $137.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM LEFT: A Misty Gamble sculpture at the Sherry Leedy gallery
ribs at Arthur Bryant's
the Bloch Building, the Nelson-Atkins Museum's newest addition
 swing dancing at the R Bar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); DANCE (77%); BALLET (76%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY (71%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (93%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



386 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 5015 words

HEADLINE: Putting a Price on Words

BYLINE: By ANDREW RICE. 
Andrew Rice is a contributing writer and the author of a book about Uganda, ''The Teeth May Smile but the Heart Does Not Forget.''

 BODY:
Last year, Sam Apple got the idea into his head that what the world needed was a new kind of newspaper. This was, to put it mildly, at odds with the consensus of the marketplace. At the time, several large media companies were in bankruptcy, others were trading at penny-stock levels and analysts were seriously asking whether some venerable publications -- including this one -- might soon cease to exist. The recession was only worsening a fundamental problem: the industry's physical product, printed paper, was going the way of the rotary phone, and no one had yet figured out how to generate comparable revenues online. But Apple, a 34-year-old writer, wasn't ready to give up on journalism as a profit-making enterprise. He began telling friends about his plans to start a Web publication called The Faster Times. 
 Apple quit his part-time gig as director of interactive media for the Web site Nerve.com in New York and began recruiting. It wasn't hard to find people eager to join. Employment in New York's publishing sector shrank by a tenth last year, leaving behind a mass of glum, jobless writers. The good news, though, was that one of the very forces that was sapping industry profits -- the Web's demolition of barriers to entry -- also made it quite simple and cheap for anyone to become a journalism entrepreneur. Using open-source software, which Apple hired programmers to customize, The Faster Times could get up and running for less than $20,000.
 Before the site went live last summer, Apple and a group of editors held marathon meetings at a Brooklyn coffee shop with free wireless Internet. In one sense, The Faster Times was supposed to be a traditional publication, staffed by trained journalists covering a wide range of beats and guided by a coherent editorial mission. Where Apple's model departed from convention, as a matter of necessity, was in the area of compensation. He couldn't afford to offer salaries and benefits, or even flat freelance fees, so instead he promised contributors 75 percent of the revenues from all advertisements placed next to their articles. Payments would start small, but if The Faster Times prospered, as Apple hoped, so would its writers. He referred to the publication as a journalistic ''collective,'' but in truth it was a small experiment in capitalistic incentives: contributors would profit directly from their work, according to the market's assessment of its value.
 And therein lies the catch -- for The Faster Times, for many similar start-ups and for the entire industry of media, old and new. No one seems to know how to value the product anymore. This isn't a lament about declining standards of quality or the rude incursions of amateur bloggers. In fact, thanks to the Internet, people probably read more good journalism than ever. That's precisely the problem: the sheer volume of words has overwhelmed a business model that was once based on scarcity and limited choice.
 For many years, newspapers and magazines operated in fairly uniform fashion, supported by two streams of revenue. The consumers purchased the product, and businesses paid to reach them with advertisements. Recessions came and went, ad pages expanded and contracted, publications started and went under -- but nothing disturbed the basic model. Online economics have changed both sides of the profit equation. ''It's dawning on people that the marketplace will no longer pay the freight,'' says Ken Doctor, a former newspaper executive and the author of ''Newsonomics: Twelve New Trends That Will Shape the News You Get.''
 Early on, almost all print publications decided to offer free access to their online content, which over time cut into their print circulation. In theory, the industry should have been able to absorb the gradual loss of paying readers. Advertising always accounted for the vast majority of the publishers' revenues -- with newspapers, 80 percent was the rule of thumb -- and because publications could reach vastly larger audiences online, it seemed reasonable to expect that they'd be able to make more money from ads. But instead, online ads sell at rates that are a fraction of those for print, for simple reasons of competition. ''In a print world you had pretty much a limited amount of inventory -- pages in a magazine,'' says Domenic Venuto, managing director of the online marketing firm Razorfish. ''In the online world, inventory has become infinite.''
 ''Maybe this is what success looks like,'' says Nick Denton, speaking of his own business, Gawker Media -- a popular and profitable network of Web sites covering technology, sports and celebrity news -- as well as of disruptive ventures like Craigslist, the free site that has decimated classified advertising, once a lucrative source of income for newspapers. ''You can have destroyed hundreds of millions of dollars, or billions of dollars, of revenue for other people,'' Denton says, ''but without capturing it all yourself.''
 Yet for some -- possibly foolhardy -- reason, a lot of people still want to work in journalism, and even amid the depths of the recession, there have been stirrings of creativity. A multitude of younger, nimbler enterprises have popped up, unencumbered by the past and ready to try anything. History suggests that few of these ventures will ultimately survive: Web start-ups have a failure rate between 70 and 90 percent. But it's quite possible that the experiments they're staging are already producing the kind of innovations that make for new, sustainable business models.
 The Faster Times went online last July, with a blast of publicity and a triumphant party in a Manhattan bookstore. The site had enlisted correspondents in 20 countries, and beats devoted to science, food, travel and the arts, in addition to goofier subjects, like time travel and jet packs. The whimsy aside, Sam Apple took his task seriously. ''The crisis of American journalism,'' he wrote in the mission statement, is ''a financial crisis. Opinions posted on blogs are cheap. Great journalism is expensive.''
 With any luck, he was about to discover it was also worth something.
 You can't call it a dot-com boom -- there is not much capital, there are no parties with catered sushi and no one is expecting to get rich. But this generation of start-ups does share at least one trait with its 1990s predecessors: a conviction that they're the vanguard of an unfolding revolution. One morning, as a March gale howled down Broadway, I visited the editors of the Web site True/Slant. Their loftlike office, in a vintage SoHo building, was bare, white and slightly chilly, as if designed to reflect the present ethic of austerity. With just five employees, True/Slant has built a significant audience since it started last year: about a million readers visit the site at least once a month, a number similar to the online following of The Village Voice or The Charlotte Observer. The site owes its modest but growing success to the work of more than 300 part-time contributors. It's not so much a unified publication as a loosely connected commune of bloggers, who generate a continual stream of content with minimal editorial intervention. The company calls what it is doing ''entrepreneurial journalism'' and says it's the future of the profession.
 True/Slant is the creation of a lean, gray-bearded 57-year-old named Lewis Dvorkin. He began his career working at newspapers and magazines, and peppers his conversation with references to sainted editors of an earlier era. ''I'm old enough to be a bit of a bridge from that world to whatever world we're in today,'' he told me. Dvorkin's more recent and pertinent experience, however, came as a content-programming executive at AOL, where he played a role in creating the celebrity gossip site TMZ, which has since developed one of the largest audiences on the Web. A few years ago, he started toying with the idea that eventually led to True/Slant: could technology allow you to create a news organization without any of the familiar editorial hierarchies?
 At True/Slant, Dvorkin told me, ''you are the sole producer, creator, programmer of your content. That reduces -- and this is key -- the cost structure.'' He started the site with a modest $3 million investment from Fuse Capital and Forbes Media, picking its name off a list of compound words that were made up by a Web developer. All of True/Slant's writers are freelancers and are paid a pittance relative to the salaries offered at established media organizations. ''Newsrooms today are high-cost, inefficient content-creation operations that will not be supported by advertising revenues in the digital world,'' Dvorkin said. ''It just won't happen.''
 Online, advertisers have immense power. Because it's easy to track who is clicking what, they can aim with efficiency and typically pay according to the number of times their ads are actually viewed. Instead of sending word of its shoe sale to a million print newspaper subscribers, who may or may not be looking for shoes, a store can buy the page views of 50,000 people who are reading articles about fashion. Or the advertiser can place ads on heavily trafficked portal sites like Yahoo and AOL, both of which are currently expanding their production of original journalism. Or it can pay Google to insert its ads into search results. Or it can go to one of the large digital advertising networks that have arisen in recent years and buy unsold ''remnant'' page views at deep discounts. There is a lot less waste and a lot more choice, and the upshot is that advertising, which once produced robust margins for publishers, now sells for spare change online. Generally speaking, while some ad placements -- like those on a site's home page -- go for a significant premium, pages of individual articles, if sold at the going rates, bring in between a penny and nickel each time a reader looks at one.
 That's not to say that it's impossible to make money. If True/Slant can keep its production costs low and its traffic high, it can collect those pennies and nickels on a scale large enough to turn a profit. There are a couple of ways to do this as an online publisher. You can emphasize quality, producing a limited number of items in the hope that each will attract a great number of readers. Or a publisher can go for quantity, producing a lot of little things that add up in the aggregate. True/Slant's low-cost newsroom churns out around 125 pieces of content a day.
 Many companies practice this strategy at even higher volume. For instance, Examiner.com, owned by the billionaire Philip Anschutz, has a gigantic audience and a nationwide army of 36,000 localized contributors, or ''examiners,'' who produce articles on subjects like community news, lifestyle issues and pets, and are paid about 1 cent per page view. AOL is trying a similar ''citizen journalism'' approach on a site called Patch. Probably the most successful example is the Huffington Post, which employs 70 salaried editorial staff members and 6,000 uncompensated bloggers and recently pushed into the nation's top 10 current-affairs Web sites, according to Nielsen Online, vaulting past sources like The Washington Post. The Huffington Post generates an average of 500 items a day, many of them aggregated content from other sources, and Examiner.com, more than 3,000.
 Increasingly the online audience for these sites is coming in side doors, via links on blogs and social-networking Web sites like Facebook. Probably the most important tool for reaching large audiences, however, is Google. If you can climb to the top of the site's search results, you're certain to be rewarded with a huge number of clicks. Most publications these days try to harness the Google algorithm through an arcane process known as search-engine optimization. Some are more skilled at this than others. That's why, as I write in mid-April, a search for the phrase ''Eyjafjallajokull Volcano'' brings up a Huffington Post photo slide show near the top of its results.
 A handful of enterprising new sites, like Associated Content and Demand Media, are now turning the whole process around, generating content that is specifically designed to feed Google's appetites. They don't call what they do journalism or care about breaking news, but they say they're generating huge advertising revenues, and their strategies are being closely watched. ''We realized that there was this massive opportunity, that the economics of content and media distribution had shifted, and they had shifted permanently,'' says Steven Kydd, who oversees original content production for Demand Media. The company claims to have raked in $200 million in revenue last year and is now reportedly talking to Goldman Sachs about underwriting an initial public offering.
 Demand's business model draws on the skills of thousands of freelance contributors, who pick the topics they address from an automated list of more than 200,000 written and video assignments culled from Internet search requests. The topics are mostly geared toward answering practical questions and are posted to low-profile Web sites like eHow, or to YouTube, with which Demand has a profit-sharing agreement. The company claims to have devised an algorithm that projects precisely how much advertising revenue each assignment will return. It says these mathematically generated ideas are 4.9 times as valuable as those devised by mere human brainstorming.
 ''Our editors absolutely love this, because they are able to sift through millions of potential titles, and they know that they are all good ideas,'' Kydd says. And profitable ones -- nothing is assigned unless the algorithm predicts it can cover the costs of production. Demand's freelancers can make around $15 or $20 per item. ''The funny part is, sometimes we'll ask people who work, say, in newspapers or magazines, 'How much did that article cost you?' '' Kydd says. ''They literally have no idea.''
 That's changing. Though journalists tend to shudder at Demand Media's approach, mainstream publishers are starting to co-opt portions of its model. USA Today, for instance, has contracted Demand to supply the content for its Travel Tips Web page, while AOL recently started a Web site called Seed, edited by Saul Hansell, a former New York Times columnist, which generates story ideas from search data. More generally, there is a growing appreciation among those who practice journalism of the Internet's capacity to tell them what readers want to know.
 ''For traditional journalists, this is a difficult concept for them to grasp, and one reason it's difficult is because it's scary -- it's scary to actually have that data in front of you,'' Dvorkin said. ''It's scary to say, wow, this is the audience, and now all of a sudden I have to respond to the audience because this is what they're interested in.''
 Dvorkin and Coates Bateman, a former book editor who runs True/Slant's daily content operations, showed me around the site's ''dashboard,'' the back office of its virtual newsroom. There was a dial, like a digital speedometer, which showed the volume of page views on the site and a list of trending topics on Google and Twitter, topped by the confection of the moment, the teenage-pop sensation Justin Bieber. (Sure enough, within an hour or so, a Bieber-related True/Slant post appeared.) There was a list that ranked the most-viewed items and metrics that tracked how they got their traffic -- maybe via a link from a popular blogger, or the recommendation tool Digg. Most eerily, there was a little algorithm-driven display that showed contributors what other people were saying about their work out in the blogosphere -- eavesdropping, in real time.
 True/Slant structures its compensation to give writers an incentive to hustle for readers' attention. Contributors are paid a monthly retainer and scaled bonuses based on how many people read their articles. The money isn't enough to live off -- the entrepreneurial journalist has many gigs -- but True/Slant is reasonably generous in comparison with, say, the Huffington Post, which pays its nonstaff bloggers nothing but esteem. Most writers make a few hundred dollars a month if they hit their traffic targets, and a few big names, like the professional controversialist Matt Taibbi, make quite a bit more. In fact, if you break it down, True/Slant pays its writers more than the amount of revenue their work generates at the current online advertising rates. Stripped down as it is, the start-up isn't yet turning a profit, and it's now in the process of raising a second round of venture capital.
 I asked Bateman, as a matter of raw economics, how much an individual article is worth to True/Slant's bottom line, on average. He told me he calculated it out: around $10.
 Sam Apple and I were sitting in a hushed and crowded cafe, amid the soft glow of open laptops. ''I thought at the beginning that if I could create a top-notch journalistic outlet, and if I could do that at a small fraction of the cost, maybe advertising could cover it,'' he told me. The Faster Times was now eight months old, and Apple was wiser about online economics. The summer before, the site charged out of the gate with a 24-hour posting schedule, a large and enthusiastic staff and guest posts from famous writers like Gary Shteyngart. By the fall, it had acquired a monthly audience of around 200,000 readers, according to the tracking site Quantcast -- small compared with the Huffington Post's but a pretty impressive return on $20,000, in Apple's opinion. But the revenues that were coming in from Google AdSense, the ad-placement service he was originally using, were so paltry that Apple wondered, when he gave writers their 75 percent share, whether he was actually driving them away.
 ''I have a friend who is a behavioral economist,'' he said. ''He says that if you pay people tiny amounts, it's worse than not paying them at all.'' The Faster Times's first round of payments ranged from $5 to $75. Revenues have increased substantially since Apple switched to another ad service, but the writers' shares still don't amount to much. Whether it was because of that, or fickleness, or the attractions of better-paying opportunities, many of the original Faster Times contributors gradually drifted off. Apple was now trying to hatch ideas for alternate sources of revenue, to ease the site's dependence on advertising. ''I still feel like there's a lot to try,'' Apple told me. ''We can kind of be a testing ground for the latest experiments.''
 Many other publications, confronted with the painful math, have reached the same conclusion: the business needs alternate schemes of support. Some have adapted tried-and-true formulas. The Daily Beast is backed by a generous billionaire, Barry Diller; others are mimicking NPR's nonprofit model; Politico makes the majority of its revenue from, of all things, advertising in an offshoot print newspaper. Most familiar of all, there's the subscription route, which the online editions of The Wall Street Journal and The Financial Times have followed with success. The New York Times has announced that early next year it will institute a fee for frequent users of its site. Many analysts are doubtful that the subscription approach will work for everyone -- surveys suggest that few consumers are willing to pay for news online. But some start-ups are experimenting with a variation on the idea, premium memberships, which give readers who sign up special access and perks. GlobalPost, an online publication for international news, is currently implementing such a program, offering subscribers the chance to participate in conference-call briefings by freelance correspondents stationed in more than 50 countries, and to vote on articles they'd like to see assigned.
 One thing many of these new strategies have in common is a willingness to transgress time-honored barriers -- for instance, by blurring the division between reporting and advertising. True/Slant offers to let advertisers use the same blogging tools that contributors do, to produce content that, while labeled, is blended into the rest of the site. Such marketing deals are central to the company's plans for future revenue growth. ''Everywhere I go the whole notion of enabling marketers to create content on a news platform is well received,'' Lewis Dvorkin says. ''It's the way the world is moving.''
 Not long ago, such an idea would have been considered heretical, and in many newsrooms, it still is. But clearly, attitudes are shifting. ''Hopefully we're breaking down the silliness of how church and state was historically implemented,'' says Merrill Brown, a veteran media executive and investor who is currently building a network of local news sites. Once, most journalists took a posture of willful ignorance when it came to the economics of the industry: they never wanted to sully themselves by knowing the business. The recession has, through fear and necessity, made capitalists out of everyone.
 The new journalistic entrepreneurs fall into two distinct categories. There are the proprietors, people like Charles M. Sennott, a foreign correspondent who took a Boston Globe buyout and became a founder and an executive editor of GlobalPost, or Alex Balk, Choire Sicha and David Cho, who were cut loose by Radar, a dying magazine, and decided to start the Awl, a smart and idiosyncratic commentary site. Then there are the small-scale entrepreneurs, the journalists who, having found themselves dislodged from a salaried way of living, are now scrambling to piece together a freelance income while building their personal brands. Since one group pays the other -- or doesn't, as the case may be -- the two sides are engaged in a symbiotic dance around the issue of valuation. ''I don't think anybody has any idea of what anyone should be paid for a piece anymore,'' Sicha says. ''It's more than $25, but less than a thousand . . . I think?'' He added that, as of now, the Awl doesn't pay much to anyone, including himself.
 The question of how journalists should be paid is of intense interest to journalists, obviously, but it matters to readers too, in ways they may not realize. Structures of compensation affect the end product, especially when salaries or bonuses are tied to the pursuit of traffic, a model that many online start-ups follow. Established publications -- some of which are instituting or contemplating similar schemes -- are watching the experiment with curiosity and trepidation. Writers and editors know that click-driven Internet economics tend to reward lowbrow gimmickry. They have to decide whether to work around that or to embrace it as a fact of life.
 One of the loudest proponents of the latter perspective is Henry Blodget, the editor in chief of Business Insider, a gossipy start-up. His talented staff breaks plenty of news and turns out the occasional high-prestige feature, but Blodget is unapologetic about mixing in a lot of eye candy and isn't above illustrating articles about A.I.G.'s woes with unrelated photos of attractive women kissing. A former star stock analyst who was banned from the profession amid accusations of securities fraud -- he paid $4 million to settle -- he says he sees himself as a journalistic outsider, unencumbered by the weight of conventional wisdom. In March he wrote: ''Perhaps it's time to float a new theory: We're already in the gutter. What we click on accurately reflects what we're interested in, no matter how much we think and protest and hope to the contrary.'' A few days afterward, Blodget engaged in an entertaining multiplatform spat over the issue with the Reuters columnist Felix Salmon, producing the calculation that, in order to earn back a $60,000 annual salary, an online journalist needs to generate a whopping 1.8 million page views a month.
 Blodget takes a lot of flak for his iconoclasm, but the fact is, he's only stating plainly what other editors think in private. If you don't believe that, check out the list of the most popular posts on your favorite Web site sometime -- sex, scandal and Sarah Palin always score high. Even publications that don't go fishing for clicks discover that, inevitably, certain stories rise to the top. Charles Sennott told me that amid all of GlobalPost's serious coverage of wars and earthquakes, two big hits during the site's first year were a post titled, ''Meet India's First Porn Star,'' and a slide show of Japanese cat outfits.
 There is, of course, nothing wrong with giving readers what they secretly want every once in a while. The problem arises when you start producing articles solely for the id of the search engines, because some clicks are more valuable than others. This is the conclusion, at least, of Gawker Media's Nick Denton, one of the first to pay writers according to their page views and now a high-profile skeptic of the practice. Denton built his company on the labor of freelance bloggers, but in the last year, he has moved to hiring them as full-time employees, with set salaries and bonuses tied to ''unique visitors'' -- a metric that he says measures the writer's ability to bring new readers into the fold. No sentimentalist, Denton says he changed the formula because he found that page-view incentives encouraged writers to deliver worthless rehashes rather than reporting and tabloid-style scoops -- in other words, journalism.
 ''When we look at the numbers, it's increasingly evident that the traditional blog post has become a complete commodity,'' Denton says. When dueling algorithms compete to answer every human query, it turns out there's value in telling people things they weren't aware they didn't know. To wit: Denton's technology site Gizmodo recently bought a secret prototype iPhone that an Apple programmer lost in a bar and produced a post featuring pictures and the phone's specs. Over two weeks, that item racked up nearly 10 million page views, an estimated 4.4 million of them from newcomers, bringing the site an enormous amount of attention (not the least of it from Apple's lawyers and the police). Denton says his hope is that all the publicity attached to breaking big stories will translate into reader loyalty, brand equity and more lucrative advertising deals.
 If that is the model of the future, then the new world could end up looking a lot like the old one, albeit with smaller newsrooms and new players. Politico replaces the Washington correspondent, TMZ is the gossip page and you can get coverage of your baseball team directly from MLB.com, which employs professional sportswriters. In cities like San Diego, New York and Washington, online start-ups are taking on metro news coverage, hoping to tap local ad markets. All of these publications have been hiring real, full-time employees -- as have nontraditional providers like Yahoo, which is constructing a new political news site. Over the last few months, there has been a palpable uptick in both advertising and the journalism job market. The iPad, and its applications that restore magazines and newspapers to something like their traditional format, was greeted within the industry like the sight of a ship from a deserted island.
 Still, it's hard to foresee anything like a total restoration. Many publications are struggling to stay afloat, from storied titles like Newsweek, which was recently put up for sale, to scrappy start-ups like The Faster Times. One April evening, Sam Apple and nine top staff members of the publication gathered at the foreign editor's place, a row house in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, to talk over their prospects. Apple presented what he believed to be the best route forward: introducing a membership program.
 Readers could sign up to sponsor a favorite writer, at rates ranging from $12 to $120 a year. The writers would get 70 percent of the proceeds and in return would come up with customized benefits for their sponsors. Over beer and tortilla chips, the editors got to brainstorming. One contributor, a professor and translator of Nietzsche, had already offered to answer a philosophical question of the reader's choice. The dating columnist volunteered to critique online matchmaking profiles. Apple said that he'd just signed up a new writer. ''She's a Sarah Lawrence grad, but also a dominatrix,'' he said. ''She's going to be starting soon, writing about sex and power. So there's real incentive possibilities.''
 ''Not to get too theoretical,'' the managing editor, Olivia Scheck, interjected over the laughter, ''but this is the problem that we keep coming to with this idea, which is that we want to be selling journalism, not sex.''
 Apple mentioned, with some cheerful chagrin, that the site's most popular article ever in terms of page views was a blog post titled, ''Megan Fox Has Wacky Hot Chick Syndrome.'' That wasn't exactly the kind of impact he had in mind when he came up with the idea for a new type of newspaper. But he said he liked to think that maybe a handful of those starlet-Googlers had stuck around to read the dispatches from Egypt and Turkey, or the acclaimed travel section, or the theater critic -- who, contrary to all expectations, turned out to be The Faster Times's highest initial advertising earner.
 Since I've been regularly reading The Faster Times, I've been most affected by a column called Financial Stress. Written by Kathryn Higgins, a single mother in Connecticut who is losing her house in foreclosure, it's a heartbreaking chronicle of unimaginable choices, like whether to squat or to move into a bedbug-infested homeless shelter. She just e-mailed Apple out of the blue one day, asking to contribute. There are a lot of voices like that in the Faster Times, writers who ended up on the wrong side of this recession. Whatever happens in the future, Apple has accomplished something by giving them a place to set their experiences down in words, creating a record of this transitional moment. That's the essence of journalism, but its value remains in the eye of the beholder.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The search terms displayed above were selected from a list of 8,000 collected by Experian Hitwise that drove traffic to news sites in the United States for the week ending April 24. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REINHARD HUNGER
SET DESIGN BY SARAH ILLENBERGER) GRAPHICS: GRAPHIC (SOURCE: EXPERIAN HITWISE) (MM46)
GRAPHIC (SOURCE: MILLIMAN, ESTIMATED U.S. AVERAGE 2010 HEALTH COST GUIDELINES, BILLED CHARGES PER TRANSPLANT) (MM49)
GRAPHIC (SOURCE: COLLEGE BOARD) (MM50)
 GRAPHIC (SOURCE: DANIEL S . HAMERMESH, UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN) (MM52) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (69%); QUALITY CONTROL (60%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



387 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: A Credit Union That Played With Fire

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
WHEN Wall Street is accused -- as it has been so often these days -- of selling risky products to unwitting customers, it usually argues that investors in such exotic stuff are sophisticated adults capable of assessing any hidden dangers.
 So it goes with collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.'s, which are bonds, loans and other assets that the Street pools together and sells as packages of securities. Purveyors of C.D.O.'s maintain that buyers who lost billions in these mortgage-related instruments were, of course, sophisticated. 
 But as a recent report from the inspector general of the National Credit Union Administration shows, it is neither credible nor factual that only savvy investors bought C.D.O.'s.
 The report analyzes the April 2009 collapse of the Eastern Financial Florida Credit Union. Based in Miramar, Fla., this state-chartered institution was created in 1937 to serve the Miami employees of what later became Eastern Airlines. The institution added other Florida employee groups and was serving 208,000 members when it failed last year.
 Eastern Financial had $1.6 billion in assets at the end of 2008. The company was placed in conservatorship on April 24, 2009. It was taken over by the Space Coast Credit Union of Melbourne, Fla. The failure will cost the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, the federal agency that guarantees credit union deposits, an estimated $40 million.
 Because it was based in Florida, the doomed credit union had its share of bad real estate loans on its books. But the inspector general's autopsy report said that the major cause of the Eastern Financial collapse was its decision to dive head-first into toxic C.D.O.'s just as the mortgage mania was faltering.
 Between March 2007 and June 22, 2007, the credit union committed nearly $100 million to buy 16 of these instruments; most contained dicey home equity loans. 
 The timing of these purchases is intriguing. The spring of 2007 was when Wall Street's mortgage machinery was sputtering; New Century Financial, a big subprime lender, filed for bankruptcy that April. Brokerage firms that had provided funding to lenders like New Century and Countrywide began pulling in their credit lines. At the same time, it became a matter of some urgency for these firms to jettison mortgage-related securities in their pipelines. 
 Who sold Eastern Financial its toxic securities? Alas, the inspector general identifies neither the C.D.O.'s the credit union bought nor the firms that peddled them. 
 But the report did note that the instruments Eastern Financial bought were private placements, ''which provided less readily available market data to perform analysis and provide better understanding of underlying assets and grading system, tranches, etc.'' In other words, the most obscure C.D.O.'s imaginable.
 ''This situation illustrates yet again why over-the-counter securities and derivatives are not suitable for federally insured banks and other 'soft' institutional clients,'' said Christopher Whalen, editor of The Institutional Risk Analyst. ''Wall Street securities dealers who knowingly cause losses to federally insured depositories should go to jail.''
 Credit unions are nonprofit entities and typically do not engage in the risky investing that bank executives did during the credit bubble. Federal credit unions are also limited in the types of securities they can buy. While they can purchase mortgage-backed securities, they are barred from buying C.D.O.'s.
 State-chartered credit unions have more leeway to invest in exotic instruments if their home states allow it. Florida, California and Michigan are three such states. But according to the National Credit Union Administration, less than 1 percent of all credit union investments fall into the exotic category. 
 THOSE state-chartered institutions that can buy C.D.O.'s and other riskier investments must set aside reserves of 100 percent of mark-to-market losses in such securities when they decline in value. This is intended to deter credit union executives from venturing down the risk spectrum. 
 The Florida credit union met that requirement, but clearly the deterrence didn't work. Eastern Financial's failure may be an outlier, but it makes for a terrific case study. 
 Indeed, the inspector general's analysis is depressingly familiar. Eastern Financial's management and board ''relied too heavily on rating agencies' grading of C.D.O. investments,'' it concluded, and failed to evaluate and understand their complexity. 
 Almost immediately after the credit union bought the C.D.O.'s, they fell in value. By September 2007, the credit union had recorded $63.4 million in losses on the products, almost two-thirds of the original investment. By the time of its failure, the credit union had charged off all 18 C.D.O. investments, resulting in total losses of nearly $150 million. 
 Richard Field, managing director of TYI, which develops transparency, trading and risk management information systems, says the Eastern Financial collapse is yet another example of why investors in complex mortgage securities need to be able to consult complete loan-level data on what is in these pools.
 ''A sizable percentage of the problems in the credit markets and bank solvency are directly related to this lack of information,'' Mr. Field said.
 But the Eastern Financial insolvency also illustrates why regulators should make Wall Street adhere to concepts of suitability for institutions as well as individuals, Mr. Whalen said. 
 ''The dealers who sold the C.D.O.'s to this credit union should be sanctioned,'' he said. ''It might even be possible to pursue the dealer who sold the C.D.O.'s under current law. At a minimum, the Securities and Exchange Commission should impose retail investor suitability standards onto banks and public sector agencies to end the predation by large Wall Street derivatives dealers.''
 Will the National Credit Union Administration pursue any of the credit union's executives or the firms that sold it the toxic securities? ''We always consider potential claims of third-party liability in cases of this magnitude,'' said John J. McKechnie III, director of public and congressional affairs at the administration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT UNIONS (91%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (71%); AUTOPSIES (50%)

COMPANY: NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (72%); SPACE COAST CREDIT UNION (67%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (72%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (67%); SIC6062 CREDIT UNIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



388 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Metal Thievery Evolves, in Scale And in Technique

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
PIERCE, Colo. -- Scrap metal thieves are not known for sophistication. From drug addicts in the 1970s ripping copper plumbing from walls to scrap-yard regulars of more recent years who proffer whatever fell off a truck, stealing hunks of coil or reinforcing bar has mostly been about having a strong back and a willingness to get dirty, law enforcement experts say.
 The thieves who struck the Tucker dairy farm this year were different. 
 Start with the possession of a cherry-picker utility truck, which they apparently deployed to reach the tops of the 18-foot-tall poles bringing electricity to the farm. The thieves knew how to take down fully-charged electricity lines without getting killed and then, the police said, had a big enough team to roll up hundreds of pounds of wire from the half-mile-long crime scene and make their getaway. The case has not been solved.
 ''In the past, you had amateurs,'' said Charles R. Tucker, 61, who runs the family operation with his brother, Iven, 62. ''These guys were pros.''
 Metal crime is being nudged into the 21st century by technology, high commodity prices and bad economic times, law enforcement officials and insurance experts say.
 ''Before, it was go check the pawnshops and scrap yards,'' said Jim Sauerwein, a senior investigator for the Harvey County Sheriff's Office in south-central Kansas. ''Now it's picture phones, the Internet and eBay.'' 
 The metabolism of the market for stolen metal has accelerated as well, Mr. Sauerwein said. His rule of thumb in tracing a theft these days is that whatever is stolen has probably changed hands as many as four times within 48 hours of its disappearance.
 New law enforcement tools in stanching the stolen metal market -- hundreds of millions of dollars a year in value, according to insurance industry estimates -- is also revealing how geographically nimble the new wave of criminals has become.
 Last year, for example, a huge trailer-mounted portable generator, with a G.P.S. unit mounted on its frame, was stolen from a construction site in Kansas. The police could determine only that the rig was taken sometime between quitting time on Friday and the resumption of work on Monday. But by then, according to the G.P.S. unit, the generator was already in Mexico.
 ''Heavy equipment, construction equipment, it all goes south,'' said Deputy Travis Clinesmith of the Sedgwick County Sheriff's Office in Wichita, Kan. ''That's the pattern we're seeing.''
 The scale of theft is up too.
 This month, for example, a man named Matthew T. Jones pleaded guilty in Federal District Court in Wichita to transferring and transporting up to $1.1 million in stolen farm equipment from five states, including Wyoming (a 30-foot trailer), Nebraska (a John Deere tractor) and Oklahoma (a combine). 
 In Washington and California this winter, thieves using metal-cutting saws raided fruit orchards, hacking out and carting away half-ton engines used to power wind machines that blow warm air through the trees for frost prevention.
 ''Thieves seem willing to go to any length,'' said a report last year by the National Insurance Crime Bureau, an association of insurance and transportation companies. ''Thieves have removed wiring from traffic and railway signals and even posed as utility workers in order to remove large sections of thick utility cable from sewers beneath city streets.'' 
 Economic stress in many corners of rural America is compounding the effect of the crime wave. At least half a dozen dairies in Colorado declared bankruptcy last year. 
 Mr. Tucker said that his 350-cow operation was treading water financially. The metal loss, about $8,000, including new circuit breakers needed to bring the farm up to code, would not help. Insurance covers about two-thirds of the cost, he said.
 Providing yet another twist of the knife, commodity prices for metal have gone up as prices that farmers get for their products, notably wholesale milk, have declined. One line on the graph made farmers more attractive as targets; the other compounds the damage of their losses. Copper prices hit highs this spring not seen since the summer of 2008, before the worst of the recession.
 Scrap metal dealers are feeling the heat as well, in preventing thefts on their own property -- some have recently hired 24-hour guards -- and in protecting themselves from legal trouble for buying stolen property. One big problem is that metal in hunks or coils or machinery in pieces is generic and hard to track. 
 But the police often have no better luck with farm or industrial machinery that is not broken up. A report last fall by the National Equipment Register, a company that works with insurers, and the National Crime Insurance Bureau said that only 21 percent of the heavy equipment stolen in 2008 was ever recovered.
 Sometimes, old-fashioned body language can still be a crime-fighting tool. ''If somebody looks suspicious, we will ask questions,'' said Mike Rosen, the president of Atlas Metal and Iron, a family-owned company in Denver. '' 'If we're going to buy this,' we'll say, 'we're going to take an ID and take a picture of the ID.' Some people change their minds and go away after that.''
 And there are indications, anecdotally, of new patterns. A wave of metal theft here in Colorado -- about 20 crimes this year all clustered near Pierce, about 60 miles north of Denver -- appears to have waned in the last few weeks.
 ''We don't really have an explanation,'' said Undersheriff Margie Martinez of the Weld County Sheriff's Office. ''We have asked farmers to be more cognizant. That could be part of it.''
 Or perhaps, other local law enforcement officials said, the thieves have simply moved on. Last week in Harvey County, Kan., for example, about 400 miles east of here, $2,000 worth of liquid oxygen metal-cutting torches were stolen from a company that restores and salvages tractor-trailer rigs. 
 Inspector Sauerwein, who is working on the case, said he thought the torches were stolen not for the metal they are made of, but for use by a criminal gang. Armed with such tools, he said, a skilled team could disembowel to untraceable bits almost any piece of equipment in hours.
 ''If we start having bigger or more metal thefts, then they're probably using the torches,'' he said.
 Mr. Tucker, for one, is not waiting around for a second hit. His new power lines were buried underground.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SOPHISTICATED THEFT: Power lines damaged by thieves at the Tucker dairy farm, top. ''These guys were pros,'' said Charles R. Tucker, right. Above, scrap metal for sale in Denver. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); SHERIFFS (88%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); COPPER MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (74%); DAIRY FARMING (71%); INSURANCE (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (73%); WICHITA, KS, USA (69%) KANSAS, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



389 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: TAKING QUESTIONS ROBERT MOSES VS. JANE JACOBS; After Mega-Projects, The Battle to Restore The City's Soul

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Following is the second set of responses from Roberta Brandes Gratz, who is responding to readers questions about her book, ''The Battle for Gotham: New York in the Shadow of Robert Moses and Jane Jacobs,'' which looks at New York's urban recovery from the 1970s through the lens of the clashing visions of Robert Moses and Jane Jacobs.
 We are no longer accepting questions for this feature. 
 To the comment, ''What did Jane Jacobs ever build?''
 Jane Jacobs built a growing movement of people who care about their cities and understand how to preserve and improve them, as well as a vocabulary of contemporary planning terms and economic theories that speak directly to the crisis of our time, to name a few things JJ built.
 What we build is not always measured with bricks and asphalt.
 - Posted by Stephen Goldsmith 
 You have articulated perfectly the importance of Ms. Jacobs's legacy, but what most people don't realize is that it was that ''movement of people'' who initiated the regeneration of New York in the 1970s after the decades of Moses' large-scale demolition projects disrupted and destabilized so much of the city. The tears in the urban fabric caused by the Moses big-project decades were huge and had a devastating impact on once-stable communities. In my book, I delve into this era in detail, illustrating how the city turned around from that low point.
 This Mr. Goldsmith's comment that ''What we build is not always measured with bricks and asphalt'' is the kind of wisdom one would hope is shared by the ''other'' Stephen Goldsmith, who is the city's new deputy mayor. 
 Thank you, Robert Moses, for making sure I do not have the convenient rail access to the airports enjoyed by the residents of Rome, Paris, London, Frankfurt and now even Tel Aviv.
 - Posted by Eric
 Sadly, your observation is correct, because Moses ignored the strong advice of transportation planners and transit advocates and purposely refused to allow train lines to be placed parallel to the highways he built. The land was available and cheap at the time.
 Robert Caro concludes ''The Power Broker'' by writing that it's impossible to say whether New York would have been a better city without Robert Moses, only that it would have been a far different one.
 Are you prepared to say whether, all things considered, Moses had a positive or a negative influence on New York's development?
 - Posted by Ej
 Well, I do hope you read my book. I make the case that the overall influence was negative. It is ridiculous to think that we could not build highways, housing, parks and other things without Moses. But we could have built them without as much disruption of families, institutions and businesses, and we could have had a balanced transportation system instead of a car-dominant one. Since the 1980s, for example, we have been rebuilding the subway system Moses financially starved, and we still have a long way to go. 
 The bottom line must be that Moses' ''public be damned'' dictatorial methods are unacceptable in a democratic society. ''If the ends don't justify the means, what does?'' Moses declared. Means are more important than ends; process is key. This is the fundamental contrast between Moses and Jacobs. She was about process, he about projects. They represent antithetical views. I use their clashing visions as a lens to look at and understand, perhaps differently, recent city history.
 I read in ''The Power Broker'' that the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and most of the later highways whose construction Moses oversaw were financed with federal funds. Do you think that if the federal government had mandated planning for public transportation as a condition of receipt of federal transportation money, the Verrazano and other arterial highways in metropolitan New York might have a rail line down their centers today? Or would Moses, who had an ideological aversion to mass transit, still have been powerful enough in the 1950s to get around combining roads and rails within the projects he managed?
 - Posted by Robert Hale
 What an interesting idea! Yes, the federal government should have mandated planning for public transportation. If the goal from the start was a balanced transportation policy, we would not be in the mess we are today. The federal government still favors highways over public transit and even airports over transit. The 20th century was the century of the automobile; the 21st will be of mass transit. It will take us decades to recreate the long- and short-distance rail lines we once had and need again.
 Jane Jacobs is spinning in her grave over ''Atlantic Yards'' and the use of public money to finance the taking of private homes for private gain; especially with ''Atlantic Yards'' cementing the footing for a Russian with blood on his hands. We will all be collaborators, with our taxes paying for it, too.
 - Posted by Bethrjacobs
 Atlantic Yards was unveiled before Jane Jacobs died, and she was quite appalled. She saw it as a real throwback to the Moses era.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: END: The Dodgers' second to last game at Ebbets Field, in 1957. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (52%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



390 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Visiting Africa's Eden

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
GAMBA, Gabon
 The moment I fell in love with Gabon was when my companions and I walked along the beach at sunset: an endless strip of white sand with no one in sight as far as the eye could see in any direction. Then we spotted movement, and we realized we were sharing the beach after all.
 With three elephants. 
 The elephants had an animated conversation among themselves, presumably about the rare sighting of human beings, then ambled off into the rain forest to tell their friends.
 This is my annual win-a-trip journey, in which I take a university student with me on a reporting trip to Africa. The winner this year is Mitch Smith, a University of Nebraska student who had never been outside the United States before. (He is writing about his trip on my blog, nytimes.com/ontheground).
 Readers have sometimes complained that my win-a-trip journeys focus on the wretchedness of the developing world -- warlords, malnourished children, maternal mortality. Frankly, I've always thought these critics had a point. So Mitch and I are starting this trip by covering an African triumph: Gabon's bold steps to preserve its natural heritage.
 Gabon has plenty of problems, including corruption and misspent oil revenues, but it is also covered by dense, uninhabited forest teeming with wildlife. In 2002, the government set aside more than one-tenth of the country for national parks -- in one step, making Gabon a leader in wildlife conservation.
 ''Gabon is definitely a special place,'' said Sebastiaan Verhage, an official here with the World Wildlife Fund, which is helping Gabon preserve its parks. ''Where else do you see elephants roaming on the beach, buffalo on the beach, hippos in the surf, humpback whales mating just off the coast, the most important leatherback turtle nesting site in the world, one of the few last refuges for lowland gorillas? Its name of 'the last Eden,' 'the last paradise on earth' -- that's not too far-fetched.''
 The head of the national parks is Lee White, a conservation specialist of Scottish origin. And the technical director is an American, Michael Fay, who famously walked across Gabon in 2000.
 President Ali Ben Bongo, who took over last year from his late father, seems enthusiastic about developing a ''Green Gabon.'' He told me he would like to deepen the environmental protections and build up infrastructure so that Gabon can become an eco-tourism destination.
 For now, that's a problem. Gabon set aside the parks partly in hopes of diversifying its economy (it is dependent on oil, which is slowly running out) and becoming an African version of Costa Rica, bringing in revenue from tourism. But so far the economic bet isn't paying off. 
 Very few foreign tourists are coming, because of the distance and the lack of modern hotels. Mitch and I ate lunch at one of the restaurants aiming for tourists, and afterward saw the staff cleaning our plates in the lagoon.
 What's more, thick forest isn't great terrain to spot wildlife. On one walk along an elephant trail, Mitch and I smelled elephants all around us but never actually spotted them. (Elephants here normally are curious but shy -- unless they've been nibbling on a root prized among local humans for its hallucinogenic properties, in which case be sure to accord them right of way).
 Still, following elephant footprints through an untouched forest is magical. Here in the rain forest, humans seem less the masters of the ecosystem than components of it, along with others. Like gorillas.
 I ran into Chloe Cipolletta, a gorilla expert I had met in the Central African Republic in 2006 on my first win-a-trip journey. Ms. Cipolletta was advising on a plan to bring tourists to visit gorillas in Gabon, and she mentioned offhand that some primates self-medicate herbally.
 Development experts have been raving in recent years about the health benefits of deworming people in poor countries -- but gorillas are way ahead of us. There is a furry forest plant that gorillas occasionally eat, despite evident distaste, making faces and spitting bits of it out. So why do they eat it? Ms. Cipolletta said the plant turns out to be a natural medication that kills intestinal parasites, and the gorillas are deworming themselves.
 One sobering truth is that the people who gush about gorillas or elephants usually are Americans and Europeans. For local people, many of them very poor despite the country's oil wealth, conservation can be an inconvenience. While visiting Loango, we encountered an outspoken young village chief, Evelyne Kinga, who protested that she'd rather elephants were dead than eating her cassava plants.
 ''The parks are for foreigners, or for rich Gabonese,'' she said. ''They're not for ordinary people like me.''
 That's a real tension, and I don't know whether Gabon can pull this off and monetize its spectacular forest the way it could monetize timber. But for the world's sake, I'm hoping that it will. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BEACHES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (87%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); RAIN FORESTS (75%); ECOTOURISM (75%); PRIMATES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); MALNUTRITION (67%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (66%); TOURISM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (79%) GABON (94%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



391 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Metric Mania

BYLINE: By JOHN ALLEN PAULOS. 
John Allen Paulos, a professor of mathematics at Temple University, is the author most recently of ''Irreligion.''

 BODY:
In the realm of public policy, we live in an age of numbers. To hold teachers accountable, we examine their students' test scores. To improve medical care, we quantify the effectiveness of different treatments. There is much to be said for such efforts, which are often backed by cutting-edge reformers. But do wehold an outsize belief in our ability to gauge complex phenomena, measure outcomes and come up with compelling numerical evidence? A well-known quotation usually attributed to Einstein is ''Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that counts can be counted.'' I'd amend it to a less eloquent, more prosaic statement: Unless we know how things are counted, we don't know if it's wise to count on the numbers. 
 The problem isn't with statistical tests themselves but with what we do before and after we run them. First, we count if we can, but counting depends a great deal on previous assumptions about categorization. Consider, for example, the number of homeless people in Philadelphia, or the number of battered women in Atlanta, or the number of suicides in Denver. Is someone homeless if he's unemployed and living with his brother's family temporarily? Do we require that a women self-identify as battered to count her as such? If a person starts drinking day in and day out after a cancer diagnosis and dies from acute cirrhosis, did he kill himself? The answers to such questions significantly affect the count.
 Second, after we've gathered some numbers relating to a phenomenon, we must reasonably aggregate them into some sort of recommendation or ranking. This is not easy. By appropriate choices of criteria, measurement protocols and weights, almost any desired outcome can be reached. Consider those ubiquitous articles with titles like ''The 10 Friendliest Colleges'' or ''The 20 Most Lovable Neighborhoods.'' Such articles would be more than fluff if they answered critical questions. Are there good reasons the authors picked the criteria they did? Why did they weigh the criteria in the way they did? If changes in the criteria were made, would the rankings of the friendliest colleges or most lovable neighborhoods be vastly different? 
 Since the answer to the last question is usually yes, the problem of reasonable aggregation is no idle matter. Recently released e-mail from employees at the credit-rating agency Standard & Poor's indicated a wish to ''discuss adjusting criteria'' for rating securities and ''massage the subprime and alt-A numbers to preserve market share.'' The criteria adjustments were analogous to the adjustments that would put an area of abandoned buildings onto the list of the most lovable neighborhoods.
 These two basic procedures -- counting and aggregating -- have important implications for public policy. Consider the plan to evaluate the progress of New York City public schools inaugurated by the city a few years ago. While several criteria were used, much of a school's grade was determined by whether students' performance on standardized state tests showed annual improvement. This approach risked putting too much weight on essentially random fluctuations and induced schools to focus primarily on the topics on the tests. It also meant that the better schools could receive mediocre grades becausethey were already performing well and had little room for improvement. Conversely, poor schools could receive high grades by improving just a bit.
 Medical researchers face similar problems when it comes to measuring effectiveness. Consider the temptation to use the five-year survival rate as the primary measure of a treatment for a particular disease. This seems quite reasonable, and yet it's possible for the five-year survival rate for a disease in one region to be 100 percent and in a second region to be 0 percent, even if the latter region has an equally effective and cheaper approach.
 This is an extreme and hypothetical situation, but it has real-world analogues. Suppose that whenever people contract the disease, they always get it in their mid-60s and live to the age of 75. In the first region, an early screening program detects such people in their 60s. Because these people live to age 75, the five-year survival rate is 100 percent. People in the second region are not screened and thus do not receive their diagnoses until symptoms develop in their early 70s, but they, too, die at 75, so their five-year survival rate is 0 percent. The laissez-faire approach thus yields the same results as the universal screening program, yet if five-year survival were the criterion for effectiveness, universal screening would be deemed the best practice.
 Because so many criteria can be used to assess effectiveness -- median or mean survival times, side effects, quality of life and the like -- there is a case to be made against mandating that doctors follow what seems at any given time to be the best practice. Perhaps, as some have suggested, we should merely nudge them with gentle incentives. A comparable tentativeness may be appropriate when devising criteria for effective schools.
 Arrow's Theorem, a famous result in mathematical economics, essentially states that no voting system satisfying certain minimal conditions can be guaranteed to always yield a fair or reasonable aggregation of the voters' rankings of several candidates. A squishier analogue for the field of social measurement would say something like this: No method of measuring a societal phenomenon satisfying certain minimal conditions exists that can't be second-guessed, deconstructed, cheated, rejected or replaced. This doesn't mean we shouldn't be counting -- but it does mean we should do so with as much care and wisdom as we can muster. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS TUNBJORK (AGENCE VU/AURORA PHOTOS.) GRAPHIC: 27% of HOUSEHOLDS consent to interviews for standard POLLS. (THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER FOR THE PEOPLE AND THE PRESS, 2003.)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY HUMAN EMPIRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); CANCER (72%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%); SUICIDE (66%); LIVER DISEASE (64%); MARKET SHARE (63%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



392 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Pennsylvania Race May Show Democrats Which Way Midterm Winds Blow

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
WAYNESBURG, Pa. -- Sam Boyd has been a Democrat his entire adult life, just like many here in this mostly rural, economically impoverished southwestern corner of the state, where the party's roots run as deep as the coal underfoot.
 But in Tuesday's closely watched special election to succeed the late Representative John P. Murtha in the state's 12th Congressional District, Mr. Boyd, 65, is leaning toward casting his vote for the Republican candidate, Tim Burns, a millionaire former software entrepreneur who got involved in politics through the Tea Party movement.
 ''I'm for Burns for the reason I was for Obama,'' said Mr. Boyd, a retired general contractor who served as an unpaid campaign liaison for Mr. Murtha in his county. ''I want change.'' 
 Whether or not Mr. Burns pulls off a victory over his Democratic opponent, Mark Critz, in what polls suggest is a competitive race, voters like Mr. Boyd embody the nightmare scenario for Democrats nationally: that even committed Democrats will turn on their party. 
 Both parties have poured money and political star power into the contest, hoping to shape the political narrative heading into the fall.
 Senator Scott Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, headlined a rally for Mr. Burns in Washington, Pa., on Friday. (Mr. Boyd got to meet Mr. Brown afterward and shake his hand.) Former President Bill Clinton was scheduled to stump for Mr. Critz in Johnstown on Sunday. 
 Democratic leaders hope that improved economic news will help Mr. Critz, as well as their party nationwide. But that may not be enough to convince voters like Mr. Boyd, who only a year and a half ago was putting up Murtha and Obama signs across Greene County, the southwestern-most part of this sprawling district.
 Mr. Boyd's path to discontent since then traces the bumpy legislative path in Washington, from the auto bailouts to the stimulus plan to the passage of the health care overhaul.
 His decision on Tuesday, as well as that of other voters like him in this heavily Democratic district, represents a test of Republicans' ability to make the midterm elections a referendum on President Obama and the Democratic-led Congress. 
 Mr. Boyd, who first joined his local Young Democrats club as a 14-year-old, says he now regrets voting for Mr. Obama, even though he hastened to add that he still found the president personally appealing.
 ''I just think I bought the sizzle, not the steak,'' he said.
 Voters here are grappling with the end of the 36-year reign of Mr. Murtha, who died in February. Mr. Murtha, a legendary master of the earmark process, used his powerful position as the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee's military subcommittee to channel hundreds of millions of dollars to his sagging district. That bounty helped him maintain a stranglehold on power over a region pocked with shuttered steel mills and factories. 
 Even here in Greene County, a two-hour drive from Johnstown, where Mr. Murtha used to live and a place he treated as the hub of his district, the signs of his munificence are everywhere, from Murtha Road, where the local Wal-Mart is located, to the defense contractor that anchors the county's technology park. 
 But now, there is clearly an opening for Republicans. Democratic voters outnumber Republicans in this district by more than 2 to 1, but the Democrats who populate the area tend to be conservative, like Mr. Boyd, especially when it comes to social issues. With mostly white, blue-collar voters, it is also the kind of district that gave the Obama campaign fits. It is the only district in the country that voted for the Democratic presidential nominee, John Kerry, in 2004 and for the Republican nominee, John McCain, in 2008. 
 Congressional committees on both sides are on pace to spend about a million dollars each on the race to replace Mr. Murtha. Outside groups have also poured hundreds of thousands of dollars into the race. Mr. Burns has lent his campaign $380,000 out of his own pocket. 
 Advertisements by Mr. Burns, as well as the National Republican Campaign Committee, have almost invariably sought to tie Mr. Critz, who was Mr. Murtha's district director, to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who is extremely unpopular in the district, and to a lesser extent President Obama, whose approval ratings here are similarly abysmal.
 ''It's going to come down to, do you think country is on the right track under this administration or the wrong track?'' Mr. Burns said in an interview at his campaign headquarters in Washington, Pa. ''I know the majority of the people in this district are not happy with Washington.''
 Meanwhile, Mr. Critz has sought to draw a bright line between him and national Democratic leaders, saying he would have opposed the health care bill, as well as cap-and-trade climate legislation that is viewed coolly in this area where coal mining remains a way of life. He has tried to focus on local issues, describing his job with Mr. Murtha as that of economic development director and arguing that he can bring jobs to the area.
 ''This campaign is not about Washington, D.C.,'' he said during a debate this month with Mr. Burns. ''It's about Washington, Pa. It's about Washington Township, Cambria County.''
 Some voters have decided that Mr. Critz, with his knowledge of the district and the Byzantine art of securing federal money, would be a better champion, even if the earmarking process that has benefited them so much is now roundly vilified. 
 ''Politics is not a clean game, but you better know how to play the game,'' Buzz Walters, a friend of Mr. Boyd who runs a tire shop in nearby Rogersville, said on a recent morning as the political talk among several friends grew heated.
 Interviews with some two dozen voters in the district, most of them Democrats, found varying degrees of approval or disenchantment with Washington. Some resented efforts to turn the race into a broader referendum, saying they would make up their minds as they always have, based on the experience or character of the candidates. Others said they were so disgusted at politics in general that they were planning to stay away from the polls. 
 (The state's primary is also being held on Tuesday, forcing the candidates to battle on two fronts: winning the special election and fending off challengers from their own party so they can run for a full term in November). 
 It is the angry talk among longtime Democrats, albeit ones who often sounded decidedly like Republicans, that is potentially most worrisome to party leaders.
 ''I just think we need a better balance of power in Washington,'' Jim Stephenson, 62, a retired electrician, said at the Airport Restaurant here, where both he and Mr. Boyd often spend their mornings. 
 With Mr. Boyd, the Obama administration's communications challenges are clearly evident. He said he was not necessarily opposed to the health care law but would ''like to know what's in the thing,'' calling it ''smoke and mirrors.'' As for the stimulus plan, he said he only knew what he could see. And, he said, he had not seen the economy improve. 
 It is the growing deficit that riles him the most, he said. Rumors of a potential second stimulus package last year caused him to sink into a depression for several days. With four grandchildren, he said he was worried for their future. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John P. Murtha represented Pennsylvania's 12th Congressional District for 36 years. (A15)
Senator Scott Brown of Massachusetts stumped for Tim Burns, a fellow Republican, in Washington, Pa., on Friday. Polls show Mr. Burns in a competitive race with his Democratic opponent, Mark Critz, to succeed the late Representative John P. Murtha. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) MAP (A15)
 CHARTS: How the District Voted in the Past: Representative John P. Murtha, a Democrat, held Pennsylvania's 12th Congressional District for 36 years until his death in February. (Source: Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); BAILOUTS (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN P MURTHA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); SCOTT BROWN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (54%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



393 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3772 words

HEADLINE: A Nice Guy ... in a Place Like This?

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
 NINE days ago, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, caught a Friday-night flight from here so he could address 1,100 graduates at the University of South Carolina the next morning about ''The Economics of Happiness.'' After the speech, he took a call in his hotel room from Jean-Claude Trichet, head of the European Central Bank, and the next day pledged billions of dollars to help Europe stave off a financial crisis -- a flashback to the huge lending programs the Fed put together in 2008 to forestall economic collapse at home.
 Mr. Bernanke, 56, hasn't had much time to reflect on whether history's verdict on his extraordinary actions of recent years will be harsh or forgiving. Nor has he had time to read the spate of new books about how he and two Treasury secretaries, Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Timothy F. Geithner, navigated a maelstrom that left millions of Americans jobless, homeless or broke. 
 Nominated last August to a second four-year term by President Obama, Mr. Bernanke nearly saw his career in public service scuttled by widespread discontent about lax regulation of Wall Street and historic federal bailouts that rescued well-heeled bankers from their own mistakes. After a raucous debate in January, the Senate confirmed Mr. Bernanke by a vote of 70 to 30 -- the lowest vote of support for any Fed chief since the central bank's creation in 1913.
 Today, early in his fifth year as chairman, Mr. Bernanke faces challenges far different from any that his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, confronted in his 18-year tenure. As the nation's all-powerful arbiter of interest rates, which directly affect banks' willingness to lend the funds that fuel the economy, Mr. Bernanke has held the benchmark short-term rate at nearly zero since December 2008, aiming to shore up faltering financial institutions.
 He has to figure out not only when to start raising rates -- weighing high unemployment against the fear of inflation -- but also how to begin shrinking the Fed's balance sheet, which has more than doubled, to $2.3 trillion, since the crisis started.
 Despite the Fed's now-notorious failure to rein in years of pell-mell, subprime mortgage lending, the Senate is considering entrusting the Fed with added regulatory powers: oversight of the largest financial institutions, including nonbanks like insurers, and an enhanced duty to monitor the kind of risky behavior that brought the American economy to the precipice.
 Just last week, the Fed fought off proposals that would have subjected its monetary policy decisions to routine audits and transferred oversight of thousands of Fed-regulated state-chartered banks to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. But it is also likely to be forced to disclose much more about how, exactly, it went about rescuing the financial sector in the last few years -- a matter of heated debate in Congress and the courts.
 ''Responsible people in Congress have recognized that you can't have a strong economy without a solid independent central bank that has appropriate regulatory roles,'' Mr. Bernanke said in an interview. ''I continue to count on good sense and wisdom to trump short-term political advantage.''
 He's also aware that new mandates might just set up the Fed for future rounds of criticism. ''We have to manage expectations,'' he says. ''There is no possibility of eliminating financial crises, even severe ones, but that does not mean there isn't a meaningful opportunity to reduce the risks and reduce the effects, which is what this is all about.''
 A POST-CRISIS conventional wisdom has arisen around Mr. Bernanke, who as a scholar produced ground-breaking research exploring the intersection of macroeconomics and finance.
 Some see his failure to anticipate the nature and severity of the financial crisis -- and his role in helping Mr. Greenspan keep interest rates at a level that might have fed housing speculation -- as unforgivable lapses. Others say there was no one better equipped, once the crisis began, to respond with the force, resolve and imagination he deployed to prevent an economic apocalypse.
 The two views are not mutually exclusive, as Mr. Bernanke concedes.
 ''Some people have asked, 'Why didn't the Fed stop this from happening?' '' he says. ''Well, like other regulators, there were some things we could have done, at least with hindsight. But we had neither the mandate nor the tools to be the financial system's supercop. We had well-defined responsibilities that excluded many of the areas that turned out to be problems.''
 Mr. Bernanke says the regulatory apparatus that grew out of the Depression, oriented around commercial banks, didn't adapt to the dizzying pace of financial innovation and interconnected, fast-moving markets.
 In fact, markets can now move so fast that regulators sometimes seem winded just trying to catch up. When the stock market plunged 1,000 points on May 6 before reversing direction almost as quickly, regulators were at a loss to explain why. They still are.
 For his part, Mr. Bernanke says he was concerned but not shocked by the drop. He says he and deputies had been girding for spillover effects from the European debt crisis for months and had been in regular contact with their European counterparts.
 The brief market plunge ''was just a small indicator of how complex and chaotic, in the formal sense, these systems have become,'' he says. ''Our financial system is so complicated and so interactive -- so many different markets in different countries and so many sets of rules. What happened in the stock market is just a little example of how things can cascade or how technology can interact with market panic.''
 More than ever, he suggests, the Fed's supervisory role needs to be reoriented around financial stability.
 ''I just think it's not realistic to think that human beings can fully anticipate all of possible interactions and complex developments,'' he says. ''The best approach for dealing with this uncertainty is to make sure that the system is fundamentally resilient and that we have as many fail-safes and backup arrangements as possible.''
 Crisis-fighter was not the primary role that Mr. Bernanke expected when he initially signed on as Fed chairman in 2006. His first two years were dotted with missteps. He memorably and erroneously described the subprime mess as ''contained'' and underestimated the depths of the broader housing crisis and how intertwined it had become with complex Wall Street trading.
 As the crisis accelerated, the Fed lent $29 billion to engineer Bear Stearns' sale in March 2008 to JPMorgan Chase. The following August, the mortgage behemoths Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were seized. Then, in September, after a desperate search for a buyer, the Treasury and the Fed let Lehman Brothers go bankrupt.
 The Fed helped broker Merrill Lynch's sale to Bank of America; swooped in with $85 billion in a controversial rescue of the insurance giant A.I.G., and supported Mr. Paulson's plea to Congress for a $700 billion bank bailout.
 Only after this first, experimental and headlong rush to place outsized Band-Aids on the financial system did the Fed seem to get its footing -- aggressively dropping rates and deploying an alphabet soup of lending programs. It spent last year acquiring mortgage bonds, Treasury securities and debts owed by Fannie and Freddie, while also conducting ''stress tests'' of the largest financial institutions.
 Friends and acquaintances say that all the effort and creativity needed to wrestle with the crisis have taken a visible toll on Mr. Bernanke.
 ''You could see it weighed very heavily on him,'' says Alan N. Rechtschaffen, a lawyer and derivatives expert who sees Mr. Bernanke periodically. ''He understood the gravity of what was going on. You could see it in his face.''
 L. Douglas Lee, an economic forecaster, worried that the chairman might be on the brink of a meltdown of his own during the height of the crisis. ''He just looked like he was fatigued,'' Mr. Lee says. ''He doesn't look that way now.''
 And Maurice Obstfeld, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, who has been a friend since graduate school, says of Mr. Bernanke: ''I don't know how he has made it through the ordeal that he had to go through.''
 Mr. Bernanke, accustomed to working every day of the week, says that he is logging fewer hours, but as he describes his labors he seems more motivated by duty than pleasure.
 ''My training and experience equipped me to serve the public, and I believe that I have a responsibility to provide that service,'' he says. ''I am not doing this for personal enjoyment.''
 ''The world has a great deal more to offer than money.''
 -- Ben S. Bernanke, June 9, 2006
 BEN BERNANKE was first quoted in a newspaper, The Charlotte Observer, in 1958, asking, ''Grandma, why don't you teach my mommy how to make blintzes?'' He was 4 at the time.
 His grandparents were Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe who traced an uncommon route to the Carolinas. His paternal grandparents, Jonas and Pauline, immigrated from what is now Poland and owned a modest Manhattan drugstore. Their son Philip, Mr. Bernanke's father, was born in Washington Heights, and the family moved in 1941 to Dillon, S.C., where it opened the Jay Bee drugstore, later run by Philip and his brother.
 Mr. Bernanke's maternal grandparents, Harold and Marcia Friedman, were Lithuanian immigrants who ended up in Charlotte, N.C., where Mr. Bernanke's mother, Edna, was raised. Marcia, who made the blintzes, worked in a shoe factory. After she died, when Ben was 13, Harold, a cantor and kosher butcher, moved in with the Bernankes.
 Philip and Edna met while studying at different campuses of the University of North Carolina; Ben was the oldest of their three children and could add and subtract as a toddler. He skipped first grade, memorized baseball statistics and, deploying the Hebrew his grandfather taught him, helped lead services in Dillon's small synagogue. At 11, he was a spelling-bee champ but flubbed a national round by misspelling ''edelweiss.''
 At Dillon High School, he played saxophone in the marching band, scored a near-perfect 1,590 on the SAT and won a $500 scholarship and a tour of Europe, thanks to Pan Am. He held summer jobs in hospital construction and at South of the Border, a souvenir hub along Interstate 95. He wore his black hair long and eventually adopted a prominent handlebar mustache.
 His high school didn't integrate until his senior year, but he had black friends -- including Kenneth R. Manning, six years older, who was already at Harvard and urged Mr. Bernanke to apply there. The Vietnam war draft was still active when he arrived at Harvard; he had a high lottery number in the draft -- 335 -- and was never called.
 He had planned to study math, then flirted with physics and English before settling on economics. ''Ben Bernanke, I learned more from sitting behind you in Ec 10 than from the class,'' a classmate, Suzanne Powell Bishopric, wrote in a report for a Class of 1975 reunion that takes place next month. (Mr. Bernanke isn't attending.)
 Dale W. Jorgenson taught Mr. Bernanke econometrics at Harvard and supervised his senior thesis, which used economic models to examine natural-gas pricing -- a timely topic in the wake of the 1973 oil crisis.
 Mr. Bernanke lived in Winthrop House, a dorm along the Charles River, where classmates included Lloyd C. Blankfein, now C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs (who didn't know Mr. Bernanke well).
 At Mr. Jorgenson's direction, Mr. Bernanke entered the Ph.D. program in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Fellow graduate students there included Paul Krugman and Kenneth S. Rogoff, who would become two of the best-known economists of their generation. (Mr. Krugman also writes a column for The New York Times.)
 Alexander S. Kelso Jr., who shared an M.I.T. office with Mr. Bernanke, says his classmate ''may have been the smartest one of us, but he had plenty of competition.''
 In 1978, Mr. Bernanke married Anna Friedmann, whom he had met on a blind date. A Wellesley alumna, she had been born in Rome, the daughter of Jewish refugees from Croatia, and grew up in Denver.
 Mr. Bernanke's 1979 dissertation explained why firms delay decisions to invest in times of uncertainty. He turned down Harvard for a job at Stanford's business school. (His wife, a Spanish teacher, received a master's in Spanish from Stanford and recently founded a school for disadvantaged teenagers.)
 ''He was an extremely good teacher from the first,'' says Jeremy I. Bulow, a friend from M.I.T. who joined Stanford's business school at the same time and still teaches there. ''He's probably had to make an effort to learn how to be less clear to do his current job.''
 Stanley Fischer, Mr. Bernanke's adviser at M.I.T., had urged his student to read ''The Great Contraction, 1929-1933,'' in which Milton Friedman and Anna Jacobson Schwartz blamed the Fed's failure to expand the money supply for the Depression's severity and duration.
 The book ignited a passion.
 ''I guess I am a Depression buff, the way some people are Civil War buffs,'' Mr. Bernanke once wrote.
 In his writings, Mr. Bernanke explained how credit market disruptions -- in particular, bank failures and debt deflation -- worsened the depth and length of the Depression, and identified a ''financial accelerator,'' the idea that conditions in financial markets amplify developments in the real economy.
 In 1985, he left Stanford for Princeton. His children -- Joel, born in 1982, and Alyssa, born in 1986 -- enrolled in public schools, and for six years he served on the school board in Montgomery Township, N.J.
 It was not his only taste of leadership. In 1996, he became chairman of Princeton's economics department, where he helped strengthen the finance program.
 ''There's a very strong group of egos here, so to get anything done requires a certain amount of diplomatic ability,'' recalls Harvey S. Rosen, Mr. Bernanke's predecessor as department chairman.
 Mr. Rosen was surprised when Mr. Bernanke signed up for a second term as chairman; many professors consider the task a distraction. ''I think he had accomplished a lot his first term,'' Mr. Rosen says, ''and he just wanted to go see it through.''
 ''Because I appreciate the role of chance and contingency in human events, I try to be appropriately realistic about my own capabilities. I know there is much that I don't know.'' 
 -- Ben S. Bernanke, May 22, 2009
 IN 2002, R. Glenn Hubbard, a top economic adviser to President George W. Bush, asked whether Mr. Bernanke would consider serving as a Fed governor. ''I was mildly surprised that Ben wanted to come,'' Mr. Hubbard recalls. ''I reached out to him expecting him to say, 'No way.' ''
 That Mr. Bernanke was a Republican came as a surprise even to longtime colleagues like Alan S. Blinder, a Princeton economist who had been the Fed's vice chairman during the Clinton administration. Mr. Bernanke, who is soft-spoken, is socially liberal but fiscally conservative.
 The economy was slow to recover after the 2001 recession, and Mr. Bernanke and his Fed colleagues backed Mr. Greenspan as the Fed gingerly began to raise rates in 2004, while still keeping them at historically low levels. Critics have argued that easy loans born from artificially low rates helped fuel the housing bubble, an accusation Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Bernanke have denied.
 In 2005, the White House tapped Mr. Bernanke to lead the Council of Economic Advisers. By then, he and his wife had bought a house on Capitol Hill, leaving open what they would do next.
 Seven months later, he was Mr. Bush's choice to lead the Fed. He had never worked in the markets and was neither politically active nor close to Mr. Bush, but was considered a safe pick. The Senate confirmed him on Jan. 31, 2006, the day Mr. Greenspan retired.
 ''I never thought I would get this job,'' says Mr. Bernanke, adding that 9/11 had spurred his interest in public service. ''But now that I have it obviously it's important to do the very best I can -- which is all I can do.''
 In a 2006 open letter, the Harvard economist N. Gregory Mankiw urged Mr. Bernanke to ''accept a lower public profile than Greenspan'' and ''become as boring a public figure as possible.'' The Fed's job, he wrote, ''is to create stability, not excitement.''
 Mr. Bernanke fits that bill. He is reserved, has a dry wit and doesn't appear to relish the trappings of office. He once lamented that joining the Fed meant he couldn't wear Hawaiian shirts and Bermuda shorts to work.
 ''Whatever political skills I have, have been gained painfully over many years,'' he says. ''I'm not naturally that kind of person.''
 In January, as senators took turns denouncing Mr. Bernanke before his reconfirmation vote, he didn't follow along on television or the Web. He did not learn the vote's outcome until two aides interrupted a meeting to tell him.
 ''I had two principal objectives in accepting a second term,'' he says. ''First, I wanted to see through the process of financial regulatory reform, which will have long-lasting impacts on our economy. Second, I felt that I could play a useful role in managing the exit from our extraordinary policies, including our highly accommodative monetary policies.''
 Ever the economic historian, Mr. Bernanke added, ''Reflecting on the problems that were caused by the long transition between Presidents Hoover and Roosevelt during the Great Depression, I hoped to provide some policy continuity during the period of presidential transition.''
 ''Keep a 'gratitude journal,' in which you routinely list experiences and circumstances for which you are grateful.''
 -- Ben S. Bernanke, May 8, 2010
 WILL future economists view Mr. Bernanke more charitably than some current ones?
 John B. Taylor, a monetary policy expert, has accused Mr. Bernanke of bungling interest rates and conducting ad hoc bailouts. The leading historian of the Fed, Allan H. Meltzer, writes that the institution has been reduced to ''a financing arm of the Treasury.'' Anna Schwartz, whose work had so influenced the young Mr. Bernanke, called on Mr. Obama to replace him.
 And Richard A. Posner, a judge and an authority on law and economics, fumed in a new book, ''Bernanke has been shameless in refusing to assign any share of responsibility for the crisis to mismanagement of monetary policy.''
 Mr. Bernanke defended the Fed's monetary policy decisions in a January speech to the American Economic Association. But in private, he seems puzzled and dismayed by the attacks. Friends don't dispute that.
 ''When you've gone your whole professional life with people always ecstatic about everything you've done, to have people now go on TV and say, 'This guy is an idiot' -- that just can't be fun,'' Mr. Bulow says.
 Others say that whatever critics think about the Fed's various maneuvers over the last few years, they believe that Mr. Bernanke helped stave off a much deeper crisis that would have occurred if he had merely sat on his hands.
 ''People just don't get how close the economy was to falling off the cliff,'' says Mark Gertler, a New York University economist and one of Mr. Bernanke's closest friends. ''Yes, you can say the Fed didn't see it coming, but the way it responded after the crisis started to unfold was incredible. I honestly think there's nobody who could have handled the crisis as well as he did.''
 Mr. Bernanke's given names, Ben Shalom, mean ''son of Peace'' in Hebrew. Acquaintances say his name is apropos.
 ''He has been extraordinarily calm throughout -- at least he's projected that on the surface,'' says the Fed's vice chairman, Donald L. Kohn, a close ally.
 While Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Greenspan share certain views -- that a global ''savings glut'' helped drive down long-term interest rates; that monetary policy is a poor tool for identifying, much less pricking, asset bubbles; and that the Fed's interest-rate policies didn't cause the crisis -- the men differ in crucial ways.
 While Mr. Greenspan tightly controlled Fed meetings, Mr. Bernanke is more collaborative. Unlike Mr. Greenspan, he avoids Washington's cocktail circuit. Mr. Greenspan would weigh in regularly with policy recommendations; Mr. Bernanke warns that the United States is on a fiscally unsustainable path but hasn't suggested specific tax increases or spending cuts.
 Recently, he has seemed to be regaining his confidence and bearing. John H. Makin, an economist who shares with Mr. Bernanke an interest in Japan and deflation, says that ''certainly in the last few months, he's looked a lot more self-possessed.''
 Mr. Bernanke reads avidly on his Kindle; Agatha Christie is a favorite. Recently, he read ''The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks,'' by Rebecca Skloot, about the donor of a cell line used in research; the novel ''Push'' by Sapphire; and ''The Help,'' by Kathryn Stockett, about maids in early-1960s Mississippi.
 He is tempted to buy an iPad but isn't sure he can justify the cost. He likes to drive, but stays under the speed limit, friends say.
 To relax, Mr. Bernanke shoots hoops in a squash court at the Fed. As a graduate student at M.I.T., he once skipped classes to cheer the Boston Red Sox against the Cincinnati Reds in the World Series, but he says his loyalties are now with the Washington Nationals.
 ''Bernanke is normal, which is fairly abnormal in that position,'' says John Hope Bryant, a financial literacy advocate who credits Mr. Bernanke for speaking on that topic last June in Anacostia, a low-income neighborhood in southeast Washington.
 And, colleagues say, he has grown wiser about how reality has a habit of intruding on well-formed academic theories about the economy.
 ''Maybe early on, there were some who believed Ben did not fully appreciate the rhythms of the markets,'' says Kevin M. Warsh, a Fed governor who has been Mr. Bernanke's liaison to Wall Street. ''But he sure understands the flows of the markets now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben Bernanke has to steer the Fed beyond the financial crisis, amid questions about whether he could have prevented it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
Ben Bernanke with President Obama in Martha's Vineyard, Mass., in August, when nominated for a second term. He was confirmed in a 70-to 30 vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Mr. Bernanke in Harvard's 1975 yearbook. He had considered math, physics and English, before choosing economics.(BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); AUDITS (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (69%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010



394 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: In Tough Stance on Wall St., Democrat Finds Few Allies

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The chairman of the Federal Reserve opposes it. The country's chief banking regulator dislikes it. The secretary of the Treasury has been unsupportive, at best, and Paul A. Volcker -- no one's idea of a best friend to Wall Street -- calls it unnecessary.
 Their antipathy is directed at a proposal from Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas. She wants banks to get rid of their lucrative derivatives operations because they played an outsize role in the financial debacle. And when Wall Street needed a rescue, Mrs. Lincoln says, taxpayers should not have had to bail out bankers' bad bets. 
 But just how far Democrats will pull back from an outright prohibition is unclear. Mrs. Lincoln is in a vicious primary campaign. Her opponent has tried to portray her as a Washington insider cozy with Wall Street and big business. If Mrs. Lincoln is seen as having given ground to bankers on derivatives, she could lose her job -- and Democrats might well lose the seat to a Republican this fall. 
 In the month since Mrs. Lincoln offered her proposal, Democrats have played a waiting game. But in that time, opposition has grown and bank lobbyists have fought her plan, what they call the ''push out'' provision. The question now is whether after the Arkansas vote, on Tuesday, Democrats will argue that other safeguards in Mrs. Lincoln's derivatives bill -- requiring them to be traded on an exchange, processed through a third party and backed by sufficient collateral -- will be sufficient. 
 Banks are betting that with the support of the prominent regulators, Democrats will have the political cover to oppose Mrs. Lincoln's provision without appearing to give in to Wall Street. 
 Five of the nation's biggest banks control some 90 percent of a specific type of derivative, swaps. For them, the stakes are huge. The swaps business, which accounts for billions in bank profits, is so desirable that the banks have all but given up fighting other restraints on their derivatives business. 
 In a swap, one stream of cash flow is exchanged for another. For example, a company that has issued debt on which it pays a floating rate of interest might decide that, in order to guard against a change in interest rates, it wants to swap its variable payments for someone else's fixed rate of payments. They are also used by international companies to hedge against currency fluctuations, and by farmers and food producers to protect against unexpected changes in commodity prices. Generally, banks serve as swaps dealers. 
 Mrs. Lincoln is adamant in her belief that banks should not be in the business. 
 ''Banks were never intended to perform these activities, which have been the single largest factor to these institutions growing so large that taxpayers had no choice but to bail them out in order to prevent total economic ruin,'' she said this month. 
 The nation's chief banker disagrees. In a letter last week to several senators, Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, said that ''forcing these activities out of insured depository institutions would weaken both financial stability and strong prudential regulation of derivative activities.''
 Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the banking industry's chief regulator, said in a well-publicized letter last month to Mrs. Lincoln and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee, that derivatives like interest-rate swaps and some credit-default swaps ''do have legitimate and important functions as risk-management tools, and insured banks play an essential role in providing market-making functions for these products.''
 Mr. Volcker, the former Fed chairman whose proposal to ban proprietary trading by federally insured banks has been incorporated into the sweeping banking overhaul bill, also opposed the swaps provision. 
 ''The provision of derivatives by commercial banks to their customers in the usual course of a banking relationship should not be prohibited,'' Mr. Volcker wrote in a letter to Mr. Dodd and Mrs. Lincoln.
 A few Democratic senators -- including Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Evan Bayh of Indiana and Mark Warner of Virginia -- have expressed doubts about Mrs. Lincoln's requirement for banks to spin off swaps trading. 
 And on Friday, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, who has repeatedly declined to endorse Mrs. Lincoln's proposal, said he believed that Mr. Dodd and Mrs. Lincoln would ''work out an appropriate solution that preserves the key thing, which is we bring those markets out of the dark, make them safer, more stable, better protection for investors.''
 Robert Holifield, a top aide to Mrs. Lincoln who helped to draft much of the derivatives proposal, said the bill was ''exactly what it would be if she didn't have a primary.''
 Other sections of the Senate bill calling for greater transparency in derivatives are all but assured of surviving. If some Democrats are plotting an assault on Mrs. Lincoln's proposal after the primary election, one factor could mess up their plans. 
 The primary is a three-person race, and Mrs. Lincoln is polling at about 45 percent, with her chief opponent, Lt. Gov. Bill Halter, at about 37 percent. 
 If she fails to win more than 50 percent of the votes, a runoff will not occur until June 8, well after Senate leaders hope to have their bill approved and reconciled with the version passed by the House last year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Facing a primary, Senator Blanche Lincoln wants to bar derivatives trading at banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY JOHNSTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); BAILOUTS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); LOBBYING (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); CURRENCIES (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (61%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BLANCHE LINCOLN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



395 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4631 words

HEADLINE: CASS SUNSTEIN WANTS TO NUDGE US

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WALLACE-WELLS. 
Benjamin Wallace-Wells is a contributing writer for the magazine and a contributing editor for Rolling Stone. His last article for the magazine was about the Republican Party's struggles during the 2008 Congressional elections.

 BODY:
The professors in Hyde Park believe in something called the University of Chicago mind. It runs cold and analytical when the rest of the culture runs hot. Chicago scholars tend to be social scientists at heart, contrarian but empirical, following evidence to logical extremes. They are centrally interested not in what it is like to be an individual within society but in how society washes over individuals, making and remaking them. During the campaign, when his former Chicago colleagues were asked to detail Barack Obama's intellectual evolution, many of them described him in these terms. But they knew Obama, at best, only partly exhibited this tradition. His friend Cass Sunstein, who is certainly the most productive and probably the most influential liberal legal scholar of his generation, inherited it in full. ''Cass has,'' says Saul Levmore, a former dean of the law school, ''the quintessential University of Chicago habit of mind.'' 
 I met Sunstein for the first time last fall, at an Au Bon Pain near the White House, just after he abandoned some measure of academic fame to run the White House's little-known Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. The office, known in Washington as OIRA, reviews major regulations written by federal agencies (on matters like the environment, the financial system, Medicare and Medicaid and public health and safety). Republicans have seen OIRA as a powerful tool to check the regulatory instincts of some agencies. But Sunstein wants to use OIRA to make regulations more supple, not less robust. Government regulations can operate at the level of philosophy, elaborating how you weigh the interest of the individual against that of society, of the present against the future. Sunstein's influence at OIRA might help give the government a University of Chicago mind.
 I could see Sunstein coming toward me a block away -- bald and lean, his body tilted enthusiastically forward, at an angle to the ground. Sunstein, who is 55, has an almost childlike excitement -- his e-mail messages end in long strings of exclamation points, and when other academics talk about his mind, they do so in the way people talk about the ballet, as something precious that ought to bepreserved. When his friends imitate him, they make their voices higher and gentler, and they introduce a quaver.
 The summer before Obama's election, Sunstein married the crusading anti-genocide journalist Samantha Power, now a senior director at the National Security Council. Despite Sunstein's reputation as a nonideological technician, he seems romantically drawn to fiercely moral public intellectuals -- his previous long-term relationship was with the philosopher Martha Nussbaum. In 2008, Sunstein and Power seemed to so perfectly symbolize the intellectual aspirations of the Obama administration and its faith in expertise that they were photographed by Esquire dressed for squash.
 Sunstein's world is filled with experts. When a White House spokesman sent me an initial list of Sunstein friends that I should speak with, it began with three Nobel Prize winners. Colleagues have long marveled at his graphomania. He has published hundreds of articles and roughly three dozen books, two of which appeared while he was waiting almost five months to be confirmed by the Senate last year. ''Cass has no psychological relationship to writing at all,'' Power told me. He knows he has a reputation for distraction. Several academics I spoke to wondered whether his elbows could be sharpened sufficiently for Washington -- he was not exactly Rahm Emanuel. I asked Sunstein about this. He smiled and affected a macho tone. ''Who the'' -- here he uttered an expletive associated with Rahm Emanuel -- ''says my personality is not like Rahm Emanuel's?''
 When Sunstein moved into his new office in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building last September, Washington was a brittle place -- the financial cataclysm still hung over everything. Sunstein saw in the housing collapse, he told me, a ''cascadelike process.'' People thought they could handle more risk than they really could, and the regulatory system permitted too much systemic risk. Some of these errors were a result of legislation, but many were caused more quietly, by tiny rules issued by federal agencies -- the kinds of regulations over which Sunstein now has some authority.
 If you think about it -- and Sunstein certainly has -- you can see a similar problem in one of the fields OIRA deals with often: the environment. The small risks that people or companies take (in adding increments of carbon to the atmosphere or -- as in the case of the recent Gulf Coast oil spill -- maintaining drilling rigs) sometimes threaten to cascade into a catastrophe. So how can the government change the framework of choices that particular people are faced with so that their own small errors in risk perception don't expose the whole of society?
 Part of the reason that Sunstein is so admired as an academic is that he has inherited lessons from everyone, including conservatives. When we spoke, he made a point of emphasizing the influence of icons of the right, like the libertarian economist Friedrich von Hayek and the originalist legal scholars. As a young academic, Sunstein found himself deeply moved by the society Franklin D. Roosevelt envisioned -- he wrote a book championing F.D.R.'s idea of a ''second bill of rights'' that would guarantee Americans a job, an education and a home -- but he accepts that much of the New Deal amounted to ''morals without technique.'' ''In 2010 there's so much more knowledge about economics than there was in the '30s,'' Sunstein told me. ''A lot of what I've tried to do is hold on to some of these moral commitments of the Roosevelt administration and figure out how we might actually get them.''
 In ''Nudge,'' a popular book that he wrote with the influential behavioral economist Richard Thaler, Sunstein elaborated a philosophy called ''libertarian paternalism.'' Conservative economists have long stressed that because people are rational, the best way for government to serve the public is to guarantee a fair market and to otherwise get out of the way. But in the real world, Sunstein and Thaler argue, people are subject to all sorts of biases and quirks. They also argue that this human quality, which some would call irrationality, can be predicted and -- this is the controversial part -- that if the social environment can be changed, people might be nudged into more rational behavior.
 Libertarian paternalists would have school cafeterias put the fruit before the fried chicken, because students are more likely to grab the first food they see. They support a change in Illinois law that asks drivers renewing their licenses to choose whether they want to be organ donors. The simple act of having to choose meant that more people signed up. Ideas like these, taking human idiosyncrasies into account, might revive an old technocratic hope: that society could be understood so perfectly that it might be improved. The elaboration of behavioral economics, which seeks to uncover the ways in which people are predictably irrational, ''is the most exciting intellectual development of my lifetime,'' Sunstein told me.
 Maybe so, but the paradox of libertarian paternalism is that it terrifies both libertarians and paternalists. (Its natural audience is professors, who often love it.) Conservatives see a Big Brother strain in Sunstein's philosophy (Glenn Beck called him ''the most dangerous guy out there''), while some liberals worry that behavioral economics is too immature to handle the weight of guiding policy. ''Right now we're in a Keynesian moment,'' William Galston, a longtime Democratic Party insider who is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, told me after Obama took office. ''We're not going to nudge the system back. We'll drag it back.''
 Keynes was the theorist of an earlier generation of liberalism, whose ideas Sunstein wanted to refine, and I asked him about Galston's critique. ''I would reject the distinction between a Keynesian moment and a behavioral moment,'' Sunstein said. His voice was so quiet it barely came through on my recording of the interview. ''Keynes emphasized the role of what he called animal spirits on the economy. He saw the crucial role of confidence. The 'cash for clunkers' program was a big success in part because it gave people the sense that the economy was moving. So Keynes was in this dimension an early behavioral economist.''
 During the 2008 presidential campaign, Sunstein went to Iowa on Obama's behalf with his friend Austan Goolsbee, now a member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, and Goolsbee's friend from college Samantha Power. Sunstein got in such an involved conversation with a voter that he left Goolsbee and Power outside, shivering in the snow. The three joked that, between their three sprawling areas of expertise, they had almost any potential question about Obama covered. They failed at the first door, when a voter wanted to know the location of the nearest caucus.
 Sunstein and Power, who is 39, soon went on a date, and she asked him if he ever fantasized about doing anything else. ''I expected him to say he dreamed of playing for the Red Sox,'' she told me. ''His eyes got real big and he said: 'Ooh! OIRA!' ''
 ''And I said, 'What the hell is that?' ''
 The office that Sunstein occupies is a kind of cockpit for the modern administrative state. When Congress passes new laws, many of the details are delegated to executive-branch agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency or the Food and Drug Administration. Officials in the Reagan administration, aiming to chasten the bureaucracy, gave OIRA the power to review every significant new rule that emerged from these agencies and to decide whether the benefits (in health, safety or environmental protection) were greater than what it would cost society to comply. Business groups quickly learned that OIRA was the place where they might get a favorable hearing. The office gained the reputation, legal scholars say, as a graveyard of regulation.
 The office's administrators require that federal agencies express the costs and benefits of their proposed rules (lives saved, swampland preserved) in dollars. Moral principles, filtered through this cost-benefit analysis, find their way into confounding little boxes. A human life, the E.P.A. figured in a 2001 rule about arsenic and drinking water, was worth $6.1 million. (If an environmental regulation would save one life but cost $4 million, it ought to be put into effect; if it cost $8 million to save that life, the regulation would be scuttled.) Each I.Q. point a child lost because of exposure to lead was worth $8,346 over the course of a lifetime. A lost workday was worth $83. Many of these estimates used data from surveys -- taken at malls, among other places -- that asked passers-by how much more they would need to be paid to take on a job that carried, for instance, a 1-in-10,000 risk of death. Richard Posner, who has the most magnificent and chilly mind in this realm, used similar projections to price the benefit of preventing the extinction of the human race at $600 trillion.
 Sunstein, steeped in the literature of behavioral economics, suggests that this abstract, utilitarian method might be humanized and reconciled with the world in which people actually live. His longtime friend Leon Wieseltier, the literary editor of The New Republic, compared Sunstein's discovery of behavioral economics with the moment when the philosopher John Stuart Mill, a utilitarian, fell ill and lost himself in the poetry of Samuel Coleridge. ''It was an intellectual revolution that permitted him to get away from utilitarianism,'' Wieseltier told me, and to acknowledge ''the centrality of emotions to human affairs. . . . Behavioral economics played a role like that in Cass's life.''
 Behavioral economists have replaced the rational actor in economic models with an often befuddled character -- bedeviled by impulses and sentiments, overwhelmed by choice. The Obama administration has tried to explain the world to this new economic actor by providing new kinds of information in new ways. When I visited Sunstein in December in his office in Washington, he talked me through some of his favorite examples. During the 1980s, the E.P.A. made public the list of the companies that released the largest quantities of toxic chemicals into their communities and hoped for a loud public shaming that would get them to clean up. Amazingly, it worked, and now the agency is trying something similar with greenhouse-gas emissions. Sunstein was also enthusiastic, he told me, about plans to change the reporting requirements for a car's fuel economy, so that consumers would have a better sense of how much they would probably spend on gas over a vehicle's lifetime. And one of the most publicized insights of ''Nudge'' was that many fewer people take advantage of tax-free individual retirement accounts than would benefit from them. The Obama administration has given employers incentives to automatically enroll their workers in 401(k) plans -- the employees are able to opt out of the plans if they want to.
 Some scholars dislike the strong, if subtle, governmental hand that is embedded in this last proposal. It seems more forceful than a nudge. ''Once you get to a point where you have automatic enrollment, you raise the question, What kind of fund?'' Mario Rizzo, a professor of economics at New York University, says. ''The problem is that if you were enrolled automatically, you could complain later that you'd been put into either a too-risky or a too-conservative fund. So then you micromanage that and you say you have to have a balanced fund. But pretty soon you're on a slippery slope, where you're dictating people's retirement choices.'' Rizzo told me about an academic study of gift-giving that found that most people would value cash more highly than the gifts they get for holidays; if even your friends and family can't figure out what you want, he asked, how can a distant bureaucrat? ''Sunstein is very taken with the need for experts,'' Rizzo says. ''But it turns out experts are subject to these cognitive quirks, too.''
 Sunstein takes this last problem very seriously. Thaler, his co-author and friend, mentioned it to me in the context of the financial cataclysm. No matter how many Ph.D.'s in finance, for instance, the S.E.C. hired, they would never know enough to run Wall Street. The trick, Sunstein says, is to crack the rule-making process open. Last month, Sunstein issued a directive allowing the agencies to solicit feedback on their proposed regulations through social media like wikis and blogs. ''Hardly anyone would isolate Section 553 of the Administrative Procedure Act'' -- the law that governs the public notice-and-comment period for most federal rules -- ''as the greatest invention of modern government,'' Sunstein told me in his office late last year, his eyes filled with life. ''But I see it as having potential.''
 In late 2000, scientists working in Antarctica began to withdraw drills that had spent weeks boring deep into the ice. It took an hour or two for each drill to emerge to the surface. Two engineers were needed to lift the extract: 10-foot cylinders of ancient ice, with a half-million-year climate record contained in the gas bubbles trapped inside. The ice cores were so old that the bubbles had been compressed beyond visibility, and so the samples looked impeccably clear. But when the samples were shipped back to laboratories where they were placed inside vacuums and pulverized with tiny needles, they released ancient air, which scientists captured to examine.
 As the scientists analyzed the record, they found what would become crucial evidence of climate change: for 800,000 years, the level of carbon in the atmosphere oscillated gently within a confined range; after World War II, the carbon levels broke the top of the range and continued, unabated, upward. Scientists grappled with two emerging truths: that carbon emissions were changing the earth's climate, and that we had no certain historical reference points that would allow us to estimate the damage. ''What you have is a link of very tenuous inferences, where each link is very highly uncertain,'' says Martin Weitzman, a professor of economics at Harvard.
 These findings had a tidal effect on economics and regulation. In his early days at the White House, Sunstein spent as much time working on climate change as on any single issue. ''The rules that govern climate change are unquestionably the most important that Sunstein will have to deal with,'' Thomas McGarity, who teaches environmental law at the University of Texas, told me. Because of the vast uncertainties involved, climate change offers a profound test of the capacities of cost-benefit analysis. Whatever action Congress takes, some of the most difficult questions lie in the regulatory details that will be subject to review by Sunstein and OIRA: how much of our wealth will the government sacrifice to try to prevent the world's climate from changing, and how will we value the interests of the future against those of the present?
 For years, Sunstein has wrestled in his writing with the difficulty in estimating the possibility of catastrophe -- studies of insurance markets have found that we tend to ignore small risks until their probability passes a certain threshold, at which point we overspend wildly to prevent them. Our public assumptions about costs and benefits are often similarly out of whack. We probably spent too little on air security before the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, Sunstein says. Afterward we have struggled to calibrate the appropriate response. Likewise, the threat of catastrophic climate change bedevils even experts. How do you account for a small but real chance that the global sea level will rise by 20 feet?
 In OIRA's cost-benefit calculations, the government's willingness to spend depends on how expensive the damage will be -- on what economists call the social cost of carbon. Sunstein and others in the government have spent several months trying to define this cost, and he talked me through the process. One of the most important issues is the discount rate, which suggests how much present value should be assigned to costs or benefits that will be experienced in the future. All else being equal, if given a choice between paying $1 million now and $1 million five years from now, economists will choose to pay later. After all, if money depreciates at say, 3 percent a year, then spending $1 million today is the equivalent of spending only about $860,000 of today's dollars five years from now.
 Over very long periods, like those involved in climate change, the discount rates that are applied to short-term problems like budgets build toward absurdity: using one common method, spending $1 million today to forestall climate change would be the equivalent of spending $2,300 in 2100. Calculations like this seem to argue against doing anything now. The problem, Sunstein says, is that we might do irreversible damage to the planet while blithely waiting for the price of action to drop just enough.
 The debates over the discount rate are less mathematical than moral. Spending money now to prevent climate damage that won't appear for decades is a tax on present generations; declining to spend now is a tax on the future. The British government several years ago assigned the economist Nicholas Stern to value the cost of climate change. Stern's vision was nightmarish. He envisioned melting glaciers that would threaten one-sixth of the world's population, mostly in South Asia, the Andes and parts of China; rising temperatures that would starve much of Africa, where crops would have difficulty growing; and worldwide plagues of malaria and dengue fever. Stern set the discount rate at 1.4 percent, a figure that would call for vast action, immediately.
 As an academic, Sunstein seemed to side with economists like William Nordhaus at Yale, who set the discount rate at about 5 percent, which would counsel patience. ''It's not clear what direction the risk of error cuts in,'' he told me. ''If we err, 7 percent could be bad,'' he said, but ''if we err, 1 percent could be bad also.'' A low discount rate might protect the environment by spurring us to sacrifice now -- while damaging the economy, increasing poverty and putting more people out of work. The difficulty is that the experts are lined up ''out the door and down the block on both sides of this issue,'' one economist told me. Sunstein has urged long and detailed public comment. ''We're trying to get a wide range of views,'' he said. But in some cases -- in the case of climate change -- the problem isn't just that experts don't know enough. The problem is that nobody knows enough, and still the government has to choose.
 Last month, a small new regulation appeared in the Federal Register that seemed to augur a quiet cataclysm: it revised energy standards for small motors, of all things, but in doing so the E.P.A. considered, for the first time, the social cost of carbon using a governmentwide standard. The expectation is that each new regulation that governs carbon production -- among them, the fuel-economy rule for automobiles -- will now consider its social cost, using the standard, which was developed by an interagency group inside the Obama administration. The group counted the consequences of warming not just in the United States but all over the world -- crops withering in Africa, dikes overtopped in Bangladesh.
 The interagency group made some choices -- Stern's apocalyptic model was out; Nordhaus's more moderate model was in. ''To enshrine these Pollyannaish studies and never look at the Stern Review -- it's not a technocratic middle of the road; it's a political choice,'' says Frank Ackerman, an environmental economist at Tufts. Ackerman says that the discount rate the government prefers -- 3 percent -- isn't low enough. ''It nowhere captures the urgency of the science.''
 Sunstein won't defend a discount rate as low as Stern's -- the expenses it would require are, for him, prohibitive. But he says the government has weighed the possibility of environmental catastrophe, of events that are unlikely to occur but not quite dismissible, into the social cost of carbon. The interagency group wanted to recognize, Sunstein told me,''some of the ethical and economic judgments that some economists have that lead to a lower discount rate.''
 One of the last papers Sunstein wrote as an academic concerned the fate of animals under environmental change -- many species will quite likely become extinct if the planet continues to warm, but their fates had never previously been accounted for in a mathematical model that could be used by the government for cost-benefit analysis. Sunstein tried to do that, in a paper in which he wrote with feeling about the suffering of polar bears -- starving cubs dependent on mothers unable to hunt in melting ice. It seemed to the environmentalists that his sympathies were with them. But to them, Sunstein's moral judgment seemed compromised by his quest for a perfect technique and his insistence on counting things that were impossible to count. ''You don't spend that long at the University of Chicago,'' McGarity told me, ''without some of that thinking rubbing off on you.''
 The University of Chicago, during the '80s and '90s, was the great seat of conservative scholarship -- law and economics, public-choice theory, constitutional originalism. Sunstein, as a young scholar, found himself both ''in awe'' of these movements and convinced ''that my smartest colleagues were blundering, and I couldn't explain to myself why.'' When Sunstein and Thaler presented their attack, using behavioral insights, on the rational-actor model that undergirded more-traditional economic thinking, they delivered it to a tense classroom that included conservative skeptics. It was an atmosphere, Sunstein said, that felt ''a little like war.''
 Sunstein spent two decades wrestling with this conservative literature, and the theories that he elaborated bore marks of those struggles and traces of their influence. ''What makes Cass unique is that he does not dismiss these critiques but incorporates them, and seeks to build upon them,'' the Chicago law professor Eric Posner told me.
 Yet when Sunstein first became, last summer, a familiar figure to Glenn Beck's radio audience, it was as an animal rights fanatic -- endlessly mocked for having once proposed in an academic article that advocates might be granted the right to sue on behalf of abused animals, and for his suggestion that hunting was morally indefensible. Beck's Sunstein has evolved, over time, into an avatar of a perceived Big Brother strain in the Obama administration, its secret manipulation of national life. ''This is what Cass Sunstein does,'' Beck said on his radio program last month. ''He nudges. He moves. He slides into position.''
 Sunstein had, during his academic career, a penchant for publishing trial balloons -- they were a necessary part of his inquiry, a perpetual what if? Now, with their author a government official, some of these conjectures seem more worrisome. Sunstein has, for example, written often about the corrosive effects of rumors and falsehoods on democratic discourse (it is the subject of one of the two books that were published while he was waiting to be confirmed last year), and in a 2008 paper, he proposed that government agents ''cognitively infiltrate'' chat rooms and message boards to try to debunk conspiracy theories before they spread. The paper was narrowly concerned with terrorism, but to some, these were dark musings. The liberal essayist Glenn Greenwald, writing in Salon, called the proposal ''spine-chilling.''
 During the presidency of George W. Bush, expertise was a war cry from the left, as many liberals felt the government had abandoned science and social science. But the academy's insights aren't static or settled. Many innovative ideas -- among them, some of the corrections proposed by behavioral economics -- are still hypotheses. Like Sunstein, their brilliance comes with speculation, and it comes with whimsy.
 ''There's a big difference between the role of an academic and the role of someone in government,'' Sunstein told me when we spoke at the Au Bon Pain near the White House. ''That's a cliche, but in academic life if you say things that are common sense and people nod their heads, it's not very useful. You're not adding anything.'' One of the changes in Washington, he said, was the pace: he could no longer take off the afternoons to play tennis. It was past dinnertime, and Sunstein was headed back to the office, to his memos. ''When I was an academic, I'd sometimes get a little feeling of excitement when I had an idea that was, I hoped, fresh,'' he said. ''And whether anyone should act on that idea is a very different question.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 30, 2010, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to the discount rate, a figure Sunstein's agency, the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, considers when assessing plans to combat global warming. The rate suggests how much present value should be assigned to costs or benefits that will be experienced in the future. The discount rate is not the depreciation rate of money. (For instance, $1 million in five years and discounted at 3 percent would be considered worth $860,000 today.) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NADAV KANDER) (MM38)
FROM LEFT: Sunstein as a University of Chicago professor in 1986
with his wife, Samantha Power, who is now on the National Security Council
Sunstein and Power with their new boss. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM LEFT: UNIVERSI TY OF CHICAGO LAW SCHOOL
PATRICIA GIBSON
PETE SOUZA/THE WHITE HOUSE.) (MM40-MM41) GRAPHICS: GRAPHIC (SOURCE: INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON SOCIAL COST OF CARBON, U. S . GOVERNMENT.) (MM38)
GRAPHIC (SOURCE : FEDERAL RESERVE) (MM42)
 GRAPHIC (SOURCE: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE AND THE VANGUARD GROUP) (MM44) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); LAWYERS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MEDICARE (70%); WRITERS (65%); MEDICAID (65%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (61%); GENOCIDE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SAMANTHA POWER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (97%) ILLINOIS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



396 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Two Generations: An American Story

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Root Canal Politics'' (column, May 9):
 Thomas L. Friedman is right. The Greatest Generation built the most prosperous society in history with its blood, sweat and tears, giving its children a tremendous head start. How have we responded? By consuming our way to insolvency. And now we're robbing future taxpayers of wealth that has yet to be produced.
 The Grasshopper Generation may be too kind a term for us boomers. Even grasshoppers don't eat their young. 
 Michael Smith Cynthiana, Ky., May 10, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman equates boomers with ''hungry locusts'' who have eaten through the abundance their parents created for them, sinking our country into crippling debt. If anything, it was boomers who rescued our economy in the 1980s and 1990s through the high-tech entrepreneurial economy they created. And the one president who embraced boomers, Bill Clinton, ended his presidency with a budget surplus that could have lasted for years to come.
 Perhaps Mr. Friedman should aim his fire elsewhere. Dial back to the 1960s, when the venerated World War II generation claimed that we could have both guns and butter, and in the process sank our nation into debt while shipping off baby boomers to their death in Vietnam. Move ahead to the 1970s, when that same generation ran our industrial base into the ground, leaving us with double-digit inflation and interest rates and steering our automobile industry into near collapse.
 Ronald Reagan ran against the boomer culture and the national debt soared. George W. Bush, demographically a boomer, prided himself on being the anti-boomer and presided over the near collapse of our economy.
 Mr. Friedman is right that we need a national reckoning to deal with our economic woes. But criticism of baby boomers will only delay the real conversation we need to have.
 Leonard Steinhorn Washington, May 9, 2010
 The writer, a professor at the School of Communication of American University, is the author of ''The Greater Generation: In Defense of the Baby Boom Legacy.''
 To the Editor:
 Far from being a resource-consuming bunch of slackers, members of the baby boom generation have worked hard and steadily for 40 years to pay the bills for themselves, their children and, yes, their parents in the Greatest Generation, an admirable group that nevertheless has taken much more money out of our social safety net than it ever put in.
 And the boomers have done all this in a decades-long era of flat wages and rising prices. While many Greatest Generation families could make it on one income, it now takes two incomes. And what is our thanks for all this steady, tortoise-like effort? To be told we are the problem.
 This is not a generational quarrel; it's a political one. Approximately two-thirds of our current national debt was accumulated under the last three Republican presidents: Ronald Reagan and the two George Bushes.
 Who began the movement to prevent the kind of sensible tax increases we need to pay for the government services we want? Conservative Republicans. Who turns out to oppose tax increases, often school bond efforts? Older voters of the Greatest Generation.
 We don't disagree with Mr. Friedman's assertion that our social programs may face hard times and cuts. But we disagree that the baby boom generation is to blame. We have had our nose to the grindstone for decades, trying to support not one but three generations.
 Jan Farrington Brian Farrington Fort Worth, May 10, 2010
 To the Editor:
 ''Root Canal Politics'' aptly describes our addiction to free lunch politics. As a local government official who has to balance a budget every year, I see one answer -- a balanced budget amendment. Avoiding budget reality has eliminated honesty from our politics and creates disincentives to find efficiencies, to compromise or to prioritize.
 A balanced budget amendment -- with reasonable provisions for recessions, times of war and debt financing for sound investments -- would not change parties' priorities, but it would force an honest discussion of the trade-offs. We need new rules if we are to bring honesty back to our politics.
 Rob Krupicka Alexandria, Va., May 9, 2010
 The writer is a city councilman.
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman states, ''My takeaway is that U.S. and European politicians -- please don't laugh -- are going to have to get a lot smarter and more honest.''
 It is the voters who are going to have to get a lot smarter and more honest with one another first, and then demand that their politicians get smarter and more honest. Given our political system, it's unlikely to happen the other way around.
 Joe McDevitt London, May 9, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOEL HOLLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WRITERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); WORLD WAR II (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



397 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: A First Year Steeped In Finance

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
BARACK OBAMA demonstrated his economic prowess at an extraordinary White House meeting several weeks before he was even elected president. As Jonathan Alter tells it in ''The Promise: President Obama, Year One'' (Simon & Schuster), this breakout performance occurred at a Sept. 25, 2008, confab requested by the Republican presidential candidate, John McCain. 
 The meeting was a calculated gambit by Mr. McCain to prove his leadership abilities after the collapse of Lehman Brothers. But the book says that when Mr. Obama asked, ''What do you think, John?'' Mr. McCain feebly joked his way out of an answer, saying, ''I'll just listen.'' 
 Later, Mr. Alter says, Mr. McCain acknowledged that he had not yet read a three-page outline of the controversial $700 billion bailout plan by Henry M. Paulson Jr., then the Treasury secretary.
 President George W. Bush was ''poorly informed and detached,'' the book says. But Mr. Obama, who had read Mr. Paulson's plan and copious amounts of related material, stepped into the breach. He gave a cogent overview of the crisis and declared that the Democrats were close to agreement with Mr. Paulson on a deal to approve the bailout. 
 When he was done, Mr. Alter reports, ''a Republican sitting some distance down the long table whispered to a pair of Democratic senators, 'Everyone here is ready to vote for Obama, including the Republicans.' ''
 The anecdote is one of scores of compelling insider accounts in ''The Promise,'' an impressively reported, myth-debunking and timely combination of journalism and history. 
 Drawing on interviews with more than 200 people, including Mr. Obama and virtually all principals of the White House staff, Mr. Alter seeks to answer three broad questions: What happened in Year One? What is President Obama (whom he calls ''professor in chief'') really like? And how has he performed so far? 
 Mr. Alter is well suited to pursue what he conceded was an ambitious goal, before the ink was very dry on Mr. Obama's initial series of executive orders and bill signatures. A senior editor at Newsweek, Mr. Alter was the author of ''The Defining Moment: F.D.R.'s Hundred Days and the Triumph of Hope,'' a best seller about the first months of Franklin D. Roosevelt's presidency during the Great Depression, a time with obvious parallels to the present.
 Mr. Alter, who is also a correspondent for NBC News and MSNBC, customarily focuses on politics. But he does a commendable job of clarifying the complex economic issues Mr. Obama faced before and after the 2008 election. 
 While ''The Promise'' duly -- and somewhat dully -- addresses topics like the president's personality and his off-hours recreational basketball games, the real meat of the book is about the execution of Mr. Obama's stimulus package, the bank bailouts, health care overhaul and efforts at job creation.
 Mr. Alter gives the president high marks, but with qualifications. He notes that Mr. Obama has presided over roughly $1.5 trillion in government outlays (the $700 billion authorized by Mr. Bush's TARP program, as well as $800 billion in stimulus spending). 
 And look at some of the results: When Mr. Obama took office in January 2009, the book notes, the economy was shrinking and losing 741,000 jobs a month. By January 2010, the economy was growing at a nearly 6 percent pace and losing about 20,000 jobs a month. In the interim, banks paid back most of their $700 billion bailout.
 The author says Mr. Obama hasn't received the public credit he deserves for engineering an economic turnaround while simultaneously effecting major social initiatives. Along with health care overhaul, Mr. Alter says, the accomplishments include ''the biggest tax cuts for the middle class since Reagan, the biggest infrastructure bill'' since the interstate highway law, ''the biggest education bill since Lyndon Johnson's first federal aid to education, the biggest scientific and medical research investment in 40 years, and the biggest clean energy bill ever'' (all in the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act). 
 Mr. Obama's own political strategies are partly to blame for this lack of recognition, the author says. ''The White House didn't want the public thinking that Obama had achieved long-sought public policy objectives under the guise of merely stimulating the economy,'' he writes, ''even though that's exactly what had happened.''
 MR. ALTER provides ample evidence that Mr. Obama is not a ''socialist,'' as contended by some conservative commentators. The author describes at length how the president acceded to recommendations from Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, and Lawrence H. Summers, the economic adviser, to bail out banks deemed ''too big to fail'' and to defer substantive structural reform of Wall Street in favor of incrementally increased regulation. 
 The book also takes the president to task, saying that he didn't show the public he felt compassion for its economic hardships and failed to ''convince the middle class that he was focused enough on their No. 1 concern: jobs.'' The author further contends that when Mr. Obama faced a choice between siding with banks or with homeowners in the mortgage crisis, ''he was sticking with the banks.''
 Still, critics of Mr. Obama may contend that Mr. Alter, who seems moderately liberal in his views, is lending the president a too-sympathetic ear. Mr. Alter repeatedly refers to Mr. Obama's chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, a fellow Chicagoan, on a first-name basis. And Mr. Alter's summary dismissal of prominent liberal skeptics like the New York Times columnist Paul Krugman and conservative skeptics in general suggests that he is generally in accord with administration policies.
 The question is whether Mr. Alter's next book will cover an Obama presidency that continues through Year Four or Year Eight. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); WRITERS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); JOURNALISM (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (81%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



398 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Global AIDS: How Best to Save Lives?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''At Front Lines, Global War on AIDS Is Falling Apart'' (front page, May 10):
 It is both a fallacy and morally indefensible for the Obama administration to argue that it must choose between saving the lives of AIDS patients and saving children who suffer from other treatable diseases in the developing world.
 Currently, the United States allocates less than 1 percent of its entire gross domestic product for foreign assistance (a smaller figure than almost all other developed nations). There are a number of ways we can help increase global capacity to treat people who are in danger of preventable deaths. 
 We must commit more of our own budget, moving toward commitments our government has made to the Millennium Development Goals. We should secure commitments from other industrialized nations to replenish the dwindling Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and we should ask some better-off recipient nations to dedicate more of their own resources to AIDS treatment.
 These solutions require moral courage and leadership, but AIDS feeds off complacency, lack of political will and silence. Rather than creating false choices, we should fulfill our commitments and confront global health crises with victory in mind. Otherwise, there will be an unprecedented human cost.
 Ruth W. Messinger President American Jewish World Service New York, May 13, 2010
 To the Editor:
 While describing the problems of caring for those infected with H.I.V., ''At Front Lines, Global War on AIDS Is Falling Apart'' supports the importance of H.I.V. vaccine research. We simply cannot treat our way out of this epidemic.
 Most major epidemics that have been controlled -- from polio to measles -- have been as a result of vaccines. H.I.V. will be no different. Thus, while we continue to care for the millions who are infected, we must continue to finance research into the discovery and development of a vaccine.
 In September 2009 the results of a 15,000-person trial of an H.I.V. vaccine in Thailand demonstrated modest results. Researchers will build on that success to develop a vaccine that can be deployed throughout the world. It is no longer just a theoretical idea; it will be done.
 James G. Kublin Seattle, May 12, 2010
 The writer is director of the H.I.V. Vaccine Trials Network based at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle. 
 To the Editor:
 I appreciated your in-depth account of AIDS treatment at a clinic in Uganda, but I was disappointed to see generalizations about Africa. At one point, the article said, ''Too few people, particularly in Africa, are using the 'ABC' approach pioneered here in Uganda: abstain, be faithful, use condoms.''
 This is not the case in Durban, South Africa, where I conducted a year of research while pursuing a Ph.D. in anthropology.
 Such generalizations hurt the efforts of AIDS activists, obscuring a world of difference in the countries of Africa.
 Now just imagine what would happen to investment in the United States if articles did not distinguish between the United States and Colombia and discussed ''American drug lords''?
 Steve Black Los Angeles, May 10, 2010
 To the Editor:
 While you accurately describe some of the difficulties in biomedical research aimed at preventing H.I.V. infection, ''After Long Scientific Search, a Cure Is Still Elusive'' (news article, May 10) does not address the work being done to find a cure for H.I.V. In fact, one case of a cure, in an H.I.V.-positive patient in Berlin with acute leukemia who underwent a stem cell transplant, was published in The New England Journal of Medicine in February 2009.
 Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health, recently described research toward a cure as ''a direction we should go, even though years ago this would have been unimaginable.'' At the International AIDS Conference in July, a two-day workshop will be dedicated to discussing scientific obstacles to a cure.
 There's a growing sense that a cure may one day become a reality.
 Rowena Johnston New York, May 10, 2010
 The writer is vice president and director of research for amfAR, the Foundation for AIDS Research.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (91%); VACCINES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); AIDS POLICY (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (89%); MALARIA (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CANCER (77%); MEASLES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); WRITERS (73%); ONCOLOGY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN JEWISH WORLD SERVICE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%) WASHINGTON, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); UGANDA (92%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); THAILAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



399 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Editors' Choice: Recent books of particular interest

 BODY:
TRIALS OF THE DIASPORA: A History of Anti-Semitism in England, by Anthony Julius (Oxford University, $45.) Julius's fiercely relevant book is particularly strong on Shylock, Fagin and the whole cavalcade of anti-Semitism in English literature. 
 THE FIRST WAR OF PHYSICS: The Secret History of the Atom Bomb, 1939-1949, by Jim Baggott (Pegasus, $35.) Baggott skillfully depicts the fear-driven competition between Germans, Americans and Russians.
 THE CRISIS OF CAPITALIST DEMOCRACY, by Richard A. Posner (Harvard University, $25.95.) An argument that Congress is rushing to devise remedies for a financial crisis that has yet to be understood.
 FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE: A Philosophical Biography, by Julian Young (Cambridge University, $45.) In Young's serious, readable introduction to Nietzsche's philosophy, the life provides context but ultimately -- and properly -- not explanation for the ideas.
 BETSY ROSS AND THE MAKING OF AMERICA, by Marla R. Miller (Holt, $30.) In this admiring biography, a historian shows that the life of the real woman behind the flag legend is well worth recovering.
 SPOON FED: How Eight Cooks Saved My Life, by Kim Severson (Riverhead, $25.95.) A New York Times food writer illuminates her own story with mini-profiles of Alice Waters, Rachael Ray and others.
 AMERICAN SUBVERSIVE, by David Goodwillie (Scribner, $25.) A bombing unites a blogger and a beautiful eco-terrorist in this literary thriller, an exploration of what motivates radicalism in an age of disillusion.
 THE LONG SONG, by Andrea Levy (Frances Coady/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Levy's heroine works on a plantation in the final days of slavery in Jamaica.
 LIFE WOULD BE PERFECT IF I LIVED IN THAT HOUSE, by Meghan Daum (Knopf, $24.95.) A frank and funny memoir about an obsession with moving.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); LITERATURE (89%); HISTORY (78%); WRITERS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (73%); ECOTERRORISM (71%); TERRORISM (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); SLAVERY (63%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: RACHAEL RAY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010



400 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Plan B: Skip College

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
WHAT'S the key to success in the United States?
 Short of becoming a reality TV star, the answer is rote and, some would argue, rather knee-jerk: Earn a college degree.
 The idea that four years of higher education will translate into a better job, higher earnings and a happier life -- a refrain sure to be repeated this month at graduation ceremonies across the country -- has been pounded into the heads of schoolchildren, parents and educators. But there's an underside to that conventional wisdom. Perhaps no more than half of those who began a four-year bachelor's degree program in the fall of 2006 will get that degree within six years, according to the latest projections from the Department of Education. (The figures don't include transfer students, who aren't tracked.)
 For college students who ranked among the bottom quarter of their high school classes, the numbers are even more stark: 80 percent will probably never get a bachelor's degree or even a two-year associate's degree.
 That can be a lot of tuition to pay, without a degree to show for it. 
 A small but influential group of economists and educators is pushing another pathway: for some students, no college at all. It's time, they say, to develop credible alternatives for students unlikely to be successful pursuing a higher degree, or who may not be ready to do so.
 Whether everyone in college needs to be there is not a new question; the subject has been hashed out in books and dissertations for years. But the economic crisis has sharpened that focus, as financially struggling states cut aid to higher education.
 Among those calling for such alternatives are the economists Richard K. Vedder of Ohio University and Robert I. Lerman of American University, the political scientist Charles Murray, and James E. Rosenbaum, an education professor at Northwestern. They would steer some students toward intensive, short-term vocational and career training, through expanded high school programs and corporate apprenticeships.
 ''It is true that we need more nanosurgeons than we did 10 to 15 years ago,'' said Professor Vedder, founder of the Center for College Affordability and Productivity, a research nonprofit in Washington. ''But the numbers are still relatively small compared to the numbers of nurses' aides we're going to need. We will need hundreds of thousands of them over the next decade.''
 And much of their training, he added, might be feasible outside the college setting.
 College degrees are simply not necessary for many jobs. Of the 30 jobs projected to grow at the fastest rate over the next decade in the United States, only seven typically require a bachelor's degree, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 Among the top 10 growing job categories, two require college degrees: accounting (a bachelor's) and postsecondary teachers (a doctorate). But this growth is expected to be dwarfed by the need for registered nurses, home health aides, customer service representatives and store clerks. None of those jobs require a bachelor's degree.
 Professor Vedder likes to ask why 15 percent of mail carriers have bachelor's degrees, according to a 1999 federal study.
 ''Some of them could have bought a house for what they spent on their education,'' he said.
 Professor Lerman, the American University economist, said some high school graduates would be better served by being taught how to behave and communicate in the workplace.
 Such skills are ranked among the most desired -- even ahead of educational attainment -- in many surveys of employers. In one 2008 survey of more than 2,000 businesses in Washington State, employers said entry-level workers appeared to be most deficient in being able to ''solve problems and make decisions,'' ''resolve conflict and negotiate,'' ''cooperate with others'' and ''listen actively.''
 Yet despite the need, vocational programs, which might teach such skills, have been one casualty in the push for national education standards, which has been focused on preparing students for college.
 While some educators propose a radical renovation of the community college system to teach work readiness, Professor Lerman advocates a significant national investment by government and employers in on-the-job apprenticeship training. He spoke with admiration, for example, about a program in the CVS pharmacy chain in which aspiring pharmacists' assistants work as apprentices in hundreds of stores, with many going on to study to become full-fledged pharmacists themselves.
 ''The health field is an obvious case where the manpower situation is less than ideal,'' he said. ''I would try to work with some of the major employers to develop these kinds of programs to yield mastery in jobs that do demand high expertise.''
 While no country has a perfect model for such programs, Professor Lerman pointed to a modest study of a German effort done last summer by an intern from that country. She found that of those who passed the Abitur, the exam that allows some Germans to attend college for almost no tuition, 40 percent chose to go into apprenticeships in trades, accounting, sales management, and computers.
 ''Some of the people coming out of those apprenticeships are in more demand than college graduates,'' he said, ''because they've actually managed things in the workplace.''
 Still, by urging that some students be directed away from four-year colleges, academics like Professor Lerman are touching a third rail of the education system. At the very least, they could be accused of lowering expectations for some students. Some critics go further, suggesting that the approach amounts to educational redlining, since many of the students who drop out of college are black or non-white Hispanics.
 Peggy Williams, a counselor at a high school in suburban New York City with a student body that is mostly black or Hispanic, understands the argument for erring on the side of pushing more students toward college.
 ''If we're telling kids, 'You can't cut the mustard, you shouldn't go to college or university,' then we're shortchanging them from experiencing an environment in which they might grow,'' she said.
 But Ms. Williams said she would be more willing to counsel some students away from the precollege track if her school, Mount Vernon High School, had a better vocational education alternative. Over the last decade, she said, courses in culinary arts, nursing, dentistry and heating and ventilation system repair were eliminated. Perhaps 1 percent of this year's graduates will complete a concentration in vocational courses, she said, compared with 40 percent a decade ago.
 There is another rejoinder to the case against college: People with college and graduate degrees generally earn more than those without them, and face lower risks of unemployment, according to figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 Even those who experience a few years of college earn more money, on average, with less risk of unemployment, than those who merely graduate from high school, said Morton Schapiro, an economist who is the president of Northwestern University.
 ''You get some return even if you don't get the sheepskin,'' Mr. Schapiro said.
 He warned against overlooking the intangible benefits of a college experience -- even an incomplete experience -- for those who might not apply what they learned directly to their chosen work.
 ''It's not just about the economic return,'' he said. ''Some college, whether you complete it or not, contributes to aesthetic appreciation, better health and better voting behavior.''
 Nonetheless, Professor Rosenbaum said, high school counselors and teachers are not doing enough to alert students unlikely to earn a college degree to the perilous road ahead.
 ''I'm not saying don't get the B.A,'' he said. ''I'm saying, let's get them some intervening credentials, some intervening milestones. Then, if they want to go further in their education, they can.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Graduating: Not everyone does. (WK1)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER FURLONG/GETTY IMAGES) (WK5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STATISTICS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); PRODUCTIVITY (64%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

 
