

201 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: A Company Makes a Noteworthy Return With a Resistible Rise 

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
The toughest ticket to come by this fall is likely to be for the production that signals the re-emergence of Tony Randall's National Actors Theater. In 11 previous seasons, money was always a problem, and the company managed only 17 productions (the last was "Judgment at Nuremberg" on Broadway in 2001), most of them unmemorable. 
 Now, however, it has a new home in Lower Manhattan at Pace University, where the hope is that it will help revitalize the economy and the life of the neighborhood around ground zero. And that's enough of a reason to wish it a hearty welcome and lots of luck. 
 But beyond that, the company is returning with a splash. It inaugurates its new home at the Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts with Brecht's scathing comic parable about Hitler's ascent to power, "The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui." Set in Chicago, it tells the story of a ruthless and ludicrous gangster who takes over the city's greengrocery trade. But the real targets of the play's ire are the citizens who sit back and allow it to happen.
The director is Simon McBurney of Complicite, but the most startling news is the high-profile ensemble, which is led by Al Pacino as Ui. He is joined by Billy Crudup, John Goodman, Linda Emond, Chazz Palminteri, Charles Durning, Steve Buscemi, Paul Giammati, Dominic Chianese and Mr. Randall himself. Performances begin Oct. 3 for an unspecified limited run. Better get on line. (Telecharge) BRUCE WEBER

GRAPHIC: Photos: Al Pacino, left, stars in "The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui," a production of Tony Randall's National Actors Theater. (Oct. 3) (Associated Press); (Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%) THEATER 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACTORS THEATER 

PERSON: RANDALL, TONY; BRECHT, BERTOLT (1889-1956); MCBURNEY, SIMON; PACINO, AL; PALMINTERI, CHAZZ; DURNING, CHARLES; WEBER, BRUCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: RESISTIBLE RISE OF ARTURO UI, THE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



202 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/MOVIES; 
Wow, I Was a Director, and I Wanted to Say, Whoa!

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN GAGHAN; Stephen Gaghan won an Oscar for writing the screenplay for "Traffic."

DATELINE: MALIBU, Calif. 

 BODY:
MEETINGS happen all over Hollywood all the time. Right now there are three or five or seven bright people sitting on couches with clean lines staring at one another over Calistoga water and cups of tea. There is original art on the walls, a framed letter from the Clinton administration thanking somebody for something. People nod and exchange ideas, solve problems and nod some more. As a screenwriter, I have attended hundreds, maybe thousands, of these meetings, and in every one I answered questions, asked questions, talked and talked and talked. But it wasn't until I became a director that I realized nobody had been listening. Oh, they look as though they're listening to you, the writer, as you make the sounds we associate with speech; but really they're waiting, thinking private thoughts about fingernail colors and evening traffic on the Ventura Freeway, waiting to see if the director is listening to you. And then they listen to the director. 
 Of course, the only way I could learn this was by becoming a director, and I was maybe 10 minutes into that first directorial meeting when I began to sense that something quite unsettling was happening, something new and a little bit alarming: people were writing down what I was saying. And instead of endless discussion there was now agreement. "Abandon," my script about college students under far too much pressure, would begin shooting in seven weeks. Lists were drawn up, items checked off. Decisions, actual decisions, upon which money would be spent and movies created, were happening in flurries. The studio and producers were no longer impenetrable, implacable forces aligned in the cause of movie prevention but well tuned, experienced machines for the production of movies. Suddenly everyone seemed to be pulling together in the common goal of making a movie, and they were looking to me to help them do it. In fact, as far as I could tell, the moment you remove the screenwriter, things actually begin to happen. 
 I don't completely agree with this system, but there is a good reason nobody listens to the screenwriter: he isn't accountable. The screenwriter is like an economist or political commentator who says, "If you don't cut interest rates right now, there will be a 3 percent decline in housing starts next April." But nobody checks back next April. Nobody remembers or cares. Because you didn't have to act on the decision, you aren't responsible for the fallout. You are an adviser, not a builder. And if "real housing starts" decline by 20 percent and the construction industry lays off thousands -- well, you still have your comfy chair and nice view out the window. 
For the director, it is the exact opposite. The time for theorizing is over. It is yes or no, and pretty soon you have an aesthetic. Period. A very experienced director told me, "A movie is 10,000 decisions, and 5 percent either way can completely change the outcome." For the mathematically inclined, it breaks down like this: 10,000 decisions over a 50-day shoot is 200 decisions a day. Let's say you're an absolute genius and you have the correct answer for 95 percent of the questions you will be asked. That still leaves the crucial 5 percent, the 10 decisions each day for which you will not have the answer. On those 10 questions, you'll trust your instincts and wing it. And if you're Francois Truffaut or Orson Welles, you'll get them all right and make a masterpiece, like "The 400 Blows" or "Citizen Kane." 
Now, let's say you're not an absolute genius. And on top of this, let's say you're very green, never having done many of the things people do to prepare for directing features -- making shorts, completing film school, directing commercials, music videos, television shows, etc. Let's go even further and say you've never actually looked through the lens of a movie camera with an eye to directing anything. O.K., let's just come out and say you're me, a sideline theorizer who has mostly imagined directing, completing perfectly crafted scenes, wrapping them, cutting them, posting them -- really in there slugging away for years, but in a very theoretical, self-congratulatory way, with no stakes whatsoever except the suspicion that someday I will actually have to make something, and gradually, suddenly, that day is now.
Experts are asking my opinion about their field of expertise. Gideon Ponte, the production designer of "American Psycho," "Buffalo 66," "I Shot Andy Warhol" -- films I like -- says: "I'm thinking about using a Francis Bacon color palette. What do you think?"
Louise Frogley, the costume designer of "Traffic," says: "I think they can be very stylized without looking stylized -- sneaky stylization -- like in certain French films of the early 60's. What do you think?"
Matty Libatique, the cinematographer of "Pi" and "Requiem for a Dream," who is also probably an actual genius, says: "I'm thinking of shooting the movie super-35-blown-up-to-anamorphic. What do you think?" 
I'LL confess, I have a passing awareness of Francis Bacon, and I am a genuine fan of 60's French cinema (who isn't?). But I have never heard the phrase "super 35 blown up to anamorphic." In most instances, I find honesty works best. I'll say, "I don't know what you mean." Or, "I'm not sure, let me think about it." Or even, "I've never done this before, what are you talking about?" But Matty sounded so certain and the phrasing so succinct and interesting -- super35blownuptoanamorphic -- so like something I should know about even if I only want to pretend I'm a filmmaker, that, in this instance, I stall, asking if I can call him back while simultaneously e-mailing Steven Soderbergh to ask him what Matty is talking about. 
Within minutes an answer arrives: "Love super-35. Bear in mind, however, that it (and anamorphic) tend to create a more theatrical feel because of their wider shape. This can be great if you're leaning toward an aesthetically subjective film, but can work against you if objectivity is your goal."
Wow, I think, can there be anything more fundamental to the filming of a scene than the question of whether it's subjective (viewed through the lens of a specific character) or objective (taken from the audience's perspective)? And why haven't I ever thought about this before? It's clear this will be a highly subjective film. It's personal to the experience of one character, and, in fact, a trick of subjectivity is central to the story. I call Matty back and say S-35 B. U. T. A. is a great idea. 
Almost immediately, the phone rings. It's Michelle Manning, the president of production at Paramount Pictures, telling me it's a very bad idea to shoot super-35 blown up to anamorphic, that it ages the negative, that the framing is strange, that you lose the top and bottom when it's transferred for play on television. This is what she says, and then she waits for me to say something. 
O.K., I think, these are valid points. But then I launch into the most impassioned explanation of "subjective versus objective in the filming of 'Abandon' ": "We are shooting in confined spaces, trying to make the film feel like college really feels -- cramped, a little claustrophobic, where the anamorphic framing will give more detail to the sides, creating a feeling of peripheral vision; we're shooting 'common top' rather than 'common center,' which will mean our TV version is less compromised in terms of composition." After maybe 10 minutes, I stop, feeling as though I've been channeling, wondering what on earth I've just said. There's a long pause on the other end of the phone; then Michelle says: "You're right. Do it." 
Once shooting begins, decision after decision piles up. At times, I doubt whether I am hitting even 50 percent in the arena of correct decision making. But again and again, because of the great acting, Matty's shooting, Mark Warner's editing, the scenes come together. I feel that I see only the mistakes and wish I could do most of it over again. But certain things clearly work.
It turns out, not surprisingly, given Gideon's taste and fine art background, that the Francis Bacon colors, the tobacco browns and hues of ocher, mixed with the washed-out institutional shadings of asylum blue and green, are precisely right. They somehow match the peculiar feeling, the emotional note, I register when recalling the creation of the characters. I didn't think in colors, but I felt the stuff deeply, and these colors match what I was feeling -- to the point that later I will reshoot a scene because there is an errant pink marker cap sticking out of a pencil holder in the center of the frame. I joke with Louise Frogley that the central character, a scholarship student at this college, seems to have won the Prada Scholarship, but somehow it's a thrift-store Prada Scholarship and very cool. Or maybe I should say, cool to me. 
And that seems to be the trick of directing: I tried to bring the picture back to the truth of that emotional tone that I had felt so deeply during the writing of the script. The lighting, camera movement, blocking of the actors, performance, pacing, sound design, score, songs: every conceivable detail, and every question, was held up and measured against that imaginary place, then kept or discarded so that the entire world of the film is hermetically sealed, complete unto itself in every respect.. 
I guess that's the goal, and what I found myself striving for, and falling short of, with my 10,000 decisions. Finally, I just want to do it again, so i'm already working on another one at Warner Brothers, adapting the book "See No Evil," by Robert Baer. Lucky for me, Steven Soderbergh and George Clooney are producing. I'm sure I'll have a lot of questions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Katie Holmes in "Abandon," Stephen Gaghan's directorial debut. A psychological thriller, the film is set on an Ivy League campus. Benjamin Bratt also stars. (Oct. 18) (Jonathan Wenk/Paramount Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (84%); HOUSING STARTS (84%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: KATIE HOLMES (50%) GAGHAN, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

TITLE: ABANDON (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



203 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2330 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/THEATER; 
Just What Is a Musical? Broadway Has a New Definition

BYLINE:  By DON SHEWEY; Don Shewey, the author of the biography "Sam Shepard," is a theater critic for The Advocate.

 BODY:
IF there is anything new on the Broadway horizon this fall, it is the prospect of two artists from outside the theater, the choreographer Twyla Tharp and the filmmaker Baz Luhrmann, bringing their creative energy to the stage and expanding the definition of what constitutes a Broadway musical. 
 Ms. Tharp, who has created some of the most innovative and popular work in contemporary dance since she formed her first company in 1965, has conceived, choreographed and directed "Movin' Out," a dance musical based on 31 songs by Billy Joel. It opens on Oct. 24 at the Richard Rodgers Theater. 
 Mr. Luhrmann, the Australian director best known for creating the hyperkinetic pop-rock movie musical "Moulin Rouge," is staging Puccini's popular opera "La Boheme," sung in Italian with English supertitles. It will play for six weeks at the Curran Theater in San Francisco before opening at the Broadway Theater on Dec. 8. First mounted at the Sydney Opera House in 1990, Mr. Luhrmann's "Boheme" is set in 1957 Paris and has been specifically cast with young, good-looking performers who are required not only to sing but also to act. 
For the last couple of seasons, musicals that refer knowingly to other musicals have dominated Broadway. The major shows -- including "The Producers," "Urinetown" and "Thoroughly Modern Millie" -- have been made by veteran insiders at the peak of their form or newcomers following in their footsteps. Ms. Tharp and Mr. Luhrmann work outside that Broadway tradition. With their idiosyncratic artistic visions, they are aiming for an audience that does not necessarily see every Broadway musical. Exuding a recklessly experimental rock 'n' roll energy, they hope to lure those who might otherwise never suspect that ballet or opera could appeal. And they both see Broadway theater as a kind of big, friendly carnival tent where audiences for different art forms can cross-pollinate.
The Broadway musical benefits from new blood. When people enter the field from outside -- like Mel Brooks ("The Producers"), Marc Shaiman ("Hairspray") and Michel Legrand (the forthcoming "Amour") -- the tried-and-true formula is for them to work with established directors (Susan Stroman, Jack O'Brien and James Lapine) as a kind of insurance.
Although Michael Mayer and John Rando have shorter track records, they proved their mettle by successfully marshaling the creative teams that made their Broadway debuts with "Thoroughly Modern Millie" and "Urinetown," respectively.
Without a sturdy Broadway veteran at the helm, shows by Broadway newcomers are riskier. An unhappy example is "The Capeman" by Paul Simon, directed by Mark Morris. "Movin' Out" and "La Boheme" have a different kind of insurance going for them: music that hasn't been proven on Broadway but has been wildly popular in the culture beyond Broadway.
Will the combination spell success? That is one question the new season stands to answer.

'Movin' Out'
Ms. Tharp has always been interested in choreographing to pop music. She shook up the dance world in 1973 when she made "Deuce Coupe" for the Joffrey Ballet, with music of the Beach Boys, and she has set dances to music by David Byrne, Paul Simon, Bruce Springsteen and Supertramp. A few years ago, while working with her five-member company on some Billy Joel songs, Ms. Tharp hatched the idea "to do a big production," she said in July in Chicago, where "Movin' Out" was having a 10-week pre-Broadway tryout.
The plan was to use Mr. Joel's music to create not just a dance concert or a revue along the lines of "Fosse" or "Jerome Robbins's Broadway," but "a narrative that had a through line, that could build to a second act," said Ms. Tharp, 61, a small woman with owlish glasses and a no-nonsense manner.
"Rather than go to a ballet company to mount this, or to the Met," she said, "I decided we'll go to Broadway because I think that's the kind of house where the audience will feel more comfortable."
For Mr. Joel, the idea was intriguing if unexpected. When Ms. Tharp invited him to view a small sample of her work, "I wasn't sure what I was going to see," he said in a recent telephone interview. "I had this idea of guys prancing in tutus, that I wouldn't like it and I'd have to think of something to say that wouldn't hurt anyone's feelings." Instead, he liked what he saw and immediately gave Ms. Tharp permission to use any and all of his music without restriction.
Theatergoers might imagine that a Twyla Tharp show using Billy Joel songs would be some combination of "Mamma Mia!," whose characters sing well-known hits by the Swedish pop group Abba, and "Contact," in which a drama unfolds not in words but in dances to popular recordings. But "Movin' Out" doesn't look like either of those shows. For one thing, there is a full 10-piece rock band onstage playing the music live and led by a Billy Joel sound-alike, Michael Cavanaugh. With the musicians stationed on a platform overhead, the dancers perform a series of story ballets on the stage floor.
The narrative begins in 1967 with "Scenes From an Italian Restaurant," and the show follows characters named Eddie, Brenda, Tony, James and Judy through the Vietnam War and its aftermath, up to the present, using some of Mr. Joel's best-known songs, including "Uptown Girl," "River of Dreams," "Just the Way You Are" and, of course, "Movin' Out." There is no spoken dialogue.
When the show opened at the Shubert Theater in Chicago on July 21, the reviews were mixed to negative. Critics generally praised the dancing, especially in Act II, and Mr. Cavanaugh's singing, but found the story line confusing and ill conceived, especially in Act I. Ms. Tharp did not disagree. She had started out structuring the show like an opera. "I tried introducing the entire cast all at once, and then gave each of the lead players an aria right up front," she said. "Wrong! I was looking at the first act as exposition to get me into the second act. Wrong! Even while you're doing exposition, it has to have energy, and there were scenes where it didn't."
At the Chicago tryouts, Ms. Tharp relied on the audience to pay attention to certain lyrics and let the rest wash over them, she said. "I'd assumed that they would look at two people onstage -- Cavanaugh is up there singing about Brenda and Eddie -- and they would know this is Brenda and Eddie. Wrong, wrong, wrong! You can't feed in Billy's language, because then you become too literal, and dance does not work well literally. The whole reason I do what I do is there's a truth in action that words sometimes belie."
Still performing eight shows a week, the cast plunged back into rehearsals. By Aug. 12, Ms. Tharp had almost completely overhauled the first act, restaging the opening, dropping subplots and creating 20 minutes of new dance material. 
Ms. Tharp has been on Broadway before. Her company has played short engagements in Broadway theaters, and she directed a 1985 stage version of the movie musical "Singin' in the Rain" that ran for 367 performances. But that experience was, she wrote in her 1992 autobiography, "Push Comes to Shove," "my worst nightmare"; it left her "humiliated by the horrible reviews."
It clearly has not deterred her from trying again. To her, being on Broadway simply means more people will see her work than if she stuck to two-week engagements at City Center or the Joyce Theater. 
"I don't see myself as a missionary or a proselytizer," she said. "I'm affording entertainment and an experience to move people. It's not outside the ken of what Broadway mandates. I'm just doing it in a slightly different way."

'La Boheme'
 For Baz Luhrmann, Broadway was an imaginary romantic realm that he first encountered watching Fred Astaire movies while growing up in a tiny town north of Sydney called Heron's Creek. Broadway "was this mythical, magical land where dreams and hopes and ideals can come true in show business," he recalled recently.
"It was a place where very sophisticated, glamorous audiences went off to have a truly enriching, beautiful experience and talk about it with friends at a fantastic dinner afterward," he said. "Have I actually had that experience going to Broadway theater? No. Do I think the essence of that experience is what a night out on Broadway should be? Yes, I do."
The producers Jeffrey Seller and Kevin McCollum, the team behind "Rent," Jonathan Larson's rock version of "La Boheme," had seen Mr. Luhrmann's staging of the Puccini opera on video and had for several years been urging him to mount it on Broadway. But the director was always engrossed in films. After making his debut in 1992 with "Strictly Ballroom," he filmed a modern-dress version of Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet" starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Clare Danes that was set in Miami and included, among other touches, a Mercutio who shows up at the masked ball in drag lip-synching to "Young Hearts Run Free."
Mr. Luhrmann then spent two years and $50 million making "Moulin Rouge," a cross between the Orpheus myth and "Camille." Set mostly in 1899, it freely quotes lyrics from Madonna, Elton John, Nirvana and "The Sound of Music."
LAST year, Mr. Luhrmann and his production company, Bazmark, decided to start a theater division, a la Disney, to explore adapting "Strictly Ballroom" and "Moulin Rouge" to the stage. In addition, he and his wife, Catherine Martin, who designs his sets and costumes, wanted to move their home base from Sydney to New York. "We've been living on the edge of the world," he said, "and we wanted to be in the center of the world."
A handsome 39-year-old with graying hair and coal-black, close-set eyes, Mr. Luhrmann is clearly a savvy, self-dramatizing showman who loves to expound at length to the press. He greets a reporter at Bazmark's second-floor loft on Wooster Street in SoHo wearing flip-flops, with the nails of his big toes painted blue-green, and his spiel about "La Boheme" comes with guaranteed sound bites. "It's 'Sex and the City' made into an opera," for instance. Referring to his international cast with three pairs alternating as Mimi and Rodolfo (for Broadway's eight performances a week): "We've assembled the young Olympics of opera." 
When Mr. Luhrmann first staged "La Boheme" for the Australian Opera, his intention was to peel away generations of operatic tradition so that viewers could experience the emotional power of Puccini's music wedded to a classic love story as directly as the opera's first audiences did in 1896. He and Ms. Martin developed a stage design inspired by romantic black-and-white photographs of Paris in the 1950's by Robert Doisneau and Henri Cartier-Bresson.
"The reason we chose 1957 was that it was the closest social and economic match in recent history to the 1830's, when the play was set," said Ms. Martin, a short, exuberant blonde who was buzzing around Bazmark's headquarters on a hot summer day wearing what looked like a black full-skirted wedding dress. (She is a character, too.) "It was a secure time in history between great upheavals" -- World War II and the student riots of the 60's in Paris. 
In Ms. Martin's design scheme, a major visual element is a huge sign spelling out the show's theme in bright red neon: "L'amour." The "L'amour" sign has become a signature for Mr. Luhrmann, making cameo appearances in each of his films. Ms. Martin expressed some concern that fans of "Moulin Rouge" might expect the opera to be equally fast-paced and eye-popping. "There's not much action in 'La Boheme,' " she said dryly. "It's kind of a kitchen-sink drama." Set during a bitterly cold winter in Paris, "La Boheme" tells of the love of the penniless poet Rodolfo for the equally poor seamstress Mimi, his fatally ill neighbor, and the lives of their young friends, among them Marcello, an artist, and Musetta, his flirtatious girlfriend. 
A WEEK later, Mr. Luhrmann was in a rehearsal studio near Union Square working on the Act III quartet with one of his three principal casts. David Miller and Ben Davis, American tenors, played Rodolfo and Marcello, with Yekaterina Solovyeva, who is Russian, as Mimi and Chloe Wright, who is British, as Musetta. (An Englishman, Alfred Boe, will play Rodolfo to a Chinese Mimi, Wei Huang. Lisa Hopkins and Jesus Garcia will be an all-American Mimi and Rodolfo. And the alternate Marcello and Musetta will be Eugene Brancoveanu from Germany and Jessica Comeau from Canada. The young Olympics of opera, remember?)
Sitting in a circle, Mr. Luhrmann and the performers went through the text line by line, translating the Italian into colloquial English. (Ms. Solovyeva, who speaks no English, conveyed her Russian equivalents through a translator.) Mr. Luhrmann fired questions at the actors: How long have the characters known one another? Who in the neighborhood knows Musetta, and what do they think of her? Next, the director had them walk through the scene, speaking the lines alternately in Italian and English with piano underscoring. Eventually, he let them sing but monitored whether they were conveying the meaning of the words or simply "cruising." Clearly, these singers could sing the score in their sleep, but with Mr. Luhrmann riding herd on them, their struggle to find the words produced the unpolished vulnerability he seemed to be aiming for. 
If the goal is to make the essence of "La Boheme" accessible to a new audience on Broadway, one might wonder if "Rent" hasn't already beaten Mr. Luhrmann to the punch. Asked about "Rent," Mr. Luhrmann adopted a diplomatic tone. 
"There will probably be a lot of 'Rent' kids who will go to 'La Boheme' just out of interest, but that's not our audience," he said. "What I'm doing is opening the door to people who may otherwise be fearful of opera because it's kept in a temple. What I want to show them is that what opera can do, which almost no other art form does, is take you to an emotional level which is not like anything else. We're making a show for the person who wants to have that direct emotional experience."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Billy Joel with Twyla Tharp, who has set some of his most familiar songs to dance. (Joan Marcus); Elizabeth Parkinson in "Movin' Out" in Chicago this year. After mixed reviews in tryouts, Twyla Tharp plunged the rest of the cast back into rehearsal, creating new dance material and dropping subplots. (Joan Marcus)(pg. 15); Baz Luhrmann's "Boheme" in Sydney, Australia, in 1990. It opens on Broadway on Dec. 8. (Branco Gaica/Opera Australia)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); OPERA (90%); FILM (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); DANCE (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); BALLET (78%); FILM GENRES (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); THEATER (58%) THEATER; THEATER; OPERA 

COMPANY: SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (69%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (69%)

PERSON: SHEWEY, DON; THARP, TWYLA; JOEL, BILLY; LUHRMANN, BAZ; PUCCINI, GIACOMO (1858-1924) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); FRANCE (56%)

TITLE: MOVIN' OUT (PLAY); LA BOHEME (OPERA) 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



204 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 4131 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 9-8-02: PHENOMENON; 
A Secret Society of the Starving

BYLINE:  By Mim Udovitch; Mim Udovitch is a contributing editor at Rolling Stone.

 BODY:
Claire is 18. She is a pretty teenager, with long strawberry-blond hair, and she is almost abnormally self-possessed for a girl from a small town who has suddenly been descended upon by a big-city reporter who is there to talk to her, in secret, about her secret life. She is sitting on the track that runs around the field of her high school's football stadium, wearing running shorts and a T-shirt and shivering a little because even though we are in Florida -- in the kind of town where, according to Claire, during "season" when you see yet another car with New York plates, you just feel like running it down -- there's an evening chill.
 Claire's is also the kind of town where how the local high school does in sports matters. Claire herself plays two sports. Practice and team fund-raisers are a regular part of her life, along with the typical small-town-Florida teenage occupations -- going to "some hick party," hanging out with friends in the parking lot of the Taco Bell, bowling, going to the beach. 
 Another regular part of her life, also a common teenage occupation, is anorexia -- refusal to eat enough to maintain a minimally healthy weight. So she is possibly shivering because she hasn't consumed enough calories for her body to keep itself warm. Claire first got into eating disorders when she was 14 or 15 and a bulimic friend introduced her to them. But she was already kind of on the lookout for something: "I was gonna do it on my own, basically. Just because, like, exercise can only take you so far, you know? And I don't know, I just started to wonder if there was another way. Because they made it seem like, 'You do drugs, you die; be anorexic and you're gonna die in a year.' I knew that they kind of overplayed it and tried to frighten you away. So I always thought it can't be that bad for you."
Bulimia -- binge eating followed by purging through vomiting or laxatives -- didn't suit her, however, so after a little while she moved onto anorexia. But she is not, by her own lights, anorexic. And her name isn't Claire. She is, in her terms, "an ana" or "pro-ana" (shortened from pro-anorexia), and Claire is a variation of Clairegirl, the name she uses on the Web sites that are the fulcrum of the pro-ana community, which also includes people who are pro-mia (for bulimia) or simply pro-E.D., for eating disorder.
About one in 200 American women suffers from anorexia; two or three in 100 suffer from bulimia. Arguably, these disorders have the highest fatality rates of any mental illness, through suicide as well as
the obvious health problems. But because they are not threatening to the passer-by, as psychotic disorders are, or likely to render people unemployable or criminal, as alcoholism and addiction are, and perhaps also because they are disorders that primarily afflict girls and women, they are not a proportionately imperative social priority.
They have been, however, topics of almost prurient media fascination for more than 20 years -- regularly the subject of articles in magazines that have a sizable young female readership. In these forums, eating disorders are generally depicted as fundamentally body-image disorders, very extreme versions of the non-eating-disordered woman's desire to be thin, which just happen, rivetingly, to carry the risk of the ultimate consequence. "So many women who don't have the disorder say to me: 'Well, what's the big deal? It's like a diet gone bad,"' says Ellen Davis, the clinical director of the Renfrew Center of Philadelphia, an eating-disorder treatment facility. "And it is so different from that. Women with the vulnerability, they really fall into an abyss, and they can't get out. And it's not about, 'O.K., I want to lose the 10 pounds and go on with my life.' It's, 'This has consumed my entire existence.' "
And now there's pro-ana, in many ways an almost too lucid clarification of what it really feels like to be eating disordered. "Pain of mind is worse than pain of body" reads the legend on one Web site's live-journal page, above a picture of the Web mistress's arm, so heavily scored with what look like razor cuts that there is more open wound than flesh. "I'm already disturbed," reads the home page of another. "Please don't come in." The wish to conform to a certain external ideal for the external ideal's sake is certainly a component of anorexia and bulimia. But as they are experienced by the people who suffer from them, it is just that: a component, a stepping-off point into the abyss.
As the girls (and in smaller numbers, boys) who frequent the pro-E.D. sites know, being an ana is a state of mind -- part addiction, part obsession and part seesawing sense of self-worth, not necessarily correlating to what you actually weigh. "Body image is a major deal, but it's about not being good enough," says Jill M. Pollack, the executive director of the Center for the Study of Anorexia and Bulimia, "and they're trying to fix everything from the outside." Clairegirl, like many of the girls who include their stats -- height, weight and goal weight -- when posting on such sites, would not receive a diagnosis of anorexia, because she is not 15 percent under normal weight for her height and age.
But she does have self-devised rules and restrictions regarding eating, which, if she does not meet them, make her feel that she has erred -- I kind of believe it is a virtue, almost," she says of pro-ana. "Like if you do wrong and you eat, then you sin." If she does not meet her goals, it makes her dislike herself, makes her feel anxiety and a sense of danger. If she does meet them, she feels "clean." She has a goal weight, lower than the weight she is now. She plays sports for two hours a day after school and tries to exercise at least another hour after she gets home. She also has a touch of obsessive-compulsive disorder regarding non-food-related things -- cleaning, laundry, the numeral three. ("Both anorexia and bulimia are highly O.C.D.," says Pollack. "Highly.") 
And she does spend between one and three hours a day online, in the world of pro-ana. Asked what she likes best about the sites, Claire says: "Just really, like at the end of the day, it would be really nice if you could share with the whole world how you felt, you know? Because truthfully, you just don't feel comfortable, you can't tell the truth. Then, like, if I don't eat lunch or something, people will get on my case about it, and I can't just come out and tell them I don't eat, or something like that. But at the end of the day, I can go online and talk to them there, and they know exactly what I'm going through and how I feel. And I don't have to worry about them judging me for how I feel."
pro-ana, the basic premise of which is that an eating disorder is not a disorder but a lifestyle choice, is very much an ideology of the early 21st century, one that could not exist absent the anonymity and accessibility of the Internet, without which the only place large numbers of anorexics and bulimics would find themselves together would be at inpatient treatment. "Primarily, the sites reinforce the secretiveness and the 'specialness' of the disorder," Davis says. "When young women get into the grips of this disease, their thoughts become very distorted, and part of it is they believe they're unique and special. The sites are a way for them to connect with other girls and to basically talk about how special they are. And they become very isolated. Women with eating disorders really thrive in a lot of ways on being very disconnected. At the same time, of course, they have a yearning to be connected."
Perfectionism, attention to detail and a sense of superiority combine to make the pro-ana sites the most meticulous and clinically fluent self-representations of a mental disorder you could hope to find, almost checklists of diagnostic criteria expressed in poignantly human terms. Starving yourself, just on the basis of its sheer difficulty, is a high-dedication ailment -- to choose to be an ana, if choice it is, is to choose a way of life, a hobby and a credo. And on the Web, which is both very public and completely faceless, the aspects of the disorder that are about attention-getting and secret-keeping are a resolved paradox. "I kind of want people to understand," Clairegirl says, "but I also like having this little hidden thing that only I know about, like -- this little secret that's all yours."
Pro-ana has its roots in various newsgroups and lists deep inside various Internet service providers. Now there are numerous well-known-to-those-who-know sites, plus who knows how many dozens more that are just the lone teenager's Web page, with names that put them beyond the scope of search engines. And based on the two-week sign-up of 973 members to a recent message-board adjunct to one of the older and more established sites, the pro-ana community probably numbers in the thousands, with girls using names like Wannabeboney, Neverthinenuf, DiETpEpSi UhHuh! and Afraidtolookinthemirror posting things like: "I can't take it anymore! I'm fasting! I'm going out, getting all diet soda, sugar-free gum, sugar-free candy and having myself a 14-day fast. Then we'll see who is the skinny girl in the family!"
That ana and mia are childlike nicknames, names that might be the names of friends (one Web site that is now defunct was even called, with girlish fondness, "My Friend Ana"), is indicative. The pro-ana community is largely made up of girls or young women, most of whom are between the ages of 13 and 25. And it is a close community, close in the manner of close friendships of girls and young women. The members of a few sites send each other bracelets, like friendship bracelets, as symbols of solidarity and support. And like any ideology subscribed to by many individuals, pro-ana is not a monolithic system of belief.
At its most militant, the ideology is something along the lines of, as the opening page of one site puts it: "Volitional, proactive anorexia is not a disease or a disorder. . . . There are no victims here. It is a lifestyle that begins and ends with a particular faculty human beings seem in drastically short supply of today: the will. . . . Contrary to popular misconception, anorectics possess the most iron-cored, indomitable wills of all. Our way is not that of the weak. . . . If we ever completely tapped that potential in our midst . . . we could change the world. Completely. Maybe we could even rule it."
Mostly, though, the philosophical underpinnings of pro-ana thought are not quite so Nietzschean. The "Thin Commandments" on one site, which appear under a picture of Bugs Bunny smiling his toothy open-mouthed smile, leaning against a mailbox and holding a carrot with one bite taken out of it, include: "If thou aren't thin, thou aren't attractive"; "Being thin is more important than being healthy"; "Thou shall not eat without feeling guilty"; "Thou shall not eat fattening food without punishing thyself afterward"; and "Being thin and not eating are signs of true willpower and success."
The "Ana Creed" from the same site begins: "I believe in Control, the only force mighty enough to bring order into the chaos that is my world. I believe that I am the most vile, worthless and useless person ever to have existed on this planet."
In fact, to those truly "in the disorder" -- a phrase one anonymous ana used to describe it, just as an anonymous alcoholic might describe being in A.A. as being "in the rooms" -- pro-ana is something of a misnomer. It suggests the promotion of something, rather than its defense, for reasons either sad or militant. That it is generally understood otherwise and even exploited ("Anorexia: Not just for suicidal teenage white girls anymore" read the home page of Anorexic Nation, now a disabled site, the real purpose of which was to push diet drugs) is a source of both resentment and secret satisfaction to the true pro-ana community. Its adherents might be vile and worthless, but they are the elite.
The usual elements of most sites are pretty much the same, although the presentation is variable enough to suggest Web mistresses ranging from young women with a fair amount of programming know-how and editorial judgment to angry little girls who want to assert their right to protect an unhealthy behavior in the face of parental opposition and who happen to know a little HTML. But there are usually "tips" and "techniques" -- on the face of it, the scariest aspect of pro-ana, but in reality, pretty much the same things that both dieters and anorexics have been figuring out on their own for decades. There are "thinspirational" quotes -- You can never be too rich or too thin"; "Hunger hurts but starving works"; "Nothing tastes as good as thin feels"; "The thinner, the winner!" There are "thinspirational" photo galleries, usually pretty much the same group of very thin models, actresses and singers -- Jodie Kidd, Kate Moss, Calista Flockhart, Fiona Apple. And at pro-ana's saddest extreme, balancing the militance on the scales of the double-digit goal weight, there are warnings of such severity that they might as well be the beginning of the third canto of Dante's "Inferno": "I am the way into the city of woe. I am the way to a forsaken people. I am the way into eternal sorrow." The pro-ana version of which, from one site, is:
Please Note: anorexia is not a diet. Bulimia is not a weight-loss plan. These are dangerous, potentially life-threatening disorders that you cannot choose, catch or learn. If you do not already have an eating disorder, that's wonderful! If you're looking for a new diet, if you want to drop a few pounds to be slimmer or more popular or whatever, if you're generally content with yourself and just want to look a bit better in a bikini, go away. Find a Weight Watchers meeting. Better yet, eat moderate portions of healthy food and go for a walk.
However.
If you are half as emotionally scarred as I am, if you look in the mirror and truly loathe what you see, if your relationships with food and your body are already beyond "normal" parameters no matter what you weigh, then come inside. If you're already too far into this to quit, come in and have a look around. I won't tell you to give up what I need to keep hold of myself.
Most of the pro-ana sites also explicitly discourage people under 18 from entering, partly for moral and partly for self-interested reasons. Under pressure from the National Eating Disorders Association, a number of servers shut down the pro-ana sites they were hosting last fall. But obviously, pretty much anyone who wanted to find her way to these sites and into them could do so, irrespective of age. And could find there, as Clairegirl did, a kind of perverse support group, a place where a group of for the most part very unhappy and in some part very angry girls and women come together to support each other in sickness rather than in health. 
Then there's chaos -- also her Web name -- who like her friend Futurebird (ditto) runs an established and well-respected pro-E.D. site. Chaos, whom I met in Manhattan although that's not where she lives, is a very smart, very winning, very attractive 23-year-old who has been either bulimic or anorexic since she was 10. Recently she's been bingeing and purging somewhere between 4 and 10 times a week. But when not bingeing, she also practices "restricting" -- she doesn't eat in front of people, or in public, or food that isn't sealed, or food that she hasn't prepared herself, or food that isn't one of her "safe" foods, which since they are a certain kind of candy and a certain kind of sugar-free gum, is practically all food. ("You're catching on quickly," she says, laughing, when this is remarked on.) Also recently, she has been having trouble making herself throw up. "I think my body's just not wanting to do it right now," she says. "You have the toothbrush trick, and usually I can just hit my stomach in the right spot, or my fingernails will gag me in the right spot. It just depends on what I've eaten. And if that doesn't work, laxis always do." 
Chaos, like Clairegirl, is obsessive-compulsive about a certain number (which it would freak her out to see printed), and when she takes laxatives she either has to take that number of them, which is no longer enough to work, or that number plus 10, or that number plus 20, and so forth. The most she has ever taken is that number plus 60, and the total number she takes depends on the total number of calories she has consumed.
While it hardly needs to be pointed out that starving yourself is not good for you, bulimia is in its own inexorable if less direct way also a deadly disorder. Because of the severity of Chaos's bulimia, its longstanding nature and the other things she does -- taking ephedra or Xenadrine, two forms of, as she says, "legal speed," available at any health food or vitamin store; exercising in excess; fasting -- she stands a very real chance of dying any time. 
As it is, she has been to the emergency room more than half a dozen times with "heart things." It would freak her out to see the details of her heart things in print. But the kinds of heart things a severe bulimic might experience range from palpitations to cardiac arrest. And although Chaos hasn't had her kidney function tested in the recent past, it probably isn't great. Her spleen might also be near the point of rupturing. 
Chaos is by no means a young woman with nothing going for her. She has a full-time job and is a full-time college student, a double major. She can play a musical instrument and take good photographs. She writes beautifully, well enough to have won competitions. 
But despite her many positive attributes, Chaos punishes herself physically on a regular basis, not only through bulimia but also through cutting -- hers is the live-journal page with the picture of the sliced-up arm. To be beheld is, to Chaos, so painful that after meeting me in person, she was still vomiting and crying with fear over the possible consequences of cooperating with this story a week later. "Some days," she says of her bulimia, "it's all I have."
One thing that she does not have is health insurance, so her treatment options are both limited and inadequate. So with everything she has going for her, with all her real-world dreams and aspirations, the palpitating heart of her emotional life is in the pro-E.D. community. As another girl I spoke with described herself as telling her doctors: "Show me a coping mechanism that works as well as this and I'll trade my eating disorder for it in a minute."
And while in some moods Chaos says she would do anything to be free of her eating disorders, in others she has more excuses not to be than the mere lack of health insurance: she has a job, she is in school, she doesn't deserve help. And what she has, on all days, is her Web site, a place where people who have only their eating disorders can congregate, along with the people who aspire to having eating disorders -- who for unknowable reasons of neurochemistry and personal experience identify with the self-lacerating worlds of anorexia and bulimia.
Futurebird, whom I also met in Manhattan, says that she has noticed a trend, repeating itself in new member after new member, of people who don't think they're anorexic enough to get treatment. And it's true, very much a function of the Internet -- its accessibility, its anonymity -- that the pro-ana sites seem to have amplified an almost-diagnostic category: the subclinical eating disorder, for the girl who's anorexic on the inside, the girl who hates herself so much that she forms a virtual attachment to a highly traumatized body of women, in a place where through posts and the adoption of certain behaviors, she can make her internal state external.
Futurebird and Chaos are sitting in a little plaza just to the south of Washington Square Park, with the sun behind them. Futurebird is a small African-American woman. As she notes, and as she has experienced when being taken to the hospital, it is a big help being African-American if you don't want people to think you have anorexia, which is generally and inaccurately considered to be solely an affliction of the white middle class. Futurebird has had an eating disorder since she was in junior high school and is now, at 22, looking for a way to become what you might call a maintenance anorexic -- eating a little bit more healthily, restricting to foods like fruits and whole-grain cereal and compensating for the extra calories with excessive exercising.
Like Chaos, she is opposed, in principle, to eating disorders in general and says that she hates anorexia with a blind and burning hatred. Although she also says she thinks she's fat, which she so emphatically is not that in the interest of not sounding illogical and irrational, she almost immediately amends this to: she's not as thin as she'd like to be. 
Both she and Chaos would vigorously dispute the assertion that the sites can give anyone an eating disorder. You certainly can't give anyone without the vulnerability to it an eating disorder. But many adolescent girls teeter on the edge of vulnerability. And the sites certainly might give those girls the suggestion to . . . hey, what the hell, give it a try. 
"What I'd like people to understand," Futurebird says, "is that it is very difficult for people who have an eating disorder to ask for help. What a lot of people are able to do is to say, well, I can't go to a recovery site and ask for help. I can't go to a doctor or a friend and ask for help. I can't tell anyone. But I can go to this site because it's going to quote-unquote make me worse. And instead what I hope they find is people who share their experience and that they're able to just simply talk. And I've actually tested this. I've posted the same thing that I've posted on my site on some recovery sites, and I've read the reactions, and in a lot of ways it's more helpful."
In what ways?
"The main difference is that if you post -- if someone's feeling really bad, like, I'm so fat, et cetera, on a recovery site, they'll say, that's not recovery talk. You have to speak recovery-speak."
"Fat is not a feeling," Chaos says, in tones that indicate she is echoing a recovery truism.
"And they'll use this language of recovery," Futurebird continues. "Which does work at some point in the negative thinking patterns that you have. But one tiny thing that I wish they would do is validate that the feeling does exist. To say, yes, I understand that you might feel that way. And you get not as much of that. A lot of times people just need to know that they aren't reacting in a completely crazy way."
The problem is that by and large, the people posting on these sites are reacting in a completely crazy way. There are many, many more discussions answering questions like, "What do you guys do about starvation headaches?" than there are questions like, "I am feeling really down; can you help me?" And in no case, in answering the former question, does anyone say, "Um . . . stop starving yourself." A site like Futurebird's, or like the message board of Chaos's, are designed with the best intentions. But as everybody knows, that is what the way into the city of woe, the way to a forsaken people and the way into eternal sorrow are paved with.
What Clairegirl, sitting shivering on the running track, would say today is that when she reaches her current goal weight, she will stay there. But she can't ever really see herself giving ana up altogether. "I don't think I could ever stop, like, wanting to not eat. Like, I could keep myself from eating below 300 calories a day. But I could never see myself eating more than 1,000," she says, wrapping her arms around her knees. "I consider myself to be one of the extreme dieters. Like, I could never want to be -- I mean, it would be so awesome to be able to say a double-digit number as your weight, but it would look sick, you know?" (Clairegirl is 5 feet 7 inches.)
And what about the people on the pro-ana sites who are not so happy, who describe the disorder as a living hell, who are in very bad shape? "Those girls have been going at it a lot longer than me. But you can't ever really say that ana isn't a form of self-hatred, even though I try to say that. If I was truthfully happy with myself, then I would allow myself to eat. But I don't. And it's kind of like a strive for perfection, and for making myself better. So I can't honestly say there's no. . . . "
She trails off, and gazes up, as if the answer were written in the night sky, waiting to be decoded. "Like, you can't say that every ana loves herself and that she doesn't think anything is wrong with her at all," she says. "Or else she wouldn't be ana in the first place." 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Jocelyn Lee)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EATING DISORDERS (90%); STARVATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (76%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); FUNDRAISING (71%) WEIGHT; ANOREXIA NERVOSA; WOMEN; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; EATING DISORDERS 

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%)

PERSON: UDOVITCH, MIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



205 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 9-8-02; 
The Last Color Line

BYLINE:  By James Traub; James Traub, a contributing writer for the magazine, last wrote about Eliot L. Spitzer.

 BODY:
Since our political culture has been dominated for much of the last 40 years by the dynamic of race -- by an acceptance of moral responsibility that over time has curdled into an endless round of accusation, guilt, repudiation and more accusation -- it's probably unwise to pronounce the hostilities finished. Certainly the underlying problems that afflict many black Americans -- impoverishment, educational failure, social and geographic isolation -- have abated but hardly disappeared. Yet as the second national election of the new millennium approaches, black political culture seems to be moving further and further from an adversarial, race-conscious model. There is a new black candidate on the campaign trail, a candidate who presents himself or herself in race-neutral terms and whose political views are eclectic and pragmatic. The two most prominent examples of this phenomenon are Ron Kirk, who has a real shot at becoming the first black senator from Texas, and H. Carl McCall, who, if August polls are accurate, could be poised for a surprise victory over the better known and more liberal Andrew M. Cuomo in the Democratic primary for governor of New York this Tuesday. 
 Meanwhile, young moderate blacks have squared off against black incumbents with more traditional agendas in Congressional and mayoral races in Newark, Georgia, Alabama and elsewhere. The civil rights struggle, and the sense of politics as a cockpit of moral absolutes that struggle fostered, is a matter of history, not personal experience, for a generation of leaders under 50. Many of them, in fact, were raised in the integrated, middle-class world made possible by that struggle. The 32-year-old Cory Booker, who unsuccessfully challenged Sharpe James for mayor of Newark, was raised in an almost all-white suburb in New Jersey. Denise Majette, who unseated the fiery Cynthia A. McKinney to become the Democratic nominee for Congress in the black-majority suburbs outside of Atlanta, graduated from Yale and Duke Law School. (Carl McCall, at 66, is a member of an older and less privileged generation, but he is a glandular moderate who feels perfectly comfortable on Wall Street, where he once worked.) 
 This generational change will be a balm to white liberals, whose politics have been so heavily determined by an agonized sense of "what black people want," as defined by the black leadership class. And it will be a boon to the Democrats, for it will help heal the ideological rifts within the party. But what will it mean to today's Republicans? When G.O.P. leaders beat a path to Governor George W. Bush's doorstep back in 1998, they were banking on his philosophy of "compassionate conservatism" to put an end to the party's perceived antagonism to the poor and the marginalized. The national convention stage-managed on Bush's behalf prominently featured blacks and Hispanics; his two highest foreign-policy officials are black.
And yet the fact is that few if any of the new crop of black Congressional aspirants are Republican. And since the only incumbent black Republican in Congress, J.C. Watts Jr. of Oklahoma, is retiring -- allegedly in dudgeon at his own party -- there will be no black Republicans in Congress next year. Among Hispanics, there are only three incumbents, two of whom represent conservative Cuban-American voters in Florida.
Why has the new generation of black leaders spurned the new Republican party? That black voters are overwhelmingly registered as Democrats obviously offers a very powerful rationale for staying inside the confines of the party, whatever your views. But this calculus does not necessarily apply to blacks running in majority-white areas. The problem lies with contemporary Republican culture and principles. Bush's compassionate conservatism revolves around rituals of inclusion -- staged events, highly touted appointments. The new generation of black leaders, however, takes inclusion for granted; they have always been included. Symbolism, at least symbolism by itself, has lost its force.
The real significance of a race-neutral politics is that it accepts pragmatic, meliorative solutions to the nation's problems -- which may help explain Bill Clinton's immense popularity with black voters. The new generation of leaders accepts the value of the market. But there are few black voters, and few black leaders, who do not view the state as a mighty instrument for social justice and for economic progress. And though President Bush's focus on rigorous standards for schools has wide support among black leaders and voters, his administration has otherwise been so dominated by a fixed antipathy to governmental activism that it has proved to be more inhospitable to blacks than was that of his more moderate, if less symbolically attuned, father. (It may also be true that as foreign policy figures, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, have less symbolic value than comparably placed figures in domestic policy would.) Even Ron Kirk, a Texas tax-cutter, says that he cannot in the current circumstances stomach the administration's 10-year, $1.35 trillion tax cut.
If you looked at these two phenomena together -- more black moderates, fewer black Republicans -- you would say that black leaders have distributed themselves more widely across the political spectrum, while Republicans have squeezed themselves into a narrow space on the edge of that spectrum. And it is precisely the kind of ideologically conservative, antiurban, sectarian space in which an increasingly secular black political culture is bound to feel uncomfortable. Conservative Republicans are occupying the territory of moral absolutism that moderate black politicians are abandoning. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Page 9 of The Times Magazine today about black politicians and their move away from race-conscious politics includes an outdated reference to this Tuesday's Democratic primary for the governorship of New York. Last Tuesday, after the article had gone to press, H. Carl McCall's main rival, Andrew M. Cuomo, dropped out of the race.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Leonard Freed) Chart: "Taking A Stand""Election time was nearing and a Negro Republican precinct captain asked me to help him round up votes. I had no interest in the candidates, but I needed the money. I went from door to door with the precinct captain and discovered that the whole business was one long process of bribery, that people voted for $3, for the right to continue their illicit trade in sex or alcohol. On Election Day I went into the polling booth and drew the curtain behind me and unfolded my ballots. As I stood there the sordid implications of politics flashed through my mind. 'Big Bill' Thompson headed the local Republican machine and I knew that he was using the Negro vote to control the city hall. . . .With my pencil I wrote in a determined scrawl across the face of the ballots: i protest this fraud." From "Black Boy" (1945), by Richard Wright

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); MAYORS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); MILLENNIUM (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%) ELECTIONS; BLACKS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); RON KIRK (52%); ANDREW CUOMO (51%) TRAUB, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (87%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



206 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: Schools Make Do With Less 

BYLINE:  By ADAM BOWLES 

 BODY:
AS the state's 563,000 public school students settle into their classrooms, Connecticut educators say they are facing another "R" to go along with reading, writing and arithmetic: reductions.
 After perhaps the most devastating season of school budget cuts since Lowell Weicker Jr. was governor in the early 1990's, cuts have become the byword of school administrators facing significant losses in the number of teachers and custodians, in sports, art, music and after-school programs and supplies. 
 "This year school districts have begun to slip back," said David Larson, executive director of the Connecticut Association of Public School Superintendents. "It's not even status quo. I don't think I've seen a year, in recent years, where we have had budgets reduced as much as they have been." 
Educators worry about the net effect of such cuts on students. What will happen to their education if they end up in larger classes, or they don't get to visit museums, or, as middle school students, they can't play sports after school, or, as elementary students, they don't get to learn a foreign language?
The Connecticut Education Association, the state's largest teachers union, has been keeping track of the budget problem, a scenario facing most states. The union's list is long. Among the casualties: 
*Litchfield lost four teaching positions and middle school sports after it took three tries to finally approve a budget.
*Stratford cut five administrative positions after suffering a $2 million reduction in its budget request.
*New Milford cut school supplies by 30 percent, reduced its library budget by $72,000 and started an activity fee.
*Plymouth eliminated two teaching positions.
*New Fairfield adopted a $150 pay-to-play sports fee.
*South Windsor and Somers scaled back their gifted-and-talented programs.
Several factors have contributed to this year's school budget demise. Linda Winters, president of the Connecticut Association of School Business Officials, said, on average, towns cut education spending proposals for 2002-3 by 2 percent.
At the same time, there have been sharp increases in medical, property and liability insurance, and contracted salaries have risen between 3.8 percent to 4.5 percent, Mr. Larson said. He said 96 percent of a typical school budget is fixed costs, such as salaries and operating expenses.
Meanwhile, though the recently approved 2002-3 state budget included a $58 million increase in the Education Cost Sharing grant to municipalities, it was offset by the elimination of a special education equity grant and a reduction of the school transportation and special education excess cost grants. 
Educators said the cuts could not have come at a worse time. 
A wide-reaching federal education law known as "No Child Left Behind," which, among other things, mandates annual, standardized reading and math tests for students in grades three through eight, will add to the burdens of educators this year.
In the next 12 years, schools must show steady improvements on test scores or face being forced to offer school choice, including transportation to other schools in the district, or supplemental services, such as tutoring and after-school programs. In a worse-case scenario, a school would have to overhaul its entire system, and even face a state or private takeover.
"There's much more pressure on schools to raise test scores, to improve performance and hire higher quality teachers," Mr. Larson said.
Marc Ryan, secretary of the State Office of Policy and Management, said school budget problems cannot be blamed on a lack of state funding, but on school spending proposals that typically called for an 8-percent increase. 
"I think that a number of districts went in asking for increases that far exceeded what people could afford during the recession," Mr. Ryan said. "School boards clearly understood it could not be sustained. It caused a local backlash. Sometimes there is not a willingness by the towns to take on those special interests and cut those areas in the budget."
Mr. Ryan said state education grants increased about $60 million over all from fiscal year 2001-2 to fiscal year 2002-3.
Mr. Larson said educators hope Congress will vote this year to fully fund special education, which would provide millions of education dollars more to Connecticut. Since 1975, when Congress passed the Individuals with Disabilities in Education Act, special education costs have increased from about 5 percent to 20 percent of a school district's budget.
Mr. Larson said eastern Connecticut suffered the worse of the cuts. 
In Norwich, the school board was forced to cut 31 teacher positions, 23.5 nonteaching, support staff, including 10 custodians, and 17 paraprofessionals, or teacher aides. Teacher aides are considered crucial in helping at-risk students keep up with the rest of the class. 
The district, which serves about 4,200 students in 10 elementary schools and two middle schools, also cut art, music, physical education and preschool and reduced full-day kindergarten to half-day. Even the district's annual vocabulary bee and field trips to Mystic Seaport were not spared.
Superintendent Michael Frechette said this year's budget represents a 2.2 percent, or $1.1 million, increase from the previous year. It's about $3 million less than what he requested to keep the budget at status quo. He said the school board's spending proposals since 1993-94 have been cut a total of $14 million.
"We've been telling people quite some time that we're going to hit a wall," Mr. Frechette said. "And we did."
He added that he was particularly discouraged by the loss of preschool and full-day kindergarten, a focus of his administration since he assumed his post more than five years ago. Mr. Frechette said research overwhelmingly shows that early intervention, especially in literacy skills, significantly reduces the need for and the cost of remediation in later years.
Plainfield Public Schools were close behind Norwich in its scope of losses. There, 23 teaching positions were cut, along with 16 paraprofessionals and five custodians. Parents have been asked to provide classrooms with basic supplies such as pencils, paper, crayons, markers and notebooks.
For Bethany Gorman, who has four of her five children in Plainfield elementary schools, that has cost her $40. Ms. Gorman said that expense is not a financial burden, but said she shouldn't have to worry about such matters. She added that two of her children are in larger classes than last year and yet there are fewer aides to help the teachers.
"It's frustrating because it's going to effect the children and I feel like there's nothing we can do about it," she said. "I talked to the Board of Education. But when you don't have the money, obviously they have to cut their budget. I know it's not their fault." 
Judith Ludwig, a computer coordinator at Barkhamsted Elementary School, said she is worried about the impact cuts will have on the school's $100,000 technology program, which includes a computer lab, computers in each classroom, a wireless network and a Web page.
Ms. Ludwig trains school staff and teaches the school's 350 students to use computers skills, including, for the younger students, finding and importing pictures from the Internet, and, for the older students, presenting book reports using multimedia techniques. But her work hours have been reduced from four days to two days a week. Two other educators, the library/media specialist and the reading/language coordinator, were both cut back from five to four days.
"The bottom line is it means less time with kids," said Ms. Ludwig, who added she will try to arrange her schedule so she can meet with all the children every couple of weeks, not every week like last year. "I feel that their computer skills will not develop as quickly."
She said teachers will try to take up some of the slack, but even they will be affected. Some still haven't been able to get online, a need that will now have to wait. 
"I won't have time to work on the network," Ms. Ludwig said. "I don't have time to work on the Web page. And I won't have time to work on grants."
In Torrington, Mark Mennillo, 24, a laid-off high school social studies teacher, is seeking another job. The first-year teacher said he and his colleagues were surprised and frustrated by the cuts that were announced in the last month of school. He said he was a victim of the "totem pole rule," which calls for the least experienced teachers to be fired first.
"As far as the students, that's the worse part," he said. "You start to form bonds and relationships that help them to learn and they expect you to be back next year. Someone still has to teach these kids, and the numbers didn't go down, so someone is going to have to teach more kids."
Rosemary Coyle, president of the Connecticut Education Association, said parents should carefully inspect their child's classroom, monitoring whether students have enough textbooks and supplies, whether those textbooks are up-to-date, and whether they have access to necessary special services, such as speech, language, special education or counseling.
"The trend I'm seeing is arts, music, P.E., gifted-and-talented they either are reduced or eliminated completely," she said. "In order to have a well-balanced education you need all of that. We're not offering equal education across the state."
Still, there is little parents can do this year except to perhaps fill in the gaps with books and supplies. But next year, when the budget cuts are expected to be even worse, Ms. Coyle said their votes could make all the difference in what a school district loses or gains in the classroom.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Buckingham Elementary School in Norwich, a city that has had some of the deepest school cuts in the state.; Bethany and Dean Gorman of Plainfield with their five daughters. Ms. Gorman said she found cuts in the schools frustrating. (Photographs by C. M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 4); Gary Gelmini, above, principal of Buckingham Elementary School in Norwich, has had to deal with budget cuts. So has Judith Ludwig, left, a computer coordinator at Barkhamsted Elementary School, who said she is worried about the impact cuts will have on the school's $100,000 technology program. (Left, Mary Haggerty and, above, C. M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); STUDENT ACTIVITY FEES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROVALS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); GIFTED EDUCATION (73%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%); LIBRARIES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (51%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (82%); ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL BUSINESS OFFICIALS INTERNATIONAL (59%) CONNECTICUT EDUCATION ASSN; CONNECTICUT ASSN OF SCHOOL BUSINESS OFFICIALS 

PERSON: WINTERS, LINDA; BOWLES, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



207 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
When Advertising Mixes Fact and Fiction

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH 

 BODY:
IN its first television advertising campaign in more than a decade, North Fork Bank's $2 million effort, which began last last month, uses humor to try to raise the bank's position among commercial lenders in the New York City area.
 The campaign attempts to position North Fork as a bank whose managers get out from behind their desks. The tagline, aimed at businesses that use other banks, is: "We're out there with you. Where is your banker?" 
 The campaign was created by Christie MacDougall Mitchell Bodden, a Manhattan agency whose principals have created campaigns for Citibank and Dime Savings Bank. The commercials are appearing on financial programs and news broadcasts on network and cable stations, and there are radio versions as well. 
There are four ads that appear on both TV and radio. In two of them, North Fork bankers leave their desks to visit commercial clients. One client is Rao's, the legendary (and legendarily hard to get into) restaurant in East Harlem. 
The other client is the Shady Ridge Vineyard, a winery described as being on Long Island.
Only there is no Shady Ridge Vineyard.
"I know that," said John A. Kanas, the chairman and founder of the bank, which originated in Cutchogue, a grape's throw from most of the North Fork vineyards. Its headquarters are now in Melville.
"Most of the vineyards are our clients," Mr. Kanas said. "We created Shady Ridge so we wouldn't offend any of them by mentioning their competitor in our ads." 
Marty Mitchell, the ad agency's chairman, explained that his creative director, Mal MacDougall, went out with Nathan Hunt, a writer, and Bill Wosar, an artist, to interview 30 branch managers. And often they tagged along when the managers went out on client calls.
"The ads reflect what our creative team saw in the field," Mr. Mitchell said. "These North Fork bankers don't act like traditional bankers. They get out of their office and work in their shirtsleeves. They actually help clients do business. What we say in the ads reflects what we watched happen, in a humorous way."
In the Rao's ad, an actor depicting a North Fork banker strolls through the streets of Harlem, kissing strangers on both cheeks to their evident befuddlement and mild consternation. Arriving at Rao's, he is greeted in similar fashion by Frank Pellegrino, an owner who plays himself. 
Mr. Pellegrino looks delighted. The banker looks delighted. Maybe because he got a table. 
In the Shady Ridge spot, an actor playing a North Fork banker heads over to a vineyard described as a client. After some bucolic moments the banker is back in his office.
Accompanied by a squishing sound, he stands up as if to say goodbye. The camera pans down to floor level where he is shown shoeless, cuffs rolled up and feet stained burgundy (or merlot, more likely).
The two remaining ads take aim at stereotypical bank practices. In one, which could be called "Banking in the Twilight Zone," tellers go into hiding when a customer enters, peering out anxiously until he leaves; in the other, managers at an imaginary competitor are chided for being hopelessly out of touch with business banking today.
"People are telling us these are funny ads," Mr. Mitchell said. "I think they're very funny."
Funny? Some viewers will probably say yes, and some may even laugh. But will they be resentful when they find out that one of the customers is not, in fact, real? 
Mr. Mitchell said he had asked Mr. Kanas and North Fork to do a few more ads before the campaign ends in November. "I encouraged John to let us do some spots with actual vineyards," said Mr. Mitchell, who described himself as a frequent North Fork visitor and vineyard enthusiast. "I understand he's thinking about it."
The use of testimonials, real or fabricated, can be a bit sticky. More than a dozen local ad executives said that using a real client could be a problem: Will the client feel pressured to participate? What if the client later changes banks? As for creating a fictitious customer, they agreed that that strategy was even riskier. 
Yet testimonials are an advertising tradition, as is fallout when any departure from fact is discovered. Last month, the KeySpan Energy Corporation had to jettison a print campaign that sought to transform stock photos of a fish market in Seattle into Mid-Island Fish, ostensibly a Long Island retailer. Newsday ran the ad, then ran an article revealing the testimonial was fabricated. 
KeySpan acknowledged that it had used a stock photo to save money but said it never intended to deceive anyone. The company reshot the ad the morning after Newsday's article appeared, this time using the owner of an Islip fish store, the White Cap Fish Company, and an employee as models. The new tagline read, "Want to meet a real fish company?" Like the original ad, in ran in Newsday and weekly newspapers in Suffolk County.
"We took the opportunity to poke a little fun at ourselves," said Bonnie Habyan, a KeySpan spokeswoman.
William J. Corbett, the president of Corbett Associates, a public-relations agency in Floral Park, said: "I would say that KeySpan lost some credibility with this. Others who might try this should take note."
Members of the Long Island Advertising Club agreed with Mr. Corbett.
"If a bank with a strong local presence wants to cite a major local client, that client should be the real thing," said Dorothy Cardi, the creative director of Cardi Design Studio, in Commack. "When it's very obvious the 'fish' isn't indigenous to local waters, the bank loses credibility."
In a campaign using a made-up client, "some credibility is lost, and the campaign loses realism" said Keith W. Browne, the executive producer at Locksley Productions, a Port Washington company that creates radio and television commercials. "It's no longer a testimonial or endorsement but a sales ploy. There is nothing worse looking than fake 'real people' ads."
Greg Demetriou, the president of American Mail Communications in Farmingdale, said: "Faking a testimonial is over the line. In light of the recent corporate scandals coming out of Wall Street, business should not be out there perpetuating a hoax."
One agency owner defended the practice, but then asked that his name not be used because he was concerned about a negative reaction among clients and prospects. He said that he often cast actors as customers in TV commercials because viewers expect to see attractive and well-spoken people.
"Most people realize advertising's purpose is to sell them something," he said. "Whether or not the people are real or not is irrelevant."
Jane Baxter Lynne, the executive director of the Long Island Wine Council, a trade group in Peconic that represents growers and producers, said she thought that raising the public's awareness about local wine-growers, even by using a fictitious vineyard in the North Fork ad, was a good thing.
"The bank recognizes the growing importance of our wine industry to their business and the economy on Long Island," she said. "This is a very positive message, and we look forward to working with their creative team on future ad campaigns."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In one North Fork ad, left, the client is the fictitious Shady Ridge Vineyard. In another ad, right, the client is real: Rao's restaurant. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); WRITERS (63%) BANKS AND BANKING; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH FORK BANCORP INC 

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

PERSON: STRUGATCH, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



208 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: A City Takes Steps to Get Back in Touch With Its Festive Side 

BYLINE:  By FRANCES CHAMBERLAIN 

 BODY:
WATERBURY has certainly seen its share of troubles during the last few years.
 Philip A. Giordano, the former mayor, is being held in a prison on Federal charges of child sexual abuse; the state oversight board has managed the city's finances since 1996; and, like several other cities, Waterbury has been plagued with its share of urban problems. 
 To combat the hard times, the current administration decided it was time to unify everyone in a citywide extravaganza.
The Committee for a New Waterbury, sanctioned by Mayor Michael J. Jarjura, set up Waterbury Festival America 2002, which will be held in Library Park on Friday and Saturday. All events are free. 
"It has been a very tough past 12 months for the citizens of Waterbury," Mr. Jarjura said. "Festival America 2002 is a celebration that will help restore a sense of pride and unity to the people of Waterbury. This festival is a chance for everyone to relax, have fun and enjoy all the great things that Waterbury and its citizens have to offer."
When Mr. Jarjura took office in January, he quickly followed up on a campaign promise to revive an annual festival.
At his inaugural ball, amid a cheering crowd, he vowed to bring back the Waterbury Festival, an event that served as a catalyst for the community in the 1980's.
Frank Davino, a co-manager of the mayoral campaign, was quickly enlisted to coordinate Waterbury Festival America 2002.
Mr. Davino, who coordinated previous festivals in Waterbury, mobilized forces that include 28 committees made up of 245 volunteers, plus members of several city departments and organizations.
"Every group has given someone to work with us," said Marty Scully, a mayoral aide. "Waterbury Youth Service is involved, Waterbury Teachers and the Federal Credit Union. The Mayor's office came up with the idea and asked Mr. Davino to revitalize the city."
Mr. Davino was the executive director of economic development for 32 years and started the Taste of Waterbury festival in 1985. "In that capacity I envisioned that Waterbury needed community pride," he said. "In 1985, we had 125,000 people attend the event over three days. It was massive, to everyone's surprise and joy."
He retired in 1988. The festival grew smaller and was discontinued in 1990.
Mr. Davino said: "Michael Jarjura said it was vital to instill a sense of pride, togetherness and community, which had been there before the last terrible six years. The festival was always held in mid-September, and what better time to pay homage to New York City firefighters and rescue people."
Waterbury Festival America 2002 will start Saturday at 10 a.m. with a parade, which will begin on Meadow Street and wind its way to City Hall.
Mr. Davino said he was getting calls every day about the America Heroes Parade. Representatives of the New York City fire and police departments and the Port Authority will lead the parade, along with the Waterbury Police Pipers and the Mattatuck Marching Band. There will be local police and fire departments, community groups, private organizations and other marching bands, too.
Governor John Rowland will also be present.
The parade route will be decorated with a red, white and blue patriotic theme on every storefront.
Upon arrival at City Hall there will be an opening ceremony and police officers and firefighters from New York City will receive a special rubber stamp depicting the twin towers with the American Flag and the Statue of Liberty.
The festival will move to Library Park, across Grand Street from City Hall, where 25 food booths will open at noon. At 1 p.m., a performance by Sparkle the Clown will begin. At 2 p.m., a car show with 400 antique and vintage models will take place.
Several children's activities will continue throughout the day. There will be several performances by groups, including George Avak with the National Country Band, Swing Shift, Crossed Eyed Cat and Blues Classic Rock.
At 8 p.m., KC and the Sunshine Band take the spotlight.
"The Mayor hit a major grand-slam home run with this," Mr. Davino said. "All the funds have come from private donations, all the city departments and volunteers are working together, and the people get all this for free. They only have to pay for food and beverages."
On Sunday, the festivities will continue with a children's showcase at noon, sponsored by the City of Waterbury Park Department.
A skateboarding exhibition will start at 12:30 p.m., and several bands will perform throughout the afternoon, including the Arizona May Band, the Otto Y Sabrose Swing Meringue Band, and the Marty Q Jazz Trio.
At 8 p.m. the Andy Nichols Band will take the stage.
During the closing ceremonies starting at 7 p.m., 150 children from the Waterbury and Cheshire schools will sing a tribute to the heroes of Sept. 11 and 150 white doves will be released.
The Andy Nichols Band will play "The Star-Spangled Banner," "God Bless America" and "Proud to Be an American." During the last selection, the students will reappear with red, white and blue lanterns to sing along. Twenty minutes of red, white and blue fireworks will follow.
Mr. Davino expects 40,000 to 50,000 people to attend the two-day event.
The city has 4,000 parking spaces available to accommodate guests. Shuttle buses will run continuously to the city's two major museums, the Mattatuck Museum and Timexpo, where admission will be free both days. The bus ride to the museums also includes a tour of new downtown development and the restoration of the Palace Theater.
"All the city departments have been tremendous," Mr. Davino said. "The volunteers are all working together. This will bring the community together again. Waterbury is alive and well and the people are together. We're back."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, a worker painting part of a stage for Waterbury America Festival 2002. Top right, Mayor Michael J. Jarjura with Frank Davino, center, and Joseph Geary, right, the director of parks. A statue of Ben Franklin along Grand Street. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (90%); MAYORS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); CHILD ABUSE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (75%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (69%) FESTIVALS 

PERSON: JARJURA, MICHAEL (MAYOR); DAVINO, FRANK; CHAMBERLAIN, FRANCES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) WATERBURY (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



209 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Westchester; 
Signs of an Upturn in Downtown White Plains

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
FOR two decades, Leon Silverman, the owner of 300,000 square feet of downtown retail and office space here, watched helplessly as many property values plummeted. After some of the larger stores migrated to malls in the 1980's and 1990's, many of the smaller merchants in the heart of the downtown shuttered their businesses. By the late 1990's, the area of the city that was once known as Little Fifth Avenue barely resembled the one Mr. Silverman first invested in 30 years earlier. 
 Today, by contrast, the phones are ringing frequently in the offices that Mr. Silverman shares these days with his daughter and business partner, Bonnie Silverman, they say, adding that they have few vacancies. 
 Many of the property owners downtown -- like Silverman Realty, Halpern Real Estate Development and Caspi Development -- say they are already feeling the effects of an recovery in the heart of the city. "Everyone's jockeying for space before things get too expensive," Ms. Silverman said. For now, annual rents are holding steady on the Silverman properties at $25 a square foot and up, depending on location. Ms. Silverman predicted they would rise as new construction in the city progressed. 
About 1,700 new apartments are planned, along with a $300 million City Center that will house a 15-screen movie theater, a Westin Hotel and stores like Target and Circuit City. And long in need of a major supermarket, the city is finally getting a $6 million, 70,000-square-foot Super Stop and Shop.
The new development has prompted at least one developer who left during the slow times to return. Caspi Development, once active in the county, pulled out of the Westchester office market a decade ago. During the 1980's and early 1990's, it renovated a building on Court Street in White Plains, turning the rundown two-story structure into a four-story office building. Also during that period, it built two apartment buildings on Barker Street near the railroad station.
In addition, the company owned the 100,000-square-foot Sutton Park, an office building in Valhalla, which it later sold to the Louis Dreyfus Property Group. Caspi built the Classic at Hartsdale, a $35 million 168-unit condominium, and it renovated the 75,000-square-foot Sanborn Map Building in Pelham, turning it into a modern office complex.
After the development company turned away from White Plains, where office vacancy rates continued to rise, and Westchester in general, it focused on hotel properties in Manhattan, specifically the Holiday Inn Midtown on 57th Street and the Chambers on West 56th Street off Fifth Avenue. 
Last month, though, in response to the new activity in downtown White Plains, Caspi bought 235-45 Main Street, a 158,000-square-foot office and retail complex across the street from the future City Center. It acquired the property from Reckson Associates Realty, which is focusing its portfolio on larger properties, for $18.45 million.
"We perked up when we saw all the new construction in White Plains," said Joshua Caspi, director of new project development for the third-generation family business. His father, Steven, is president of the company, which is based in Purchase. 
The company is planning to refurbish sections of the Main Street building for office tenants using 2,500 to 5,000 square feet, as well as to upgrade retail space at the street level.
"Things are looking up in White Plains," Joshua Caspi said, "and we may want to do even more in the city." 
Halpern Real Estate Development, a property owner in White Plains for the last 20 years, is similarly planning its next moves in the city, said Jason Halpern, managing director for the company. Halpern has the right to build up to 600,000 square feet on the corner of Mamaroneck Avenue and Church Street, where its property covers 120,000 square feet of ground space. The company also owns buildings covering 90,000 square feet of ground space on Mamaroneck Avenue, which if built to the maximum allowed under current zoning laws, could amount to 500,000 square feet.
For now, Mr. Halpern said, the company is watching and waiting "and is not in a rush to build." The company is considering developing one or both sites for residential or retail use. Mr. Halpern also said that the firm, which is developing a Marriott Residence Inn in Baltimore, might build a hotel on either of its two White Plains properties.
"We're ecstatic about what's happening in the city, but instead of rushing into anything, we're watching and weighing our options," he said.
AMID all the upbeat projections for White Plains, there is the worry that the new development -- and in particular, the City Center -- might have a negative effect on the older real estate downtown. That is what happened when the 889,000-square-foot Galleria mall opened in the early 1980's, and the Westchester, a mall with a 1.1 million square feet, opened in 1995.
"On one side of the city, the Galleria sucked off retailers and shoppers, and on the other side, first Bloomingdale's and then the Westchester did the same," said Carl Austin, who owns Austin Corporate Properties in Rye Brook. "The result was that everything in between died."
The recession of the late 80's and 90's worsened the problems, as many corporations based in the city downsized and a 30.2 percent office vacancy rate ensued. As of this year's second quarter, the vacancy rate in the central business district was 21.6 percent, according to Insignia/ESG, a commercial real estate company. The county rate, meanwhile, is 15.5 percent.
Pivotal to the well-being of the downtown is the future of a mostly empty 52,000-square-foot retail property that was home to Woolworth's in the previous decade. Foot Locker occupies about one-sixth of the store, which is owned by Silverman Realty and has 100 feet of frontage on Mamaroneck Avenue, directly opposite the site where the City Center is rising, along with another 100 feet of frontage on a parallel street that faces Macy's in the Galleria mall. 
The goal is to lease the space to a retail tenant that will be capable of luring shoppers and an estimated 25,000 moviegoers a weekend out of the City Center and onto Mamaroneck Avenue.
"We know that what happens with this storefront is critical," Mr. Silverman said. "Our goal is to lease the entire store, not just part of it, so we're looking for a tenant like a T. J. Maxx department store or a Gap." He said that a strong retailer would attract not only shoppers but also other retailers as well, much as a major anchor in a shopping mall does.
Downtown property owners said they also expected the 1,700 new apartments and the influx of new residents to help to revitalize the downtown retail economy by creating the need for more service businesses in the storefronts lining the streets. Now, the $1 bargain stores that have occupied those storefronts are being replaced by businesses like restaurants, a dance studio and a gym, said Kathleen Gunn, executive director of the nonprofit White Plains Downtown District Management Association. 
Mr. Austin, who brokered the recent Caspi acquisition, agreed that White Plains must become "a walking city." It was designed in the 1970's to move commuter traffic in and out of the city on workdays, with little concern for foot traffic.
George D. Gretsas, the city's executive officer, conceded that White Plains "has not been pedestrian-friendly" in recent decades. It also does not have sufficient parking now to support a future resurgence of retail activity along Mamaroneck Avenue.
To address such concerns, the city is studying how to expand existing parking lots, perhaps by adding new levels to the them. It is also tearing out old sidewalks and building new ones, improving crosswalks and renovating a small park and fountain at the junction of Main Street and Mamaroneck Avenue, in front of the Galleria, to attract more shoppers to the street.
"The trend is for more nationally based, large retailers to move into downtown locations," Mr. Gretsas said. "And when they're ready to consider White Plains, we want to be ready for them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bonnie Silverman of Silverman Realty at a property on Mamaroneck Avenue in White Plains that is mostly empty except for a Foot Locker. (Susan Farley for The New York Times) Map of New York State highlighting White Plains and surrounding areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); CITIES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); RESORTS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (65%); MOVIE THEATERS (65%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOUSING; THEATERS (BUILDINGS); MOTION PICTURES; HOTELS AND MOTELS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; FOOD; SUPERMARKETS 

ORGANIZATION: WESTIN HOTELS & RESORTS; TARGET CORP; CIRCUIT CITY GROUP; CASPI DEVELOPMENT; SUPER STOP AND SHOP 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) WHITE PLAINS (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



210 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2257 words

HEADLINE: Graffiti as Art. As a Gang Tag. As a Mess. 

BYLINE:  By MARC FERRIS 

 BODY:
TO most people, graffiti is scrawl on the wall, defacement of property. To others, it can be a form of artistic expression. For some local police officers versed in deciphering the modern hieroglyphics, graffiti can track gangs and help determine the identities of their members. 
 However it is regarded, graffiti is spreading in Westchester, on playground equipment in Dobbs Ferry, a white wall of a historic villa along the Old Croton Aqueduct trail in Irvington, the back of a building in downtown Ardsley that faces the New York State Thruway, and the side of a house under construction on the Yonkers-Greenburgh border. 
 It has also appeared with a vengeance on street signs and local highways, where bridge pillars and retaining walls beckon like big blank canvases. New markings cover several layers of faded scrawls along the concrete barriers at the hairpin turn leading from the Cross County Parkway into the southbound Hutchinson River Parkway, for instance. And in Greenburgh, the yellow and black signs along both sides of Jackson Avenue indicating a curve in the road at the intersection of Old Jackson Avenue are persistent targets for a vandal wielding red spray paint. 
"It's a never-ending battle and it's very frustrating," said Colleen McKenna, a spokeswoman for the New York State Department of Transportation, which spends $400,000 a year in Westchester to combat graffiti through a contract with ELQ Industries of Mamaroneck. "We clean it off one day and it seems like a day or two later, it's back." 
Sometimes, the cleanup itself is unsightly. Each batch of concrete comes out a different color, so no one shade of paint can match every surface. Cleanup crews often cover patches of graffiti with blotches of paint rather than an entire new coat. 
Graffiti is becoming a more common part of the suburban wallpaper, perpetrated not just by gang members but teenagers of all social echelons. "It was more prevalent in the cities, but it appears to be migrating," said Lieut. Don McArthur of the Westchester County Police, which patrols the parkways. "There are no numbers to back that up, but it's a constant battle. We've arrested kids from Scarsdale painting graffiti on bridge abutments. It doesn't know any economic strata." 
In Putnam County, officials have been vexed by vandals who persistently cover an abandoned railroad bridge visible on Route 6 with large white letters. After a crew painted over the word "Brewster," preceded by an expletive, someone circumvented a secure fence and put up the name "Andrew" to memorialize Andrew McArdle, a high school student who died in a car crash in January. Graffiti covering a nearby fence read "Miss you, Andrew's Bridge," and "#68," his football jersey number. 
Retaining walls and buildings along Metro-North tracks also attract taggers, graffiti perpetrators who put up their tags, or signatures. "You can see the various places where they've put graffiti that they were taking their lives in their hands," said Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority police, which patrols Metro-North property. "Where there's a will, there's a way. They cut holes in fences and put their stuff up in the middle of trestles. The only way someone could do that is by dangling over the side." 
Catching graffiti vandals in the act is difficult. "If we get graffiti, they'll stake it out," Mr. Kelly said. "If we have a problem, then you sense from the patterns when a particular wall is getting hit. If it's not there at 9 o'clock and it shows up at 10, then we'll take an unmarked car and we'll watch, but usually, it's a hit-and-miss kind of thing." 
One evening last month, at 10 o'clock, a 14-year-old Yonkers resident whose alias is Chubbs and did not want his name used, went with a few friends down to the Ludlow train station with spray paint and wide-tip markers. By Chubbs's account, they had the run of the place for an hour before the police arrived. 
Though he said he is only a dabbler, Chubbs's friends are teenagers for whom graffiti is integral to their lives. 
"All the kids do it at school," he said. "They write on the walls in the bathroom, scratch their initials in the glass. You walk by and you're like, 'Yeah, that's me right there.' " 
Chubbs was arrested for putting up graffiti that night. If he is caught at it again, he will go to jail, where he has already spent two days for stealing a car for a joy ride. 
MOST graffiti is done by hit-and-run guerrillas who enjoy playing cat-and-mouse with the police and revel in their rebel image. In certain areas, however, the messages carry more sinister meanings. 
For Kenneth Davis, a Yonkers community police officer, who has been tracking graffiti for the last decade, the wall markings offer a useful barometer of gang activity. He teaches his techniques to new recruits at the Westchester Police Academy in Valhalla and has given PowerPoint presentations on graffiti to many groups; last month, for instance, he spoke at a conference in Chicago sponsored by the National Gang Crime Research Center. 
On a recent tour of Yonkers neighborhoods, in a doorway just west of Ashburton Avenue and North Broadway, Officer Davis pointed to scribble that read BHW, which stands for Body Hurtin' Warburton, a local gang that haunts Warburton Avenue. The tag also included a list of members -- Burgah, Blaque and Kid -- who pledge allegiance to the crew. Along Lawrence Street and its tributaries in the city's southwest corner, the Lawrence Posse marked their territory with their distinctive TLP tags. At Bruce Avenue and Lawrence Street, the group also put up a roll call. Officer Davis will be seeking information from his sources about Boy Boy, Demo and Murdock, three names new to him. 
Community police officers in Greenburgh also track gang activity through graffiti. Black felt tip pen markings covering a sign at the entrance to the Greenburgh Housing Authority property at 9 Maple Street included the initials CK with an arrow pointing down, which stood for Crip Killers, along with a roll call of nine names. 
Some groups that claim an affiliation with national syndicates like the Bloods and the Crips are like Little League teams that name themselves after the Yankees, Mets or Cubs but have no official connection, though bonafide members of the Bloods and Crips have infiltrated parts of Westchester, according to Greenburgh police officers. Whether local or national in scope, gangs often turn to violence to protect their turf. The Greenburgh police have compiled a list of 25 suspected gang members who are responsible for at least 250 felonies. 
Knowing how to translate gang markings makes it easier to track suspects.
"Once I get the groups, the individuals start coming out," Officer Davis said. "The hardest thing is finding their true identity, because they hide behind so many street names, but with the graffiti, I can identify core members, monitor recruiting and departures, and predict the strength of a gang. They don't think we realize what their markings mean, but no one said they were rocket scientists." 
WHETHER graffiti is gang messages or random scribbling, the best way to stop graffiti in a particular area, say those on the front lines, is to clean it up as soon as possible and the taggers will move on. The White Plains Business Improvement District removes it immediately and the city's downtown is relatively graffiti free. 
"Graffiti is a quality-of-life issue that needs to be addressed immediately," said Kathleen Gunn, the organization's executive director. "Fortunately, we don't have that big a problem, partly because we have a lot of police presence here, but it's like the broken-window theory: when it does appear, it needs to be controlled." 
Yonkers has also made headway by going after the writers and by serving notice to property owners, who have 24 hours to remove the mess. After that time, Richard Fedor, graffiti coordinator for the city's Department of Public Works, will have his three-man crew clean it up and send a bill. "I try to cut them some slack," he said. "If they call me right away, and it's not a real big job, I'll do it for nothing. But if they leave it up and it becomes worse, then I have to charge." 
The biggest job he ever tackled was at the New York City water-treatment plant on Palmer Road. It took his crew 10 hours and the bill came to $1,600, which the agency was happy to pay, he said. 
Mr. Fedor's crew uses a chemical called Scram-It, which is brushed on and then removed with a power-washer that sprays a concentrated blast of hot water. 
Last month, Insane and Fens, two vandals whose marks can be found all over the city, left their calling cards in two-foot-high silver letters on the side of a brick building at 209 Riverdale Avenue in Yonkers along with the initials FSV, which stood for Famous Subway Villains. Erol Liguori, the building's owner, called Mr. Fedor, who removed it that afternoon. 
"My attitude is that every day it's here, they're gaining more air time, so I say hit it right away," said Mr. Liguori, owner of Prolific Art Galleries, which has its offices in the building. "A lot of landlords don't have my attitude and the city ends up looking terrible." 
Mr. Liguori had no control over the graffiti that surrounded his building on the corner of Downing Street. "Sexy thug wuz here" and "Murderuz," written with a black felt tip pen, marred a lightpost that stands a foot away from his building's wall. On the same post, Oz and Fane engaged in a subtle game of one-upmanship. Oz put his tag up first, but Fane crossed it out with a green slash, then put his signature next to his handiwork as if challenging his rival. The mailbox on the corner showed evidence of being painted over several times and someone wrote the almost illegible mark ECKS on the doorway of the building across the street. 
Officer Davis, an art major in college who has studied graffiti like a scholar, marvels at the resilience of wall painting. "It's been around since the first signs of civilization," he said. "Today, it channels the basic instincts of communication and self-worth. It will be on the first lunar station. I don't think it can ever be stopped, but it can be managed." 

Spray-Paint Artists Who Create Open-Air Galleries, Legally
OUTLAW graffiti scribblers tarnish the reputation of legitimate graffiti artists, who put up their pieces with property owners' permission. Carlos Lopez, director of Off the Wall, an AIDS education and awareness program founded 10 years ago by Ken Davis, a Yonkers community police officer, and run by the Yonkers Community Action Program, tries to channel the creative impulse into constructive outlets and frames his message in a form that youths can relate to. 
Though they have created more than 30 large-scale murals around town, the group suffers from the stigma attached to graffiti art. 
"I have approached established artists to work with us and when they found out they would be working with graffiti, they turned us down," Mr. Lopez said. "We're not like kids off the street, tagging up on anybody's stuff. We're doing something positive and working on a higher level, but the knuckleheads ruin it for everybody." 
Graffiti art emerged as a key component of hip-hop culture in the mid-1970's. Though break dancing faded, rap and the distinctive styling of spray-paint artists endure as an expression of inner city youth, despite being co-opted by mass marketers, Mr. Lopez said. 
Off the Wall has helped turn parts of Yonkers into an open-air art gallery. The group makes "masterpieces," large works known as "pieces," which take several hours of planning and execution, along with dozens of cans of paint. Financing for the program, which has a budget of $69,000 a year, comes from the New York State Department of Health, the AIDS Institute and a New York State Community Service block grant.
Across from the group's headquarters on Ashburton Avenue and Jones Place, in a rundown part of town, stands a 10-foot-high, 30-foot-wide antidrug mural that is almost as pristine as the day Alexis Hiraldo (whose tag is Nekst), 18 years old, and Daniel Gomez (Blame), 17, created it two months ago. The main section depicts a boxing ring. The message: "Don't Get in the Ring with Hard Hitting Heavyweights." Off the Wall's logo, emblazoned in bold letters in the lower left corner, along with amoeba-like splotches of color, add abstract flourishes. 
In the mid-1990's, Off the Wall helped transform hundreds of square feet along a concrete walkway in the Vark Street Playground into a showcase. Eighteen artists put up their tags along 4-by-6-foot sections of the wall, which have faded and chipped over the years. Only a few neighborhood youths have added unauthorized tags and irreverent remarks over the years, though one artist's work has been completely crossed out. 
Mr. Lopez plans to hold an event later this fall that will wipe the slate clean and put up new work. He is inviting some of the region's best-known artists to contribute and give local teenagers something to strive for. "Some people use graffiti in a destructive manner," Mr. Lopez said. "It can be constructive, too."
Mr. Lopez offers the ultimate incentive: $400 to $650 for a mural, and he pays artists to give school presentations.
"Once kids sit down and meet my artists, they know we came from the same streets," he said. "Once I grab them and get them in here for 15 minutes, I've got them for the whole year and we can do AIDS education, job-training and college preparation." MARC FERRIS

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kenneth Davis, a Yonkers community police officer, top left, uses graffiti, like this on a wall on Highland Avenue in Yonkers, as a way of tracking gang activity. At Hawthorne Pearls School, graffiti mars a playground wall, top right. Even panel trucks can be objects of graffiti. At Westchester Hills Golf Club, a service box is covered with scrawls. Graffiti is becoming a more common part of the suburban scenery, making work for cleanup crews. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Graffiti on a bridge carrying the Hutchinson River Parkway over Mamaroneck Avenue in White Plains. Even small directional signs, like this one in Yonkers, are not exempt. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times); Carlos Lopez, director of Off the Wall, in front of work on a wall on Jones Place in Yonkers by a legitimate graffiti artist. More graffiti in Yonkers, above, done with permission of the property owner. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VANDALISM (90%); GRAFFITI (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); GANGS (89%); PROPERTY CRIMES (89%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (60%) GRAFFITI 

PERSON: FERRIS, MARC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



211 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Thomas Leonard, Chris Lione

 BODY:
Thomas William Leonard and Ralph Christopher Lione will declare their commitment today in a ceremony aboard the Yankee Ferry, a floating museum docked at Pier 25 in Lower Manhattan. A group of six friends, led by Cherrene Horazuk, executive director of the Committee in Solidarity With the People of El Salvador, or Cispes, will present a series of readings and personal observations about the couple. 
 Mr. Leonard (above, right) is 38. He is the fund-raising director for Cispes, which is based in Manhattan and works for economic and social change in El Salvador. He graduated from Haverford College and received a master's degree in mathematics from the University of Washington. He is a son of Joan and William Leonard of Wynnewood, Pa. His father, who is retired, was an economics professor at St. Joseph's University in Philadelphia. 
 Mr. Lione, 47, is known as Chris. He is a senior art director at Newsweek magazine in Manhattan. He also designs costumes for the theater, and some of his creations were used for "The Countess," an Off Broadway play presented in 1999 and 2000. He is a son of Ruth and Ralph Lione of Lakewood, N.J. His father, who is retired, worked at Fort Monmouth in New Jersey, designing electronic communications systems for the Army.

GRAPHIC: Photo (David Berkwitz) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); THEATER (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (66%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS (50%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%); ST JOSEPH'S UNIVERSITY (56%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: LEONARD, THOMAS WILLIAM; LIONE, RALPH CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); EL SALVADOR (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



212 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3772 words

HEADLINE: Prices Continue Robust Upward March 

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
HOUSE hunting has been somewhat less frenzied so far this year than in the last several years in the New York City area, brokers say, although brokerage executives and buyers alike complain of a shortage of inventory. Prices have continued to climb, with average increases registering in double digits in many communities, especially the suburban ring immediately around the city, although the average increases for apartments in Manhattan were in single digits. 
 The median selling price of existing single-family homes in New York State was $170,000 this June, a gain of 19 percent from $142,900 in June 2001, the State Association of Realtors reported. Based on local reports, in Westchester County, the median price of a single-family house rose 12 percent in the second quarter of this year, to $520,000; in Nassau County, the median was up 21 percent, to $333,000; and in Suffolk, 20 percent, to $265,000. 
 In New Jersey, the median price of an existing single family home had risen 17.8 percent at the end of second quarter to $242,500 compared with $205,800 on June 30 last year, according to the New Jersey Association of Realtors. In Bergen County, the median sales price through June had soared 25.7 percent, to $366,300, while in Essex County it was up 9.2 percent at $298,000. In Hudson County the median sales price was higher by a hefty 15.4 percent at $189,400, and in Morris County the median sales price had risen 12.5 percent to $355,200.
Although there is no statewide listing service in Connecticut, local listing services reported that as of June 30, the average sale price for a single-family home in Darien had risen 6.5 percent from a year earlier, to $1,120,000; in Greenwich, 10.6 percent, to $1,786,000; in New Canaan, 8.6 percent, to $1.5 million; in Stamford, 5.7 percent, to $573,000; and in Norwalk, 13.2 percent, to $480,000.
While prices at the high end of the market have followed the general pattern of increases, real estate specialists say the demand for homes in the luxury class has moderated somewhat. In contrast with recent years, the comparatively plentiful high-end inventory has been selling, on average, at discounts to asking prices. 
In the rarefied $4-million-and-over category, Insignia Douglas Elliman, the Manhattan brokerage concern, calculated the gap between asking and sales prices at just over 3 percent in the second quarter of this year. In Westchester, P. Gilbert Mercurio, executive vice president of the county Board of Realtors, estimated the average discount on houses listed at $800,000 or more was as much as 10 percent. 
The median sales price for luxury condos and co-ops in Manhattan -- defined as the top 10 percent of all co-op and condo sales -- was $2.4 million from April through June of this year, down from $2.45 million a year ago, according to the Insignia Douglas Elliman report, which was prepared by the Miller Samuel appraisal company. The survey put the average length of time on the market for luxury apartments at 163 days, compared with 132 days a year earlier. Time on the market for all apartments averaged 117 days in the second quarter, down from 132 days in the same quarter in 2001.
The survey also found that the median sales price of a Manhattan co-op in the second quarter of this year was $419,000, 4.2 percent more than the median in the prior quarter, $402,000, and 0.5 percent above the corresponding quarter last year. 
The median price for Manhattan condominiums in the second quarter increased to a record $750,000, 6.4 percent more than in the previous quarter and the price per square foot increased 2.3 percent, to $699. The median price at the end of the second quarter of 2001 had been $701,500. 
"One of the most significant differences over last year is the decrease in the supply of apartments," said Jonathan Miller, the president of Miller Samuel. "Although the number of listings actually increased by 422 apartments over last quarter, the number of sales increased by 628 apartments, resulting in a net loss of 206 apartments."
That decrease, combined with the much larger net loss in the prior quarter of 1,842 apartments, Mr. Miller said, was attributable to reactions to Sept. 11 as well as to underlying economic forces. "By the end of the year," he said, "buyers were quick to react in order to take advantage of the Fed having dropped the rates, but at the same time, sellers were slow to put their apartments on the market for fear that they'd sell them for less than they were worth.
"But when it became apparent in the first quarter of 2002 that apartment prices were rising, by the second quarter more properties came back on the market."
The time required to sell a property usually depends on its price, condition and size, real estate specialists say, and therefore varies markedly. In New Canaan, Conn. -- where the average house sold for $1.5 million during the first six months of this year and 30 houses sold for more than $2 million -- the average time on market was 193 days. By comparison, the Staten Island Board of Realtors reported that during the same period single-family detached houses, which sold for an average $329,025, were on the market an average of 75 days. 
As in most other areas within commuting distance of Manhattan, residential real estate sales have been strong throughout Staten Island. Including attached and semiattached one- and two-family homes, as well as condominiums and co-ops, there were 1,782 sales on Staten Island through June of this year, compared with 1,456 a year earlier. The median price the first half of this year was $271,920, up from $239,000 last year, a 13.8 percent increase. "Condos have been selling tremendously," said Richard Schulhoff, the spokesman for the board, referring to the 222 condos that went to closing in this six-month period, compared with 166 a year ago. 
In New Jersey, Charleen Martinelli, a broker with Coldwell Banker in Hoboken, said 90 percent of her sales are for condos, and most of the buyers work in New York. 
Norma De Ruggiero manages the residential division of Robert De Ruggiero Real Estate from the Hoboken office. When she tells prospective buyers that they can buy a condo with about 1,300 feet, two bedrooms, two baths and a parking space for a little more than $400,000, "if they've been to New York," Mrs. De Ruggiero said, "they come to us with open arms."
Alison and David Seidenfrau, for example, had lived in an apartment in Manhattan for six years before his job took them to London for six months. When they returned in January 2001, Mrs. Seidenfrau was pregnant. "With a child on the way, we knew we would need more space and we didn't want to pay Manhattan prices again," she said, "so we rented in Hoboken for a year and a half." Now, Mrs. Seidenfrau and her husband, the director of application development with a software company in Manhattan, have purchased a two-bedroom, two-bath Hoboken condo for $475,000.
Farther away from New York, in Middlesex County, N.J., prices are somewhat lower. Still, said David Fialk, the owner of Choice Realty in Iselin, N.J., because most of the county's communities are only a half-hour or so from Manhattan, "there is so much demand for housing that there is virtually no vacant land."
Single-family houses in the county in the second quarter of this year sold for an average of $252,800, while condos sold for an average of $172,871. During the previous quarter, a one-family house sold for an average of $247,888 and condos for $168,566.

North of New York City
'There's Still Competition'
North of New York City, the median price of a single-family house in Westchester County in the second quarter, $520,000, was an all-time high, compared with $465,000 a year ago, according to the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service. In that same period, the median price of a condo rose 26 percent, to $215,000, and co-op prices rose 14 percent, to $95,000. 
Over Westchester's northern border in Putnam County, the average price of single-family houses rose 13 percent, to $283,000, in the second quarter, and condo and co-op prices increased 8 percent, to $190,500. 
"I've been hearing that buying activity slowed this summer, as it always does in July and August," said Mr. Mercurio of the Westchester County Board of Realtors. "We expect buying activity will be slower in the third quarter, but no slower than usual. There's still competition, and pricing is holding up except for properties of $800,000 and over."
Donna Tierney, an agent with the Armonk office of Holmes & Kennedy real estate, said demand was still strong. "The average price of a home is about $1 million," she added, "as it is in most of the executive areas in Westchester County." 
While million-dollar properties were once associated with the titans of great wealth, realtors say it is not uncommon for young adults, usually with two incomes, to buy a million-dollar-plus condo, co-op or house. 
"They buy these historic properties with lovely views of the Hudson River, and they don't seem to mind the one-and-a-half to two-hour commute by train," said Ann Garti, the executive officer of the Greater Hudson Valley Multiple Listing Service, covering Orange and Rockland Counties, adding that $1.5 million properties in the valley are no longer rarities.
The median price of a single-family house in Rockland County midway through this year was $340,000, compared with $299,900 in the first six months of last year, while the median in Orange County was $215,389 in the second quarter of this year, compared with $175,100 a year earlier.

Long Island
Demand Up, Inventory Down
Joseph E. Mottola, the chief executive of the Long Island Board of Realtors, said the average home price jumps of 20 percent and more in Nassau and Suffolk Counties in the first half of this year resulted from increased demand, reduced inventory and favorable mortgage rates. Asked what trends he foresaw, Mr. Mottola replied, "I think you're going to see a leveling off at the higher end of the market, where residences are not selling as rapidly as in the past."
Prices continue to rise on Long Island, according to Dr. Robert Campbell, professor of real estate at Hofstra University, because of the limitation on developable land. "In Connecticut and New Jersey," he said, "you can keep going farther out, but on Long Island you run into the ocean."

Queens and the Bronx
Appreciation Across the Board
In Queens, prices and unit sales have both risen, but not through the roof. According to the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island, which also tracks the Queens residential real estate market, the median closing price of a single-family home during the first half of this year reached $260,000, up from $235,000 a year ago..
"Everything that comes on the market sells quickly, unless it's really overpriced," said Barbara Frechter, the president of Glenjay Realty in Forest Hills, Queens, and a past president of the Long Island Board of Realtors. "But our big problem is one of supply and demand. We don't have enough product to go around at any price." 
Residential real estate prices also continue to rise in parts of the Bronx. Around the Grand Concourse in the Fordham section, prices have risen as much as 15 percent since April, according to Floyd Cooper, president of the Cooper Group.
In Riverdale, "prices in our building are up at least 20 percent in the last 12 months," said Ted Procas, the chairman of the Association of Riverdale Co-ops.
"Everybody was concerned about what the reaction would be after Sept. 11," said Susan E. Goldy, who has a real estate firm in Riverdale. "They were worried that real estate values would go down or people here would move away. Neither happened. Instead, real estate continued to appreciate, across the board."
The Riverdale real estate market was virtually dormant after the attacks, as were many other markets in the metropolitan area, but it picked up by year's end and remained strong through this spring. "Then we were faced with Enron and WorldCom," Ms. Goldy said, "and when the stock market fell, the economy weakened and after that there was a simultaneous slowdown in sales." This fall, she added, echoing comments made by a number of brokers, "we don't anticipate that we'll be overly busy with sales."

Economists and Bubbles
'Credit Spigots' Are Wide Open
Some scholars who study real estate feel somewhat the same, not only about sales but prices as well. Robert J. Shiller, an economist at Yale, said he would not be surprised if residential real estate prices eventually fall in some cities. "It does seem to me there's a bubble going on, but that doesn't mean it's going to burst soon," he said, adding, "I tend to be in the camp that thinks a double-digit recession is possible. Low interest rates are supporting the housing market now, but that's only part of the story. I think it's connected to the stock market, and I'm still bearish about the stock market."
Dr. Campbell at Hofstra University is also concerned about eventual weakness in the real estate market, but said it would come from the decline in the stock market that has already occurred, not from a further drop in stocks. "The effect of the previous decline is what economists call the 'wealth effect,' " he said, "meaning that people are less likely to make major investments when they do not feel as wealthy, even if the mortgage lender says they can afford it."
Dr. James W. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, noted that "during the acceleration of housing prices from 1999 to 2002, people took their capital gains out of the market and put them in housing." He continued, "Now, there are no more capital gains to be taken." 
Keith T. Gumbinger, a vice president of HSH Mortgage in Butler, N.J., said, "It would defy logic to think that the real estate boom could continue year after year, even though interest rates are the lowest in about 36 years and the credit spigots are as wide open as I've ever seen. 
"If you can breathe, you can get a mortgage," he added, "but it's very unlikely that interest rates will stay where they are."

$4-Million-Plus City Homes
A Weakness Above $10 Million
A report completed last month on the $4 million-plus co-op and town house market in Manhattan, researched by Kirk Henckels, the director of Stribling Private Brokerage, said that last year the total dollar sales of co-ops in that category dropped 33 percent to $466.6 million from $699.3 million in 2000, and the sales of town houses in that period were off 58.1 percent, to $195 million from $465 million in 2000. The decline was attributable not only to the terrorist attacks, Mr. Henckels said, "but also to a pre-existing and pervasive wait-and-see attitude on the part of buyers, due to a declining economy and real estate market."
But as interest rates dropped and a somewhat improved economic outlook was predicted, a turnaround ensued. Through the first half of this year, there were 51 closings for co-ops in the $4-plus million range, compared with 44 in the first half of both 2001 and 2000, the peak of the market. Nevertheless, only four of the co-op sales were over $10 million, including one for $13 million. That compared with eight sales over $10 million in both 2001 and 2000, including a top sale of $15 million in 2001 and $18 million in 2000.
The reason for fewer sales of co-ops above $10 million this year, Mr. Henckels said, is that the very high-end market consists mostly of buyers with multiple residences. The Enron scandal, continued talk of terrorism and a falling stock market combined to transform the very-high-end co-op market into the weakest segment of the market.
By contrast, he said, a renewed trend toward single dwellings helped high-priced town houses to regain their luster. In the first half of this year, 24 town houses of $4 million and over were bought, up from 15 in the first two quarters of last year, and four of the 24 sold for $10 million and more. 
As with co-ops, condominiums between $4 million and $10 million sold briskly during the first half of this year, but sales declined sharply for condos above $10 million, Mr. Henckels said. "The under $10 million market seems to be driven by people who live and work in Manhattan, while the over $10 million market has a decidedly more foreign presence."

Fairfield County
'Occasionally Getting Bidding Wars'
Fairfield County, Conn., has long been synonymous with luxury homes and high prices, and this year has been no exception. Of the 376 single-family homes that changed hands in Greenwich so far this year, 110 sold for more than $2 million. So did 18 of the 155 homes in Darien, and 30 of 147 in New Canaan, according to the multiple listing services for those towns.
While the buying frenzy in Fairfield County has largely abated, according to Nancy Apgar Winship, a broker at Country Living Associates in Darien, it has not disappeared. "We're still occasionally getting bidding wars," Ms. Winship said, adding that the bids are usually no more than about 10 percent higher than the offering price.
Vicky Fingelly, who is with Nicholas H. Fingelly Real Estate in Southport, said several sales sparked bidding wars that ended in offers about 5 percent over the asking price, while a handful of others resulted in bids 15 percent over. 
After living in a one-room apartment in Manhattan the past two years, Andrew and Dorinda Bonanno began looking for a house in Fairfield County. Mrs. Bonanno, who was born and raised in Australia, wanted to live among greenery, and Mr. Bonanno had commuted from Manhattan to his job with GE Equity in Stamford for six years. After looking for a home in Fairfield County for more than a year, Ms. Winship showed them a two-story, 2,400-square-foot Cape Cod house with four bedrooms in Darien, and they fell for it on the spot. 
"We worried about the price," Mr. Bonanno said of the house, which cost $690,000, far less than the average in the town. "But all the real estate we looked at was expensive, and we absolutely loved this house." No wonder. In addition to lots of greenery on the property, Mr. Bonanno's commute to GE Equity is now 10 minutes.

Washington Heights, Harlem
Drawing 'Displaced West Siders'
In Washington Heights in upper Manhattan, the price of co-ops is estimated by brokers to have risen about 10 percent over last year. Because a two-bedroom co-op can be bought for $250,000 to $350,000, according to Gus Perry, owner of Stein-Perry Real Estate, a lot of what he refers to as "displaced West Siders" and people from Chelsea and Greenwich Village have moved in. Many newcomers have bought two apartments and put them together, he added. 
Harlem also remains a hot residential market, according to Vie Wilson, a vice president at the Corcoran Group. But, "there's not enough supply for demand," she said. A few weeks ago a two-family five-story brownstone in the Mount Morris Park section sold for $1 million. "Depending on condition, size and location," Ms. Wilson added, "you can buy a brownstone in Harlem from $500,000 to over $1 million." 
Sales in Harlem through June of 2002 are not yet available, she said, but their numbers and their prices have been regularly increasing in the last few years. Midway through 1998, the Corcoran Group had sold 58 houses in Harlem for an average of $296,000, according to Ms. Wilson. In the same period in 1999, it sold 67 houses, for an average of $303,000. Midway through 2000 her agency sold 117 homes for an average price of $391,000. And although the agency's sales dropped to 66 midway through last year, the average sales price rose to $412,000.

Brooklyn
Multiple Bids For Every Sale
Residential real estate sales and prices in Brooklyn have remained strong much of this year, particularly around Brooklyn Heights, Park Slope and other historic neighborhoods. 
"Against all odds and some logic, this is the strongest spring for sales and price that I can ever remember," said Christopher Thomas, senior vice president for Brooklyn of the William B. May Company real estate office. From shortly after July 4 through August, there was the usual summer slowdown, Mr. Thomas said, possibly compounded by the stock market decline. 
In recent weeks, however, "every one of our sales has had competitive bids or multiple bids," he said, adding that average prices are up 8 to 10 percent. But prices for midmarket properties, those between $500,000 and $800,000, the strongest part of the market, have increased as much as 12 percent, Mr. Thomas said, and relatively affluent young singles have been actively buying in the $200,000 to $400,000 range. 
Strong sales have also been reported elsewhere in Brooklyn, including in the South Shore, Midcounty and Bay Ridge-Bensonhurst. Gerard Longo, the president of Madison Estates and Properties as well as chairman of the South Shore Multiple Listing Service, said the average sales price for a one- to four-family house in the South Shore through August of this year had risen to $339,932, from $288,030 in 2000. In neighborhoods across the middle of Brooklyn, single houses sold for an average of $286,509 through August of this year, according to the Midcounty Multiple Listing Service, up from $238,388 two years ago. And the Bay Ridge-Bensonhurst Multiple Listing Service said prices there had risen to $415,525 through this August from $360,454 in 2000.
Although the frenzy to buy a home has generally subsided, brokers say, there are still some prospective buyers who jump at the first property they see. "We had one recent sale of a four-family house in East Williamsburg over Labor Day, where the asking price was $575,000 and now it's in contract for over $700,000," said Suzy Kline, the owner of Kline Realty in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. "So few properties come on the market that we've had people say, 'Even if isn't perfect or the price is too high, I want it and I'll take it.' " 
When Ms. Kline showed a three-story, $565,000 house in Williamsburg to Bill Palmore and Peter Sturmey, "it was the only place we looked in, in that neighborhood, and we wanted it from the get-go," said Mr. Palmore, an architect who teaches at New York Institute of Technology. He and Mr. Sturmey, a psychologist who teaches at Queens College, liked the house and also the neighborhood's mix of residents, including Hasidic Jews, Italians and Poles. 
Another attraction was that they could park their car outside the house. "And because Peter's from England," Mr. Palmore said, "he needs adequate pub life, and the neighborhood has lots of pubs and great restaurants." He added, "We've already colonized three pubs."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dorinda and Andrew Bonanno walk in the backyard of their recently purchased four-bedroom, 2,400-square foot Cape Cod in Darien. (Suzy Allman for The New York Times); Peter Sturmey, outside his $565,000 house in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Alison and David Seidenfrau, with Adam, 1, recently closed on a two-bedroom $475,000 condo in Hoboken. (Lauren Fleishman for The New York Times)(pg. 6) Chart: "At the High End, the Momentum Eases"Prices for houses in the top third of the market in a sampling of areas around New York City have continued to increase, but not at levels seen in some recent years. Price Index1990 = 100 Graph tracks prices of houses for Connecticut (New Haven/Fairfield) and New Jersey (Bergen/Passaic, Middlesex/Somerset/Hunterdon) from 1990 through 2002. Graph tracks Price Index shown as percentage change from previous year since 1991. Figures for New Haven/Fairfield are plotted semi-annually; figures for New Jersey areas are plotted quarterly. (Source: Case Shiller Weis)(pg. 6) Maps of New York State, New Jersey and Connecticut highlighting areas mentioned. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (87%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); COUNTIES (74%); CITIES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SUBURBS (71%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SHORTAGES; CONDOMINIUMS; SALES 

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (51%)

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (68%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



213 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; 
For Most, City Grass Is Green Enough

BYLINE:  By MARJORIE CONNELLY 

 BODY:
 Given a choice, most New Yorkers say they would prefer to live in New York City than anyplace else, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News Poll. Fifty-seven percent of the 1,008 respondents hope to still be living in New York four years from now, while 42 percent would just as soon leave. 
The percentage of people who wish to relocate has risen in the short term up from 31 percent in a poll taken less than a month after Sept. 11. But far more people want to stay in the city now than in 1991. During that time of recession and high crime rates, only 37 percent wanted to remain and 60 percent wanted to leave. MARJORIE CONNELLY

GRAPHIC: Chart: Looking ahead about four years, if it was entirely up to you, would you want to be living in New York City, or would you want to be living somewhere else? DATES OF POLLS: Aug. 25-29, 2002IN NEW YORK CITY: 57%SOMEWHERE ELSE: 42%DONT KNOW/NO ANSWER: -- DATES OF POLLS: June 4-9, 2002IN NEW YORK CITY: 63SOMEWHERE ELSE: 34DONT KNOW/NO ANSWER: -- DATES OF POLLS: Oct. 6-9, 2001IN NEW YORK CITY: 67SOMEWHERE ELSE: 31DONT KNOW/NO ANSWER: -- DATES OF POLLS: Aug. 5-12, 2001IN NEW YORK CITY: 62SOMEWHERE ELSE: 35DONT KNOW/NO ANSWER: -- DATES OF POLLS: Nov. 2-12, 1991IN NEW YORK CITY: 37SOMEWHERE ELSE: 60DONT KNOW/NO ANSWER: --

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); CITY LIFE (88%); TRENDS (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); RECESSION (82%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%); CRIME RATES (82%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: CONNELLY, MARJORIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



214 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHINATOWN/LOWER EAST SIDE; 
Few Kind Words Are Heard for a Proposed Economic Zone

BYLINE:  By KELLY CROW 

 BODY:
On Aug. 28, the city's Department of Business Services mailed to the office of Gov. George E. Pataki 470 pages of reasons why the state should create an Empire Zone out of an 18-block-wide patch of Chinatown and the Lower East Side.
 Few may be surprised at that heft. The area was hit hard by Sept. 11; unemployment there is 25 percent now, according to Asian Americans for Equality, a watchdog group. The wisdom of an Empire Zone, a designation that offers tax credits and lower utility rates for businesses, may seem clear. 
 But the proposed zone, which would extend from Broadway east to Clinton Street and from Houston south to South Street, has in fact sparked tensions, and not just because the state will choose only 6 of the 26 bids filed statewide. 
For one, Councilwoman Margarita Lopez and Community Board 3, which includes the proposed zone, have complained about the timing of the application. 
The state, they say, called for bids in June, but set the deadline for applications on Aug. 30. The City Council voted to approve the Chinatown application on Aug. 15, only hours after it held its only public hearing on the matter. 
"The extremely short time period for outreach to and comment by the public is completely unacceptable for a program that could have such far-reaching effects on the future of these neighborhoods," wrote Harvey Epstein, the chairman of Board 3, in an Aug. 21 letter to the city.
"It appears to many in the community that the fast track this designation has been placed on is influenced more by election-year politics than by the economic condition of the Lower East Side and Chinatown."
Moreover, Ms. Lopez said, the proposed zone omits several needy patches of the Lower East Side, including Montgomery Street near the Vladeck Houses and several blocks north of the Williamsburg Bridge. All suffered greatly after Sept. 11, said Rosie Mendez, the legislative aide to Ms. Lopez.
"Chinatown needs help, but when you looks at this zone, there are glaring omissions," Ms. Mendez added. "And the thing that really upsets us is that for years we've been trying to get these incentives, and now a lot of struggling areas are being left out."
But the borders can be expanded later, said Mark Newhouse, assistant commissioner of the Department of Business Services. The current borders were simply dictated by assessing potential for business development, he said, and too much of the area east of the proposed zone was residential. But he said the city will consider stretching the boundaries to the east and north upon approval by the state, which is scheduled to decide on the bids next month.
"Getting the application to the state is like getting our foot in the door," he said. "We can always go back and try to open it up a bit farther." KELLY CROW

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joblessness is 25 percent in the area that would be in the Empire Zone. (Alan Chin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); CITIES (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (55%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: CROW, KELLY; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); EPSTEIN, HARVEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; CHINATOWN (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



215 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for DAVID J. OLSON; 
If Longshoremen Strike, Which Businesses Will Suffer?

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
FOR months, the nation's businesses have worried about a labor dispute that threatens to shut down 29 West Coast ports that handle $300 billion in cargo a year. The International Longshore and Warehouse Union has warned that 10,500 dockworkers might strike or engage in a work slowdown at ports from Seattle to San Diego, while the employers' group, the Pacific Maritime Association, has threatened to lock out the workers, a move that would shut down the ports.
 The longshoremen's contract expired on July 1, and the two sides have bargained on and off since then, with the threat of a stoppage hanging over the talks. 
 David J. Olson, a professor of political science at the University of Washington, is an expert on ports and the longshoremen's union. He has served as a consultant to many ports and port associations and was founding director of the Harry Bridges Center for Labor Studies at the university. He spoke on Thursday about the dispute and its implications. STEVEN GREENHOUSE

Q. Some economists have warned that even a short work stoppage would disrupt the economy. What would be the impact of a short or a long stoppage?

A. A short stoppage would directly and immediately affect the three port centers of the West Coast -- the Puget Sound, San Francisco Bay and San Pedro Bay near Los Angeles. It would severely affect those companies that depend on just-in-time inventory.
If a stoppage lasted a month or two, the impact would be very significant. It would affect shippers across the country, and given that we're in the pre-Christmas shipping season right now, the nation's retailers would be importantly affected.

Q. Which industries or businesses in the United States would be hurt the most by a shutdown of the ports, and what effects would such a shutdown have overseas?

A. A stoppage would affect the whole gamut of merchandisers, from Wal-Mart, Target, Home Depot to Sears and Circuit City.
Manufacturers would also be affected. The container box is the warehouse for modern-day business. The ports handle millions of parts needed for assembly or manufacture. Auto dealers would also be affected. They'd definitely feel it if a stoppage went on for two weeks.
The nation's manufacturing export sector would also be affected. We're not talking only about goods flowing into the country, but also goods flowing out of the country. 
As for the effects overseas, the whole international financial community would be disrupted because many banks do trade lending. They monitor worldwide cargo flows like a hawk.
Secondly, most members of the Pacific Maritime Association and most of the steamship lines are foreign-owned, and they would be affected significantly. The Asian economies could also be dramatically affected, from South Korea to Singapore.

Q. Increased use of technology seems to be a sticking point in the negotiations. Why, given that the employers have guaranteed that no longshoremen would be laid off?

A. The technology being considered is complex. It requires deliberation, discussion. I don't think the union is resisting new technologies. They want to discuss them to make sure the jobs created by the newly implemented technologies fall within union jurisdiction. They don't want those jobs to be nonunion.
In the past, the West Coast ports have been innovative and adaptive regarding new technology. Both sides have benefited remarkably. The shipping companies have profited handsomely, productivity has increased dramatically and union members have been well compensated.

Q. Businesses that rely on West Coast seaports have had a few months to prepare for a stoppage. Have businesses been stocking up, or have they made alternative plans to import through Mexico, Canada or the East Coast?

A. The shipping community considered alternative routes. Canada won't work because the dockworkers there are affiliated with the I.L.W.U. Mexico won't work because it doesn't have the port, rail or road infrastructure. The Panama Canal was considered and rejected because many of today's cargo ships are larger than that canal can handle. The stockpiling of inventory was considered, but not really followed, because of the just-in-time nature of modern-day business.

Q. Longshoremen don't earn as much as baseball players, but with an average wage of $80,000, according to the union, they are still paid extraordinarily well compared with other blue-collar workers. For that reason, wouldn't a slowdown or strike be a public relations mistake?

A. I think lesser-paid workers admire the longshoremen. They view the longshoremen as having earned this compensation level. Being a longshoreman is a very dangerous job. Injuries and fatalities rank it just behind mining. Additionally, this is a highly skilled and trained work force. I don't see envy out there.
If a work stoppage hurts the economy or Wall Street, I'm sure we will hear complaints from the business community and President Bush about these well-paid longshoremen. But we won't hear that from other workers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David J. Olson says a closure of 29 ports would have quick and significant effects. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); PORT STRIKES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); STRIKES (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); INVENTORIES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (64%); RETAILERS (63%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%) STEVEDORING; LABOR; STRIKES; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; PORTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (83%) UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON; INTERNATIONAL LONGSHORE AND WAREHOUSE UNION; PACIFIC MARITIME ASSN 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; OLSON, DAVID J (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (73%) OREGON; WASHINGTON (STATE); CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



216 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Despite Sales Gains, Rocky Road For Durables

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
OVER the last year, conditions have been just about perfect for manufacturers of "white goods," consumer durables like refrigerators and ovens, washers and dryers. 
 But many investors have been focused on the inevitable moment when such perfection ends. Interest rates won't always be at 40-year lows. The housing boom will slow. And relentless pressure to cut costs will most likely bring in new competitors. 
 Nicholas P. Heymann, an analyst at Prudential Securities, talked last week about what he sees as a rocky future for the Whirlpool, Maytag and G.E. appliances of the world. Following are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. Why weren't appliance manufacturers hurt in the aftermath of Sept. 11?

A. This industry benefited, because people decided to spend money on their homes, not on traveling. And last year's tax cut, the home mortgage refinancing boom and zero-interest financing created a sonic boom. Unit sales were up about 10 percent last year, which is huge. But that creates a problem, because as a consequence the year-over-year comparisons for the second half of this year are pretty tough. We think unit shipments this year will be flat to up 1 percent.

Q. Why are you concerned about these companies?

A. These are classic, interest-sensitive cyclical stocks, even though we have been told for the better part of the last decade that this is not so.
We are all panned out on interest rates. At the margin, we are going to see weaker consumer spending: debt service as a percentage of disposable income has been rising for more than five years. At some point we are going to reach the high end of the arc. We will slowly, gradually ease off on the real estate side. And some of these companies are pretty levered up: Whirlpool has got record debt-to-total-capital ratios of 66 percent. Maytag is at 88 percent. 

Q. Are we in a housing bubble?

A. Home prices have probably gotten into a bubble on a regional basis. A decline in home prices is a possibility. Hopefully, it will be a gradual decline. But inventories are pretty low and there has been a lot more consolidation of home builders.
But resales of homes and new housing starts will definitely slow if interest rates go up. If interest rates go up 200 basis points, or two percentage points, there will be some serious brakes on this market. 
A lot of people have bought second and third homes not for shelter, but to shelter their money. If home prices start to go down, people will start selling.

Q. What would hurt appliance makers more, a drop in resales or in housing starts?

A. For the past few years, resales have been the real jet fuel behind white-goods sales.
On average, you get 1.4 new appliances with a new home. But you get 2.3 new appliances with a resale. 
And residential resales have been running at a 5.5 million annual rate. In the early 1990's, resales were running at a 3 million to 3.5 million annual rate. The change in the tax laws that allows people to keep a big chunk of the gain they realize from the sale of their home pushed that number up.

Q. Of the stocks you cover in this group, General Electric is the only one you recommend. Is that based on its appliance business?

A. G.E. sells a little over $6 billion worth of appliances, which is not bad, but it is less than 5 percent of total sales.
The value of the appliance business to G.E. is to generate cash to reinvest in higher-growth, higher-return businesses. 
I think the odds are extremely high that G.E. will be out of the appliance business in a year or so, even though in terms of market share they are No. 2. Jeffrey Immelt the G.E. chief executive needs a business with an aftermarket he can earn tremendous margins on. Servicing contracts on appliances is not a high-margin business. So the returns are diminishing for them.

Q. Has the stock market fully discounted a downturn in business for these companies?

A. At the moment, we are priced at the midpoint of the valuation zone, with prices trading at around 9 to 10 times earnings. Historically, the stocks bottom with a price-to-earnings ratio of 6 to 7 times earnings. They are not cheap enough to buy. In fact, with the exception of Maytag, management at every company in this industry has been selling stock since February. Maytag insiders have been buyers.

Q. What is your attitude about the other stocks?

A. First, I don't own any of the stocks and Prudential doesn't do any investment banking business with these companies.
We have a hold rating on Maytag and Electrolux. Whirlpool is rated a sell.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heymann 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DURABLE GOODS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (69%); SALES & SELLING (68%); SHIPMENTS (67%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (64%); CONSUMER SPENDING (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (53%); JET FUEL (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); HOME APPLIANCES 

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC 

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; HEYMANN, NICHOLAS P 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



217 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
As Portfolios Shrink, Retirees Warily Seek Work

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS 

 BODY:
MOST of the patients seeking help at the SLS Wellness Center in Brewster, N.Y., suffer from addictions or behavioral or psychological disorders. But lately, Dr. Michael Nuccitelli, the executive director of the clinic, has been seeing a steady number of job seekers, particularly former retirees who have had to go back to work because of financial reversals. Many of them, he says, are looking for ways to improve their memories and stamina so that they can better compete in the workplace.
 "They're apprehensive about having to compete for positions with younger workers who may be more technologically advanced," Dr. Nuccitelli said. "And they're worried they won't past muster when they do get a job." 
 Such concerns are facing more and more retirees who re-enter the work force after absences of years or even decades. Many of these people had hoped to spend their advanced years in traditional retirement pursuits: hobbies, for example, or volunteer work. But because of the slide in the stock market over the past two and a half years, they are finding that they can no longer live off their investment portfolios. 
Since 2000, retirees' portfolios have shrunk by about $678 billion, according to a recent study by the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan. About 20 million older Americans rely on investment income for part of their living expenses, said William Rodgers, an economics professor at the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va., and a former chief economist for the Labor Department.
He estimated that retirees who ranked in the top 20 percent in earnings during their careers typically have more than one-third of their assets tied up in the stock market, and another 20 percent in pension funds. Those who were in the bottom 20 percent, he said, are less likely to need to return to work, because about 80 percent of their income comes from Social Security.
"It's the higher-income retirees who are out seeking jobs," Professor Rodgers said. 
The number of people 55 and older in the work force rose by more than 7 percent, to around 20 million, in the 12 months ending in July, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, while the number of workers in all other age groups declined.
Career experts say many retirees returning to work can expect a rocky road. "In many fields, retirees are considered washed up," said Jeff Kaye, president and co-chief executive of the Kaye/Bassman International Corporation, an affiliate of Management Recruiters International, based in Dallas. Mr. Kaye said troubled industries like telecommunications and technology might be particularly difficult for retirees to penetrate. 
"The people who used to work in these fields aren't even getting in to see recruiters," he added. "They're getting jobs ripping tickets at movie theaters or punching the clock at a Wal-Mart."
JOSEPH TURNER, a former senior service account manager at Nortel Networks in Schaumburg, Ill., knows what the search is like. In May 2001, at the age of 55, he took an early retirement package. But seven months later, after his 401(k) plan, invested almost exclusively in Nortel stock, lost about two-thirds of its value, Mr. Turner realized that he would have to return to work.
After failing to get even one interview in the telecommunications field, he broadened his search to account management positions in other industries. "I eventually just started looking for any job that dealt with customers," said Mr. Turner, who lives in Crystal Lake, Ill. After two interviews that proved fruitless, he took another path.
"I finally read the writing on the wall," he said. He began doing odd jobs for neighbors and has gone into business for himself as a carpenter. He works 8 to 12 hours a day and earns about half his former Nortel income.
Although age discrimination is illegal in the workplace, career experts say older workers may fall victim to some type of it: companies may favor hiring younger workers who are starting out or at the peaks of their careers. Employers, they add, may also be wary of investing in workers whose primary reason for returning to work is financial.
"Nobody wants to hire somebody who they think is just temporary," said Dennis A. Ahlburg, associate dean of the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. 
Dr. Ahlburg advises older job seekers to avoid citing financial troubles as a reason for returning to work. "Don't say you're out of money," he said. "Say that you were bored in retirement and you want to be an active part of the labor force. You want to solve the potential problems of an employer, not add to them."
Retirees should accentuate the experience and attributes that they can bring to the workplace, said Bill Coleman, senior vice president of salary.com, a Web site that provides compensation information for job seekers. For example, he says, many are willing to work part time and do not need the salaries that younger workers require.
"Position yourself as a bargain," Mr. Coleman said. "Tout the fact that you have 40 years' experience, but you can work on a project basis, so they don't have to pay you what they might pay someone else."
Focus on experience and level of maturity, he added. "Don't say, 'I'm old, but. . .'," he said. "By doing that, you're admitting a defect that's probably not even there."
Retirees returning to work should also try to build a network of former colleagues and other professionals to call upon for help, experts say. Such people may know about specific leads for jobs, including temporary or consulting positions.
Even retirees who land good jobs may have trouble making the transition back to the working world. Some have problems with the fact that they will probably accept less senior positions than they once held. Others cannot get past paychecks that are only a small fraction of what they used to earn. 
"It's difficult to stomach, psychologically," said Andrew Schultz, president of PrO Unlimited in Boca Raton, Fla., which advises companies about how to use contingent workers, including retirees. He said he is placing more former retirees in temporary and consulting positions, especially in manufacturing.
Another challenge is getting up to speed in new technologies. Barbara M. Morris, 73, a supermarket pharmacist from Escondido, Calif., and author of "Boomers Really Can Put Old on Hold" (Image F/X, $16.95), says older pharmacists who leave the field, even for only a few months, often have problems returning. Although it is usually not hard for such workers to find jobs, because of a nationwide shortage of pharmacists, "what I see is not encouraging," she said.
"Those who return after retiring have lost a lot of skills," she added. "Their thinking slows, their response time is slower, and they just can't grasp the technological changes."
Ms. Morris recalls one recent case in which a former retiree at her store was not able to work on Sundays because that was the day the computer technician was out: "He was a liability, and as a result, his hours were cut."
Mr. Schultz, too, says technology can be a big hindrance for seniors who go back to work. One of his clients in the manufacturing field sends retirees on consulting jobs abroad. Such workers have to book their own travel over the Internet, and many have had trouble doing so. "They're used to dealing with travel agents," he said.
Ms. Morris and Mr. Schultz advise retirees to audit a computer course at a local college to gain confidence in new technologies.
Stamina can also be an issue. Some returning older workers may worry that they do not have as much energy as their younger counterparts. Dr. Nuccitelli of the SLS Wellness Center said he recently coached a 62-year-old former lawyer who had returned to the working world for financial reasons. While the man did not have trouble finding a job, he had difficulty adjusting to the around-the-clock work schedule, which included evening client meetings and networking dinners. With Dr. Nuccitelli's help, the lawyer developed an exercise regimen that helped him increase endurance.
To help with memory and to lighten the work load, Dr. Nuccitelli also advises retirees to buy a personal organizer to jot down important meeting dates, "to do" lists and other on-the-job details.
Dr. Lois Breen, 73, a former dean of psychology at National University in Costa Mesa, Calif., who retired in 1996 and returned to the school eight months ago as a part-time professor, says she stayed sharp during her absence by reading professional journals and traveling to Japan once a year to train Japanese psychotherapists. As a result, she says, she felt that she was able to adjust quickly to her new position.
"My transition has been easier than it might be for others, because I always kept up on my field," said Dr. Breen, who began teaching again after her stock portfolio fell about 25 percent in value.
FOR Norman Dorosin, who retired four years ago at the age of 59 as a pharmacist at a nursing home, the challenges of working again have been mostly psychological.
Mr. Dorosin had planned to spend most of his time relaxing in his new dream house in Mobile, Ala., and acting in community theater productions. But after the value of his retirement savings fell 40 percent, all of that was delayed. He went back to work this year, as a pharmacist at a local Walgreens drugstore. His arthritis is beginning to bother him, and he is not fond of having to stand for hours at a time. But "as physically taxing as this job is, it's more of a mental struggle," he said.
"Most days at work, I just sit here thinking, 'I would rather be home,' " he added. "That's a little bit depressing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Norman Dorosin returned to work as a pharmacist in Prattville, Ala., after the value of his retirement savings fell 40 percent. (Dave Martin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); AGING (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); TRENDS (71%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); RANKINGS (65%); STATISTICS (64%) LABOR; AGED; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETIREMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MANAGEMENT RECRUITERS INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: LIGOS, MELINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (54%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



218 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
Can a Test Gauge the Value of an M.B.A.?

BYLINE:  By MAGGIE JACKSON 

 BODY:
ROB FREYTAG, a part-time M.B.A. student at DePaul University in Chicago, believes that hard-to-measure qualities like a well-rounded personality are more important in landing a management job these days than getting the right answers on some standardized test. Nevertheless, he plans to be one of the first to sign up for a new M.B.A. certification exam that he hopes will narrow the competitive edge enjoyed by students at name schools like Harvard and Wharton.
 Mr. Freytag's attitude captures the widespread ambivalence of business school students, deans and corporate recruiters toward this first national test to evaluate M.B.A. students' mastery of core business topics. The test, called the Certified M.B.A. Exam, was announced last week and will make its debut in April; it will contain 300 multiple-choice questions and last five hours. 
 More than 100,000 people receive M.B.A.'s each year, and the exam raises a question: Do students need an impartial seal of approval of their competency, or do their degrees and resumes speak for themselves? 
"An exam might level the playing field," said Kathleen Trexler, director of the M.B.A. program at Lehigh University's College of Business and Economics in Bethlehem, Pa. "We have a small school with individualized attention. That doesn't get the prestige factor of the big schools."
Even so, she and others say the voluntary test will be of limited use because management success depends on elusive traits like creativity and team-building. "It will test the tools of the trade, so to speak, but it takes much more than that to make a business leader," Ms. Trexler said.
The exam was developed by the International Certification Institute, a private company in Mocksville, N.C., that was formed in January. 
The test will be administered by the Thomson Corporation, a provider of legal, financial and educational information that also oversees the Graduate Record Exam, or G.R.E., and other well-known tests. The new test, which will cost $450, will be offered at centers where students take the Graduate Management Admission Test used in admissions for most M.B.A. programs.
Although the certification exam is pass-fail, students will also receive a ranking of their results in different subjects. Registration for the exam has not yet begun, the institute said, although students began signing up in August for a trial test.
A sample question: A company's net income in its entire life totaled $10 million. It paid dividends of $3 million, built a new plant for $4 million and increased its inventory by $2 million. What are its retained earnings? (The answer is $7 million.)
The company contends that the exam is a long overdue tool to assess proficiency in business basics of the growing numbers of students in part-time or full-time M.B.A. programs in the United States. In 2000, some 112,000 people received the degrees, up from 26,000 in 1970, according to the most recent data from the Department of Education. The number of accredited business schools rose to nearly 400 from 330 in 1998, according to the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business.
"Given the wide variety of programs, it is an inference that people have mastered a common body of knowledge in the core curriculum," said Michael Mebane, managing director of the International Certification Institute. "There's no measurement to know this has happened."
The exam comes amid questions about the value of the degree and the quality of many programs. Jeffrey Pfeffer, a Stanford business professor, recently said in an article that M.B.A. graduates at all but top schools did not advance faster than executives without the degree.
PETER NAVARRO, an associate professor of business at the University of California at Irvine, has long supported the idea of an M.B.A. competency exam. "Far too many M.B.A. grads don't have the skills that a degree should ensure," he said.
Still, Mr. Navarro said that an exam based only on multiple-choice questions would fail to test fully the broad range of skills that M.B.A. students need. "Certification is only as good as the test," he said.
The M.B.A. degree is increasingly popular because it is viewed as a salary booster and as ammunition in a tight job market. But as interest has grown, job offers have been scarcer in a soft economy. This year, one-quarter of graduating M.B.A. students seeking jobs received or accepted offers by March, the Graduate Management Admission Council said.r That is down from 41 percent in 2001, partly because fewer students were being interviewed.
Jeffrey Brown, a Lehigh M.B.A. student, knows it may be tough to get a job when he graduates next spring. Yet he doubts that a largely unknown certification exam would help. "I'm at a small school, but I think my background is strong enough that it may not be necessary," he said.
Mr. Freytag, however, doesn't want to take any chances, even though he currently has a job in sales at the International Paper Company. "I'm going to have to take this test," he said. "I want to be as competitive as the next person. If you graduate from Harvard or Wharton, you're going to have an advantage."
Sixty percent of corporate recruiters cited "reputation of the school" among the top criteria in hiring new M.B.A.'s, according to the Graduate Management Admission Council. That is one reason some deans and students predict the test will attract mostly students from non-accredited and lower-ranking schools. "Our program is sufficiently rigorous so that our students are way above a minimum test like this," said Paul Danos, dean of the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. "The degree itself says something about a student's ability. I don't think that a little test like this will add more."
The test's creators say it is meant to be just one of many criteria for judging M.B.A. students, but Mr. Danos and others worry that it may be used as a shortcut in the interviewing process, which involves internships, multiple interviews, transcripts and at times internal exams.
Corporate recruiters are cautious. "Hiring encompasses so many factors in addition to education," said Jeri Calle, the partner in charge of university relations at the accounting firm KPMG, which recruits only at accredited M.B.A. schools. "I'm not sure how much of an edge this would give students."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rob Freytag, a student at DePaul University, says a new test could even the M.B.A. playing field for graduates outside big-name schools. (Peter Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (85%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); RANKINGS (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (60%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; TESTS AND TESTING; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS; BUSINESS SCHOOLS 

COMPANY: THOMSON REUTERS CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (91%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (55%) INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATION INSTITUTE 

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (64%); TRI (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (64%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (64%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (64%)

PERSON: JACKSON, MAGGIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



219 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Brian Matthews; 
Payden Core Bond Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
BRIAN MATTHEWS, lead manager of the $250 million Payden Core Bond fund, describes himself as an old-fashioned bond manager.
 "If you want go-go numbers, invest in stocks or junk bonds," he said from his office in Los Angeles, adding that such potential returns, of course, come with heightened risk. 
 Instead, Mr. Matthews focuses on solid, investment-grade corporate and government bonds, a conservative strategy that has yielded excellent results. The fund returned 9.5 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, placing in the top 6 percent of funds that buy intermediate-term bonds, which returned 7.8 percent, according to Morningstar Inc. The fund returned 11.8 percent in the last 12 months, versus 6.8 percent for its group. 
Mr. Matthews, 41, is a managing principal of Payden & Rygel, the fund's investment adviser, which manages about $40 billion for institutions and individuals. 
He works with five sector analysts to pick the 75 to 100 issues in the fund from about 750 issuers in the Lehman Aggregate Bond Index, which tracks investment grade bonds, those rated BBB- or better by Standard & Poor's.
The fund buys securities from American issuers, but Mr. Matthews also evaluates the global economy. "What happens in Thailand or California can have a big impact on the U.S. capital markets," he said, "because capital flows across borders more quickly and easily than any time in history."
The American economy is "very fragile," he said, adding that "the consumer is the only thing keeping the economy above water, and it's unclear how long that will last." He projects an uncertain economy until the end of this year or early 2003. To reduce risk, he has taken several steps, like sticking with higher-quality, more liquid bonds. He is also avoiding the telecommunications and energy industries, concentrating instead on finance, banking and consumer staples. And he has shortened the average duration of the portfolio securities to about four years, in line with the Lehman index. Bonds of shorter duration are less sensitive to interest rate shifts. 
Mr. Matthews also works with eight credit analysts to pick individual bonds. They create their own ratings for potential purchases, comparing them with those of ratings agencies and focusing on issues they consider undervalued.
The credit analysts also work with Payden equity analysts, sharing information gleaned on company visits. "Management will give them an equity-friendly story," Mr. Matthews said, "which is often different from the fixed-income holders' perspective." For example, he recalled, a big company once promised credit analysts at a conference that it would use cash flow to pay down debt. Several weeks later, he said, it told the fund's equity analysts that cash flow would be used to buy back shares.
He reviews bonds for sale when shares of an issuer's stock decline significantly more than the overall market, or when the issuer's financial picture deteriorates.
In June, Mr. Matthews bought a Kraft Foods bond with a 6.25 percent coupon and due June 2012; it is rated A- by S.& P. He paid $107.55 for each $100 in face value; the bond now trades at $109.82. 
Kraft has strong brand-name products, from Oreo to Toblerone, he said, and is guided by a strong management team with a clear growth strategy. 
In July 2001, he bought a Wells Fargo bond that has a 5.875 percent coupon, is due in August 2008 and is rated A+ by S.& P. He paid $99.95; the bond now trades at $108.34. 
Wells Fargo has a strong revenue base, he said, and its business and geographic diversification have provided consistent profitability. While it has exposure to commercial real estate lending that could make earnings more volatile, he said, management's conservative underwriting and strong risk management contribute to asset quality.
HE also likes the Coca-Cola Company because of the strength of its brand name and worldwide market share. "Coke's international opportunities and geographic diversity support long-term growth prospects and add to its earnings stability," he said. 
Despite consolidation in Coke's global bottling system, which has created debt and increased leverage, the company has strong cash flow and healthy debt protection, he added.
In November 2001, Mr. Matthews bought a 5.75 percent coupon bond due March 2011. He paid $104.07; the bond now trades at $107.80. The issue is rated A+ by S.& P.

GRAPHIC: Photo: To reduce risk in a shaky economy, Brian Matthews is sticking with higher quality, more liquid issues in the Payden Core Bond fund. (Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times) Chart: "Payden Core Bond"Category: Intermediate-term bondNet assets: $250 millionInception: January 1994Manager: Brian Matthews since inceptionMinimum purchase: $5,000 ($2,000 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 120%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 9.5%Category average: 7.8% Bond breakdownAsset backed: 3%Agency: 12%Treasury: 22%Corporate: 27%Mortgage backed: 36% FeesFront-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 0.50% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); CASH FLOW (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (76%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (70%); PAYDEN & RYGEL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PAYDEN & RYGEL 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; MATTHEWS, BRIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



220 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Rebound From Ruin, if Not From Distrust

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
THINK back to one year ago. Think of all that has occurred since 9/11/01 in the financial markets, in corporate America, in your own portfolio. That is how the end of an awesome innocence looks.
 Having endured a year of almost unceasing tumult, investors can certainly consider themselves grown up in 2002. At the same time that all Americans were forced to confront the fact of their country's vulnerability, investors were also made to understand how much about the markets and the companies they owned had been illusory in recent years. 
 Now, one year later, the euphoria that characterized investing in the late 1990's is gone; that wide-eyed acceptance of every word corporate executives uttered, of every financial statement they released, of every outlandish projection an analyst made has been replaced by a sense that trust must once again be earned, that skepticism is a worthy trait, that the advice of analysts can be costly.
Is it a coincidence that the confidence-shaking scandals at Enron, Adelphia Communications, WorldCom and elsewhere began exploding on the scene after Sept. 11? Perhaps. The companies certainly would have collapsed sooner or later; each was a house of cards. 
But it may not be happenstance that investors discovered only after the World Trade Center attacks how shaky some companies were. As the notion of an impregnable nation was lost, so finally were the myths of the ever-increasing stock market and the productivity miracle that many people considered the American economy to be.
Investors can be proud of their performance during the past scandal-plagued year. Immediately after the terrorists struck, even as New York City was still in triage, investors showed an admirable indomitability. No matter what kind of hatred the terrorists threw at the United States, the American investor would prevail. Take aim at Wall Street, the world's capital of capital, and know this: We will not be moved. We will be back tomorrow, buying and selling securities, financing new enterprises and hoping to prosper from our efforts. Capitalism may not be perfect, but it is far superior to the alternatives.
One of the first lessons investors learned in the last 12 months is how to assess the risks that a terror-filled world poses to their holdings. Investors in some companies, like Walt Disney, whose operations include American icons that could be considered prime terrorist targets, quickly saw that their shares held greater risk than before. Alternatively, investors recognized that insurance stocks would benefit from rising premiums charged to anyone with an asset to protect.
But perhaps a more significant lesson learned by investors is that, fearful though we all are of future attacks, a far greater risk to our continued prosperity and economic strength comes from within our shores, not without. That risk emanates from the people in positions of power at corporations who cheat their shareholders, lie to investors and make millions in outsized compensation or well-timed stock sales just before their games are exposed.
A throng of telecommunications titans fit this description, as do the executives at Enron, a company that was really just a facade. But the list of unindicted co-conspirators should also include the huge financial institutions -- including J. P. Morgan Chase and Citigroup -- that appear to have helped companies hide their true financial positions from investors, earning handsome fees for their efforts.
"Only capitalists can destroy capitalism," said Felix G. Rohatyn, the financier and a former ambassador to France. "Populist capitalism of a type is very beneficial to the vast majority in our system, but an ethical tradition is needed to make it all work. When you have senior people walking away with hundreds of millions, leaving everyone else in the dirt, that is hugely depressing and very dangerous."
Mr. Rohatyn, like many believers in capitalism, is especially dismayed by the role that venerable financial institutions played in the scandals that are still unfolding. And, he argued, because these financial pillars are at the heart of the Enron and WorldCom debacles, the problems they may have helped create have a greater and longer-lasting impact on the economy.
That is one element that makes the current scandals different from their predecessors. In the 1970's, when many Wall Street firms collapsed, the cause was technological incompetence and lack of capital, Mr. Rohatyn said. The closing of the firms had little impact. Even the failure of Drexel Burnham Lambert, which ruled Wall Street in the 1980's only to evaporate in 1990, seems small when judged against today's messes. 
In both earlier periods, the effects of the scandals were relatively muted. "They didn't cost 50,000 jobs, people's savings and a decline in market value of trillions of dollars," Mr. Rohatyn said. Now, however, the corruption in the financial system looks more endemic, he added. "This is not about a bunch of rogue C.E.O.'s. Once this sort of thing gets to the establishment of the financial community, then you'd better stop and say, 'Wait a minute, what's happening here?' "
BUT while the nation's law enforcement officials work to protect the citizenry from future terror attacks, investors are pretty much on their own. They may have to figure out their own set of defenses against fraud. 
So far in this election year, Congress has seemed willing only to parade the miscreants before the people, rather than institute reforms that might work to correct what is wrong. Doing away with the Glass-Steagall Act -- which forced financial institutions to choose between banking and investment banking -- helped get us to where we are today, but building up new barriers to eliminate the conflicts of interest now rampant in the largest financial institutions will be difficult indeed.
Some investors believe that the worst is over, that no other scandals will erupt. But even so, the damage to investor confidence has been done.
"Does the system work to spread the wealth in some way that's reasonably fair?" Mr. Rohatyn asked. "Clearly at this point, the answer has to be no, and that's not tolerable."
The loss of lives on Sept. 11 remains an unspeakable horror. There will be no getting over it for the families and friends left behind. But the nation has proved it can bounce back from devastating terrorism. Recovering trust in Wall Street and corporate America is a taller order.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Felix G. Rohatyn, financier and former ambassador, said, "Only capitalists can destroy capitalism." (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)(pg. 9); (Ruth Freeman/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SCANDALS (72%); HIJACKING (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); ETHICS (68%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); TIME WARNER INC (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (55%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%); DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



221 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
Numbers Look Better, but Markets See the Worst

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
THE stock market is still in the doldrums. But economic data are looking a lot better and may mean that the summer slow-growth scare, which sent stocks to a five-year low, is over.
 The numbers for July and August already appear to be adding up to third-quarter growth that is three times the pace of the slow second quarter. Employment data released on Friday matched expectations, showing the creation of 39,000 jobs last month. Given the recent fears of a second, or double-dip, recession, all this ought to be good news. 
 The sell-off in all three major stock indexes last week, however, seemed to show that investors are seeing only the worst in new data. Although manufacturing is weak, it is still not in reverse. And in the past, the overall economy has managed to grow when manufacturing was in decline. The broader services sector was also weak but still growing in August.
So modest third-quarter growth -- if confirmed in the coming data -- may not be enough to revive the outlook for stocks, especially if that growth does not translate quickly into a revival in corporate earnings. Modest doesn't seem to work with investors who have been schooled in the boom of the 1990's and the bust of the new millennium.
And if the rebound in growth ensures that the Federal Reserve will not cut short-term interest rates further, investors may worry more about the outlook.
Though Fed policy makers have said they will trim rates further if necessary, their recent statements indicate that they do not think a cut is needed. They appear less willing than in the past to use an extra rate cut as insurance for the economy. Investors who expect a rate cut, even if it signals that the economy is weak, appear to be a little happier than those who do not.
The brighter economic numbers include a 13.5 percent surge in August automobile sales, reported last week, and a 1 percent jump in July consumer spending, reported the previous week. Some analysts now say the spending jump indicates that personal consumption expenditures, which account for about two-thirds of economic growth, could grow 4 percent this quarter. Automobile sales, running at an annual rate of 18.7 million vehicles, bolster these forecasts because they show that spending is holding up.
Then there are inventories, which are expected to rise, adding to third-quarter growth.
The pace of growth could be hurt by rising foreign imports, which detract from growth of the gross domestic product. This buying from abroad, rather than at home, may explain why the American manufacturing sector was weak in both July and August.
Still, even with that import drag, the economy should be able to grow at an annual rate of 3 to 4 percent in this quarter. This is slower than the normal pace for a recovery, but a lot better than the anemic 1.1 percent annual rate in the second quarter.
But investors may just ask, "Can this pace continue?" Some automakers warned that the sales pace in August, could not be maintained, even with incentives. Oil prices around $30 a barrel could also slow growth. And the inventory buildup could be a drag in the fourth quarter if consumers slow down at the end of the year.
MAJOR retailers, including Wal-Mart Stores and Target, said their sales were sluggish last month because consumers were frugal. So the overall retail sales report for August, due Friday from the government, will be an important measure of third-quarter vitality. 
Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson Associates, argued that the data on the gross domestic product overstated the weakness in the second quarter and could overstate the strength of the third quarter because of problems in the way the data are collected.
If Wall Street's consensus for third-quarter G.D.P. growth jells at around 3 or 4 percent, "it would not mean that the economic concerns that gripped the market's attention at the start of the quarter were a mirage," Mr. Crandall said. Nor, he said, would it mean that companies and investors will enjoy the profit growth that they are longing for.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "An Economic Kick"Strong vehicle sales in July and August indicate that the economy is gaining momentum this quarter. New vehicle sales in the United States, seasonally adjusted annual rate Graph shows the number of new vehicles sold in the United States since 2001. (Source: Ward's AutoInfoBank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); IMPORT TRADE (87%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BONDS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; AUTOMOBILES 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



222 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Reform in Iran 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Reviving Reform in Iran" (editorial, Sept. 3): 
 The viability of President Mohammad Khatami's reform efforts depends on his ability to simultaneously pursue economic liberalization and political institutional reform. Mr. 
Khatami's recent attempt to weaken the clergy-dominated Guardian Council and to strengthen the presidency represents critical turning points in the country's postrevolutionary political process. Reforms of this nature contribute to the regime's longevity by enhancing the present system of checks and balances. 
 Mr. Khatami's reform agenda can be set back by a United States war on Iraq, which is likely to create a national emergency inside Iran. A peaceful environment is an essential condition for deliberative democracy, especially in the turbulent Middle East.

KAVEH L. AFRASIABI
Binghamton, N.Y., Sept. 3, 2002

The writer is senior associate, Center on Democratic Performance, SUNY at Binghamton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); IRAQ WAR (67%); RELIGION (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



223 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2086 words

HEADLINE: After the 'Darkest Year,' a Changed Wall St. 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
PHILIP J. PURCELL, the chairman and chief executive of Morgan Stanley, still chokes up when he talks about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. His eyes grew misty last week, during an interview in his Times Square office, as he recounted how he had watched on television as a jumbo jet smashed into 2 World Trade Center, where 2,700 Morgan Stanley employees had worked. Seven of them, along with six consultants to Morgan, died that day.
 "That was my home for a long time," Mr. Purcell said. Framed on his office wall is his World Trade Center identification badge. 
 Until a year ago, misty eyes were scarce on Wall Street, especially on senior executives like Mr. Purcell, a button-down, strategy-obsessed manager who engineered the merger of Dean Witter and Morgan Stanley in 1997 and has survived his share of corporate power struggles. 
But Wall Street is a different place today -- emotionally, financially and physically. Richard A. Grasso, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, calls the last 12 months "far and away the darkest year in our history."
By aiming at the World Trade Center, the terrorists struck at the most visible symbol of American capitalism, a complex that not only was just a few blocks from the stock exchange, the heart of the financial system, but also was the communication and transportation hub connecting Wall Street to the rest of the world.
They killed nearly 3,000 workers, devastated and dispersed hundreds of companies and shut down American financial markets for several days.
Amazingly, there was no crash. The system recovered quickly -- completely reopening for business by Sept. 17 -- and so did stock prices, only to be laid low by a series of corporate and accounting scandals.
After the stunning collapse of Enron in November, the recovery started to unravel. The accounting debacle that brought down Enron, then its auditing firm, Arthur Andersen, and then WorldCom, gradually crushed investors' faith in the American financial system, leaving them distrustful of financial statements and the people who create them.
As investors withdrew from the stock market, prices plunged, resuming the slide that began in early 2000. The market, measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, has dropped 23 percent this year.
On the New York Stock Exchange, trading volume has rebounded to high levels, but there's a catch: most of that activity involves professionals, many of them making big, short-term bets. The masses of individual investors who flooded into the market during the boom years of the 1990's have curtailed their trading sharply and pulled billions of dollars out of individual stocks and mutual funds. In July alone, investors withdrew $49 billion from stock mutual funds, more than in any other single month in history.
"We were very proudly proclaiming in the 1990's the merger of Wall Street and Main Street, with 85 million Americans having become investors," Mr. Grasso said. "Now they've been disappointed. We're in a period of trust rebuilding in our business not too much different than after the great crash of '29."
In all, the current bear market has wiped out more than $6.5 trillion of the value of American stocks.
As if the corporate scandals weren't damaging enough, Wall Street is reeling from self-inflicted wounds. Much of the money lost by shareholders was invested in companies that had been recommended by Wall Street analysts, whose motives have become suspect amid several investigations into conflicts of interest.
In the last year, two of the most influential stock analysts, Henry Blodget of Merrill Lynch and Jack B. Grubman of Citigroup's Salomon Smith Barney unit, have left the business amid allegations that they pumped up the stocks of their firms' banking clients. Dozens of lesser names have also fled, and the taint has spread to the entire industry.
Mr. Grubman's fall accelerated after his testimony before a Congressional committee investigating the accounting scandal at WorldCom. The inquiry has since expanded to cover Salomon's practice of handing out shares of hot stock offerings to chief executives, including Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chairman of WorldCom, and has moved beyond Congress to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Federal and state prosecutors are also investigating Wall Street's practices.
In response, brokerage firm managers and securities regulators have been rewriting the rules of the road on Wall Street. Congress joined in by passing the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a law intended to reform corporate accounting and governance, but that Mr. Purcell and some other Wall Street executives contend makes it harder for them to compete with foreign banks. That is making a bad business climate even worse.
"The overall degree of difficulty of the past year has been unmatched in my 34 years on the Street," said David H. Komansky, the chairman and chief executive of Merrill Lynch. Mr. Komansky has said that he will step down as chief executive in December, more than a year ahead of schedule.
Mr. Komansky said that decision had little to do with Sept. 11 and the disruption it caused to Merrill's business and the lives of its employees, three of whom died in the attack. But he said the lingering sadness had been compounded by the firm's financial straits. Merrill has eliminated about 25 percent of its jobs in the last 18 months.
"We had people put forth superhuman efforts to get us back in business, and then they got caught up in the downsizing," he said.
Like its competitors, Merrill is suffering through a slump in revenue and profit that started well before Sept. 11. Already in decline after 18 months of falling stock prices, securities firms are now struggling to raise morale even as they eliminate jobs and cut much of the pay and the perks that have always been their primary lure.
ALL told, securities firms earned pretax profits of $10.4 billion last year, half the record $21 billion they made in 2000. The Securities Industry Association's latest forecast of pretax profits for 2002 is $10 billion, less than the totals for five of the last six years.
To adapt, the firms have cut costs, and on Wall Street the biggest costs are its people. Securities firms have eliminated 43,000 jobs in the last year alone, dropping total employment to 726,600, and more layoffs are on the way.
So if the financial world has shaken off the dust from the trade center's collapse, it remains a gloomy place. The spirit of cooperation that prevailed in the days and weeks after Sept. 11 has faded, and Wall Street's rough-and-tumble nature has re-emerged.
"These firms are as competitive with one another as they can possibly be," Mr. Grasso said. "I can't say they are any less competitive than they historically were. But I think they have a better perspective on how to compete and recognize that you can compete very aggressively and you don't have to be unpleasant about it."
Still, with many individual investors showing no signs of returning to the stock market anytime soon, investment banks and brokerage firms will continue to cut costs; for some, there is not much left to trim but payrolls.
Falling interest rates have fueled corporate bond sales and reduced costs for Wall Street firms, allowing them to postpone trimming payrolls in proportion to their decline in revenue. But the slack has been exhausted: with long-term interest rates at 30-year lows, securities firms have started laying off people who would have been considered untouchable a few years ago.
Morgan Stanley, for example, recently dismissed about 20 managing directors in its investment banking operation. In July, FleetBoston Financial shut down Robertson Stephens -- an investment bank based in San Francisco that helped finance the technological revolution in Silicon Valley -- after failing to find a buyer. The Charles Schwab Corporation, which prides itself on the loyalty of its employees, is considering more job cuts after eliminating 27 percent of its staff in less than two years.
"To me, it's been a year from hell," said Thomas W. Jones, the chairman and chief executive of Citigroup's global investment management division. "It's been an incredibly difficult year, starting with Sept. 11 and all of the trauma associated with it, relocating many of our people, the really negative equity market environment, not to mention angry customers who have lost a lot of money." 
Mr. Jones's annus horribilis started when he followed 1,200 employees of his division out of their headquarters in 7 World Trade Center hours before it burned and collapsed. Since then, they have regrouped in offices around Manhattan and in Stamford, Conn., but remain unsettled. Mr. Jones has been running the business from temporary quarters in the Citicorp Center on Lexington Avenue in Midtown, but he will soon move to new offices in Citigroup's headquarters nearby, on Park Avenue.
Citigroup itself, the biggest financial services company in the world, has tumbled into a cauldron of troubles that have tarnished the once-shimmering reputation of its chairman and chief executive, Sanford I. Weill.
Weighed down by fears of the company's liability in scores of investor lawsuits, Citigroup's stock price has dropped 35.7 percent this year, to $30.28.
"This has been a lousy period to go through," Mr. Weill said at an investors' conference in New York on Friday. 
He said some of the firm's actions might look inappropriate in hindsight, but, he added, "Nothing has come to anybody's attention that we have done anything illegal."
Like Mr. Weill, Mr. Komansky asserted that the finger-pointing at Wall Street had gone too far and had become counterproductive. "It's devastating to the professionals in this business to have to go through one after another of these issues," he said.
WHETHER or not the intense scrutiny is deserved, it is being felt. Morale and self-esteem on Wall Street are depressingly low, said Alan M. Johnson, managing director of Johnson Associates, a pay consulting firm.
"The most remarkable thing is how little has changed, not how much has changed," he said. "This is milder than prior downturns. It just feels so awful."
Inevitably, some Wall Streeters have re-evaluated their lives. Caught up in a swirl of sometimes conflicting emotions -- anger, defiance, perseverance and patriotism among them -- more are engaging in charitable activities, said Frank Fernandez, chief economist at the Securities Industry Association. Only a few, however, have left the securities industry. After a lot of talk about walking away from their high-paying jobs, most have stayed on.
They are no longer so proud, though. Two years ago, people still bragged at cocktail parties about being investment bankers, Mr. Johnson said.
"Nobody would say that now," he added. "I don't remember a time when you had to feel bad about being an investment banker."
Physically, too, Wall Street has changed -- probably forever. Firms have moved thousands of employees out of Lower Manhattan, some as far away as suburban Westchester County, central New Jersey and Connecticut.
"Lower Manhattan is nowhere near being back to normal and may never be back to normal," said John Thain, co-president of the Goldman Sachs Group.
Goldman, one of the few major investment banks still based downtown, is building an office tower across the Hudson River in Jersey City. But Mr. Thain said the firm had no intention of leaving Lower Manhattan altogether, as Lehman Brothers, another big investment bank, did this spring. Lehman moved its headquarters, which had been in the damaged World Financial Center, to a new building north of Times Square.
Mr. Thain said, "If we hadn't been building that building before Sept. 11, we probably wouldn't build it today." Goldman is not growing anymore; it, too, has shrunk.
Most Wall Street executives said they learned from the attacks the risk of having their employees and operations concentrated in one area. In the future, the industry will be even more spread out, as firms like Morgan Stanley carry out plans to move thousands more jobs out of the city, they said. Even the New York Stock Exchange is planning to create a second trading floor outside Manhattan.
Those moves may alleviate the risk of another market shutdown, but they will not remove the threat of another attack, said Mr. Purcell, the Morgan Stanley chairman.
"New York is going to remain the world's financial capital," he said. "So, yeah, New York's going to be a target." Like everyone else in the city, Wall Street is learning to live with that.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The troops that patrolled Wall Street have gone, but the effects of Sept. 11 linger, in the economy and in the emotions of workers in the financial markets. (Reuters)(pg. 1); Morgan Stanley, the largest employer at the trade center, put up a plaque in memory of the workers it lost. (James Estrin/The New York Times); The business world has been awash in turmoil over the last year. Clockwise from above, David B. Duncan, the lead Enron auditor for Arthur Andersen, pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice. Scott D. Sullivan, WorldCom's former chief financial officer, was escorted in handcuffs to a hearing. Jack B. Grubman, once a star analyst, resigned from Salomon Smith Barney. Andrew S. Fastow, Enron's former chief financial officer, refused to testify before Congress. (Associated Press); (Reuters); (Associated Press); (Associated Press); The financial district reopened under tight security last September. (Associated Press); Maj. Rose-Ann Sgrignoli sang God Bless America with a group of dignitaries before stock trading resumed. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 6); "It's been a year from hell," said Thomas W. Jones, chief of Citigroup's global investment management unit. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 7) Graph: "Feeling the Pressure of the Market"Wall Street's fortunes, already faltering under the pressure of lower stock prices, declined sharply in the months after Sept. 11. Industry profits are expected to be down again this year and the work force is likely to shrink even more. Performance of major stock indexes Graph shows the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index since 2000. Sales and income for New York Stock Exchange member broker/dealers Graph shows the revenue and net income for New York Stock Exchange member broker/dealers since 2000. Security and commodity broker employment, in thousands Graph shows the number of employed security and commodity brokers since 2000. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Securities Industry Association)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); BONDS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); AUDITS (62%); SCANDALS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: MCGEEHAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



224 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1899 words

HEADLINE: War of Secrets: Word for Word/Redesign; 
Getting the Intelligence Services a Vulnerable Nation Needs

BYLINE:  By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
IF anything changed after Sept. 11, it was America's sense of invulnerability. Suddenly, this became a nation under threat, a nation without security. What needs to be done, what can be done -- short and long term -- by the intelligence services to protect the United States against future attack? 
 The answers to that question from a number of counterterrorism, security and public policy experts cover a wide spectrum and suggest both that there is much to do and that intelligence alone is not the answer. 
 There is broad agreement that all the intelligence and law enforcement agencies -- national and local -- must find ways of sharing information and resources. 
Some believe an entirely new domestic security agency should supplant the F.B.I. in intelligence gathering, leaving the bureau to its traditional tasks of law enforcement and evidence gathering. 
Others are troubled by a possible threat to civil liberties posed by the increasing emphasis on domestic security, especially since, they say, it is a goal that can never be fully achieved. RALPH BLUMENTHAL

Stansfield Turner, retired admiral; professor, School of Public Affairs, University of Maryland; Director, C.I.A., 1977-81:
The most important thing is to put somebody in charge of intelligence. The Director of Central Intelligence defers to the Secretary of Defense. But the military threat is no longer the primary threat, so the military shouldn't be in charge.
The law created a Director of Central Intelligence to command all 14 intelligence agencies, but it didn't give him any authority. He doesn't have the authority to ensure an exchange of information between the F.B.I. and C.I.A. 
Similarly, the electronic reconnaissance people and the human intelligence people at the C.I.A. need to work together. One clue leads to another. 
President Carter gave me more authority than any other director -- I coordinated the collection effort and the budget -- but it's all evaporated since. It worked so well the Defense Department got scared and took back the power. The homeland security bill does not address this. The president ought to do something to straighten it out.
Last summer we began to get leaks out of the Scowcroft Commission a review of the nation's intelligence services ordered by President Bush, that called for giving the C.I.A. director broader budget authority over the intelligence community, including at least some military elements. 
It recommended taking the National Security Agency and the National Reconnaissance Office, now in the Defense Department, and giving them to the Director of Central Intelligence. 
I agree with Scowcroft. One person can't both run the C.I.A. and collect central intelligence. If you're the head of one, all will think you're not sharing information fully.

Gregory F. Treverton, senior policy analyst, the Rand Corporation; vice chairman, National Intelligence Council; C.I.A., 1993-5:
The first necessity is to get on with the Department of Homeland Security to provide a domestic intelligence and analytical capability. 
Shockingly, there's no place in the government where they're trying to put together data from domestic and foreign sources, a sort of domestic C.I.A. 
The counterintelligence people do a good job but they're pretty operational and, by their charter, foreign only. The F.B.I. never puts the dots together. With all the trials, cases against terrorists, the first necessity is to connect the domestic dots. Beyond that, the world is pushing traditional intelligence and law enforcement together. The distinctions during the cold war don't work in fighting terrorists -- law enforcement and intelligence, public and private. 
We don't want to repeat the abuses of the 1930's and 50's and 60's, the sort of thing the F.B.I. did to Martin Luther King Jr. We don't want to do that again. But we need to know what's going on in the mosques.

Robert B. Oakley, visiting professor at the National Defense University in Washington; former director of counterterrorism for State Department, 1984-6; ambassador to Pakistan, 1988-91:
There needs to be what the military would call a fusion center for military analysis of intelligence with the C.I.A., F.B.I., State Department and National Security Agency. All have to share more than they do now, pool their analytical ability. They're working at this, but the F.B.I. and C.I.A. are working on their own capability. There's too much separateness and competition, not enough pooled analysis. 
What can we do against terrorists? In the short term, we can disrupt them, that's the best we can do. Longer term, we can work with other countries, help them reform, like we just gave Pakistan $100 million to reform education, so they're not dependent on the madrasas, the religious schools. Socioeconomically, we can help create jobs. We can't solve all their problems, but we can reduce them. My advice? Don't overplay the threat and don't be panicked. Terrorism, after all, is about what? Terrifying you.

Richard J. Kerr, intelligence consultant; deputy director, C.I.A., 1988-92:
We are going to have to become aggressive in the use of intelligence before anything happens, not after. 
Overseas, but also in this country, we have to become very intrusive, following where the money goes, where the terrorists gather, what they talk about. We've been taking some action to stop them. You don't hear about it and you shouldn't. 
Sometimes it means stepping on people's toes. We'll make mistakes that when exposed make people uncomfortable, lawyers and civil rights people. There will be penetration of organizations likely to be places where plots are supported. Sort of like they went after the Communist Party in the 1930's.

Yossi Melman, writer for Haaretz in Israel and frequent commentator on security and intelligence subjects:
America has to change completely its intelligence mentality and attitude. It really needs to rely more on human sources. The war in Afghanistan showed how that was needed, to do preparatory work. It's so difficult to recruit Americans who would be ready to spend time under disguise. How many are ready to do it? 
In the short term you need to increase your cooperation and share intelligence. Many intelligence organizations feel they're asked by Americans to give information, like subcontractors, but it takes give and take to create in your allies a real sense of cooperation.

Jeffrey H. Smith, partner Arnold & Porter, Washington; general counsel to the C.I.A., 1995-6; general counsel Senate Armed Services Committee, 1986-88:
We should consider creating a new domestic security agency, like London's MI-5, take the counterintelligence and counterterrorism functions out of the F.B.I. and C.I.A., and create a new agency reporting to the attorney general, with no law enforcement functions. 
The U.S. does not have an agency to collect and analyze intelligence on domestic security. I do not believe law enforcement and intelligence work well together in a single agency. They have such competing functions. The missions are so different. They don't mix well. There's inherent tension between the two. It's like putting diplomacy under the War Department.

James K. Kallstrom, senior adviser on counterterrorism to Gov. George E. Pataki; assistant F.B.I. director in charge of the New York office, 1994-7:
We need to close security loopholes in our borders and gateways and ports. What do we know about the people we give visas to? Basically we're a wide-open society. We need to engage the 700,000 state and local police with training and relevant information as to terrorists so they can be eyes and ears for terrorist task forces in the U.S. Here in New York State we have 150 officers in the task force and 70,000 police officers so you can see there's a tiny, tiny amount in the task forces.

William P. Kinane, vice president, Guardsmark; former F.B.I. legal attache, United States Embassy, Moscow:
Al Qaeda -- they're the enemy. Right now we should be dedicating all our resources to finding and eradicating them. Every time you pick up the paper you see another cell discovered. They're out there operating in places where nations don't have the resources to pursue them. 
We got lackadaisical when the cold war ended, put our resources into technological things instead of people, recruiting, the dirty work of recruiting lowlifes to help us. I don't like this idea of spending a fortune. No matter how much we spend, they'll find some vulnerability. Let's just go out and get them. It's a simple solution.

Stephen J. Schulhofer, professor of law, New York University; former consultant to United States Sentencing Commission; specialist in criminal law and criminal procedure:
We absolutely need to have a comprehensive, independent assessment of intelligence failures prior to 9/11 like that ordered after Pearl Harbor. That it's not already underway is incomprehensible. We know mistakes we made, but we don't know the scope. 
Second, we need to assess whether proactive counterterrorism initiatives should be centered in the F.B.I. or a separate agency. The decision apparently made by the administration to reorient the F.B.I. to make counterterrorism its No. 1 job poses major problems for civil liberties. Historically, the F.B.I. was oriented overwhelmingly toward finding admissible evidence for producing convictions in court. That's a different mentality. There is no sense these issues are being thought about. 
The restrictions on communication between detainees and their lawyers in many cases impedes our antiterrorism effort -- it's counterproductive. Traditionally, a lawyer serves as an intermediary with a plea or substantial assistance agreement, getting information and moving up the ladder. If a defendant is talking directly to the prosecutor he can't say anything. If he's talking to his lawyer, the lawyer can say, "If he would talk, here's what he would say" and it can't be used against him. It's a much better way to move forward.

William J. Bratton, senior consultant, Kroll Associates; New York City Police Commissioner, 1994-6:
It's not so much coming up with new ideas but taking what's been discussed and analyzed exhaustively and following through. Here in New York City, Commissioner Kelly, for example, has been beefing up the city's capacity for early warnings. He's expanded the emergency response units. Each precinct has an intelligence detective. He's placed several officers overseas.
American police chiefs have voiced concerns at the lack of information sharing by the federal government, and we've got to enlist the two and a half million security officers in the private sector to work better with police and federal agents.

Coleen Rowley, chief division counsel, Minneapolis office of the F.B.I., who criticized the bureau's handling of the case of Zacarias Moussaoui, the only person charged with involvement in the Sept. 11 attacks:
The F.B.I. needs clearer, more workable guidance on sophisticated intelligence-gathering techniques, especially in smaller offices. The larger offices have seen more terrorism-type cases. In the future we're going to see things like that popping up all over the country. 
Procedures have to be simplified. The laws and guidelines are susceptible to varying interpretations, then we have attorney general guidelines and then we have policy. It gets more and more complicated, more susceptible to not operating smoothly.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Nick Veasey) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



225 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
A Forecast for Uncertainty

BYLINE:  Compiled by Jeff Sommer 

 BODY:
Robert J. Shiller, the Yale economics professor who coined the phrase "irrational exuberance" in the stock market bubble, has been monitoring a decline in investor confidence this year.
 Professor Shiller has directed a Yale survey of investor behavior since 1984, and for the last 12 years the effort has produced a series of investor confidence indexes. 
The indexes show that since the beginning of this year, the market's decline has led investors to believe that stocks are more fairly priced. 
 "People are reasonably confident in the value of the market but are not as confident that it will rebound or will not crash," Professor Shiller said. "The data also suggests that Americans are not sure about the short run." 


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BONDS (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%) YALE UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: SOMMER, JEFF; SHILLER, ROBERT J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



226 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Tax Break for Homes Affected by Sept. 11

BYLINE:  By Jan M. Rosen 

 BODY:
People affected by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks who felt forced to sell their homes may qualify for a tax break, even if they lived in those homes only a short time, the Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service decided late last month.
 Generally, homeowners who have used a home as a principal residence for at least two of the last five years can exclude capital gains of up to $250,000 -- or $500,000 for a couple filing jointly -- from taxable income. 
But the law provides that people who do not meet the two-year test can exclude a proportionate amount of any gain if the sale is for reasons of health, change in employment, or, to the extent provided by I.R.S. regulations, "unforeseen circumstances." 
 Although regulations for unforeseen circumstances have not been issued, Pam Olson, acting assistant Treasury secretary for tax policy, said that under that clause, those affected by Sept. 11 are entitled to exclude the proportionate gain from the sale of their principal residence. 
The Treasury Department said a taxpayer would be considered eligible for the capital-gain exclusion if, for example, a spouse or person living with the taxpayer was killed as a result of the terrorist attacks, or if the taxpayer's principal residence was damaged. Also qualifying are those who became eligible for unemployment compensation because of Sept. 11, or had a change in employment that made it difficult to handle basic household expenses.
More information on the decision is available on the Web site for the National Association of Tax Professionals, at www.taxprofessionals.com. Jan M. Rosen


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) TAXATION; HOUSING; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%) TREASURY DEPARTMENT; INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



227 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
For Comfort, Friends and Family Dined Out

BYLINE:  By SETH W. FEASTER 

 BODY:
 In the last decade, Americans increasingly used restaurants and fast-food merchants as extensions of their kitchens, ordering prepared food and taking it with them. But in the months after Sept. 11, the number of people who sat down to dine at restaurants rose sharply. 
For the three months from December to February, the increase was 5.6 percent from the period a year earlier. 
"There appeared to be a need to be together with friends and family, to be with them at restaurants over meals," said Harry Balzer, vice president of the NPD Group, a marketing research firm.
But Mr. Balzer said that Americans have been returning to their old habit of taking out food. "That trend will reassert itself," he said. SETH W. FEASTER

GRAPHIC: Graph YEAR-OVER-YEAR CHANGE IN DINING AT RESTAURANTS Graph shows the year-over-year percentage change in dining at restaurants since September 2000. YEAR-OVER-YEAR CHANGE IN TAKEOUT FOOD ORDERED Graph shows the year-over-year percentage change in takeout food ordered since September 2000. RETAIL SALESYear-over-year change, weekly Graph shows the percentage change in retail sales for discount stores and department stores since March 2002. NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSYear-over-year change, weekly Graph shows the percentage change in new mortgage applications since March 2002. ENERGY COSTSChange in consumer price index Graph shows the percentage change in energy costs since August 2001. PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSTotals in thousands, weekly Graph shows the number of personal bankruptcy filings since March 2002. ONLINE SALESDollars in billions, weekly Graph shows the online sales total since March 2002. HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESFour-week moving average, daily Graph shows the hotel occupany rates in New York, Chicago and Los Angeles (Sources: NPDFoodworld; Instinet Research retail sales Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics energy costs ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); HIJACKING (89%); TRENDS (87%); TERRORISM (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%) RESTAURANTS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: FEASTER, SETH W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



228 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: A Healing Economy? 

 BODY:
 Widespread fears after Sept. 11 that the economy would fall into deep recession have not been realized. Instead, a mild recession appears to have ended near the end of last year, thanks largely to the resilience of consumers and a surge in government spending. But growth remains meager, with businesses reluctant to invest in new equipment, and a few sectors, including airlines, still suffering greatly.

UNEMPLOYMENT
Monthly rate

Graph shows the unemployment rate since 2000.

CONSUMER SENTIMENT
University of Michigan survey, monthly

1966 = 100

Graph shows the consumer sentiment since 2000.

CONSUMER SPENDING
Change from preceding quarter

Graph shows the percentage change in consumer spending since 1998.

FEDERAL BUDGET OUTLOOK
Surplus or deficit, in billions

Graph shows the surplus or deficit of the federal budget since 1995 and projections into 2007.

BUSINESS CAPITAL INVESTMENTS
Change from preceding quarter

Graph shows the percentage change of business capital investments since 1998.

AIRPLANE PASSENGERS
Boarding in the United States, in millions

Graph shows the number of airplane passengers.

(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; University of Michigan via Haver Analytics; Bureau of Economic Analysis; Congressional Budget Office; Bureau of Transportation Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); RECESSION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TERRORISM (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); AIRLINES (70%) TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



229 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Corporate Costs, Or Playing With Fire? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Cost-Cutting Can Start a Ruinous Circle" (Economic View, Aug. 25), in which Louis Uchitelle described how corporate layoffs and other measures would cause the affected workers to make fewer or smaller purchases, possibly restarting a cycle of less production and even more layoffs: 
 In the current season of company announcements to lower costs, increase productivity and raise the bottom line, an additional point could be made: Workers who escape the ax this time may well worry that they will not be as lucky in the next round of cutbacks. 
Naturally, these workers then reduce their spending, too. This means that companies may again cut production and the workers' fears may be realized. 
Not until the return of job stability, exemplified by steady and large-scale hiring, will at-risk workers or those who have lost their jobs loosen their purse strings.

CLAUDE M. GRUENER
Austin, Tex., Aug. 26


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); DISMISSALS (88%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



230 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Corporate Costs, Or Playing With Fire? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As the column says, everyone in the economy loses when companies act in their own perceived short-term interest. Drastic cutbacks in buying capital goods and in employment cause a drop in demand that, if it continues too long, can lead to the downward spiral toward recession or depression. 
 The most important requirement for a stable and prosperous economy is a job at reasonable pay for everyone who wants one. When this occurs, demand increases, and everyone, including the wealthy, can fare better. 
In our recent history, the closest we came to this was from the end of World War II until about 1973 -- a period when a rising tide really did lift most boats.

WILLIAM F. SCHREIBER
Cambridge, Mass., Aug. 26

The writer is a retired professor of electrical engineering at M.I.T.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DURABLE GOODS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); WRITERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



231 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Waiter Who Lost Job on Sept. 11 Struggles to Get By 

BYLINE:  By LYDIA POLGREEN 

 BODY:
There are days when Sultan A. Salim wishes he had gone to work on Sept. 11. As a catering waiter at Windows on the World he probably would have perished, as surely as his 72 colleagues did, in the inferno and collapse of the World Trade Center.
 "If I had died, my family would be O.K.," Mr. Salim said, his voice flat and matter of fact. "They would have a million dollars and they would be fine. They would not have me, but what good am I now?" 
 More than 3,000 people died in the terrorist hijackings and attacks on Sept. 11. But that day also had many other victims. Mr. Salim, who lost his job and has struggled since that day to make a living in a tough economy, is one of them. 
"Sometimes I think everyone forgot about us, the ones who survived but still struggle," he said in a recent interview. 
At 36 he is his family's sole breadwinner, responsible for his wife, a 3-year-old daughter and a 70-year-old father with many health problems. They live together in an apartment in Parkchester, a neighborhood in the Bronx. 
Mr. Salim said he used to make about $70,000 a year at Windows on the World. He began working there in 1996, and has worked in catering since 1990, when he came to the United States from Bangladesh.
When the towers collapsed, Mr. Salim lost close friends and a lucrative livelihood. After nearly a year of unemployment, he is working again, at a hotel in Jersey City. 
"But I make less than one-third what I was making," Mr. Salim said. "I can't cover my expenses. I pay $6 each way for transportation. When I can, I work many hours to make up for how little money I am being paid. This is my life now."
After Sept. 11 his family got some help, from Catholic Charities, which helped with bills, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which helped with the rent. But all Mr. Salim wanted was a job.
"I kept asking, please, help me find a job," Mr. Salim said. "But I think it is easier to give away money than it is to help someone find a job."
Jobs like the one Mr. Salim held at Windows on the World -- unionized, with high pay and benefits -- are hard to get. He said he had high hopes when he attended a job fair for the new Westin hotel opening near Times Square, but he did not get a call back. He has sent 200 resumes to hotels and restaurants across the region.
"Maybe because I have a Muslim name no one wants to hire me," Mr. Salim said. 
He had been saving to buy a house, but now that money is gone. "I am starting again from zero," he said. "I used to give money to charity. Now I need charity. This is very hard to accept."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sultan A. Salim, center, a former Windows on the World waiter; his daughter, Mabilah, 3; his wife, Farhana; and his father, Samsuddin Ahmed. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); TERRORISM (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (74%); CHARITIES (71%); HIJACKING (70%); DISMISSALS (69%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); RELIGION (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: WINDOWS ON THE WORLD (NYC RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: POLGREEN, LYDIA; SALIM, SULTAN A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



232 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: FOLLOWING UP 

BYLINE:  By Joseph P. Fried 

 BODY:
A New Day May Dawn, But It's Taking Awhile
 They were the grandes dames of the old borscht belt, until newer generations of vacationers spurned them and their less prominent like for trendier destinations. 
 The Hamptons and the Caribbean and Europe were in. The Concord and Grossinger's and the other resorts of the Jewish Catskills were increasingly passe, and by the late 1970's most of them had as much of a future as the fallen leaves on their grounds. 
Grossinger's, with 600 rooms in Liberty, N.Y., closed in 1986. The 1,200-room Concord, in Kiamesha Lake, held on until 1998.
A Westchester developer, Louis R. Cappelli, above, envisioned more for the sprawling sites than nostalgic memories of sumptuous artery-clogging meals and entertainment by Danny Kaye, Milton Berle and Eddie Fisher. In 1999, he and associates bought the two old resorts at bankruptcy auctions, and he has been planning new ventures that would appeal to a modern, multiethnic generation of vacationers and conventiongoers.
Like traffic to the Catskills in the days before superhighways, things have been moving more slowly than Mr. Cappelli had hoped, leading skeptics to cite failed revival efforts in the economically battered region, and local government officials to hope he overcomes the hurdles. 
An early financing proposal for the first phase of the $500 million redevelopment at the Concord fell through. The $180 million needed for that phase is still not in hand, Mr. Cappelli said last week.
"But we have two large pension funds and insurance companies right now looking at a proposal" to provide the $180 million, he added, "and we should hear back in the next two weeks."
The first Concord phase would include the construction of 525 rooms in the two sections of the hotel where the steel and concrete framework is being retained. Later phases, Mr. Cappelli said, include 1,000 rooms and a convention center in newly built structures. 
At Grossinger's, he said, the plan, in the design stage, is for a spa and golf resort. 
He attributed the financing delays to the effect of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on travel and the hotel industry. Still, he said, many people prefer to vacation closer to home these days and that should help his projects' prospects.

A Show of Confidence In a Time of Uncertainty
The promise of a rejuvenating new home has been snatched away. On Friday, its director is to depart, and no successor has been hired. Yet optimism is on display at the Museum of the City of New York.
In March, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg rescinded an offer that the museum move from its outmoded quarters at Fifth Avenue and 103rd Street, above, to the historic and elegant Tweed Courthouse, behind City Hall.
Mr. Bloomberg decided to use the expensively renovated courthouse as the school system's new headquarters. The museum's longtime director, Robert R. Macdonald, resigned soon afterward, effective at the end of this week.
The museum's chairman, Newton P. S. Merrill, said last week that he was not concerned about the absence of a new director. "I'm optimistic we will have a decision within 60 days" on a successor, he said.
Of the museum's on-again, off-again merger talks with the New-York Historical Society, he said, "There are still very general discussions, nothing specific."
Still, "with or without" a merger, he said, "our focus" is a new home in Lower Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); RESORTS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); LODGING (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); MAYORS (70%); CITIES (62%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); AUCTIONS (53%); INSURANCE (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) HOTELS AND MOTELS 

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (63%)

ORGANIZATION: GROSSINGER'S; CONCORD RESORT HOTEL; MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK 

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) FRIED, JOSEPH P; CAPPELLI, LOUIS R; MERRILL, NEWTON P S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) CATSKILLS (NYS AREA)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



233 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4420 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE FAMILIES; 
In Bereavement, Pioneers on a Lonely Trail

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
Their community was created by cataclysm, then bound together by a vocabulary of grief and the stamp of history. But a year later, the families of Sept. 11 -- a small city's worth of widows, parents and other kin touched by terror -- say that what defines them most is their sense of separation from other Americans. 
 As a nation that wept together resumes its hectic, distracted course, family members and outsiders say, September's bereaved have become a lost legion, left to find their own way. 
 For Joan Parker, whose husband, Philip, was working on the 99th floor at the World Trade Center on the morning of the attacks, the realization of that growing fissure began with a telephone call last fall. The voice on the other end was one she had not heard in 25 years, since high school. 
Over the following weeks, Mrs. Parker and her friend reconnected amid the sorrow and horror. But then a different tone began to creep in. The friend began to ask about money.
"She started getting into questions about what kind of house I lived in and what kind of job my husband had," Mrs. Parker said.
How much would the Parkers collect from the charities and compensation funds? Was paying the families of the victims really a good idea? Mrs. Parker gradually became uncomfortable and stopped calling back. Then the calls themselves stopped. And so, by increments, the gap widened.
Who are the families, anyway? Into what category of American experience should they be filed? Are they crime victims? War refugees? Heroes? Will an image of greed that attached itself to the few outweigh the nation's empathy for the many?
History provides only a flimsy guide. Like Holocaust survivors, scholars say, many of the families bear intimate witness to evil; like Vietnam War veterans, they have clung to one another through the crisis, forging an identity.
But no one, least of all the family members themselves, knows where their road leads. Some experts in social movements compare them to canaries in a coal mine or messengers from the front -- vanguards of an emerging national conscience that will nag, wheedle and shame the nation on issues of terrorism and memory for generations to come. Or they could become just another special interest group carping for attention and money, their moral capital squandered.
"The closest thing that I've been able to think of -- and some people might feel it's an odd word -- is that they've been blessed, in the Old Testament Ecclesiastical sense," said Kai Erikson, a sociologist at Yale University. Being blessed has sugary connotations now, Professor Erikson said, but to the ancient Hebrews, it was a deeply ambivalent gift.
"For better or worse," he said of the families, "they've been made different by this very peculiar thing that's happened to them."
Generalizing about 10,000 to 15,000 turbulent souls -- and even more if extended relations and friends are counted -- is a dangerous thing. Some family members have forsaken contact, retreating into isolation. Some who leaped into action last fall have withdrawn, while others have begun to reach out in the last few months. Only a small vanguard is directly involved with political issues like a Manhattan memorial; most families have been silent, their stories still untold. On many issues they are deeply divided, as are all Americans. 
But through more than 100 interviews over the last two months with family members, therapists, academics and politicians -- focusing on the relatives of the office workers, who constituted the vast majority of those killed -- some signposts to their journey have emerged. 
Women, responding differently than men to the maelstrom of media, politics and grief, stepped forward to lead, creating networks that solidified into a community backbone. The Internet became crucial, connecting people and allowing a virtual community to become real. The myriad organizations that arose -- from lobbying groups to living room kaffeeklatsches of intimates who say they have bonded for life -- became vehicles for change, altering the participants by the very chemistry of bringing them together.
The rest of the nation has, of course, been down its own rocky road. Economic uncertainty, war and other echoes of terror, from anthrax to shoe bombs, have haunted American life, creating the sense for many people, social critics say, that Sept. 11 was a jinx, a triggering event for so many other things that have gone wrong. Moving on with life, head down, eyes forward -- in a real way, whistling past the graveyard -- has become, those experts say, an understandable and very human choice.
Many family members, on the other hand, say they have been completely transformed. Some describe being seized and swept away, changed whether they wanted to be or not, by the very effort of trying to make sense of what had happened. Where mainstream America became unwilling to look back, the families could not look away. 
Maria Ragonese thought last fall that she might drown in the pool of pain that surrounded her after the death of her sister-in-law and friend, Laura Marie Ragonese-Snik.
"And yet ultimately I learned to swim," she said. "I'm involved with and doing things I never thought possible in the name of justice and in the honor of my dearest friend. I have become interconnected with so many people through this one event that it's now as if I have this huge extended family, all fighting the same fight."
The thousands of children, many too young to remember lost parents, provide another spark. Some family leaders say their passion about a memorial is driven by the thought of young people who will need such markers to absorb the enormity of what happened. Other parents worry that an alienated, lost generation, angry at the world and at their government -- a thousand Timothy McVeighs, as one mother put it -- could emerge if the next few years of recovery are bungled.
Gayle Regan, who lost her husband, Thomas, thinks her 3-year-old twins, Allaistar and Connor, have already been altered. When she hung an American flag outside her garage, the children wouldn't stop hugging it. She thinks that for them, the flag somehow represents the father who they have been told is in heaven.
"I feel like we're all these instruments of change now -- it's almost a song we have to sing," Mrs. Regan said. 
Some historians say that the families, in their ardor and anguish, are writing a kind of public postscript to Robert D. Putnam's book "Bowling Alone" (2000, Touchstone). Professor Putnam, a political scientist at Harvard University, describes an American social fabric that has come apart at the seams over the last half-century, as everything from volunteerism to voting unraveled. The post-Sept. 11 community, believers say, is showing how the old knots might yet be retied.

Emerging Images
Shared Emotions And Expectations
Americans may have said that they wanted to hear the truth about Sept. 11, but what they really wanted, anthropologists and media critics say, was a good story -- a narrative that would pull together the threads and themes that people wanted and needed to believe. Every player in the telling, they say, had an angle. The government needed symbols to build public support for a war. The news media, focusing on institutions like the police and fire departments, sketched a portrait of noble sacrifice and courage.
And so the victims and their families became icons, two-dimensional figures that could represent the face of what happened -- stand-ins, as the sociologist and author James M. Jasper puts it, for the nationally shared emotions of vulnerability and loss.
"They came to be seen as representatives of an event, rather than as individuals," Dr. Jasper said. "It's pretty unusual for a group to be used that way."
But that swirl of imagery, symbolism and patriotism -- and many family members say, political spin -- did more than create a portrait. Much of the energy and anger that has emerged in the family community -- much of its identity, in other words -- is a response to the perceptions and myths with which people feel they were burdened. 
Family members say they want their loved ones, above all, to be remembered -- not as props or pawns, but as flesh-and-blood human beings who dreamed and laughed and cried. And only then, they say, can the true impact and meaning of Sept. 11 be understood by the nation. Where the Great Oz advised Dorothy to pay no attention to the man behind the curtain, many survivors of Sept. 11 want to tear the curtain to the ground.
Were the victims heroes?
Nikki Stern, who lost her husband, James E. Potorti, was confronted with the "H-word," as many family members call it, last fall when a woman called about a quilt that was being put together, similar to the famous AIDS quilt of the 1980's. Heroes, the woman said, would be in the center, and everybody else would be on the outside. She wanted a picture of Mr. Potorti, a vice president at Marsh & McLennan, for the outer ring.
"I guess my husband was everybody else," said Ms. Stern, who sent a picture, despite her misgivings. 
Some family members say that while there were many heroic acts that day, society's fixation on the hero tale denigrates the majority of people who were simply doing their jobs and who now risk being dismissed from the nation's memory as second-class victims. Others say the hero story devalues every victim because the worshipful imagery was rooted in manipulation -- emotional sleight of hand by politicians who wanted to distract the public from the government's security failures.
"If you have 3,000 people slaughtered, you have to say, who's responsible for the slaughter," said Monica Gabrielle, who lost her husband, Richard -- an office worker -- and who now is co-chairwoman of one of the family groups, the Skyscraper Safety Campaign. "But you don't have to look at who's responsible if they're heroes, do you?" 
Were the victims doomed to their fate?
Media critics say that one of the touchstones of the Sept. 11 narrative was the idea that luck or chance dictated the divide of life and death. Many stories focused on the missed train, the alarm clock that did not go off. There was a democratic leveling that underpinned the narrative, a wrong-place, wrong-time theme that gave the telling a religious, mystical bent, as though the finger of God had stabbed through the world.
"We wanted to see it as something that could happen to anyone," said Gary Alan Fine, a professor of sociology at Northwestern University. "That became important, that it was the luck of the draw."
The complicated truth is that hierarchy and class played a role in who died, as did initiative and personal choice. There were stories about secretaries who died because they had to be at their desks at 8:30 -- at the risk of losing their jobs -- while their bosses who were dropping off the kids at school survived. Other stories are emerging about how individual decisions -- to take an elevator, to aid or comfort a co-worker -- determined whether people survived.
Family members say that debunking the myth of fate is part of their effort to challenge the status quo in general. Assigning blame to God or finding comfort in blind providence might be appealing, they say, but it does nothing to prevent a similar catastrophe from happening again. 
Are the families greedy?
Americans sue one another all the time, so the idea of attaching a monetary figure to one's suffering or loss should hardly come as a shock. But dollar signs and death became more intertwined after Sept. 11, most experts agree, than ever before in a disaster. And that changed what the families became as they came together.
Congress forged the money connection with the creation of the Federal Victim Compensation Fund in the days after the attacks. The fund was part of a package of legislation to protect the airline industry and the owners of the World Trade Center: families would be barred from filing lawsuits as the price of participating in the fund.
But the money then became a virus, family members and outsiders say, especially after government figures were released suggesting that the families could receive up to $1.85 million each. The number changed how the families were perceived by the nation, and how the families themselves behaved. The "greedy family" became a stock villain on daytime talk shows. Some families received hate mail. The nuances of the fund -- that pension benefits, Social Security and life insurance would all be deducted, leaving many families with far less in compensation -- got ignored, family members say. 
"They reacted as scared people and they came across as greedy people," said Robert Monetti, who lost his son, Rick, on Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, and who has been working with many of the families of Sept. 11. 
Mr. Monetti said the Lockerbie families used to complain that they were ignored by the government. "But having seen what government attention does to people, we figure we got off easy -- we just got ignored, they got actively brutalized," he said. 

One Small Circle
'We've Bonded With Strangers'
They have no illusion that their small union will change the world or undo any of the damage to their hearts. But the 12 pictures that Tom and JoAnn Meehan have assembled on a collage in their home in Carteret, N.J., do tell a tale: a new family has emerged here, spread across five states and two continents. 
"We've bonded with strangers who have stepped into our lives," said Mr. Meehan, whose daughter, Colleen Barkow, is at 11 o'clock on the collage. 
The big, formal family organizations -- the kind with fancy Web sites and leaders who testify in Washington and City Hall -- have received most of the headlines. But it is through private, informal groups like this one that the community of Sept. 11 is given its texture and definition.
Technology created the means. The Internet became a personal salvation for people like Mr. Meehan, who spent whole days last fall staring into his computer screen. People found one another in chat rooms and on message boards -- parents talking with other parents, widows with widowers. Discussion groups formed, withered and formed again, therapists say, as people reached different stages of healing. 
The Internet, contrary to its image as the disembodied realm of cyberspace, also reinforced the importance of old-fashioned proximity. Because so many families were concentrated in a couple of regions -- New York City and Washington -- people could easily meet online and then in person. 
Arthur Russo, who lost his son, Wayne Alan (at the center of the Meehans' collage), said the isolation would be unbearable if not for the friendships he has made. He is not sure how long the various family circles will continue, but said that for now he could not imagine them ending.
"You virtually find yourself out there almost all alone, and the comfort you find is meeting such groups as them," he said.
The serpentine twists of the Meehan group mirror the chaos after Sept. 11. Joe and Adele Milanowycz, for example (their son Greg, is at 8 p.m. on the collage), who also live in New Jersey, attended a meeting held by their county prosecutor's office and met a woman who said she knew a Mr. Russo who was looking to contact other fathers. 
The Russo and Milanowycz families met for lunch and bonded. The Russos then met the Meehans at a parents' support group. Jane Strauss (her husband, Edward, is at 7 p.m. on the collage), knew the Meehans from church, and then through the Meehans met Monica Barbella, whose husband, James (1 a.m. on the collage), worked with Mr. Strauss. And the Meehans, like operators on an old-fashioned switchboard, pushed and pulled the wires to connect them all. 
"It made you realize that it was a smaller world than you thought," Mr. Milanowycz said. 

Two Sides of Pain
Women Emerge On a New Landscape
Monica Iken has not stopped since last fall when she realized that the death of her husband, Michael, required a total commitment to the idea of a proper memorial in Lower Manhattan. The organization she founded, September's Mission, has become the vehicle for her grief.
"It's how I get up in the morning," she said.
Marc E. Wieman battened down the hatches. After becoming a single parent with the death of his wife, Mary, he decided that the best course for himself and his three children, ages 7, 9 and 13, was to get back to normal as quickly as possible. He returned to his job as an insurance industry manager only a week after the attacks. His boss sent him home immediately, shocked that he would show up so soon.
"Look, we move on," Mr. Wieman said. "This is the hand I've been dealt to play. It's not an especially good one. But I have to do it. So I expect that at some point I will establish what a normal life is for us in this post-9/11 era. And we will live that."
The gender divide is unquestionably real, family members and therapists say, and it is not just an issue of theoretical interest or sexual politics. Sept. 11 was a public event and also a deeply private one. And that created two very different ways of expressing one's pain. Men, as a generalization, tended to retreat and go it alone; women tended to advance and bond with others. The demographics of the disaster elevated the importance of those differences -- World Trade Center widows outnumber widowers five-to-one -- and changes in American society over the last few decades allowed and encouraged those widows to step forward. An advance guard of female leaders emerged at September's Mission, the Skyscraper Safety Campaign and many other groups. 
Some women say the disaster brought out an instinctive reaction, like a mother bear protecting her cubs. Others say women are more comfortable expressing their emotions in public, and in building the networks, shared grief was the common currency. 
"In some ways it's the steel magnolia syndrome," said Diane Horning, who lost her son, Matthew. 
Of course, war widows have been around as long as there have been wars, but historians say that the women who grieved after Antietam in the Civil War or Pearl Harbor before World War II could do little more than that -- there was no mechanism for turning their pain into action. The rise of women in the community of Sept. 11, they say, is yet another way that the terrorist attacks broke the mold and shattered the world before -- a vast social experiment unfolding in an altered era of gender equality.
Other women say that it is too early to pronounce an end to history's old biases and roadblocks. The true powers that be, they say, might simply be biding their time until the women go away or burn out. 
"I'd like to be the mouse that roared," said Mrs. Horning, who has been pushing New York City to properly bury the ashes that accumulated at the Fresh Kills Landfill on Staten Island during the cleanup of ground zero. "But I just don't see it happening."
And some fear that pouring so much energy into the organizations and politics is postponing the crash -- avoiding grief by keeping one's Palm Pilot full.
"They lost the person they loved, then turned around and got so consumed by everything," said Jill Anderson, who lost her husband, Kermit. "But when that's gone, I don't know what you do." 
Other women say, let that day come. They're not worried at all.
"The greatest balm to your grief and your wounds is getting justice," said Sally Regenhard, who lost her son, Christian, and founded the Skyscraper Safety Campaign. "When we get justice, it will change the world, but it's probably going to take the rest of my lifetime." 

Transformation
A Sudden Push Toward Politics
A year ago, Mary Ellen Salamone, who lost her husband, John, did not even know the names of her two senators from New Jersey. In the wonderfully ordinary whirl of raising three young children, she said, politics was just background noise. But only seven months after the attacks, she found herself in Washington in front of a bristling bank of microphones, testifying before Congress about the need for improved border security.
"Everything I didn't want to know about politics, I was forced to learn," she said. 
For many family members, grief has become a steppingstone to a deeper personal journey. Some people who never worked outside the home have taken jobs, others have quit the jobs they had, either to care for children or because their former careers suddenly had no meaning. Some became more radical in their politics, and some were filled with new faith and hope. Some moved away and some moved back to the places where they were born and raised.
Peter Gadiel, who lost his son James, struggled last fall to understand the nation's immigration policies that had allowed terrorists into the country. And what he learned changed him. A lifelong Republican, he is now working to defeat his United States representative in Connecticut, Nancy L. Johnson, a Republican who Mr. Gadiel thinks has a bad voting record on immigration law.
Other people say one change can sometimes conflict with another.
Patricia Reilly, who lost her sister Lorraine Lee, has become deeply cynical about politics over her months of work on the issue of a Manhattan memorial. Again and again, she saw economic and political leaders trying to isolate the families and minimize their voices by suggesting that they were overwrought and traumatized -- people to be pitied but not listened to.
But that feeling was countered, she said, by the realization that the family members now have a responsibility to go forward -- questioning and challenging authority -- because not doing so would amount to a betrayal of the nation. 
"If we go back to complacency, then my family is going be at risk again, and so are they," Ms. Reilly said, referring to the rest of the country.
Ted Suarez said he sometimes felt like St. Paul on the road to Damascus. "St. Paul was knocked off his horse -- he had a vision that changed his life," Mr. Suarez said. "This event comes close to that for me."
Mr. Suarez's son David wrote a poem a few months before his death. The poem lives on. It has become a Suarez family mission to have it translated and published around the world -- 90 languages so far, and counting.
David Suarez wrote about boundaries -- confronting them, transcending them, and in the end being freed from them. His father said that becoming the vehicle for that message might be the one positive thing, at least in this family, to come from the attacks. 
The poem's final stanza reads:
For just a moment
you abandon your incarcerated body
wholly relinquishing your ties
to human nature
and for only an instant,
you become part of God
you are free.

Coming of Age
The Ways and Means Of a Group Effort
A businessman wanted the board of directors at the group, Families of Sept. 11, to endorse his product, a set of gift cards with a 9/11 theme that would be advertised in Playboy magazine. That got a quick "no thanks." 
Whether to join a lawsuit against institutions and financiers in Saudi Arabia was a tougher call. One faction on the board argued that the group, which has 900 members and a broad agenda of support for victims' relatives, should join the suit. Important information might emerge about the international system of terror, they said. 
The other side worried how it might look, and whether the public would think the families were just after Saudi money -- it was the "greedy family" specter all over again. The cautious side carried the day and the board voted to take no active role, but only provide information to members. The suit was filed last month.
"We have to be careful who we jump in bed with," said Thomas Roger, a board member who lost his daughter, Jean. 
The relatives of Sept. 11 are certainly not the first examples of advocacy rising from the ashes of grief. Survivors from Oklahoma City, the Lockerbie flight and Hurricane Andrew in 1992 all organized for support or protest. 
But there are huge differences this time. None of those other events, as wrenching as they were, triggered a revamping of the nation's airline security, immigration and law enforcement policies -- not to mention a war halfway around the world. Over the last year, the family groups of Sept. 11 have become consultants, witnesses and participants, and some family leaders think they can go much further if they are careful and thoughtful and smart. 
And so they worry. They worry about appearing overly emotional or strident. They worry about being pigeonholed -- whether it appears that pushing for an independent investigation into the attacks, in opposition to the Bush administration, puts them in the pocket of the Democrats. And they worry how to achieve political ends without becoming, well, too political.
"We're talking about a political group whose power comes from the fact that they're not political," said Francesca Polletta, an associate professor of sociology at Columbia University. "How do you play in the political arena without becoming a traditional political entity? It's a tough situation."
But the families are learning.
When New York City was about to release the first six proposed plans for rebuilding Lower Manhattan in June, for example, the groups were given a first look before the public or the news media. The groups' leaders, according to people who were there, hated every idea, and some firebrands wanted to hold a news conference then and there to voice their strong objections. But after gathering in a meeting room near City Hall, they resolved to hold their fire and reserve comment.
The plans were then given to the public, and the reaction was also almost universally negative. The families got what they wanted -- the proposals quickly went down in flames -- but they also avoided looking out of step. When the families said no, they did so as part of a chorus.
"The way they handled the six site plans was brilliant," an aide to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said. "They've got some very smart people on those committees who were never involved in politics, but who have learned the process very, very quickly."
Anthony Gardner, who lost his brother Harvey, and founded one of the largest Sept. 11 organizations, the WTC United Family Group, said he believed that how the families were perceived by the public was important. But in going forward from here, he said, it is just as important that they actually find a way to be back in step with the mainstream, because it is in the center, he said, not the borderlands or the extremes, where real change happens in America.
"We're all in this together," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FILLED WITH SORROW -- A ceremony in late May to mark the end of the cleanup at ground zero brought out emotions from relatives, who were joined by workers and spectators. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 28); POLITICAL LESSONS -- Mary Ellen Salamone's husband was killed in the attack. In April, she was in Washington to testify before Congress about immigration policies. "Everything I didn't want to know about politics, I was forced to learn," she said. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times); GETTING INVOLVED -- Tom and JoAnn Meehan's daughter was killed on Sept. 11, and the couple from Carteret, N.J., used the Internet to help start an informal support group. They put together a 12-picture collage of victims. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 29) Chart: "An Accounting Of the Victims"Dots on the maps represent the number of victims per county. One dot equals one victim. By where they were At the World Trade Center: 2,654On American Flight 11 (Crashed into the North Tower): 87On United Flight 175 (Crashed into the South Tower): 60At the Pentagon: 125On American Flight 77 (Crashed into the Pentagon): 59On United Flight 93 (Crashed near Shanksville, Pa.): 40Total: 3,025 By their sex and agePercentage of all victims in each sex-age group. Chart tracks percentage of victims. By where they livedEach state's share of all victims (only top states listed). New York: 59%New Jersey: 23%Massachusetts: 3%Virginia: 3%Connecticut: 2%Maryland: 2%California: 2%Pennsylvania: 1 More than 1,100 victims were from New York City. By their race and ethnicityWhite: 70%Hispanic: 9%Black: 8%Asian: 6%Other or unknown: 7% Note: The maps and figures are based on data that were reported as of Friday. (Sources: New York City Medical Examiner; interviews with the families, friends and colleagues of more than 2,200 victims; the Associated Press; United States Defense Department; companies in the World Trade Center)(pg. 28) Map of United States highlighting home states of the victims. (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); HIJACKING (77%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); VETERANS (70%); REFUGEES (65%); VIETNAM WAR (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); RELIGION (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (59%)

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



234 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1758 words

HEADLINE: Attack Gave a Devastating Shove To the City's Teetering Economy 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
No one who has seen the physical destruction in Lower Manhattan can doubt that the attack on the World Trade Center caused deep and lasting economic wounds as well. 
 It devastated both big companies and small businesses in and around the twin towers. It brought business across the city to a halt for days, weeks and in some cases months, slashing workers' earnings and tax revenues alike. It made many employers determined to spread their workers over a wider swath of geography, which has ominous implications for Manhattan. 
 And yet, terrorists cannot be blamed for all of New York City's economic ills, any more than they can be blamed for Enron, or the bursting of the stock market bubble, or the financial turmoil in Latin America, or, for that matter, the long-running national recession. All are culprits in causing the city's economic woes. 
Disentangling the effects of 9/11 from all the other threads running through the economy is so complex that some economists say flatly that it cannot be done. Economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York are still trying to come up with a statistical way to gauge the impact.
New York City's comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., said last week that the attack was responsible for all of the city's job losses since last September, and then some. Of course, he assumes that the city had begun recovering from the recession in August of last year, a belief not shared by many researchers.
But economists and business experts suggest that even if many of the city's economic losses might ultimately have occurred anyway, the Sept. 11 attack compressed what might have been a relatively mild recession into a few very painful months.
"It accelerated all the negative forces in the economy," said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce. "And it created huge barriers and obstacles to a less dramatic recession and a more natural recovery." 
Before Sept. 11, "it was a fair statement to say that New York City had sidestepped the worst of the national recession," said Marc M. Goloven, an economist at J. P. Morgan. "What 9/11 did was to take from us our momentum, which was fading but carrying us through."
That economic momentum was particularly strong two years ago, when the city was adding new jobs at a blistering pace, often creating more new employment than any other metropolitan area in America. And New York's stubbornly high unemployment rate continued to decline sharply all the way through March of 2001, months after the national jobless rate began to rise in November 2000.
When the slowdown did hit the city, it seemed fairly mild (though not to the people who found themselves unemployed).
By May 2001, the number of jobs in the city had begun to edge down compared with the boom levels of the previous year, according to data collected by the state and federal governments. But the drop was relatively mild, and concentrated in a few industries, most of which provided services like advertising, media, consulting and financial services to big manufacturers across the country.
After Sept. 11, that all changed. The number of jobs in the city plunged by tens of thousands, and the decline continued through the winter, so that by March of this year, there were almost 135,000 fewer jobs in the city than in 2001. The unemployment rate, which was at 6.6 percent before the attacks, rose sharply to 7.3 percent by year's end, and became as high as 8 percent over the summer.
There were cutbacks in businesses that had been holding up well, like stores, restaurants, hotels, air transportation and real estate. Even after accounting for brokerage firms displaced by the attack, declines accelerated in the financial sector, printing and business services. Many blue-collar and service workers were suddenly laid off.
James Parrott, an economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute, a labor-backed research group, estimates that the attack itself led to the loss of 79,300 jobs, or roughly half of the jobs the city has lost since the end of 2000. The sudden surge in job losses "increased the likelihood that some families got hit not once but twice," he said.
"Any way you honestly look at the numbers," he added, "you still come away thinking there's a pretty substantial impact."
More than 110,000 people filed claims for unemployment insurance in the two months after the attack, and only slightly fewer filed for unemployment over the next two months. So there was a sudden influx of newly unemployed people, at a time when more than 230,000 New Yorkers were already looking for work, according to estimates from the New York State Department of Labor.
Meanwhile, employers were shell-shocked, reluctant to add any workers at a time when another attack seemed likely at any moment. A monthly survey of business executives published by the New York branch of the National Association of Purchasing Management showed a steep drop in their confidence in the future, which by November had dropped to the lowest level in years.
Perhaps as a result, unemployed workers have been slow to find jobs. In the last few months, roughly 100,000 in New York State have used up nine months of unemployment benefits without finding work. Based on the patterns of unemployment claims, many of those workers were probably in New York City.
Of course, business was disrupted and confidence was shaken all over the country. Americans lost jobs in industries like air transportation no matter where they were working. 
Comparing New York and other areas is tough because cities that were almost untouched by 9/11 have experienced extreme economic pain for other reasons. 
Trouble in the textile industry has sent unemployment rates soaring in the Southeast. And at the moment, the economic epicenter of Silicon Valley -- San Jose, Calif. -- has the highest unemployment rate of any big city, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. The unemployment rate there is 7.6 percent, while in the New York City metropolitan area, the rate is only 7.3 percent. (It is 7.9 percent in the city proper.) 
But some economists suggest that one can get at least an idea of the effects of Sept. 11 by comparing the city's economic performance to the conditions in other parts of the region. After all, in previous recessions, the region's economies tended to move as a block.
Not this time. Unemployment in Connecticut has scarcely budged in the past year, and it rose only 1 percentage point on Long Island, while the city's rate has jumped by 1.9 percentage points. And while New York City remains down almost 84,000 jobs, the job count has actually risen a tiny bit on Long Island, in Westchester County, in Rockland County and, of course, in Jersey City, where some displaced companies settled workers.
Jobs and unemployment are not the only measures of economic impact, of course. Another is incomes, which is harder to figure. In April, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York estimated that the trade center attack had caused about $4.5 billion in lost income in the city, based on jobs lost and average incomes.
But the income loss may well turn out to be higher. One reason is that workers at garment factories, hotels and restaurants, as well as car service drivers, have all reported working fewer hours a week. So while they are not technically unemployed, their incomes fell.
And lower incomes translate into lower income tax revenues for the city. According to the city comptroller's office, tax collections dropped by about $2.5 billion in the last fiscal year, which included Sept. 11.
More than $2 billion of that was from the attack, according to Mr. Thompson's analysis, including a drop of slightly more than $1 billion in the personal income tax, a $300 million drop in sales tax collections, and a decrease of more than $500 million in business taxes. Indeed, he reckons that about half of the city's current $6 billion budget gap can be attributed to 9/11.
The situation on Wall Street has been and remains the big cloud on New York City's horizon. But industry experts find it hard to distinguish the effects of Sept. 11 from those of a stock market sell-off that began two years ago and continues to this day; the recession; corporate scandals; and well-publicized government investigations into the ethics of analysts and their employers.
Whatever the cause, the number of jobs in the securities business has fallen by close to 17,000 in the last year alone, and Lehman Brothers recently confirmed that it was going to embark on more layoffs.
Meanwhile, the Securities Industry Association says that its members are not likely to see their business rebound until next year at the earliest, which has bad implications for bonuses as well as for jobs. And firms like Goldman Sachs have publicly turned against the idea of clustering all their employees in one area.
Some of the economic fallout that people expected shortly after Sept. 11 has not proved to be as bad as predicted. For example, tourism has rebounded, at least among American visitors, though the city's tourism board estimated last week that tourist spending fell by about $1 billion in 2001. 
Hotels and restaurants began rehiring before Christmas, said Barbara Byrne Denham, chief economist for The New York Stat, a newsletter on the local economy. While the number of jobs in those areas has not returned to last year's levels, she said, it has been increasing.
And the spiraling job losses that some people feared would continue into 2002 did not. "The economic job loss from Sept. 11 was severe but immediate," Ms. Denham said. "It has dissipated now." While the city economy is by no means strong, she added, its current difficulties are related to the national recession.
But other factors that people expected to help the economy rebound have not had an effect, or at least not as quickly as expected. Chief among them is the infusion of cash from the government and insurance, which was widely expected to have jump-started a recovery.
Federal assistance is flowing, but slowly; for example, the comptroller's office reports that of the $9.1 billion in aid pledged by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, only $2.3 billion has been released so far.
Meanwhile, the New York City Partnership is warning that the prospects for rapid insurance settlements, which could total more than $50 billion, have dimmed.
After disasters, "the conventional wisdom is that communities always came out better than they went in," Ms. Wylde said. "It's a fine theory, but guess what? It didn't happen here." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CITIES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; SMALL BUSINESS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



235 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: SPECIAL TODAY; 
What Was, And What Could Be

 BODY:
 A special issue of The Times Magazine today takes two long looks at Lower Manhattan. The first is a biography of the World Trade Center towers: the dizzying ambition that led to their rise and ultimately figured in their fall. The second is a series of blueprints for the future, dreamed up by a panel of architects that includes Peter Eisenman, Charles Gwathmey, Zaha Hadid, Steven Holl, Rem Koolhaas, Maya Lin, Richard Meier, David Rockwell, Frederic Schwartz and Rafael Vinoly, moderated by The Times's architecture critic, Herbert Muschamp. 

9/11/02 IN NEW YORK -- Changes in the city and the region, in the words of the clergy and in the economic fallout. With Portraits of Grief. METRO SECTION

WAR OF SECRETS -- American intelligence agencies have undergone surprisingly little change since 9/11. Are they better prepared now? WEEK IN REVIEW

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editors' Note 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (88%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); RELIGION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



236 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Australia Casts Net for Fish Poachers 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SHAW 

DATELINE: CANBERRA, Australia, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Australia has begun a campaign against international pirates plundering its declining stocks of Antarctic fish.
 Naval patrols, diplomatic pressure, United Nations actions and legal sanctions are being marshaled against long-range, high-tech trawlers illegally taking about $200 million worth of Patagonian toothfish from subantarctic seas. 
 The succulent fish, marketed in the United States as Chilean sea bass, is the center of a high-seas war between poachers and fishing patrols in the remote waters between Antarctica, Australia and South Africa. 
The future of the fish, as a species and a sustainable resource, is the focus of growing international concern and action to be discussed at trade and conservation conferences this year. 
Typical of the conflict is the odyssey of the Eternal, a pirate trawler with many identities and mysterious owners. Its last illegal catch of the fish, valued at $275,000 and destined for American restaurants, was confiscated by officials in Boston.
Previously known as Arvisa, Camouco and Kombott, the vessel was intercepted in July near Kerguelen, a glacier-scarred French island possession about 2,500 miles off South Africa. This week the vessel, believed to be Spanish-owned, was ordered forfeited by a French court. Its Spanish officers were fined a total of 250,000 euros ($247,925). 
The vessel will be offered for sale to licenced fishing companies or scuttled by the French Navy which, with Australian and South African patrols, is pursuing the flags-of-convenience poachers. The crew members -- mostly Asians -- were repatriated at the owner's expense.
The trawler had been camouflaged since 1999 by name changes, quick coats of paint and frequent switches of registration and flags from Panama to Uruguay to Mauritania and the Netherlands Antilles, and usually commanded by Spanish officers. It is typical of the 20 trawlers illegally fishing remote polar waters.
The United States Department of Commerce and the Customs Service, responding to intelligence reports from Australian diplomats, recently seized four illicit shipments of Chilean sea bass totaling more than 100 tons in Boston; Newark; Los Angeles; and New Bedford, Mass.
The Department of Commerce says "illegal harvesting contributes to depletion of valuable resources." The cargoes are valued at about $800,000 wholesale and about four times as much at retail and restaurant levels.
Australia is lobbying for the fish, which can grow over 50 years to 6 feet long and 200 pounds, to be listed as an endangered species by the United Nations, and for full compliance with the rules of a 29-member nation treaty drawn up to conserve Antarctic marine resources.
Australia has captured at least three pirate trawlers in its Antarctic economic zone this year. French patrols have seized 15 in the last three years.
One of the trawlers, the 150-foot Russian-flagged Volga, was detained in a freezing storm by Australian commandos working from helicopters. The vessel and $1 million in cargo were seized, and the fines could amount to $250,000. Lawyers for the Volga's Asian owners plan to challenge the confiscation of the vessel and catch.
In the case of a sister ship, the Lena, intercepted in the same economic zone claimed by Australia, her Spanish officers pleaded guilty. They were fined a total of $56,000 and forfeited their $400,000 catch and their $1 million vessel, believed to be controlled by a Taiwanese company.
South Africa, another nation with fishing interests in the far southern waters, also pursues poachers. Last year its navy ferried an Australian Special Forces squad to capture a Togo-registered, Spanish-owned pirate trawler with a $750,000 catch.
According to Australian officials here, the main pirates and fish traders have corporate and operational links to Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Spain and Indonesia.
"We try to follow the paper trails, but there are veils of corporate secrecy to disguise identities," a senior Australian diplomat said. Another Australian official said, "To put it plainly, we are up against organized crime, bureaucrats versus big business."
Australia estimates that 13,750 tons of the fish valued at about $100 million wholesale were poached from its Antarctic economic zone last year. Licensed fishers there took about 1,650 tons, a quota based on estimates of what the stocks can sustain. Conservationists say 80 percent of all catches of the fish are illegal, and overfishing could drive the species to extinction.
Some restaurants in New York and other American cities have stopped serving the fish at the request of conservationists, but elsewhere it is still on menus, as in Japan's sushi bars. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (90%); FISHES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NAVIES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); FINFISH FISHING (77%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ASSET FORFEITURE (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); LOBBYING (71%); WHOLESALERS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); HELICOPTERS (50%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; POACHING; PATAGONIAN TOOTHFISH; CHILEAN SEA BASS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SHAW, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (76%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (94%); ANTARCTICA (91%); FRANCE (90%); MAURITANIA (79%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); NETHERLANDS (53%) AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



237 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
A Game That Argentina Has Been Waiting For

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON 

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
THE arcing 3-pointer from the left wing was settling in the net when Manu Ginobili landed awkwardly on his right ankle, then crumpled to the floor and onto his back. Good shot, bad timing. His team, Argentina, was in the second quarter of a dogfight with Germany in the semifinals of the world basketball championships.
 A chance for gold and a guaranteed medal -- Argentina's first in these championships in 52 years -- was at stake. As for Ginobili, less than a month away from his first training camp with the San Antonio Spurs, an injury in the final weekend of the 11-day championships would be the last thing he would want to carry from Indianapolis. 
 "Second-degree sprain, I think," Pepe Sanchez, the Argentine point guard, would report of his backcourt mate. "He's gone to the hospital for X-rays. I don't know if he'll play tomorrow. It hurts. I think he'd feel really bad if we'd lost, but we didn't let him down."
As it turned out, Argentina, this tournament's strongest unit, banded even closer without its best player, rallying to defeat Dirk Nowitzki and Germany, 86-80, yesterday at Conseco Fieldhouse. The final beckons today against Yugoslavia, which overcame a 9-point halftime deficit and defeated the upstart New Zealand, 89-78, creating a showdown with Argentina -- not the gold medal game people here thought they'd see, but clearly the one with the two best teams. 
Argentine fans celebrated wildly in the final seconds. Tears streamed down the face of Alejandro Montecchia, a 6-foot-1 point guard who made several big plays down the stretch. Awaiting their country's players in the mixed zone area, Argentine journalists hugged and cried.
"The journalists told us that they are dancing in the streets back home," Sanchez said, skeptically. 
Basketball, to begin with, is not the most popular sport in Argentina, and the country has been plagued with a devastated economy. "It won't help the economy," said Fernando Duro, an assistant coach. "But even for people who don't like basketball, maybe when they hear it will make them feel good."
Argentina had already scratched out history in these championships, as the first team to upend the N.B.A. professionals from the United States. Much as this was big news for Americans -- maybe the only news, given the apathy this tournament has generated in Indianapolis and around the country -- Argentina Coach Ruben Magnano said, "Our euphoria lasted only 15 minutes."
With the American mystique shattered, the gold became the goal. These Argentine players, most of whom play professional ball in Spain, feature a core of nine players who have been together for eight years. Sanchez and Ginobili, both 25, have been playing together since they were 12. "This team is a family, like brothers," Sanchez said.
Sometimes brothers have to go their own way. Ginobili's injury so close to the opening of N.B.A. training camps underscores the risks many of the American pros have been increasingly reluctant to take when deciding whether to play for their country. It raises the question -- as well as some hope for the United States after its pro pickup team lost consecutive games and failed to win a medal -- of whether the countries that appear to have caught up to the United States will be able to count on their best players participating as their bank accounts fatten in the N.B.A.
Already, there are signs of how the good life affects one's nationalistic pride. Canada came here without its three best players, all N.B.A. players who begged off. China, of all teams, was without one of its frontline stars here, after Wang Zhi Zhi, who played with Dallas last season, ran afoul of the Chinese basketball delegation for skipping training camp for this tournament. After one disheartening game, Yao Ming, about to become the Houston Rockets' prize rookie center, stormed off the court without his team in tow, not your customary Chinese sporting behavior.
Here, and now, the Argentines and Yugoslavs are psyched and primed to be their countries' first gold medalists in an international competition that included N.B.A. players. Vlade Divac, who had previously retired from his national team, unretired because he correctly believed that the United States was vulnerable and that Yugoslavia could defend the gold medal it won four years ago in Athens, when N.B.A. players boycotted because of a homefront labor dispute.
"It's not something that someone's going to say -- 'I don't want to play,' " Sanchez said of the Argentine team. "If you don't want to play, you'd better have an excuse." 
He conceded that possible stardom in the N.B.A. might complicate life for the gifted Ginobili, but if he knows his old friend, that was the last thing on his mind as he rode to the hospital yesterday. "If there's any way Manu can play, he will," Sanchez said. "We have all waited for this next game our whole lives."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emanuel Ginobili, who will be a rookie with the San Antonio Spurs, sprained his right ankle yesterday. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); JOURNALISM (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); SPORTS FANS (72%) BASKETBALL; SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN) 

ORGANIZATION: SAN ANTONIO SPURS (83%)

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%) ARGENTINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); SPAIN (77%) ARGENTINA; GERMANY; YUGOSLAVIA

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



238 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-19

Iraq's Nuclear Effort Intensifying, Officials Say
Iraq has stepped up its quest for nuclear weapons and embarked on a worldwide hunt for materials to make an atomic bomb, Bush administration officials said. 1

Powell Defends Iraq Position
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said in an interview that the Bush administration has been unfairly characterized as unilateralist. He said the Sept. 11 attacks have brought China and Russia closer to the United States, and he played down tensions with European allies. 1

Blame in Helicopter Crash
Russia's defense minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, punished several senior military commanders for lapses that led to the crash of a military helicopter in Chechnya, which killed 119 soldiers and civilians. 13

Move to Curb Poachers
Australia has begun a campaign against international pirates plundering its declining stocks of Antarctic fish. Naval patrols and legal sanctions are being marshaled against long-range, high-tech poachers illegally taking about $200 million worth of Patagonian toothfish. 14

NATIONAL 30-32

Poll Shows Americans Feel Vulnerable to Terror
Americans increasingly doubt that their government has done enough to protect them against terrorist attacks and are resigned to a war against Iraq, the latest New York Times/CBS News poll shows. But majorities do not want war without Congressional and allied support first and a clear explanation from President Bush. 1

Medicare Payments May Rise
The Senate, which for weeks rejected proposals to help the elderly with prescription drug costs, is poised to increase Medicare payments to doctors, hospitals, nursing homes and health maintenance organizations. Consumer advocates are furious at the prospect and their anger is putting political pressure on Congress to try again to pass at least a modest drug bill this year. 32

Assertion on A-Bomb Scientist
A new book concludes that Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer, the leader of the secret laboratory that developed the atom bomb, belonged to the American Communist Party in the late 1930's and early 1940's. The assertion adds a startling chapter to a long-running debate. 32

NEW YORK/REGION 35-41

Separate in Their Grief, Victims' Families Seek Peace
A year after Sept. 11, the victims' families say that what defines them most is their sense of separation from other Americans. 1

9/11 Tumbled Shaky Economy
The attack on the World Trade Center brought business across the city to a halt, in some cases, for months. 35

Planning Sermons for 9/11
While secular leaders are refraining from speechmaking -- whether out of fear of inadequacy or a sincere sense of awe -- it will be the preachers shaping Wednesday's public recollection of Sept. 11, 2001. 35

OBITUARIES 42

Chess 41
Weather 43

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MEDICARE (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (75%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); HELICOPTERS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); POLITICS (70%); NURSING HOMES (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); CONSUMER LAW (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SERGEI IVANOV (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



239 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Defunct Hartford Store Is Reborn as a College 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
An imposing department store building that had sat vacant here on Main Street for nearly a decade, a potent symbol of Hartford's faded glory and faltering efforts to revive itself, reopened this week. But this time it will offer a vastly different product: a college education.
 For 75 years, the 11-story building housed the flagship of the regional G. Fox department store chain, a magnet for downtown activity and an opulent outpost for white-gloved shoppers until it closed in 1993. High-end, large-scale retailing, like many of Hartford's higher-income residents, fled to the suburbs. Since then, the G. Fox building's only public role has been an oddly appropriate one -- as a haunted house on Halloween. 
 On Wednesday, it officially reopened as Capital Community College. After a two-year, state-financed, $60 million reconstruction project, the college moved its 5,000 students here from two campuses in the city's West End. The two-year college will share the building with a $60 million, privately financed project of offices, shops and restaurants that are now being leased.
State officials say that reclaiming the prominent site is an important step toward revitalizing a downtown where few workers linger after office hours. Gov. John G. Rowland toured the building on Wednesday, mixing with students and echoing the past by jokingly calling out floor names like "sporting goods!" as the elevator ascended. The renovation has preserved the building's 1918 neo-Classical revival facade by Cass Gilbert, who designed the Woolworth Building in Manhattan, and many of its Art Deco flourishes, added in 1935. The new interior, though rather antiseptic, is airy and bright, with an atrium and a columned lobby.
Governor Rowland called the building "a symbol of our past -- the good times and the hard times."
"We have created a new campus, where residents will advance their education and their careers," he said, "and a signature downtown address is alive with thousands of people again."
Several students who mingled in the reception area after class registration juggled babies on their hips and talked excitedly about more practical matters like the 800 free parking spaces.
Other cities have converted department stores to community colleges. In Rochester, Sibley's, a flagship store that had languished without tenants, was reopened as Monroe Community College in 1990. In Stamford, Conn., a former Bloomingdale's was converted five years ago into a branch of the University of Connecticut.
Hartford's college relocation is part of an ambitious $1 billion plan that also includes Adriaen's Landing, a sprawling hotel conference center with retailing, housing and entertainment sites planned for the east side of downtown. The idea is to lure suburbanites to Hartford -- both to have fun and to buy homes in a city where the rate of homeownership is among the lowest in the nation.
Some urban affairs experts caution that such projects might address the wrong audience. David Rusk, who wrote "Inside Game/Outside Game: Winning Strategies for Saving Urban America," said that installing a community college or conference center downtown might help the city fiscally but still did not address Hartford's three biggest problems: poverty, population decline and a disproportionate number of poor minority residents.
"Until the state passes laws to reduce suburban sprawl and diversify the housing supply, Hartford will remain a warehouse for poor African-Americans and Hispanics," Mr. Rusk said.
But Mayor Eddie Perez said the G. Fox reopening would be "a new economic engine for the block and the rest of downtown."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The G. Fox department store in Hartford is now Capital Community College. Nursing students listened to a lecture in the college's new home. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY COLLEGES (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); SUBURBS (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); TRENDS (70%); HALLOWEEN (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (60%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; COMMUNITY COLLEGES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: CAPITAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE (HARTFORD, CONN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) HARTFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



240 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
For Unmarried Mothers, a City of Jobs

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
NEW YORK CITY'S late (and lamented) economic boom appears to have had a suprising group of beneficiaries: single mothers. The proportion of unmarried women with families who held jobs leapt in the late 1990's, at a rate far greater than the national average.
 Even more surprising, these women not only found jobs as the economy soared, they kept them as the city's economy soured during 2001.
 Those are some of the findings detailed in a new study from the Community Service Society of New York, which serves (and studies) disadvantaged New Yorkers. The report, by Mark Levitan and Robin Gluck, analyzes data from the Census Bureau's monthly household survey, the same one used to calculate the unemployment rate. 
 The report examines the employment status of unmarried mothers, those most likely to receive public assistance, in an effort to gauge the effects of welfare reform. But it also provides insights into New York City's economy, espeically when compared with the nation's.
 Historically, one of the mysterious things about New York has been that relatively few people in the city work, at least in comparison with other places. For example, a study by the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics estimated last year that fewer than 60 percent of working-age people in New York had jobs, versus, say, three-quarters of them in Minneapolis.
 Economists have come up with a variety of explanations for this. Some attribute it to the high levels of immigrants in the city (in particular, women born abroad are less likely to hold jobs than those born in the United States). Others, noting that relatively low employment levels are common in the Northeast, suggest that other demographic factors are at work.
 And there has long been a theory in some quarters (notably, City Hall under a certain previous mayor) that high levels of welfare and other public assistance kept people from seeking jobs. But the lack of economic opportunity also seemed to play a role.
 The Community Service Society's report suggests that the booming economy not only absorbed workers, including those no longer eligible for welfare, it actively drew them into the workforce. Between 1996 and 2000, the percentage of working New Yorkers increased by 5.3 percentage points, while employment levels nationally edged up 1.3 points, according to Mr. Levitan's calculations.
 Nowhere in the city were the gains greater than among unmarried mothers, whose job-holding rate soared by almost 17 percentage points - three times the increase for the city as a whole - to 59 percent. An even more dramatic increase occurred among unmarried mothers without high school diplomas, who in New York make up almost 40 percent of unmarried mothers, twice the national level. In 1996, less than 16 percent of these women in the city had jobs; by 2000, that had increased by almost 27 percentage points, tomore than 41 percent.
 "There has really been an extraordinary shift in the lives of single women," Mr. Levitan said. "If welfare reform was pushing them, the booming economy was pulling them in. Things changed in a fundamental way."
 And things have stayed changed, despite the city's economic troubles. For while nationally, the percentage of unmarried mothers with jobs slipped by one percentage point in 2001 to 74.5, it increased to 60.5 percent in the city. Mr. Levitan said he thought that was because single mothers in the city were most likely to take jobs in health care, education, ane social services, among the few sectors of the city's economy to continue to grow during the recession.
 The bad news is that those industries tend not to pay very well. And there is a big difference between having a job and earning a living, as anyone who has ever had a minimum-wage job knows.
 By Mr. Levitan's estimates, two-thirds of the unmarried mothers in New York City earn less than $29,000 a year. Almost 40 percent of them earn less than $14,269, the federal poverty level for a family of three. Tax credits and other assistance help, but the Community Service Society is calling for more government help and job training for working single mothers, as well as improved educational opportunities.
 To be sure, working is still probably better than being on welfare, Mr. Levitan said. "There is no doubt people working at low-wage jobs have more income," he said. "Whether they are better off in a broader sense is in dispute."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 18, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Unmarried Mothers
A chart on Sept. 8 with the front-page Home Front column in the Job Market section, about the demographic profile of unmarried mothers in the city, misstated percentages for education levels and citizenship status. A corrected version appears here.

EDUCATION

Less than high school: 39.0%
High school: 24.5
Bachelors or more: 11.1
Some college: 25.4

NATIVITY/YEAR OF ENTRY TO THE U.S.

Born in the U.S.: 49.9%
Entered before 1980: 16.0
After 1990: 16.4
Between 1980 to 1989: 17.7

(Source: Community Service Society of New York)

GRAPHIC: Graph: 'More Unmarried Mothers Work, but Remain Poor' Graphs comparing each other. (Source: Community Service Society of New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGLE PARENTS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); FAMILY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); STATISTICS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PARENTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); MAYORS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CENSUS (71%) LABOR; WOMEN; HIRING AND PROMOTION; WAGES AND SALARIES; WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



241 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: The Other Side of Globalism 

BYLINE:  By Geoffrey Wheatcroft; Geoffrey Wheatcroft's last book was "The Controversy of Zion: Jewish Nationalism, the Jewish State and the Unresolved Jewish Dilemma."

 BODY:
 LONGITUDES AND ATTITUDES
Exploring the World After September 11.
By Thomas L. Friedman.
383 pp. New York:
Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $26.
 BY some measures, Sept. 11 wasn't the worst of horrors. Although every death is an individual tragedy, and grief is never quantifiable, 3,000 killed was much the number who died on one bad night out of many in London during the Blitz. All the same, that morning in New York wrought an indelible change. Towers can be rebuilt, and even family lives, but we had all undergone a transformation in our consciousness. What had happened, and why? 
Those questions were discussed nowhere more urgently than in this newspaper. For some years, Thomas L. Friedman had enjoyed what he understandably calls "the best job in the world" as The Times's roaming foreign affairs columnist, traveling wherever he likes and writing whatever he likes with total freedom -- privileges that not many journalists enjoy, and that gave him a most unusual vantage point from which to come to terms with those shattering events. 
"Longitudes and Attitudes" is a collection of columns, from December 2000 to this past July, broken by September's great caesura, and including material from his diary, notes made but not used as he traveled to the Persian Gulf, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Indonesia, India, Saudi Arabia, London, Brussels. The book displays his salient strengths as a commentator, as well as some weaknesses. Friedman is fond of the "good news/bad news" routine, so let's reverse that order. 
Always a writer with the ability to make you think, whether in agreement or otherwise, he is sometimes not just thought-provoking but plain provoking. Even when he has something important to say on weighty subjects, his breezily buttonholing turn of phrase can be a little grating: "Fat chance . . . Dorothy, this ain't Kansas . . . Houston, we have a problem here . . . So, class, time for a news quiz . . . Ah, excuse me, but could we all just calm down here?" Yo, dudes, calming down sounds like a real good idea, especially since we're talking about mass murder and potentially catastrophic wars. 
For years, Friedman's big idea has been free enterprise in its new form of globalization: "the inexorable integration of markets, transportation systems and communication systems to a degree never witnessed before," which he believed would solve most of the world's ills. Not that "the maximum of intercourse between nations" was a new notion, or a bad one. Long before we had heard of the Web, Richard Cobden put it splendidly in 1850 when he said that "the progress of freedom depends more upon the maintenance of peace, the spread of commerce and the diffusion of education, than upon the labors of cabinets and foreign offices." 
Part of the trouble is that, like many well-meaning Americans, Friedman doesn't quite see that his country has a very distinctive take on "the spread of commerce." The business of America is business, and what American business has always believed in isn't free trade but free investment, a very different thing. In any case, and quite apart from the fact that there seems some time to go before the whole House of Islam is converted to consumerism and the American way, it isn't necessarily true that the expansion of American markets must always bring sweetness and light.
In his last book, "The Lexus and the Olive Tree," Friedman advanced what he called his Golden Arches Theory of Conflict Prevention: no two countries would ever go to war with one another if they both had McDonald's restaurants on their soil. It was bad luck that the British edition of this book appeared just as United States Air Force missiles rained down on Belgrade, a city whose many misfortunes unquestionably included the presence of America's nastiest culinary export. Friedman honestly if ruefully admitted that Belgrade was the exception to his rule, but this was a warning against grandiose theories, golden or otherwise.
Now the good news. To begin with, Friedman is more often right than not. He was profoundly right in saying that Sept. 11 was an appalling crime that had no conceivable justification, or even any real origin in oppression and injustice. That might not sound like such an amazing insight, but it quite eluded the "America had it coming" left in Europe and on some campuses in the United States. As Friedman saw, Osama bin Laden was not the brave if misguided proponent of a worthy cause, and he didn't care twopence for the Palestinians. He was -- let's hope the past tense is correct -- a bloodthirsty religious maniac, and his followers were deluded fanatics for whom murder was some obscure compensation for failure.
When he turns to the conflict in the Holy Land, Friedman is partly right. As he sees, the Palestinians have learned some things from Zionism, but they have still to learn the lesson that the best is the enemy of the good, and that all wise negotiations mean settling for what you can get now rather than what you want one day. And yet he fails to see the full pathos of the situation of the Palestinians, a people forgotten by history who found themselves involuntarily caught up in another people's great drama.
Nor should he imply that the United States can be a even-handed broker in that conflict. A sharp-eyed Palestinian might spot a comical contrast here. While Friedman is dismayed when Arabs tell him "that the Jews control the U.S. government," he also admits that although Israeli settlement policy is "insane," President Bush can do nothing about it, because that "would inevitably force a clash with U.S. Jews, whose votes and donations he needs to protect his G.O.P. majority in the House." 
With all those contradictions, few writers express better the sheer perplexity of America today: We are an open society and a beacon of freedom, so why do they hate us? Maybe an Englishman can help Friedman here. Like the Americans now, a hundred years ago the English combined political, cultural, economic and military hegemony with a very strong sense of their own virtue and high motives. And, just like the Americans now, they failed to see how insufferable others found this combination of might and righteousness. 
For all Friedman's enthusiasm, this book inevitably has a bleak flavor. He may not be right -- I fervently hope he is wrong -- in saying that Sept. 11 was the beginning of World War III, but he is all too right in saying that the task of nation-building in Afghanistan is likely to defeat the Americans. Then, last February, he became one of the rare journalists to play a part in history themselves when he brought back the Saudi peace proposal: recognition of Israel in return for withdrawal to May 1967 borders. We may never know how far this was genuine, but within weeks, Friedman was writing that "a terrible disaster is in the making in the Middle East." Nothing has happened since to make one think he was being unduly pessimistic.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); JOURNALISM (74%); LITERATURE (70%); FAMILY (70%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%) WHEATCROFT, GEOFFREY; FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%) UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (74%); AFGHANISTAN (69%); GULF STATES (55%)

TITLE: LONGITUDES AND ATTITUDES (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



242 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 2165 words

HEADLINE: Don't Rebuild. Reimagine. 

BYLINE:  By Herbert Muschamp; Herbert Muschamp is the architecture critic of The Times.

 BODY:
After the catastrophe of 9/11, who wanted to think about the aesthetics of architecture? Many people, it turned out. Buildings were the targets of the terrorist attacks. Fantasies of new buildings became a form of recovery: signs of the city's resilience in the face of unprecedented enemy assault. Proposals came from architects, artists and the public. And in July they came from the architecture firm formally chosen to supply these first-draft plans for what a rebuilt ground zero ought to look like. These official plans were universally derided. 
 The outpouring of images and emotions revealed a predicament gripping New York. To what extent should the city respond by getting back to normal? To what extent had the historical magnitude of 9/11 redirected the city's future away from normality? The six plans had been rejected as simply more sameness at a time when difference was called for. Had we not had our fill of "going back"? 
 In June, a group of New York architects met to discuss their dissatisfaction with the planning process unfolding under the auspices of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the state agency created to supervise the rebuilding of ground zero and the financial district. The group included Richard Meier, Steven Holl, Peter Eisenman, Charles Gwathmey and Guy Nordenson, a structural engineer. 
It had become clear to this group that the official planning process was following a pattern conventionally used by real-estate developers and that, in this instance, it had to be broken.
The pattern, a privatized version of city planning, routinely excludes architecture from the formative stages. Planners chop up the development sites into parcels, develop guidelines for each one and then hand them over to developers, who subdivide the building project among an assortment of specialists, including lawyers, interior-space planners, retail consultants, construction companies, architects and construction managers. In this way, large building projects of potentially major civic importance are delivered into the hands of competent but unimaginative firms. The assumption is: Anyone can do it. Just follow the guidelines.
This system is based upon the catastrophic misconception that architectural values can be objectively quantified. From this initial mistake, erroneous ideas accumulate: architecture is the production of images; discrimination among images is entirely a matter of taste; one person's taste is as good as another's; the most popular image (or as it usually works out, the least unpopular image) must be the best building. 
But of course, architecture is not a matter of images. It is the relationship of visual and spatial perceptions to conceptual abstractions. Or as Frank Lloyd Wright once put it, "Architecture is the scientific art of making structure express ideas."
Hearing of their heated conversations, The New York Times Magazine asked these architects if they would like to organize their frustrations into what might best be described as a study project. They readily agreed.
Throughout the summer, the group, which had taken on other members, including more of the architectural world's best-known practioners as well as some very talented, less well-known architects of the next generation, gathered at a series of loud, contentious meetings. Almost immediately, they decided to look beyond ground zero and reimagine a scheme for the entirety of Lower Manhattan. They argued over core principles, lobbying one another by phone and fax. Eventually they reached something like an agreement, or at least the broad strokes of one. Then each architect was assigned a specific site and task and asked to supply a corresponding image.
Images stimulate desire; the story of this study project could not be told without them. The project itself, however, is based on the belief that images are portals into consciousness. The project conceives of the city as pedagogical center: the paramount learning device of civilization.
Lower Manhattan is a site of convergence for two sets of urban infrastructures: the transportation systems (including streets) that provide access to the financial center and the communications systems that connect distant cities into an evolving global economic framework. The study project proposes to link these two systems with a third: a cultural infrastructure designed to reinforce connections between cities around the globe.
The project does not set forth a comprehensive plan. Rather, it presents an integrated set of options for the future of New York, a widening of possibilities beyond the shopworn, consumerist notions of "cultural programming" that have been proposed for ground zero: an opera house, for example, or the downtown branch of an uptown art museum. The product envisioned by the study is a recast cultural identity for 21st century New York: a revised mythology of our place in the era of globalization. The entire framework is presented as a living memorial to those who died in last year's attack.
The team began by adopting a strategy developed by Frederic Schwartz, architect of the Staten Island Ferry Terminal at the southern tip of Manhattan. Schwartz, who worked on the Westway highway project in the 1970's and 80's, had long recommended burying a segment of West Street, a six-lane state highway that divides Battery Park City from the rest of Lower Manhattan.
After 9/11, Schwartz calculated that the land created by burying this segment could easily yield 16 acres of developable land, enough to match the size of the World Trade Center site. He then figured out how the trade center's commercial bulk could be distributed over a new West Street development corridor.
In one stroke, this strategy accomplished two goals. It temporarily eliminated commercial pressures from the highly contested ground-zero site. And it healed a gash in the cityscape that had long obstructed the integration of Battery Park City with the financial district. The plan did not prohibit building on ground zero. It simply created a space for planners to devote more time and thought to conceptualizing how best to utilize the site.
The design team adopted the same commercial program used by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation's planners: 11 million square feet of office space, 600,000 square feet of retail space and a 600,000-square-foot hotel. Buildings along the new West Street corridor could equal or surpass this bulk, with the advantage that they could be built incrementally, as demand for office space increased. Most of the office space would be in a mix of high-rise and supertall buildings on and adjacent to ground zero, closer to transportation. Most of West Street, then, could be dedicated to housing.
The team also took into serious consideration how the plan would be financed. A new West Street corridor, augmented by so-called connector buildings south of the World Trade Center site, would add new land worth at least $2 billion. (That figure was provided by a developer who cooperated with the project; other experts speculate that the figure could be much higher.) This land could then be sold to developers, raising enough to cover the estimated $2 billion cost of building a platform over West Street. Or, if the platform were financed with state and federal dollars, the tax revenues could support a city-administered program for subsidizing developers who choose to invest in architecture rather than dull simulations of it. 
South of the World Trade Center site, city planners envision the development of a robust residential community that might be known as South Greenwich. The study project builds on this idea by designating sites for residential buildings that would link this new neighborhood to West Street, Battery Park City and the river. 
Some of the West Street projects will appear bizarre or perhaps self-indulgent to those unfamiliar with contemporary architecture. But this is not a lineup of architectural beauty contestants. All are conceptually rooted, in step with the level of architectural ambition in Vienna, Tokyo, Rotterdam and many other cities overseas. You have to look beneath the skin, for example, to appreciate the extraordinary elegance with which Charles Gwathmey has manipulated a single duplex unit into a variety of apartment layouts, which then generate the modeled facades.
Rem Koolhaas's project satirizes New York's nostalgic obsession with the Art Deco skyscraper by turning three of them on their heads. Peter Eisenman's three office towers can be viewed as a formalist exercise, for example, but they are also a critique of the Cartesian grid. The history of ideas is the context for architecture today.
Information is the second nature of the cosmopolitan age. Like grain, it requires cultivation. That process includes studying the why of things, the relationship between causes and effects. For the team, the violence of last year exposed the need for new instruments of cultivation, tools for interpreting raw data on world events. This is why this project devotes key space at ground zero to cultural institutes of learning, buildings designed by Richard Meier and Steven Holl.
The group also decided that the ground-zero site should specifically address the teeming infrastructure that lies below the city's surface. Rejecting the classical Grand Central Terminal notion of the "big room," Rafael Vinoly designed a transportation hub that distributes the circulation space in a series of switchbacks and visually celebrates the industrial grandeur of converging rail systems.
The study does not address the design of a permanent memorial, apart from recommending alternative sites. Since there are no physical footprints remaining of the World Trade Center, we have proposed articulating them in a reconstructed landscape. Though the team agreed that ideas for a memorial must come from a public process, Maya Lin was asked for her thoughts on what might be done. 
About the rebuilding of the towers themselves, the group was especially divided. In the end, it was decided that one proposal would be published -- for two towers, identical in size to the original ones, with one foot in ground zero and one foot outside it. Two shapes -- place holders for buildings that might occupy these sites -- were inspired by a variety of sources, including a sculpture by Isamu Noguchi, two airport control towers by Bartholomew Voorsanger, an office building by Frank Gehry, a conceptual design for ground zero by Richard Dattner and a pair of candlesticks of unidentified authorship. The idea was to present an "unauthored" symbol, an image of collective imagination. The symbolism is mutable: people can project a variety of meanings on these shapes, and they are all equally valid. For me, they signify resilience and the civilizing conversion of aggression into desire.
Finally, though the team did not fully endorse this idea, we present David Rockwell's rendering of a giant cybertheater over the New York Stock Exchange, which he calls the Hall of Risk. It is designed to educate the public about the social trade-offs caused by modernization. Adjacent to it, Guy Nordenson and Henry Cobb have designed an elegant broadcast tower that they fancifully imagine as the tallest structure in the world. Rather than shying away from ambition, this project embraces it with all its might.
Hospitality toward strangers . . . insistence on excellence. The urban historian Bonnie Menes Kahn has identified these two qualities as the indispensible cornerstones of cosmopolitan life. Judged by this standard, New York may be the most cosmopolitan city ever built. The diversity of our population and the relative sophistication of our cultural appetites still generate a magnetic energy unsurpassed by other great cities. We are one great polyglot aspirational surge.
Our architecture, however, no longer reflects this cosmopolitan spirit. In fact, our buildings have turned it upside down -- into a rage for dreariness and provinciality, an intolerance for the progressive ideas that have regenerated many cityscapes overseas. It is fair to say that in appearance and intention, New York's architecture has adhered to a viciously anticosmopolitan program. The architectural study presented here is meant to turn back these forces.
If you don't like the images, check out the concepts. You might dislike them too. But at least you'll gain a sense of architecture as an art of connecting dots. In this study, meaning is derived less from individual projects than from the relationships between them.
This is a work in progress. The publication deadline did not allow the team adequate time to focus on a number of critical issues, including sustainable design, transit links to regional airports, the elaborated design of an underground retail complex and the specific design of parks and a memorial promenade along West Street. Modernity, the philosopher Jurgen Habermas once wrote, is an incomplete project. So is New York. 

GRAPHIC: in the world. 1. Ground ZeroA school, right, by Richard Meier, with a transparent facade. Inset: An early elevation sketch of the design. Leave the 16-acre site largely open. Delineate and preserve the footprints of the original twin towers. Add a school, a museum and performance space. Build an innovative transit hub exposing the teeming city below. Link neighborhoods by reconnecting what the World Trade Center once severed: Greenwich Street. A transit hub, right, by Rafael Vinoly, with undulating concourses. Inset: A conceptual drawing suggesting how the various levels would intersect. Rafael Vinoly Transit Hub Connecting subways, trains and buses to Lower Manhattan, the Mass Transit Interchange would feature curved pedestrian paths that undulate between the surface and the underground, seamlessly uniting two separate realms of the city. Wavelike ramps lined with shops and cafes would intersect at different elevations throughout the complex; moving walkways and escalators would connect pedestrians to various subway lines. The canopied terminal, which at its peak could rise 10 stories, would have a glass facade, allowing views from a neighboring plaza into New York's underworld. The basic mechanics of urban movement would become a spectacle in their own right. "The design conveys the notion that New York's underground ought to be the same as above ground," Vinoly says. Richard Meier School This school, the Urban Faculty, would offer a place for architects, scholars and the public to create solutions for city problems -- from traffic congestion to air pollution. Adjacent to the twin-tower footprints, the center would have auditoriums, classrooms, offices and meeting spaces. A classic modernist structure sheathed in glass, the center would provide a transparent gateway to a plaza. "The openness of the building says, 'What goes on inside is also what's going on outside,"' Meier says. Steven Holl Museum/Theater An underground cultural center would hold three auditoriums -- separated by fabric partitions that could be pulled back, connecting the spaces -- for music, dance and theater performances. Above the surface would be what the architect calls a Confluence Center of World Religions. Visitors could enter this museum through separate portals that incorporate the architectural motifs of major religions: Christianity, Islam, Judaism and Buddhism. The museum would be shaped like an upward spiral, offering a metaphor for the process of enlightenment: visitors would rise slowly through the museum and then arrive at a common roof garden. A cultural building, right, by Steven Holl, with a religious-studies museum above ground and a series of theaters underneath. Inset below: A watercolor of the interior. Build a tunnel beneath today's West Street, funneling express traffic underground. On the surface, create two one-way streets to serve local traffic. Line the space between these two streets with showcase highrises -- apartment complexes, hotels, community centers and office towers. Open the cross streets to knit together Lower Manhattan, connecting Battery Park City and the Hudson River to the rest of downtown. Charles Gwathmey/Gwathmey Siegel Housing/Hotel This combination of housing and a hotel suggests a new model of urban living. The building would feature one- to three-bedroom apartments -- almost all of which would be duplexes, giving residents the feeling of living in small houses. To emphasize the individuality of each living space, the exterior design immediately outside each apartment would vary to reflect its interior design. The resulting facade would be modular and, in a sense, "designed" by the residents themselves. The building would extend over a cross street, but a gateway on the ground floor would allow easy passage for pedestrians. The ground floor would also accommodate retail and restaurant space.The building's top eight floors would serve as a luxury hotel, again consisting primarily of duplexes. A restaurant, conference rooms and an athletic club would be placed on the roof inside a series of sculptural forms that would, Gwathmey says, "create a dynamic view from across the river and give the building a long-range identity." Koning/Eizenberg Community/Senior Center Located on the northern tip of the West Street strip, this proposed community center reflects opinions voiced at recent community-board meetings. A bookstore, child-care center and coffee shop would occupy the ground floor; a senior-citizen center, retirement housing and a public gym would share the upper floors. TEN Arquitectos Housing/Library This U-shaped building, designed by Enrique Norton and Bernardo Gomez- Pimienta of the firm Ten Arquitectos, would house apartments in two vertical towers and a library and retail space in the horizontal space between them. One tower would be taller than the other to create views from the uppermost floors. Staggered terraces would come in various colors. A tower suitable for residential and hotel use, by Charles Gwathmey/Gwathmey Siegel. Inset: An early elevation diagram. Office towers, by Peter Eisenman/Eisenman Architects. Inset: A restaurant on the ground floor designed by Hernan Diaz Alonso. Office towers, by Rem Koolhaas/OMA. Inset: An early, fanciful scheme by Koolhaas that combined elements of all the team's buildings into one structure. Peter Eisenman Offices The crunched profiles of these three office towers suggest partly collapsed structures. In so doing, the buildings would echo the devastation wrought on 9/11 and offer a striking memorial to the fallen towers; at the same time, they would provide three million square feet of new office space. "This memorial," Eisenman says, "could be appreciated from anywhere in the city." Although the buildings' rippled facades would flow into the concrete as if they were melting, the interiors would resemble those of any normal office building. Rem Koolhaas/OMA Offices The 60-story office tower designed by Rem Koolhaas, Dan Wood and Joshua Ramus of OMA would offer an inversion of the typical skyscraper form: the building would grow wider at the top, giving extra space to the more desirable and expensive upper floors. Struts between each "leg" of the building and its neighbors would serve the dual purpose of connecting them and supporting the lower, thinner and less sturdy floors. Designed for 24-hour use, the building would also contain housing, apartments, hotel rooms and retail and cultural space; the roof would be a green area. "The skyscraper as a typology can continue to be reinvented," Wood says. "The destruction of Sept. 11 doesn't mean we have to be less grand and more timid." Many buildings along West Street's new tree-lined promenade would have multiple uses, combining offices, apartments, lofts and hotel rooms. High-priced luxury apartments (with spectacular harbor views) would subsidize more affordable housing and a community center. Lindy Roy Housing The design for this 28-story structure is inspired by the road sunk beneath it. The building's form suggests a multilane highway that wraps itself around a very steep mountain; it is almost as if a car could drive up and over it. The lower portion would serve as commercial and retail space; the upper floors would have a gallery of differently sized and priced apartments. A health club, swimming pool and green recreation space would occupy the top floors and roof. "I was really intrigued by the idea of actually building on a former highway -- one that's such an integral part of the city," Roy says. Alexander Gorlin Architects Housing The addition of large swaths of glass would turn this structure into a bold reinterpretation of a classic New York design: the postwar white-brick apartment building. Although the roof would be a recreation area and retail space would occupy the ground floor, the building would primarily house loft apartments. "They would come with suggested floor plans, but they would really allow the person who lives there plenty of flexibility," Gorlin says. Frederic Schwartz Architects/Face Design Housing The glass-and- concrete bottom of this 28-story building would contain retail shops, artist lofts and performance and exhibit spaces. The floors above would be prefabricated duplexes plugged into a steel framework. While all the apartments would be made of the same materials, half would be set aside for affordable housing. These apartments would be placed side by side with more expensive units. The building would feature several open-air communal decks with gardens. A trellis of photovoltaic solar cells atop the roof would help provide energy for the building. Architecture Research Office Housing Starting from a wide base, this building would taper as it rises to its 30-floor height. Retail shops on the first few floors would be topped by a sloping park. The lower floors would be designed as live-work loft spaces; apartments on upper floors would assume a more traditional design and layout. The building's skin -- layers of laser-cut stainless steel that is thick at the bottom and thin at the top - would unify the structure. "This is how you reintroduce housing in New York: make it look like some of the better parts of Manhattan with their incredible mix of commercial and residential," says Stephen Cassell, a founding member of ARO. Skyscraper, by Zaha Hadid. Inset right: The building as viewed from the harbor. Zaha Hadid Housing This towering skyscraper, which when viewed from the side resembles an enormous J, would be located at the southernmost end of the West Street strip. This singular vantage point would afford spectacular views of New York Harbor and the Statue of Liberty. The building would feature some of the most expensive apartments in the city; the profits generated could help subsidize other housing along West Street. Throughout the building, living space would coexist with prestige office space, often on the same floor and in varying sizes.The mix-and-match result, Hadid says, would "reflect the cultural diversity of New York." Downtown is not the only part of the city requiring boldness. Peter DePasquale and Pablo Lorenzo-Eiroa designed prototypes for residential buildings that could be placed anywhere in the city. DePasquale's design, left, emphasizes communal gardens; Lorenzo-Eiroa proposes a twisting structure, right, that would allow residents to park cars outside their apartments. Should there be towers? Imagine a pair of skyscrapers every bit as ambitious as the original structures - only more sculptural in form. Consider building memorials of light, water or rubble. 3. The Memorial and The TowersMaya Lin Memorial Following the idea that a memorial should rise out of extended public debate, the team of architects that reimagined Lower Manhattan did not offer a formal proposal for a monument to Sept. 11. The magazine, however, asked for a sketchbook of thoughts from Maya Lin, the designer of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall in Washington. Lin suggests three possible sites for a memorial; in her view, the chosen location will help define what kind of memorial should be built. First, she suggests placing a memorial not at ground zero but amid the new, vibrant West Street promenade (a). Another possibility would be a demarcated path between the twin-tower footprints (b). Finally, she imagines building an artificial island in the Hudson River (c), one that would be connected to Manhattan with a tree-lined promenade. In addition, Lin's sketchbook contains three ideas for projects devoted to remembrance. The Sacred Garden would transform the footprints of the former trade center into reflecting pools surrounded by a park. Every Sept. 11, the towers of light would reappear, projecting from the pools. Another concept, the Light Towers, would require coordination with the adjacent structures so that they could be built to create a frame around the disaster site. The buildings would be luminous -- glassy and airy -so that they formed a "candelabra" encircling the site. On the evening of each Sept. 11, the other buildings' lights would be extinguished, allowing the beams projecting from the footprints to shine into the night sky. A third idea is to build a Hall of Memories, located within the restored plaza, that might contain artifacts from the disaster's rubble. Towers The architects who came together to reimagine Lower Manhattan reached a consensus on many aspects of this plan. The question of replacing the twin towers, however, was more difficult. Some recoiled at the idea; others were enchanted by the prospect of crowning Manhattan's skyline with bold new skyscrapers. What is presented here is one idea that emerged for new towers. Resembling candlesticks, the buildings would be located at the intersection of Liberty Street and Church Street, straddling the southeast corner of ground zero. One tower would be located inside the site, while the other would sit just outside it. Such a placement would not only allow the twin-tower footprints to remain; it would also let ground zero become more than a memorial site. These towers would be roughly the height of their predecessors, though thinner and torqued to suggest resilience-as if they were made of a material that, if bumped, would simply absorb the shock. Would these towers be a new World Trade Center? Not necessarily. In addition to office space, they could house a mixture of cultural, retail and housing units. Another conception would accommodate today's heightened safety concerns: the towers could stand simply as monuments, empty but for a museum on the ground floor. Another notion for a tower comes from Guy Nordenson, a structural engineer. His is not a formal design but an idea for how a skyscraper could be torqued to make it structurally sound, even at very great heights. An exterior structure of steel and an interior structure of concrete work together to resist both wind and gravity; the twisting of the entire form reduces the dynamic effects of the wind. The Hall of Risk, a conceptual space devoted to debate. Inset: The interior of the hall, divided into discussion areas. 4. The Stock ExchangeA broadcast tower that would be the world's tallest structure. Inset: How it would affect the skyline. David Rockwell Stock Exchange Project The concept for the Hall of Risk was developed by Paul Ryan, a video artist and teacher, and Jean Gardner, a professor at the Parsons School of Design, and the physical design was conceived by the architect David Rockwell. It is intended partly as a theater and partly as a public forum at which global situations involving risk could be discussed and solutions developed. Located on what is now the New York Stock Exchange trading floor, the interior would be divided into a series of sunken discussion areas, and information relating to relevant topics would be streamed across the walls like a stock ticker. Giant pillars, cantilevered ever so slightly to suggest precariousness, would support a giant stadium overhead. Guy Nordenson and Henry N. Cobb Broadcast Tower Seven Stems, a telecommunications and broadcast tower, would rise just south of the New York Stock Exchange Building and act as a replacement home for the antennas that used to sit atop the north tower of the World Trade Center. Seven cylindrical steel columns, each 14 feet in diameter and set at different angles, would converge as they rose to 2,100 feet, becoming the tallest man-made structure in the world. Visitors could take steps to observation decks of varying height.Photos: On the Web: An interactive version, featuring audio interviews with many of the architects who worked on this plan, dozens of additional images of the architects'designs and sketches showing their evolution. Also, an online forum where readers can react to what they see on these pages. At nytimes.com/magazine. (Space Imaging; graphic by Mika Grondahl/The New York Times) David Rockwell Stock Exchange ProjectIncorporating audacious design ideas from around the globe, this plan would not only revitalize Lower Manhattan; it would also reassert New York's cosmopolitan identity. And it would re-establish New York's skyline as the most thrillingin the world. 1. Ground ZeroA school, right, by Richard Meier, with a transparent facade. Inset: An early elevation sketch of the design. Leave the 16-acre site largely open. Delineate and preserve the footprints of the original twin towers. Add a school, a museum and performance space. Build an innovative transit hub exposing the teeming city below. Link neighborhoods by reconnecting what the World Trade Center once severed: Greenwich Street. A transit hub, right, by Rafael Vinoly, with undulating concourses. Inset: A conceptual drawing suggesting how the various levels would intersect. Rafael Vinoly Transit Hub Connecting subways, trains and buses to Lower Manhattan, the Mass Transit Interchange would feature curved pedestrian paths that undulate between the surface and the underground, seamlessly uniting two separate realms of the city. Wavelike ramps lined with shops and cafes would intersect at different elevations throughout the complex; moving walkways and escalators would connect pedestrians to various subway lines. The canopied terminal, which at its peak could rise 10 stories, would have a glass facade, allowing views from a neighboring plaza into New York's underworld. The basic mechanics of urban movement would become a spectacle in their own right. "The design conveys the notion that New York's underground ought to be the same as above ground," Vinoly says. Richard Meier School This school, the Urban Faculty, would offer a place for architects, scholars and the public to create solutions for city problems -- from traffic congestion to air pollution. Adjacent to the twin-tower footprints, the center would have auditoriums, classrooms, offices and meeting spaces. A classic modernist structure sheathed in glass, the center would provide a transparent gateway to a plaza. "The openness of the building says, 'What goes on inside is also what's going on outside,"' Meier says. Steven Holl Museum/Theater An underground cultural center would hold three auditoriums -- separated by fabric partitions that could be pulled back, connecting the spaces -- for music, dance and theater performances. Above the surface would be what the architect calls a Confluence Center of World Religions. Visitors could enter this museum through separate portals that incorporate the architectural motifs of major religions: Christianity, Islam, Judaism and Buddhism. The museum would be shaped like an upward spiral, offering a metaphor for the process of enlightenment: visitors would rise slowly through the museum and then arrive at a common roof garden. A cultural building, right, by Steven Holl, with a religious-studies museum above ground and a series of theaters underneath. Inset below: A watercolor of the interior. Build a tunnel beneath today's West Street, funneling express traffic underground. On the surface, create two one-way streets to serve local traffic. Line the space between these two streets with showcase highrises -- apartment complexes, hotels, community centers and office towers. Open the cross streets to knit together Lower Manhattan, connecting Battery Park City and the Hudson River to the rest of downtown. Charles Gwathmey/Gwathmey Siegel Housing/Hotel This combination of housing and a hotel suggests a new model of urban living. The building would feature one- to three-bedroom apartments -- almost all of which would be duplexes, giving residents the feeling of living in small houses. To emphasize the individuality of each living space, the exterior design immediately outside each apartment would vary to reflect its interior design. The resulting facade would be modular and, in a sense, "designed" by the residents themselves. The building would extend over a cross street, but a gateway on the ground floor would allow easy passage for pedestrians. The ground floor would also accommodate retail and restaurant space.The building's top eight floors would serve as a luxury hotel, again consisting primarily of duplexes. A restaurant, conference rooms and an athletic club would be placed on the roof inside a series of sculptural forms that would, Gwathmey says, "create a dynamic view from across the river and give the building a long-range identity." Koning/Eizenberg Community/Senior Center Located on the northern tip of the West Street strip, this proposed community center reflects opinions voiced at recent community-board meetings. A bookstore, child-care center and coffee shop would occupy the ground floor; a senior-citizen center, retirement housing and a public gym would share the upper floors. TEN Arquitectos Housing/Library This U-shaped building, designed by Enrique Norton and Bernardo Gomez- Pimienta of the firm Ten Arquitectos, would house apartments in two vertical towers and a library and retail space in the horizontal space between them. One tower would be taller than the other to create views from the uppermost floors. Staggered terraces would come in various colors. A tower suitable for residential and hotel use, by Charles Gwathmey/Gwathmey Siegel. Inset: An early elevation diagram. Office towers, by Peter Eisenman/Eisenman Architects. Inset: A restaurant on the ground floor designed by Hernan Diaz Alonso. Office towers, by Rem Koolhaas/OMA. Inset: An early, fanciful scheme by Koolhaas that combined elements of all the team's buildings into one structure. Peter Eisenman Offices The crunched profiles of these three office towers suggest partly collapsed structures. In so doing, the buildings would echo the devastation wrought on 9/11 and offer a striking memorial to the fallen towers; at the same time, they would provide three million square feet of new office space. "This memorial," Eisenman says, "could be appreciated from anywhere in the city." Although the buildings' rippled facades would flow into the concrete as if they were melting, the interiors would resemble those of any normal office building. Rem Koolhaas/OMA Offices The 60-story office tower designed by Rem Koolhaas, Dan Wood and Joshua Ramus of OMA would offer an inversion of the typical skyscraper form: the building would grow wider at the top, giving extra space to the more desirable and expensive upper floors. Struts between each "leg" of the building and its neighbors would serve the dual purpose of connecting them and supporting the lower, thinner and less sturdy floors. Designed for 24-hour use, the building would also contain housing, apartments, hotel rooms and retail and cultural space; the roof would be a green area. "The skyscraper as a typology can continue to be reinvented," Wood says. "The destruction of Sept. 11 doesn't mean we have to be less grand and more timid." Many buildings along West Street's new tree-lined promenade would have multiple uses, combining offices, apartments, lofts and hotel rooms. High-priced luxury apartments (with spectacular harbor views) would subsidize more affordable housing and a community center. Lindy Roy Housing The design for this 28-story structure is inspired by the road sunk beneath it. The building's form suggests a multilane highway that wraps itself around a very steep mountain; it is almost as if a car could drive up and over it. The lower portion would serve as commercial and retail space; the upper floors would have a gallery of differently sized and priced apartments. A health club, swimming pool and green recreation space would occupy the top floors and roof. "I was really intrigued by the idea of actually building on a former highway -- one that's such an integral part of the city," Roy says. Alexander Gorlin Architects Housing The addition of large swaths of glass would turn this structure into a bold reinterpretation of a classic New York design: the postwar white-brick apartment building. Although the roof would be a recreation area and retail space would occupy the ground floor, the building would primarily house loft apartments. "They would come with suggested floor plans, but they would really allow the person who lives there plenty of flexibility," Gorlin says. Frederic Schwartz Architects/Face Design Housing The glass-and- concrete bottom of this 28-story building would contain retail shops, artist lofts and performance and exhibit spaces. The floors above would be prefabricated duplexes plugged into a steel framework. While all the apartments would be made of the same materials, half would be set aside for affordable housing. These apartments would be placed side by side with more expensive units. The building would feature several open-air communal decks with gardens. A trellis of photovoltaic solar cells atop the roof would help provide energy for the building. Architecture Research Office Housing Starting from a wide base, this building would taper as it rises to its 30-floor height. Retail shops on the first few floors would be topped by a sloping park. The lower floors would be designed as live-work loft spaces; apartments on upper floors would assume a more traditional design and layout. The building's skin -- layers of laser-cut stainless steel that is thick at the bottom and thin at the top - would unify the structure. "This is how you reintroduce housing in New York: make it look like some of the better parts of Manhattan with their incredible mix of commercial and residential," says Stephen Cassell, a founding member of ARO. Skyscraper, by Zaha Hadid. Inset right: The building as viewed from the harbor. Zaha Hadid Housing This towering skyscraper, which when viewed from the side resembles an enormous J, would be located at the southernmost end of the West Street strip. This singular vantage point would afford spectacular views of New York Harbor and the Statue of Liberty. The building would feature some of the most expensive apartments in the city; the profits generated could help subsidize other housing along West Street. Throughout the building, living space would coexist with prestige office space, often on the same floor and in varying sizes.The mix-and-match result, Hadid says, would "reflect the cultural diversity of New York." Downtown is not the only part of the city requiring boldness. Peter DePasquale and Pablo Lorenzo-Eiroa designed prototypes for residential buildings that could be placed anywhere in the city. DePasquale's design, left, emphasizes communal gardens; Lorenzo-Eiroa proposes a twisting structure, right, that would allow residents to park cars outside their apartments. Should there be towers? Imagine a pair of skyscrapers every bit as ambitious as the original structures - only more sculptural in form. Consider building memorials of light, water or rubble. 3. The Memorial and The TowersMaya Lin Memorial Following the idea that a memorial should rise out of extended public debate, the team of architects that reimagined Lower Manhattan did not offer a formal proposal for a monument to Sept. 11. The magazine, however, asked for a sketchbook of thoughts from Maya Lin, the designer of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall in Washington. Lin suggests three possible sites for a memorial; in her view, the chosen location will help define what kind of memorial should be built. First, she suggests placing a memorial not at ground zero but amid the new, vibrant West Street promenade (a). Another possibility would be a demarcated path between the twin-tower footprints (b). Finally, she imagines building an artificial island in the Hudson River (c), one that would be connected to Manhattan with a tree-lined promenade. In addition, Lin's sketchbook contains three ideas for projects devoted to remembrance. The Sacred Garden would transform the footprints of the former trade center into reflecting pools surrounded by a park. Every Sept. 11, the towers of light would reappear, projecting from the pools. Another concept, the Light Towers, would require coordination with the adjacent structures so that they could be built to create a frame around the disaster site. The buildings would be luminous -- glassy and airy -so that they formed a "candelabra" encircling the site. On the evening of each Sept. 11, the other buildings' lights would be extinguished, allowing the beams projecting from the footprints to shine into the night sky. A third idea is to build a Hall of Memories, located within the restored plaza, that might contain artifacts from the disaster's rubble. Towers The architects who came together to reimagine Lower Manhattan reached a consensus on many aspects of this plan. The question of replacing the twin towers, however, was more difficult. Some recoiled at the idea; others were enchanted by the prospect of crowning Manhattan's skyline with bold new skyscrapers. What is presented here is one idea that emerged for new towers. Resembling candlesticks, the buildings would be located at the intersection of Liberty Street and Church Street, straddling the southeast corner of ground zero. One tower would be located inside the site, while the other would sit just outside it. Such a placement would not only allow the twin-tower footprints to remain; it would also let ground zero become more than a memorial site. These towers would be roughly the height of their predecessors, though thinner and torqued to suggest resilience-as if they were made of a material that, if bumped, would simply absorb the shock. Would these towers be a new World Trade Center? Not necessarily. In addition to office space, they could house a mixture of cultural, retail and housing units. Another conception would accommodate today's heightened safety concerns: the towers could stand simply as monuments, empty but for a museum on the ground floor. Another notion for a tower comes from Guy Nordenson, a structural engineer. His is not a formal design but an idea for how a skyscraper could be torqued to make it structurally sound, even at very great heights. An exterior structure of steel and an interior structure of concrete work together to resist both wind and gravity; the twisting of the entire form reduces the dynamic effects of the wind. The Hall of Risk, a conceptual space devoted to debate. Inset: The interior of the hall, divided into discussion areas. 4. The Stock ExchangeA broadcast tower that would be the world's tallest structure. Inset: How it would affect the skyline. David Rockwell Stock Exchange Project The concept for the Hall of Risk was developed by Paul Ryan, a video artist and teacher, and Jean Gardner, a professor at the Parsons School of Design, and the physical design was conceived by the architect David Rockwell. It is intended partly as a theater and partly as a public forum at which global situations involving risk could be discussed and solutions developed. Located on what is now the New York Stock Exchange trading floor, the interior would be divided into a series of sunken discussion areas, and information relating to relevant topics would be streamed across the walls like a stock ticker. Giant pillars, cantilevered ever so slightly to suggest precariousness, would support a giant stadium overhead. Guy Nordenson and Henry N. Cobb Broadcast Tower Seven Stems, a telecommunications and broadcast tower, would rise just south of the New York Stock Exchange Building and act as a replacement home for the antennas that used to sit atop the north tower of the World Trade Center. Seven cylindrical steel columns, each 14 feet in diameter and set at different angles, would converge as they rose to 2,100 feet, becoming the tallest man-made structure in the world. Visitors could take steps to observation decks of varying height.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TERRORISM (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); ENGINEERING (72%); LAND SUBDIVISION (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%) ; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ARCHITECTURE 

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (88%) CASSELL, STEPHEN; COBB, HENRY N; DEPASQUALE, PETER; EISENMAN, PETER; FOUSER, TODD; GORLIN, ALEXANDER; GWATHMEY, CHARLES; HADID, ZAHA; HOLL, STEVEN; KOOLHAAS, REM; KONING, HANK; EIZENBERG, JULIE; LIN, MAYA; LORENZO-EIROA, PABLO; MEIER, RICHARD; NORDENSON, GUY; NORTEN, ENRIQUE; GOMEZ-PIMIENTA, BERNARDO; ROCKWELL, DAVID; ROY, LINDY; SCHWARTZ, FREDERIC; VINOLY, RAFAEL; MUSCHAMP, HERBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



243 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 10662 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/MOVIES; 
Hannibal to Hobbits, Pinochet to Pinocchio

BYLINE:  By DAVE KEHR (Compiled with the assistance of SUZANNE O'CONNOR) 

 BODY:
 September

THE PINOCHET CASE -- Gen. Augusto Pinochet's arrest for rights abuses committed while he was the military ruler of Chile, and the effort to bring him to trial, are the subject of this documentary by Patricio Guzman, whose "Battle of Chile" was one of the most widely seen political films of the 1970's. Wednesday.

ALIAS BETTY -- From Claude Miller, a French psychological thriller about a promising young novelist (Sandrine Kiberlain) whose orderly suburban life is destroyed when her young son dies in an accident. But wait, there's more: her deeply disturbed, abusive mother (Nicole Garcia) moves in and decides that Betty needs another child to care for -- so she kidnaps one. From a novel by Ruth Rendell, "The Tree of Hands." Friday.

BARBERSHOP -- A barbershop on Chicago's South Side becomes the gathering place for an assortment of neighborhood characters, including the crusty veteran barber (Cedric the Entertainer), a self-regarding college student (Sean Patrick Thomas), an ex-con trying to stay out of trouble (Michael Ealy) and a street-smart woman (the rap star Eve) who still isn't tough enough to tell off her double-dealing boyfriend. Ice Cube is the uncertain owner, who's inherited the shaky business from his father. Directed by Tim Story. Friday.

CHILDREN OF THE CENTURY -- The tumultuous love story of two French literary icons of the early 19th century: the novelist George Sand (Juliette Binoche) and the poet Alfred de Musset (Benoit Magimel, of "The Piano Teacher"). Things fall apart in Venice, where de Musset is distracted by drugs and Sand by a handsome Italian doctor. With Stefano Dionisi and Karin Viard; Diane Kurys ("Entre Nous") directed, departing from her usual autobiographical mode. Friday.

ELVIRA'S HAUNTED HILLS -- Cassandra Peterson brings her bosomy vampire character Elvira, Mistress of the Dark, out of retirement for a horror spoof set in Translyvania. Directed by Sam Irvin, it's said to be a send-up of the Vincent Price-Edgar Allan Poe horror films of the early 60's. Friday (midnight shows only).

IGBY GOES DOWN -- Kieran Culkin is Igby Slocumb, a restless 17-year-old from a decaying patrician family. Sent to a military school by his uncomprehending parents (Bill Pullman and Susan Sarandon), he soon breaks out and makes for New York, where he finds refuge at the bachelor pad of his swinging godfather (Jeff Goldblum). He meets his godfather's clotheshorse girlfriend (Amanda Peet) and an oversophisticated young woman (Claire Danes), who teach him a few things about life. Written and directed by Burr Steers; with Jared Harris and Ryan Phillippe. Friday. A related article is on Page 33.

MAHAGONNY -- The musicologist and experimental filmmaker Harry Smith shot this avant-garde feature from 1970 to 1972, drawing on downtown friends like Patti Smith, Allen Ginsberg and Jonas Mekas to create a vision of daily life in New York City set to Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht's 1930 opera of the same name. Friday.

QUITTING -- A dramatization of the true story of the Chinese actor Jia Hongsheng, who plays himself. A rising star in Chinese television, Jia drifted into drugs and despair and was rescued when his parents (who also play themselves) arrived from the country to take care of him. Directed by Zhang Yang, who made the gentle, crowd-pleasing "Shower." Friday.

STEALING HARVARD -- After the controversial comedy "Freddy Got Fingered," the MTV comic Tom Green returns to the big screen, partnered with the affable Jason Lee in a romp about a young man who turns to crime to finance a Harvard education for his niece. With Seymour Cassel, Dennis Farina, Richard Jenkins and John C. McGinley; the director is the once and future Kid in the Hall Bruce McCulloch. Friday.

SWIMMING -- Lauren Ambrose of "Six Feet Under" plays a sexually uptight teenager working in her father's diner in Myrtle Beach, S.C. She opens up when she befriends an older, more experienced girl (Joelle Carter). Robert J. Siegel directed and co-wrote the script (with Lisa Bazadona). Friday.

TED BUNDY -- Michael Reilly Burke plays the notorious serial killer of the 1970's, who claimed to have murdered more than 35 women. Directed and co-written by Matthew Bright (a specialist in the material -- his last film was "Ed Gein," about another prolific murderer), the film is told from Bundy's point of view. Friday.

THE TRANSPORTER -- Jason Statham, one of the lads in the British crime film "Snatch," plays a mercenary hired to kidnap the daughter of a Hong Kong crime lord whose specialty is smuggling immigrants into France. The French fantasist Luc Besson ("The Fifth Element") produced and co-wrote; the director is Cory Yuen, who worked with Mr. Besson on "Kiss of the Dragon." The Hong Kong sexpot Shu Qi makes her English-language debut. Friday.

DAS EXPERIMENT -- In Oliver Hirschbiegel's German film, Moritz Bleibtreu of "Run, Lola, Run" is a journalist who infiltrates a psychological experiment. Twenty paid volunteers will be locked up in a mock prison, where each will be assigned a role either as a guard or as an inmate; their only instructions are to stay in character for two weeks while a team of psychologists observes them. That, of course, is not as easy as it sounds. A big commercial success on its home turf. Mr. Hirschbiegel is to direct the next chapter in the "Blade" series. Sept. 18.

APOLLO 13: THE IMAX EXPERIENCE -- Ron Howard's 1995 drama about the problem-plagued moon mission of 1970 has been blown up to the giant-screen Imax format, using computer technology to enhance the images. It continues to star Tom Hanks, Kevin Bacon, Bill Paxton, Gary Sinise, Ed Harris and Kathleen Quinlan; Mr. Howard directed from a screenplay by William Broyles Jr. ("Cast Away") and Al Reinert. Sept. 20.

THE BANGER SISTERS -- Bob Dolman's film follows the widely different fates of two dedicated groupies from the 1960's. One, played by Goldie Hawn, has ended up a barmaid in Los Angeles, consumed with nostalgia for her colorful past; the other, Susan Sarandon, is a social climber in Phoenix, desperate to keep her past a secret. With Geoffrey Rush as a helpful hitchhiker and Eva Amurri, Ms. Sarandon's daughter, playing one of her character's offspring. Sept. 20. A related article is on Page 33.

DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL -- A 1954 low-budget science fiction film, "Killers From Space," recut and overdubbed a la Woody Allen's "What's Up, Tiger Lily?" into a zany comedy about a race of gay men from outer space, on a mission to turn all earthlings into homosexuals. Conceived and written by Tex Hauser; directed (the new version) by Doug Miles. Sept. 20.

8 WOMEN -- Several of France's biggest female stars -- Danielle Darrieux, Catherine Deneuve, Isabelle Huppert, Emmanuelle Beart, Fanny Ardant and Virginie Ledoyen -- team up for a campy comedy by Francois Ozon ("Under the Sand"). Based on a play by Robert Thomas, the film is set in a provincial mansion in the 1950's where Ms. Deneuve's husband has been found stabbed in his bedchamber. Every woman within a five-mile radius appears to have a reason for wanting him dead. Sept. 20.

THE FOUR FEATHERS -- Another go-round for A. E. W. Mason's often-filmed tale of heroic British troops battling in the Sudan of 1898. Heath Ledger is Harry Faversham, an officer who resigns his commission and loses his honor. Branded a coward by his friends and fiancee (Kate Hudson), he goes off to the desert to redeem himself. Perhaps the director, the Indian-born Shekhar Kapur ("Elizabeth"), can bring a new perspective to the classic imperialist adventure. With Wes Bentley and Djimon Hounsou. Sept. 20. A related article is on Page 34.

HIS SECRET LIFE -- When her husband dies, an Italian housewife (Margherita Buy) is astounded to discover that he had a longtime male lover (the suddenly ubiquitous Stefano Accorsi). But instead of being outraged, she becomes a passionate defender of the lover's world of sexual outcasts. Directed by Ferzan Ozpetek, whose "Steam: the Turkish Bath" has become a gay cult favorite. Sept. 20.

INVINCIBLE -- The true story of Zesha Breitbart (Jouko Ahola), a Jewish blacksmith who billed himself as the Strongest Man in the World on Berlin's vaudeville circuit in the early 1930's. Tim Roth co-stars as a clairvoyant who becomes a favorite of Hitler. Werner Herzog, the enfant terrible of the New German Cinema of the 1970's, directs. Sept. 20.

LAWRENCE OF ARABIA -- The restoration expert Robert A. Harris produced this 70-millimeter reissue of the David Lean classic of 1962, with Peter O'Toole as the enigmatic desert warrior. Sept. 20.

SECRETARY -- One of the hits of this year's Sundance Film Festival, Steven Shainberg's dark comedy tells the story of a young woman (Maggie Gyllenhaal) just out of a psychiatric hospital who gets a job with a dominating lawyer (James Spader). Their employer-employee relationship takes on a sexual, sadomasochistic charge. With Jeremy Davies and Lesley Ann Warren; Erin Cressida Wilson wrote the script. Sept. 20.

SLAP HER . . . SHE'S FRENCH -- Jane McGregor as a popular Texas teenager who finds her social dominance threatened by a French exchange student (Piper Perabo). The actress Melanie Mayron ("Thirtysomething") directed. Sept. 20.

SNIPES -- Two Philadelphia teenagers enter a world of violence when they stumble across the aftermath of a bloody shootout in a recording studio. Rich Murray directs Sam Jones III, Nelly and Zoe Saldana. Sept. 20.

SPIRITED AWAY -- Perhaps the greatest living practitioner of traditional hand-drawn animation, Japan's Hayao Miyazaki ("Princess Mononoke") directed this story of a young girl who travels to the land of the gods in an attempt to rescue her parents, transformed into pigs by an evil wizard. The Disney company has dubbed over the Japanese soundtrack with American voices, including those of Lauren Holly, Suzanne Pleshette and John Ratzenberger, but nothing happens to his films without Mr. Miyazaki's control and consent. Domestically, it's Japan's highest-grossing film of all time at more than $200 million. Sept. 20.

TRAPPED -- When their diabetic daughter is kidnapped, a Mississippi couple (Stuart Townsend and Charlize Theron) are told not to go to the police or the girl's insulin will be withheld. Kevin Bacon and Courtney Love are the bad folk; Luis Mandoki ("Angel Eyes") directs. Sept. 20.

DAYDREAM BELIEVER -- Valerie Kempson is an aspiring actress who impulsively leaves her small Vermont hometown and moves to New York City to pursue her dream. Debra Eisenstadt directed this digital video feature. Sept. 25.

THE TRIALS OF HENRY KISSINGER -- Working from the book by Christopher Hitchens, the filmmaker Eugene Jarecki looks into Mr. Kissinger's role in Chile, Vietnam and East Timor. Witnesses include Alexander Haig, William Safire, Seymour Hersh and William Shawcross. Sept. 25.

BALLISTIC: ECKS VS. SEVER -- The unwieldy title refers to two rival government agents, Antonio Banderas and Lucy Liu, who have been assigned to kill each other but discover they share a common enemy. Is it Ray Park, the British agent on their trail? Wych Kaosayananda, a Thai director who uses the more wieldy pseudonym Kaos, is the director. Sept. 27.

BIGGIE AND TUPAC -- Nick Broomfield, the --aggressive British documentary maker behind "Kurt and Courtney" and "Heidi Fleiss: Hollywood Madam," examines the still-unsolved killings of the rappers Biggie Smalls and Tupac Shakur. Sept. 27.

CRAZY AS HELL -- Eriq La Salle of "E.R." directed this adaptation of Jeremy Leven's novel "Satan," about a new patient (Mr. La Salle) who checks into a state medical hospital claiming to be the Devil incarnate. Michael Beach is the psychiatrist who must cope not only with his troublesome new patient, but also with the continuing trauma of the deaths of his wife and child, and with a television crew, headed by John C. McGinley, that is filming him for a documentary. Sept. 27.

DARK BLUE -- This represents a departure from sports themes for the writer-director Ron Shelton ("Bull Durham"). It's a police thriller, set in the racially charged atmosphere of South Central Los Angeles just before the Rodney King beating, where a cynical veteran cop (Kurt Russell) instructs his green partner (Scott Speedman) in the ways of the street as they investigate a quadruple homicide. Sept 27.

JUST A KISS -- Part animated and part live action, Fisher Stevens's film features Taye Diggs, Ron Eldard, Kyra Sedgwick, Marley Shelton and Marisa Tomei as New Yorkers who, somehow or other, are allowed to go back in time and rectify their complicated love lives. Script by Patrick Breen. Sept. 27.

MOONLIGHT MILE -- Brad Silberling's loosely autobiographical film presents the gifted and hard-working Jake Gyllenhaal as a young man who is effectively adopted by the parents of his girlfriend, who was killed at the restaurant where she worked as a waitress. But even as he fulfills his role as a live-in memory for the grieving parents (Dustin Hoffman and Susan Sarandon), he finds himself falling in love with a bartender (Ellen Pompeo). A good cast, including Dabney Coleman, Richard T. Jones and Holly Hunter; Mr. Silberling ("Casper," "City of Angels") wrote and directed. Sept. 27. A related article is on Page 33.

SHANGHAI GHETTO -- Martin Landau narrates this documentary about European Jews who found refuge in China during World War II. The directors, Dana Janklowicz-Mann and Amir Mann, accompanied two survivors to Shanghai, where they clandestinely filmed the surviving Jewish ghetto. Sept. 27.

SKINS -- Two Lakota Sioux, played by Eric Schweig and Graham Greene, find their lives much changed when they return to the reservation after serving in Vietnam. Chris Eyre of "Smoke Signals" directed, filming on location at the Pine Ridge Reservation. With Gary Farmer. Sept. 27.

SWEET HOME ALABAMA -- The unsinkable Reese Witherspoon, as a Deep South refugee who reinvents herself as a New York socialite (anybody here seen "Breakfast at Tiffany's"?). Her dashing boyfriend (Patrick Dempsey) is the son of the mayor of New York (Candice Bergen); when he proposes, she returns home to tell her folks the good news, only to have her parade rained on by Josh Lucas, the husband she left behind. The romance specialist Andy Tennant ("Ever After") directed. Sept. 27.

THE TUXEDO -- Jackie Chan's variation on "The Sorceror's Apprentice." He's a limo driver who borrows the fancy tuxedo that belongs to his mysterious boss (Jason Isaacs), only to find that it's actually a high-tech defense system, wired with a million secret devices. Jennifer Love Hewitt is Jackie's partner and love interest; Peter Stormare, the soul legend James Brown and Ritchie Coster co-star under the first-time director Kevin Donovan. Sept. 27.

WASABI -- From the commercial side of the French cinema, here's a thriller about a Parisian police detective (Jean Reno) who is summoned to Tokyo to deal with a surprising inheritance. Directed by Gerard Krawczyk ("Taxi 2") and produced by Luc Besson. Sept. 27.

BIG SHOT'S FUNERAL -- Feng Xiaogang's comedy garnered a lot of press last year as the first Chinese film to employ major Western actors. Donald Sutherland stars as a famous American filmmaker who travels to Beijing to shoot a historical epic, but discovers that he's about to die just as the film goes into production. His crew pitches in to finance a funeral for him, slipping product endorsements from Chinese companies into his feature. With Paul Mazursky and Ge You ("To Live"). September.

October

BETWEEN STRANGERS -- Edoardo Ponti directs his mom, a certain Sophia Loren, in a three-part tale of women in Toronto (the other stars are Mira Sorvino and Deborah Kara Unger) who must face up to dark secrets in their pasts. With Gerard Depardieu and Malcolm McDowell. Oct. 4.

BLOODY SUNDAY -- The tragic events of Jan. 30, 1972, in the Northern Irish city of Derry, when a protest march led by the civil rights activist Ivan Cooper (James Nesbitt) was fired on by British paratroopers, leaving 13 dead and 14 wounded. Paul Greengrass is the writer and director. Oct. 4.

HEAVEN -- Working from a script by the Polish filmmaker Krzysztof Kieslowski and his writing partner Krzysztof Piesiewicz ("The Decalogue"), Tom Tykwer, director of "Run, Lola, Run," tells another tale of frantic flight -- that of a young Englishwoman (Cate Blanchett) accused of a terrorist act in Turin, Italy, and the young Italian policeman (Giovanni Ribisi) who is convinced of her moral innocence and helps her to escape. Oct. 4.

JONAH: A VEGGIETALES MOVIE -- The first theatrical spinoff of the popular direct-to-video series of animated films with Christian themes. Directed by Mike Nawrocki and Phil Vischer, it's a retelling of the story of Jonah and the whale, with the biblical figures played by talking vegetables. Oct. 4.

THE MAN FROM ELYSIAN FIELDS -- Andy Garcia as a failed Los Angeles novelist who moonlights as a gigolo for the Elysian Fields escort service, owned and operated by Mick Jagger's character. One of his clients (Olivia Williams) turns out to be the wife of a best-selling author (James Coburn), and some curious networking begins. Directed by George Hickenlooper, of "Hearts of Darkness: A Filmmaker's Apocalypse." Oct. 4.

PIPE DREAM -- The indie stalwart Martin Donovan as a New York City plumber who decides he'd have a better chance meeting women if he were a filmmaker. So he steals a script from a one-night stand (Mary-Louise Parker), sets himself up with a casting agent and starts auditioning actresses. With Rebecca Gayheart and Guinevere Turner; John Walsh, who made the likable "Ed's Big Move" in 1996, directed. Oct. 4.

RED DRAGON -- Hannibal Lecter, America's favorite serial killer, made his first appearance in Thomas Harris's 1981 novel "Red Dragon," which was filmed by Michael Mann in 1986 as "Manhunter," with Brian Cox in what was then a minor role. The material has been reconfigured by the screenwriter Ted Tally, who adapted Mr. Harris's "Silence of the Lambs" in 1991, and is now being presented as the "prequel" to "Silence," with Anthony Hopkins returning to his most famous role. Edward Norton is the F.B.I. profiler played by William L. Petersen in "Manhunter"; Ralph Fiennes takes over from Tom Noonan as the rival killer, Francis Dollarhyde. With Harvey Keitel, Emily Watson, Mary-Louise Parker and Philip Seymour Hoffman rounding out the cast, it arrives under the direction of Brett Ratner, of "Rush Hour" fame. Oct. 4.

TAKE CARE OF MY CAT -- The romantic and professional frustrations of five young women living in the Korean port city of Inchon, from one of the few female filmmakers working in Korea, Jae-eun Jeong. Oct. 4.

WELCOME TO COLLINWOOD -- Another remake of Mario Monicelli's great Italian comedy of 1958, "Big Deal on Madonna Street," about a bunch of bumbling small-time crooks who decide to knock over a jewelry store, with disastrous consequences. Produced by George Clooney, who makes a bit appearance as a wheelchair-bound safecracker, and featuring Jennifer Esposito, Luis Guzman, Michael Jeter, William H. Macy, Isaiah Washington, Sam Rockwell and Patricia Clarkson. Joe and Anthony Russo ("Pieces"), who are brothers, wrote and directed. Oct. 4.

WHO'S YOUR DADDY? -- Andy Frickman's teen comedy casts Brandon Davis as a high school senior whose wildest dream comes true: he inherits an adult magazine empire. Colleen Camp, Kadeem Hardison and William Atherton co-star. Oct. 4.

HOW TO DRAW A BUNNY -- A portrait of the New York artist Ray Johnson assembled through the recollections of his friends and colleagues, including Christo, Chuck Close, Roy Lichtenstein and Judith Malina. John Walter directed. Oct. 9.

BELOW -- The gifted action director David Twohy ("Pitch Black") is at the helm of this horror film about a World War II submarine that finds itself trapped between Nazi U-boats above and a big, fat, mysterious thing below. With Bruce Greenwood and Olivia Williams; Darren Aronofsky ("Requiem for a Dream") contributed to the script (and was at one point supposed to direct). Oct. 11.

BOWLING FOR COLUMBINE -- A new film from Michael Moore ("Roger and Me"), which blends social commentary with prankster comedy in his patented style. The subject this time is the American love affair with firearms, an issue Mr. Moore traces from the first colonists to the teenage boys who went on a murderous rampage in a Colorado high school. Mr. Moore pays surprise visits to the corporate headquarters of Kmart, the chain from which the Columbine boys bought their bullets, and the president of the N.R.A., Charlton Heston. Oct. 11.

BROWN SUGAR -- Taye Diggs is an executive at a hip-hop record company; Sanaa Lathan is a magazine editor who was his childhood pal. But now that they're grown-ups, can they remain friends or will that "When Harry Met Sally" thing happen? Directed by Rick Famuyiwa; with Queen Latifah and Mos Def. Oct. 11.

THE DEBUT -- The Americanized son (Dante Basco) of a proud Filipino immigrant (Tirso Cruz) comes into conflict with his father over his sister's elaborate 18th-birthday party. Gene Cajayon directed. Oct. 11.

FAMILY FUNDAMENTALS -- A documentary by Arthur Dong ("Coming Out Under Fire") about the tensions that arise in three fundamentalist Christian families with gay members. Oct. 11.

THE GREY ZONE -- Tim Blake Nelson directs his own play about the Jewish prisoners forced to man the crematoriums at Auschwitz. With Harvey Keitel, David Arquette, Natasha Lyonne, Mira Sorvino, Steve Buscemi and Henry Stram. Oct. 11.

KNOCKAROUND GUYS -- The screenwriters Brian Koppelman and David Levien ("The Rounders") move into directing with the tale of four Mafia brothers (Vin Diesel, Seth Green, Barry Pepper and Andrew Davoli -- surely one of them must have been adopted) who are sent by their capo dad (Dennis Hopper) to pay off a corrupt sheriff in Montana. This one has been sitting on the shelf for a while, but now that Mr. Diesel ("XXX") is red hot, here it is. Oct. 11.

ON GUARD! -- From the French veteran Philippe de Broca ("King of Hearts"), an 18th-century swashbuckler about a physically challenged swordsman (Daniel Auteuil) out to revenge the murder of his aristocratic best friend (Vincent Perez). Oct. 11.

POKEMON 4EVER -- The Pokemon franchise moves over to Miramax for the fourth feature film drawn from the popular children's characters. A new creature -- Celebi, "the voice of the forest" -- makes its appearance in this outing, alongside the venerable Pikachu. Directed by Kunihiko Yuyama and Michael Haigney. Oct. 11.

PUNCH-DRUNK LOVE -- Paul Thomas Anderson steps back from the epic visions of "Boogie Nights" and "Magnolia" to fashion a comic miniature about a gentle but hot-tempered Los Angeles businessman (Adam Sandler) who impulsively follows the woman of his dreams (Emily Watson) to Hawaii. With Luis Guzman and Philip Seymour Hoffman. Oct. 11.

THE RULES OF ATTRACTION -- Bret Easton Ellis's novel of sex, drugs and moral blindness at a small New England college in the 1980's gets a high-octane adaptation by the writer-director Roger Avary ("Killing Zoe"). With James Van Der Beek as Sean Bateman (younger brother of Patrick Bateman from "American Psycho") and Shannyn Sossamon, Ian Somerhalder and Jessica Biel. Oct. 11. A related article is on Page 34.

SWEPT AWAY -- Lina Wertmuller's 1975 Italian sex comedy, about a randy communist sailor stuck on a desert island with a frigid rich woman, reimagined by the director Guy Ritchie as a vehicle for his struggling actress wife, Madonna. Adriano Giannini plays the sailor; his dad, Giancarlo, starred in the original. Oct. 11. A related article is on Page 31.

TUCK EVERLASTING -- A teenager (Alexis Bledel) finds that the Fountain of Youth is located in the backyard of her eccentric next-door neighbors, the Tucks (William Hurt and Sissy Spacek). It's a Disney film, so we can assume some significant life lessons are learned. Directed by Jay Russell, of "My Dog Skip." Oct. 11.

WHITE OLEANDER -- After her mother (Michelle Pfeiffer) goes to prison for murder (committed with a dose of the poisonous flower of the title), little Astrid Magnussen (Alison Lohman) embarks on a journey from foster home to foster home. Peter Kosminsky directs; with Renee Zellweger, Robin Wright Penn, Billy Connolly, Patrick Fugit and Noah Wyle. Oct. 11. A related article is on Page 33.

ABANDON -- Stephen Gaghan, who wrote the Oscar-winning screenplay for "Traffic," directs his first feature, an adaptation of Sean Desmond's novel "Adam's Fall." Katie Holmes is a college student traumatized by the disappearance of her boyfriend; Benjamin Bratt is the police detective, and recovering alcoholic, who discovers some disturbing new leads in the case. Oct. 18. A related article is on Page 43.

AUTO FOCUS -- The unsavory life and untimely death of the television star Bob Crane, who used his "Hogan's Heroes" celebrity to seduce hundreds of women, recording his encounters with an early home video camera. Greg Kinnear is Crane; Willem Dafoe is Crane's technical adviser and sidekick, Johnny Carpenter. Paul Schrader directed, in what amounts to a blackly comic variation on his 1997 "Affliction." With Rita Wilson, Maria Bello, Ron Leibman, and Kurt Fuller as Werner Klemperer. Oct. 18.

THE BUSINESS OF FANCYDANCING -- Two American Indian boys, the best of friends during high school on the reservation, find their paths separating when they leave for college in Seattle. One becomes a gay poet, the other an embittered activist. With Evan Adams and Gene Tagaban; Sherman Alexie directed from his own short story. Oct. 18.

FIDEL -- Fidel Castro reflects on his 40 years in power in interviews conducted by the director Estela Bravo, an American who lives in Havana. Oct. 18.

FORMULA 51 -- Released in England last year under the self-deprecating title "The 51st State," this British neo-noir imagines Samuel L. Jackson as a kilt-wearing drug chemist who comes to Liverpool to play golf and make a $20 million deal with the local mafia. But his American master, Meat Loaf, doesn't like the idea and sends a hit lady (Emily Mortimer) to take him down. With Robert Carlyle, Sean Pertwee and Rhys Ifans. Ronny Yu directed. Oct. 18.

HANSEL AND GRETEL -- A new treatment of the Brothers Grimm fairy tale, with Delta Burke as the evil stepmother who hopes to rid herself of the title children by luring them into a dark and menacing forest. A cameo-heavy cast includes Howie Mandel, Bobcat Goldthwait, Tom Arnold, Sinbad and Lynn Redgrave; directed by Gary Tunnicliffe. Oct. 18.

HUSH! -- From Japan, a comedy about a young woman who wants a baby and hires a gay man to help her out. Ryosuke Hashiguchi directed. Oct. 18.

LOVE IN THE TIME OF MONEY -- Just as every generation requires its own remake of "Big Deal on Madonna Street" (see "Welcome to Collinwood," above), here is the inevitable update of Arthur Schnitzler's bittersweet Austrian play "La Ronde." This time, the chain of lovers includes Steve Buscemi, Rosario Dawson, Adrian Grenier, Michael Imperioli, Carol Kane and Jill Hennessy; Peter Mattei adapted and directed. Oct. 18.

NAQOYQATSI -- The filmmaker Godfrey Reggio and the composer Philip Glass, who collaborated on the New Age documentaries "Koyaanisqatsi" (1983) and "Powaqqatsi" (1988), continue their wordless examination of the world's ills with this blaze of digitally enhanced images, subtitled "Life as War." Oct. 18.

REAL WOMEN HAVE CURVES -- An East Los Angeles teenager, Ana Garcia (America Ferrera), learns about life during a summer spent working with her mother in a garment factory. Though she's been offered a full scholarship to Columbia University, her family is too dependent on her income to let her go. Patricia Cardoso directed; it's her first feature. Oct. 18.

THE RING -- Gore Verbinski ("The Mexican") directs the Hollywood remake of Hideo Nakata's 1998 Japanese horror film, a cult hit throughout Asia. The mystery centers on a short, enigmatic videotape, which causes everyone who watches it to die. Naomi Watts, Chris Cooper and Brian Cox star. Oct. 18.

THE RISING PLACE -- An interracial friendship between two young women (Laurel Holloman and Elise Neal) causes talk in a small Mississippi Delta town in the early 1940's -- and more when one of them becomes pregnant by a soldier. Tom Rice wrote, directed and produced. Oct 18.

RUSSIAN ARK -- Alexander Sokurov's film covers 200 years of Russian history in a single 90-minute take, as his camera drifts through the Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, moving in and out of elaborately staged historical tableaux. Oct. 18.

SAFE CONDUCT -- Bertrand Tavernier's film, set during the German occupation of France, is based on the experiences of the screenwriter Jean Aurenche (Denis Podalydes) and the assistant director Jean Devaivre (Jacques Gamblin) as they struggle to balance their filmmaking ambitions with underground activity. Oct. 18.

TEKNOLUST -- Lynn Hershman-Leeson, who wrote and directed the feminist science-fiction film "Conceiving Ada," returns to the genre with the satirical story of a geneticist (Tilda Swinton) who creates three female clones, only to discover that they need male fluids to survive. Jeremy Davies, James Urbaniak and Karen Black co-star. Oct. 18.

THE TRUTH ABOUT TULLY -- Afraid of turning into his emotionally isolated father (Bob Burrus), young Tully Coates (Anson Mount) becomes a compulsive womanizer -- until he meets the strong-willed Ella (Julianne Nicholson). A first feature from Hilary Birmingham. Oct 18.

DERRIDA -- Kirby Dick, the documentarian who brought you "Sick: The Life and Death of Bob Flanagan, Supermasochist," returns with a profile of the French philosopher Jacques Derrida, one of the founding figures of postmodernism. Oct. 23.

GHOST SHIP -- Steve Beck, who directed the remake of "13 Ghosts," returns to the horror genre with the story of a mysterious ocean liner, missing since 1953, that turns up in the Bering Sea. With Julianna Margulies, Gabriel Byrne, Ron Eldard and Isaiah Washington. Oct. 23.

ALL OR NOTHING -- A British ensemble drama from Mike Leigh ("Secrets and Lies") set in the drab poured-concrete confines of a London housing project. Timothy Spall plays a downtrodden taxi driver; Lesley Manville is his wife, a supermarket checkout clerk, and their disaffected kids are played by Alison Garland and James Corden. Their lives plod along, until one day a tragic event changes everything. Oct. 25.

ALL THE QUEEN'S MEN -- Possibly the world's first transvestite heist movie. Matt LeBlanc stars as an American O.S.S. agent who, with the help of some British colleagues, must infiltrate the Berlin factory where the Nazis manufacture the Enigma coding device -- and where all the workers are female. Eddie Izzard is a professional tranny who offers the men some tips. Stefan Ruzowitzky, a talented Austrian filmmaker ("The Inheritors"), directs. Oct. 25.

FRIDA -- The life and times of the Mexican painter and feminist icon Frida Kahlo, as portrayed by Salma Hayek. Julie Taymor ("Titus") directed this wide-ranging film, which documents Kahlo's stormy but resilient relationship with the muralist Diego Rivera (Alfred Molina), her fling with Leon Trotsky (Geoffrey Rush) and her lifelong struggle to paint despite her severe physical handicaps. Edward Norton pops in as Nelson Rockefeller; Antonio Banderas, Ashley Judd and Roger Rees are also in the cast. Oct. 25. A related article is on Page 41.

JACKASS: THE MOVIE -- Johnny Knoxville brings his MTV series -- in which he attempts absurd and/or dangerous stunts -- to the big screen. Jeff Tremaine, a co-creator and director of the television version, returns to the big chair. With Henry Rollins, Tony Hawk and the director Spike Jonze (an early contributor to Mr. Knoxville's legend). Oct. 25.

PAID IN FULL -- A fateful delivery to a gangster's moll leads a dry-cleaning clerk (Wood Harris) into the dangerous world of drug dealing in 1980's Harlem. Mekhi Phifer and Kevin Carroll play Mr. Harris's best friends; Charles Stone directed. Oct. 25.

ROGER DODGER -- A womanizing Manhattan advertising executive, played by Campbell Scott, takes his naive Midwestern nephew (Jesse Eisenberg) under his wing, intending to teach him a few things about life. But, in a reversal that strongly suggests "Come Blow Your Horn," the exec ends up learning more from the boy. With Isabella Rossellini, Elizabeth Berkley and Jennifer Beals. The newcomer Dylan Kidd wrote and directed. Oct. 25.

THE TRUTH ABOUT CHARLIE -- Stanley Donen's 1963 thriller, "Charade," is the basis for Jonathan Demme's new film, which stars Thandie Newton in the Audrey Hepburn role as a woman who finds her husband mysteriously murdered. Mark Wahlberg fills in for Cary Grant as the enigmatic maybe-cop, maybe-crook who comes to Ms. Newton's aid when three of her husband's underworld cronies come after her in Paris. The evil three are played by Joong-Hoon Park, Ted Levine and Lisa Gay Hamilton; Christine Boisson is the French police inspector assigned to the case and Tim Robbins is the United States embassy official who provides some ambiguous assistance. Oct. 25.

WAKING UP IN RENO -- Jordan Brady's blue-collar sex comedy finds two Arkansas couples (Patrick Swayze and Charlize Theron, Billy Bob Thornton and Natasha Richardson) sharing an S.U.V. on their way to a monster truck rally in Reno. All goes well until Mr. Thornton's character yields to temptation with Ms. Theron's. Oct. 25.

COMEDIAN -- Jerry Seinfeld on the big screen in a revealing documentary as he hits the road, making his return to the world of stand-up comedy. October.

November

THE CORE -- Aaron Eckhart is a geophysicist who leads a team of "terranauts" deep into the earth's core, in an attempt to correct a temperature shift that threatens to knock the earth out of orbit. Hilary Swank is the captain of the "deep earth" ship provided by NASA; the crew -- you can bet there's a traitor among them -- consists of Bruce Greenwood, Richard Jenkins, Tcheky Karyo, Alfre Woodard and Stanley Tucci. Jon Amiel, a reliable Briton ("Copycat"), directed. Nov. 1.

FAR FROM HEAVEN -- Set in suburban Connecticut in 1957, Todd Haynes's film is an homage to Douglas Sirk's pointed 1950's melodramas. Julianne Moore is the happy homemaker whose world is turned upside down when she discovers that her husband (Dennis Quaid) has been keeping a big secret from her. With Dennis Haysbert, as the gardener to whom Ms. Moore turns for comfort. Nov. 1.

I SPY -- The 1965-68 series that helped break the color bar on network television -- with Robert Culp and Bill Cosby as globe-trotting C.I.A. agents -- is reimagined by the director Betty Thomas, who previously rehabbed "The Brady Bunch." Now it's Owen Wilson as an agent who recruits a celebrated boxer (Eddie Murphy) to help him recover a stolen fighter plane. Malcolm McDowell and Famke Janssen provide the villainy. Nov. 1.

THE SANTA CLAUSE 2 -- Tim Allen returns for a sequel to his 1994 family hit, about a suburban dad recruited to be the new Santa Claus. With Elizabeth Mitchell, Wendy Crewson, Judge Reinhold and Molly Shannon; the television veteran Michael Lembeck directs. At the moment, there are six credited screenwriters. Nov. 1.

THE WEIGHT OF WATER -- A reporter (Catherine McCormack) becomes fascinated by the tale of two Scandinavian immigrants murdered on a desolate North Atlantic island. With her husband (Sean Penn), her brother-in-law (Josh Lucas) and his overheated girlfriend (Elizabeth Hurley), she takes a voyage to the murder scene, and discovers -- as the past begins to echo in the present -- that there are more secrets than she ever imagined. Sarah Polley, Katrin Cartlidge and Ciaran Hinds are among the islanders appearing in flashbacks. Directed by Kathryn Bigelow ("K-19: The Widowmaker"). Nov. 1.

STRANGE FRUIT -- Joel Katz's documentary tells the history of the title song, a work of social protest recorded, most famously, by Billie Holiday but written by Abel Meeropol, a public school teacher from the Bronx who, under the name Lewis Allan, composed socially conscious operas. Nov. 6.

BLUE CAR -- This American indie is the first film by the writer-director Karen Moncrieff. Agnes Bruckner plays a vulnerable 18-year-old whose relationship with her English teacher (David Strathairn) begins as solace but develops into something more dangerous. Margaret Colin and Frances Fisher star. Nov. 8.

8 MILE -- The title of Curtis Hanson's film refers to the street -- Eight Mile Road -- that separates economically devastated Detroit from its prosperous suburbs. The rapper Eminem makes his movie debut in a story loosely based on his own experiences growing up on Motown's mean streets. Kim Basinger (an Oscar winner for Mr. Hanson's "L.A. Confidential") co-stars as the Eminem character's mom; with Brittany Murphy, Mekhi Phifer and Taryn Manning. Nov. 8.

ETOILES: DANCERS OF THE PARIS BALLET -- Nils Tavernier, son of the French filmmaker Bertrand Tavernier, filmed this documentary on the junior dancers of the famed Paris Opera Ballet. Nov. 8.

FEMME FATALE -- From his new home base in Paris, Brian De Palma presents a thriller centered on a mysterious and frequently undressed woman (Rebecca Romijn-Stamos) whose marriage to the American ambassador to France is threatened when a freelance photographer (Antonio Banderas) discovers her criminal past. Nov. 8

GOD IS GREAT, I'M NOT -- Audrey Tautou ("Amelie") is back, as a fashion model on a spiritual quest. She falls in love with Francois (Edward Baer), a secular Jew who resents her attempts to reawaken his religious feelings. Pascale Bailly directed; in French. Nov. 8.

LAWLESS HEART -- Three love stories, set around a funeral in a small English town. Josephine Butler, Clementine Celarie and David Coffey star; this British production was directed by Tom Hunsinger and Neil Hunter. Nov. 8.

NO NEWS FROM GOD -- An angel (Victoria Abril) and a devil (Penelope Cruz) struggle for the soul of a professional boxer in this comedy from Spain, directed and written by Agustin Diaz Yanes. Nov. 8.

ARARAT -- From Canada, Atom Egoyan examines the continuing effects of the mass killings of Armenians by Turkish forces during World War I on a group of contemporary characters, including a French film director (Charles Aznavour) making a fictional film on the subject, an academic of Armenian heritage (Arsinee Khanjian) and her son, and a customs official (Christopher Plummer) who is unable to accept his son's homosexuality. With Eric Bogosian and Brent Carver. Nov. 15.

THE GUEST -- Ashton Kutcher of "That 70's Show" as an eager young man whose boss asks him to house-sit; for Mr. Kutcher, it's a chance to get close to his boss's daughter (Tara Reid), long the object of his desire. With Molly Shannon and Andy Richter; David Zucker directs. Nov. 15.

HALF PAST DEAD -- Can an undercover F.B.I. agent (Steven Seagal) stop a criminal genius (Morris Chestnut) before he breaks into (yes, into) the newly refurbished Alcatraz prison, where he hopes to persuade a condemned man to tell him where $200 million in gold is hidden? Directed by Don Michael Paul. Nov. 15.

HARRY POTTER AND THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS -- Daniel Radcliffe returns as the apprentice sorcerer for Chris Columbus's adaptation of the second installment of the wildly popular children's book series. Most of the cast of the first episode is back -- including Sean Biggerstaff, Robbie Coltrane, Rupert Grint, Richard Harris and Alan Rickman; newcomers include Kenneth Branagh as Gilderoy Lockhart and Jason Isaacs as Lucas Malfoy. Script, once again, by Ron Kloves. Nov. 15.

HELL HOUSE -- George Ratliff's documentary takes us inside the fright houses created by fundamentalist Christians in the South, filled with modern day horrors like AIDS and abortions. Nov. 15.

PHONE BOOTH -- The 70's horror ace Larry Cohen ("It's Alive!") returns with his original screenplay about a New York publicist who impulsively answers a pay phone, only to find that he's pinned down by a sniper (Ron Eldard) who tells him he'll shoot if he tries to leave the booth. Colin Farrell plays the lead, under his "Tigerland" director Joel Schumacher. With Katie Holmes, Ray Liotta and Radha Mitchell. Nov. 15.

STANDING IN THE SHADOWS OF MOTOWN -- Paul Justman's documentary recounts the history of Motown Records, home of the Supremes, Marvin Gaye, Stevie Wonder and many other soul music superstars, from the point of view of the Funk Brothers, the back-up singers who appeared on many of Motown's hits. Nov. 15.

THE BURNING WALL -- An oral history of East Germany, related by some of those who participated in the state's psychological warfare against its citizens and some others who were on the receiving end. Hava Kohav Beller directed. Nov. 20.

DIE ANOTHER DAY -- Halle Berry becomes the first Oscar-winning actress to play a Bond girl in this latest installment of the granddaddy of all franchises. (Kim Basinger won a supporting-actress Oscar 15 years after she appeared in "Never Say Never Again" in 1983.) Pierce Brosnan returns as James Bond, this time in globe-hopping pursuit of an archvillain played by Toby Stephens, who, living in an ice castle near the North Pole, has come up with yet another plan for world domination. The director is the talented New Zealander Lee Tamahori ("Once Were Warriors"); the supporting cast includes Judi Dench as M and John Cleese as Q. Nov. 22.

THE EMPEROR'S CLUB -- A beloved classics professor at an exclusive East Coast prep school, Mr. Hundert (Kevin Kline), finds himself challenged by a charismatic, undisciplined rich boy (Emile Hirsch), who threatens to steal his students' loyalty. Michael Hoffman ("One Fine Day") directed Neil Tolkin's adaptation of Ethan Canin's short story "The Palace Thief." With Embeth Davidtz, Roger Rees and Harris Yulin. Nov. 22. A related article is on Page 41.

THE FRIDAY AFTER NEXT -- The "Friday" series of urban comedies continues, with Ice Cube and Mike Epps back as the hapless buddies. This time, they're security guards faced with a burglar who steals Christmas presents disguised in a Santa Claus suit. Directed by Marcus Raboy. Nov. 22.

PERSONAL VELOCITY -- Three intertwining tales of young women, adapted by Rebecca Miller from her book of short stories. Kyra Sedgwick is a young mother in upstate New York who, after suffering for 12 years in an abusive relationship, takes a dramatic step to break free; Parker Posey is a cookbook editor divided between her unfulfilling career and her unsatisfying marriage; and Fairuza Balk is an accident victim who has a visionary experience. With Wallace Shawn, Ron Leibman and David Patrick Kelly. Nov. 22.

TALK TO HER -- From the Spanish director Pedro Almodovar ("All About My Mother"), the story of a reporter (Dario Grandinetti) and a nurse (Javier Camara) who develop a deep friendship when they discover they are both in love with women in comas -- the journalist with a bullfighter (Rosario Flores), the nurse with a dancer (Leonor Watling). Full of Almodovarian surprises, including a silent movie interlude. Nov. 22.

VERONICA GUERIN -- The story of the Irish journalist Veronica Guerin (Cate Blanchett), who was killed in 1996, apparently in retaliation for a series of articles about Dublin's drug dealers. The hard-working Joel Schumacher (see "Phone Booth," above) directed this adaptation of a 1996 GQ article; with Colin Farrell, Ciaran Hinds and Brenda Fricker. Nov. 22.

ADAM SANDLER'S EIGHT CRAZY NIGHTS -- Mr. Sandler assumes animated form in this cartoon feature directed by Seth Kearsley. Featuring an "expanded edition" of Mr. Sandler's "Chanukah Song," it's an inspirational holiday tale of a dissolute young man who is offered a choice between going to jail and coaching a youth basketball team. Also, it's got burping. With the voices of Jackie Titone, Austin Stout, Kevin Nealon, Rob Schneider and Jon Lovitz. Nov. 27.

SOLARIS -- The unlikely alliance of Steven Soderbergh ("Ocean's Eleven") and James Cameron ("Titanic") is behind this ambitious remake of Andrei Tarkovsky's enigmatic 1979 classic of Russian science fiction. George Clooney plays a psychiatrist sent into space to investigate the disappearance of the crew of the space station Prometheus. On his arrival, he enters a world that mingles dream and reality, the dead with the living. With Natascha McElhone and Jeremy Davies. Nov. 27.

TREASURE PLANET -- The trailer suggests an unusual combination of old-fashioned hand animation and 3-D computer graphics, laid over an updated version of "Treasure Island," shifted to a distant planet and equipped with a skateboarding hero. Ron Clements and John Musker, the team behind "Aladdin" and "Hercules," directed; voices include those of Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Brian Murray, David Hyde Pierce, Martin Short and Emma Thompson. Nov. 27.

RABBIT-PROOF FENCE -- Between 1905 and 1971, the Australian government carried out a policy of taking Aboriginal children from their families in the outback and sending them to cities to be trained as servants. Philip Noyce's film is based on the true story of three girls who attempted to escape. Nov. 29.

UNTITLED JIM SHERIDAN PROJECT -- The studio is still making up its mind, but the writer-director Jim Sheridan ("My Left Foot") has called it "East of Harlem." It tells of an Irish family, headed by Samantha Morton and Paddy Considine, trying to find a foothold in New York City --without papers. They move into a racially mixed building in Harlem. Nov. 29.

EXTREME OPS -- Another extreme-sports-loving hero, following in the great tradition of "XXX." Here we've got Devon Sawa as a snowboarder who, while filming a commercial in the Austrian Alps, stumbles into the lair of a Serbian war criminal (Klaus Lowitsch, a former member of the Rainer Werner Fassbinder stock company). Christian Duguay, of "The Art of War," directed. November.

INTERSTATE 60 -- Bob Gale, who was Robert Zemeckis's longtime writing partner ("Back to the Future," "Used Cars"), makes his first film as a director. It sounds ambitious: a young man embarks on a journey along the title highway -- a highway, he soon discovers, that does not in fact exist. With James Marsden, Gary Oldman, Kurt Russell, Michael J. Fox and Chris Cooper. November.

MORVERN CALLAR -- From the gifted young Scottish filmmaker Lynne Ramsay ("Ratcatcher"). The title character, played by Samantha Morton, is a check-out clerk who finds the illusion of freedom while vacationing in Spain. November.

REVOLUTION NO. 9 -- Led by schizophrenia to believe that a television director (Spalding Gray) is trying to control his life, a young New Yorker (Michael Risley) poses as a journalist to get close to him. Adrienne Shelly is the troubled young man's girlfriend; Tim McCann ("Desolation Angels") directs. November.

December

MASSOUD, THE AFGHAN -- The assassination of Ahmed Shah Massoud, the leader of Afghanistan's Northern Alliance, at the hands of agents of Osama bin Laden is the subject of an investigative documentary by Christophe de Ponfilly. Dec. 4.

ADAPTATION -- Impossible to summarize, which seems to be the point of this wild comedy from the screenwriter Charlie Kaufman and the director Spike Jonze, the men behind "Being John Malkovich." Nicolas Cage stars as a screenwriter named Charlie Kaufman who is struggling to adapt the Susan Orlean book "The Orchid Thief" -- which itself forms a film within the film, or something, starring Chris Cooper as a plant dealer with a scheme to peddle cloned orchids to collectors. With Meryl Streep, Catherine Keener, Tilda Swinton and Jane Adams. Dec. 6.

ANALYZE THAT -- Harold Ramis's sequel to his 1999 hit "Analyze This," about a Mafia don (Robert De Niro) and his cringing psychiatrist (Billy Crystal); it opens with the De Niro character getting out of jail and seeking gainful employment as a gangland commentator for television. Mr. Crystal, meanwhile, has inherited his father's practice and is up to his neck in unwanted responsibilities. Cathy Moriarty plays a rival mobster (mobstress?) looking to take over Mr. De Niro's turf. Dec. 6.

BLACKBOARDS -- A teacher tries to bring the gift of reading and writing to a group of young Kurds, but they have no time for him. Samira Makhmalbaf directed this allegorical drama, a follow-up to her warmly received debut film "The Apple." Dec. 6.

EQUILIBRIUM -- Set in a future world where all emotions have been deadened by antidepressant drugs and a ban on all art, Kurt Wimmer's thriller casts Christian Bale as a government official who begins to question the system when he falls off his medication. Emily Watson co-stars, with Taye Diggs and William Fichtner. Dec. 6.

EVELYN -- Stepping back from James Bond, Pierce Brosnan plays a single dad in 1953 Ireland whose children are taken away and placed in orphanages. With the help of friends and family, he goes to court to win them back, challenging both the Irish state and the Roman Catholic Church. Bruce Beresford ("Driving Miss Daisy") directed; the cast includes Aidan Quinn, Julianna Margulies, John Lynch, Stephen Rea and Alan Bates. Dec. 6.

TOOTH FAIRY: FEAR OF THE DARK -- When an evil force invades a small town, only the local outcast (Chaney Kley) can save the citizenry. Filmed in Australia by the director Jonathan Liebesman. Dec. 6.

MAID IN MANHATTAN -- Jennifer Lopez as a housekeeper in a four-star hotel who meets and falls in love with a Kennedyesque politician (Ralph Fiennes). He thinks she's from a wealthy family, an impression she's reluctant to shatter but knows she must. John Hughes wrote it, Wayne Wang directed it. Dec. 13.

SHANGHAI KNIGHTS -- Jackie Chan and Owen Wilson return in a sequel to "Shanghai Noon," as, respectively, a Chinese martial artist and a Western gunslinger. When Mr. Chan's father is killed by a Chinese revolutionary, he and Mr. Wilson take a slow boat to London, where they team up with Mr. Chan's long-lost sister (Fann Wong) to take revenge. David Dobkin ("Clay Pigeons") directs. Dec. 13.

STAR TREK: NEMESIS -- Patrick Stewart leads much of the cast of "Star Trek: The Next Generation" on the latest excursion for this venerable franchise. They're off for the planet Romulus, where, instead of a peace conference with the traditionally hostile Romulans, they find a new threat to Earth's survival. With Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, Jonathan Frakes, Whoopi Goldberg and Ron Perlman; Stuart Baird directs. Dec. 13.

DEVILS ON THE DOORSTEP -- Re-edited since its quiet reception at Cannes in 2000, Jiang Wen's historical drama takes place during the Japanese occupation of China. Two anti-Japanese freedom fighters are arrested and turned over to a provincial authority who has no idea what to do with them. Only one man in the village can translate: a collaborator who sees in this opportunity his chance for salvation. Dec. 18.

THE LORD OF THE RINGS: THE TWO TOWERS -- The perilous second installment of the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy, as directed by Peter Jackson and written by Mr. Jackson, Frances Walsh, Philippa Boyens and Stephen Sinclair. Ian McKellen returns as the wizard Gandalf (who gets to morph into Gandalf the White, a ferocious warrior, in this installment) and Elijah Wood stays on as Frodo. Among the new characters are Grima (Brad Dourif), Eowyn (Miranda Otto) and Gollum (Andy Serkis). Dec. 18.

THE ANTWONE FISHER STORY -- Denzel Washington directed and stars as a Navy psychiatrist who helps a young sailor, Antwone Fisher (Derek Luke), cope with his troubled childhood. A true story, one assumes, since Mr. Fisher is also listed as the film's producer. Dec. 20.

NARC -- Joe Carnahan's police drama had its premiere at the Sundance Film Festival. A maverick Detroit narcotics detective, Nick Tellis (Jason Patric), has been put on probation following an incident in which a baby was killed. But when an undercover cop is murdered, Nick is put back on the street to investigate, working with the dead cop's ex-partner (Ray Liotta). Dec. 20.

TWO WEEKS NOTICE -- Hugh Grant, as a billionaire C.E.O. who is just too distracted and Hugh Grantish to notice that his chief counsel, played by Sandra Bullock, is his perfect mate -- until she threatens to leave for another company, and hires her own predatory replacement (Alicia Witt). Written and directed by Marc Lawrence (the writer of "Forces of Nature"). Dec. 20.

THE WILD THORNBERRYS -- The big-screen debut of yet another Nickelodeon cartoon series, about an American family that travels the world making nature documentaries. Daughter Eliza (voiced by Lacey Chabert) can talk to animals, but can't reveal her secret -- even when she discovers that poachers are about to massacre a herd of African elephants. Jeff McGrath and Cathy Malkasian, both veterans of the television version, directed. Dec. 20.

ABOUT SCHMIDT -- Jack Nicholson in a rare nonsmirking role as a Midwestern insurance executive whose life falls apart after his retirement and the death of his wife. He plans to spend some time getting to know his estranged daughter (Hope Davis), but she's both too busy, with her impending marriage to Dermot Mulroney, and too angry to grant him the forgiveness he seeks. A rich, finely observed, uncondescending social drama from Alexander Payne ("Election"). Dec. 25.

CATCH ME IF YOU CAN -- There are no flies on Steven Spielberg these days: after opening "Minority Report" this summer, he's back for the December holidays with the true story of Frank W. Abagnale (played by Leonardo DiCaprio), a young man who successfully assumed a series of false identities -- a doctor, a pilot, an assistant attorney general -- in the 1960's. Tom Hanks plays the F.B.I. agent on his trail. With Martin Sheen and Christopher Walken. Dec. 25. A related article is on Page 64.

GANGS OF NEW YORK -- Probably the year's most anticipated film, Martin Scorsese's epic vision of early New York stars Leonardo DiCaprio as Amsterdam Vallon, an Irish immigrant who, as a boy, saw his father murdered by Bill the Butcher (Daniel Day-Lewis), the vicious leader of the Native Americans, an anti-immigrant gang that controlled the notorious Five Points district of Lower Manhattan. Amsterdam's quest for revenge leads him into a rival gang, the Dead Rabbits, and into the arms of a streetwise pickpocket (Cameron Diaz). The climax comes during the 1863 draft riots, one of the bloodiest episodes in the city's history. With John C. Reilly, Henry Thomas and Jim Broadbent. Dec. 25. A related article is on Page 34.

THE LION KING -- You'll be stuck with "Hakuna Matata" in your head all over again as Disney reissues its 1994 coming-of-age-in-the-African-veldt animated feature in the gargantuan glory of Imax. Directed by Roger Allers and Rob Minkoff. Dec. 25.

PINOCCHIO -- Not the animated Disney perennial, but a new live-action adaptation of the Carlo Collodi novel directed by and starring the Italian imp Roberto Benigni -- who might strike some observers as a little long in the tooth to be playing the long-nosed wooden boy, but hey, that's what digital effects are for. Nicoletta Braschi, Mr. Benigni's longtime companion and his "Principessa" in "Life Is Beautiful," lends her fine features to the Blue Fairy; the veteran Italian actor Carlo Giuffre is Geppetto. Dec. 25.

SPIDER -- The horrible drabness of postwar England figures heavily in David Cronenberg's psychological thriller, adapted from a novel by Patrick McGrath. Ralph Fiennes is the title character, a man freshly released from a mental institution and plagued by involuntary memories of his traumatic childhood. With (in flashback) Gabriel Byrne as Spider's abusive father and Miranda Richardson as his long-suffering mother. Dec. 25.

THE 25TH HOUR -- Spike Lee tells the story of an Irish-American drug dealer (Edward Norton) and his attempt to patch things up with his father, a fireman (Brian Cox), in the days before he starts a seven-year prison term. With Barry Pepper and Philip Seymour Hoffman; the script is by David Benioff, from his novel. Dec. 25.

CHICAGO -- The Kander and Ebb hit musical finally arrives on screen, under the direction of Rob Marshall (who shot the television adaptation of "Annie") and with a script by Bill Condon ("Gods and Monsters"). Catherine Zeta-Jones plays Velma, the nightclub star imprisoned for killing her unfaithful husband; Renee Zellweger is Roxie Hart, the small-town innocent who also ends up in prison, for dispatching her abusive boyfriend. They share a slick lawyer (Richard Gere) but little else as they compete for the heart and attention of the city through its tabloids. Queen Latifah, Lucy Liu, John C. Reilly and Christine Baranski round out the cast. Dec. 27. A related article is on Page 43.

CONFESSIONS OF A DANGEROUS MIND -- Chuck Barris's "unauthorized autobiography" reaches the screen as directed by George Clooney (yes, the actor) from a script by Charlie Kaufman, of "Being John Malkovich" fame. Sam Rockwell stars as Mr. Barris, a celebrated game show producer ("The Dating Game") and host ("The Gong Show") who, it says here, was recruited by the C.I.A. to become a hit man. With Drew Barrymore, Julia Roberts, Fred Savage and cameos from Matt Damon, Brad Pitt and Mr. Barris himself. Dec. 27.

A FEW GOOD YEARS -- Three generations of a prosperous New York family, the Grombergs, portrayed by three generations of a prosperous Hollywood family, the Douglases (Kirk, Michael and one of Michael's sons, Cameron). The eldest Gromberg is struggling with the specter of his impending death, the youngest with a debilitating drug problem, while the middle Gromberg tries to hold the cantankerous clan together. With Rory Culkin and Bernadette Peters; Fred Schepisi directed this comedy-drama from Jesse Wigutow's script. Dec. 27.

THE HOURS -- Three intertwining tales: Virginia Woolf (Nicole Kidman) struggles with her writing and thinks about killing herself; a Los Angeles housewife (Julianne Moore) in 1950 feels dissatisfied with her middle-class existence; and a Greenwich Village intellectual (Meryl Streep) cares for a difficult friend, an angry artist (Ed Harris) with AIDS. With Toni Collette, Allison Janney, John C. Reilly, Eileen Atkins, Stephen Dillane and Claire Danes; the director is Stephen Daldry, of "Billy Elliot." Dec. 27.

LOVE LIZA -- A Web site designer, Philip Seymour Hoffman, falls into a tailspin following the death of his wife. Kathy Bates is his sympathetic mother-in-law; the actor-turned-director Todd Louiso worked from a screenplay by Mr. Hoffman's brother, Gordy Hoffman. Dec. 27.

MAX -- John Cusack plays a dashing, successful Jewish art dealer in post-World War I Vienna. When an aspiring young artist named Adolf Hitler (Noah Taylor, of "Shine") approaches him for advice, he brushes him off, thus setting into motion a major chain of events. With Leelee Sobieski and Molly Parker; it's the directorial debut of Steven Spielberg's longtime screenplay collaborator Menno Meyjes. Dec. 27.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY -- Charles Dickens's novel of a young man's struggle to support himself, his sister and his widowed mother in 19th-century London, brought to the screen by the writer-director Douglas McGrath ("Emma"). Charlie Hunnam plays the title character; the supporting cast includes Nathan Lane, Christopher Plummer, Tom Courtenay, Alan Cumming, Barry Humphries, Timothy Spall and Juliet Stevenson; Jim Broadbent is the wicked schoolmaster, Wackford Squeers. Dec. 27.

THE PIANIST -- Roman Polanski's Holocaust drama won the grand prize at Cannes this year. It's based on the autobiography of Wladyslaw Szpilman, a Polish composer and violinist who survived the Holocaust by hiding in the Warsaw ghetto. With Adrian Brody as Szpilman; Thomas Kretschmann is a music-loving German officer. Dec. 27.

2003

MADISON -- An Indiana air-conditioner repairman lives his dream of flying a hydroplane in a world title race. Jim Caviezel is the eager Hoosier; with Brent Briscoe, Bruce Dern and Mary McCormack. William Bindley directs. Jan. 31.

DREAMCATCHER -- Lawrence Kasdan, generational spokesman ("The Big Chill"), tries his hand at a Stephen King thriller with this feature about a group of hunting buddies who discover something strange and sinister in the woods. With Timothy Olyphant, Damian Lewis, Thomas Jane and Jason Lee. Feb. 7.

DAREDEVIL -- A blind lawyer, played by Ben Affleck, fights crime in court during the day but takes to the streets at night, disguising himself as a mysterious figure known as Daredevil. From the Marvel comic book. He battles postpunk miscreants in what the trailer makes look like a dark, "Matrix"-ish world. With Jennifer Garner, Michael Clarke Duncan and the hard-working Colin Farrell. Feb. 14.

X2 -- More of those misfit Marvel superheroes, here in Bryan Singer's sequel to his 2000 "X-Men." They're troubled teenagers in a home run by the benign Professor Xavier (Patrick Stewart), who sends his supernaturally gifted charges out to battle evil. With Hugh Jackman, Ian McKellen (the villain, Magneto), Halle Berry, Famke Janssen, James Marsden, Rebecca Romijn-Stamos and Anna Paquin. May 2.

THE MATRIX RELOADED -- The supersecret sequel to the generation-defining science fiction hit of 1999. It is, according to the producer Joel Silver, actually a single film that will be shown in two parts: "Reloaded," scheduled for May 15, and "Revolutions," set for November. Keanu Reeves is back as the hacker hero; Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss and Hugo Weaving are taking another turn as well. New additions to the cast include Monica Bellucci and Jada Pinkett Smith. The Wachowski brothers, Andy and Larry, wrote and directed. May 15.

THE HULK -- Ang Lee ("Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon") turns his fine hand to the Marvel comic book character, a scientist (Eric Bana, of "Black Hawk Down") who turns into a big green monster when he gets his dander up. Some cast: Jennifer Connelly, Nick Nolte, Sam Elliott, Josh Lucas and Lou Ferrigno (who played the Hulk on television). June 20.

CHARLIE'S ANGELS 2: HALO -- The Angels -- Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu and Cameron Diaz -- are called in when government-protected witnesses begin to be murdered at an alarming rate. Demi Moore joins the series as a "fallen angel" who's gone over to the dark side. Directing again is the filmmaker known as McG. June 27.

ONCE UPON A TIME IN MEXICO -- Robert Rodriguez began his "Mariachi" series with an ultra-low-budget, essentially homemade film in 1992; a decade later, the series achieves epic proportions with this entry, with a title that directly challenges the great Sergio Leone. This time, the Mariachi (Antonio Banderas) is assigned by a maverick C.I.A. agent (Johnny Depp) to assassinate a drug lord who may be contemplating a coup. July 2.

TERMINATOR 3: RISE OF THE MACHINES -- Arnold Schwarzenegger returns to the series that made him a star, playing a friendly cyborg sent from the future to protect a budding revolutionary. Details are unavailable, but it seems that Edward Furlong's feisty 10-year-old protagonist has grown into 20-year-old Nick Stahl. And the bad guy this time might be a bad girl -- a superadvanced cyborg called the Terminatrix. Directed by Jonathan Mostow. July 2.

THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS 2 -- The star Vin Diesel and the director Rob Cohen both opted out of this sequel to their 2001 hit about race car drivers who double as car thieves, leaving Paul Walker to carry the ball under the coaching of the director John Singleton ("Boyz N the Hood"). Summer.

KILL BILL -- If all goes well, Quentin Tarantino will have his new film ready for Cannes in May, with a United States release planned for October. Uma Thurman stars as a professional assassin known as the Bride, whose entire bridal party is mowed down by persons unknown at her wedding. She alone survives, and she sets out for revenge, traveling to Japan and Mexico. Based on Mr. Tarantino's own novel; with David Carradine, Jacqueline Bisset, Vivica A. Fox, Daryl Hannah and Lucy Liu. October.

THE FOUNTAIN -- Darren Aronofsky, who made the resourceful, low-budget "Pi" and "Requiem for a Dream," looks to have a few more dollars at his disposal on this science fiction epic, shooting in Australia with Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett. December.

All dates are subject to change.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An annotated list of films in the New Season issue on Sept. 8 included an erroneous credit for Matthew Bright, director of "Ted Bundy," which opened on Sept. 13. He did not direct "Ed Gein"; it was directed by Chuck Parello.
The listing also misstated the given name of the writer of "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets." He is Steven Kloves, not Ron.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Arnold Schwarzenegger also returns, in "Terminator 3." (July 2) (Robert Zuckerman/Warner Brothers); Keanu Reeves returns in "The Matrix Reloaded." (May 15) (Jasin Boland/Warner Brothers)(pg. 58); Elijah Wood as Frodo Baggins in "The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers." (Dec. 18) (Pierre Vinet/New Line Cinema); Nicole Kidman as Virginia Woolf in "The Hours." (Dec. 27) (Clive Hoote/Paramount Pictures and Miramax Films); Tom Courtenay, left, Anne Hathaway, Charlie Hunnam and Barry Humphries in Douglas McGrath's "Nicholas Nickleby." (Dec. 27) (Simon Mein/United Artists Films); Michael and Kirk Douglas star in "A Few Good Years." (Dec. 27) (Andrew Schwartz/Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures); In the romantic comedy "Two Weeks Notice," Hugh Grant and Sandra Bullock play a billionaire C.E.O. and his chief counsel. (Dec. 20) (Eli Reed/Warner Brothers)(pg. 54); Natasha McElhone and George Clooney in "Solaris," Steven Soderbergh's remake of Andrei Tarkovsky's sci-fi classic. (Nov. 27) (Bob Marshak/20th Century Fox)(pg. 53); Leonor Watling, as a ballerina, in the Spanish director Pedro Almodovar's "Talk to Her," a drama about friendship and love. (Nov. 22) (Miguel Bracho/Sony Pictures Classics); David Alpay and Arsinee Khanjian in "Ararat." (Nov. 15) (Miramax Films); Owen Wilson, left, and Eddie Murphy in the comedy "I Spy." (Nov. 1) (Joseph Lederer/Columbia Pictures); Daniel Radcliffe in "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets," the second film about the apprentice sorcerer. (Nov. 15) (Peter Mountain/Warner Brothers); Colin Farrell in Joel Schumacher's "Phone Booth." (Nov. 15) (Christine Loss/20th Century Fox)(pg. 50); Thandie Newton and Mark Wahlberg in "The Truth About Charlie." (Oct. 25) (Ken Regan/Camera 5, for Universal Studios); The winged Celebi joins the cast for "Pokemon 4Ever." (Oct. 11) (Miramax Films); Mira Sorvino as an Auschwitz inmate in "The Grey Zone." (Oct. 11) (Deyan Donev/Lions Gate Films); Adam Sandler is a rage-prone salesman in "Punch-Drunk Love," an atypical romance by Paul Thomas Anderson ("Magnolia"). (Oct. 11) (Bruce Birmelin/Columbia Pictures and Revolution Studios); A romantic comedy: "Brown Sugar" with Taye Diggs, left, and Sanaa Lathan. (Oct. 11) (K.C. Bailey/Fox Searchlight Pictures)(pg. 47); Maggie Gyllenhaal and James Spader, who plays her sadistic employer, in "Secretary." (Sept. 20) (Bruce Birmelin/Lions Gate Films); Eric Schweig, left, and Graham Greene in "Skins." (Sept. 27) (First Look Pictures); Jackie Chan as a chauffeur-turned-spy in "The Tuxedo." (Sept. 27) (George Kraychyk/DreamWorks Pictures); Moritz Bleibtreu in "Das Experiment," a German hit. (Sept. 18) (Samuel Goldwyn Films); The thriller "Alias Betty" was directed by Claude Miller. (Friday) (Wellspring)(pg. 45) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); HORROR FILMS (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); CHILDREN (74%); BALLET (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); SUBURBS (70%); RAP MUSIC (66%); HIP HOP CULTURE (66%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (76%); NICOLE KIDMAN (71%); SANDRA BULLOCK (56%); JULIETTE BINOCHE (56%); EDDIE MURPHY (56%); DANIEL RADCLIFFE (56%); ADAM SANDLER (56%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (56%); HUGH GRANT (ACTOR) (56%); ANNE HATHAWAY (56%) KEHR, DAVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) CHILE (94%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



244 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Who's Next At the Fed? A Look At the Field

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
ALAN GREENSPAN has just completed 15 years as chairman of the Federal Reserve, and at 76 he is still going strong. His current term, his fourth, runs until June 2004, and he could very well be appointed to a fifth if he feels up to it.
 But Fed watchers have been detecting signals for some time that Mr. Greenspan may be preparing to go. He engineered the appointment of his closest adviser, Donald L. Kohn, to the central bank's seven-member board of governors, giving the board a storehouse of institutional knowledge should Mr. Greenspan depart. 
 He has left some friends and economists outside the Fed with the impression that he is beginning to think about the end of his tenure. Last month, at the Fed's annual conference in Jackson Hole, Wyo., his speech about stock market bubbles struck many in the audience as a defense of his legacy.
Speculation about Mr. Greenspan's stepping down is almost as common in Washington as handicapping the next presidential race. But whether just a parlor game or the early stages of winnowing the field for one of the world's most powerful jobs, talk of a successor is heating up and focusing on a half-dozen candidates who would most likely be acceptable to a Republican president. Although many names are circulating, none of them is an overwhelming favorite.

MARTIN S. FELDSTEIN -- An economics professor at Harvard and the president of the National Bureau of Economic Research, he has an impeccable academic reputation. Even liberals who disagree with him on policy matters say he is smart, a good communicator and well informed about the range of issues he would face as Fed chairman.
He is a conservative. But one factor complicating his prospects is lingering resentment on the Republican right about his tenure as chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers during the Reagan administration. Mr. Feldstein angered some supply-siders by focusing on the dangers of the growing budget deficit and disputing the idea that tax cuts could pay for themselves.
Odds: 4-1.

ROGER W. FERGUSON JR. -- The vice chairman of the Fed, Mr. Ferguson won high marks for his cool performance on 9/11, when Mr. Greenspan was out of the country. Among his biggest fans is Mr. Greenspan, who went to bat for him when President Bush dithered over whether to reappoint him. It could be to Mr. Bush's political advantage to select Mr. Ferguson, who would be the first black Fed chairman.
But Mr. Ferguson's background is in banking rather than monetary policy, and he is a Democrat. He has rarely stepped into the limelight or deviated much from Mr. Greenspan on his view of the economy, and administration officials have little sense of whether he has the right leadership skills.
Odds: 6-1.

R. GLENN HUBBARD -- The chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Mr. Hubbard is perhaps the only one of Mr. Bush's top economic advisers whose stature has grown since coming to office. He could benefit from Mr. Bush's propensity for choosing people with whom he is personally comfortable.
But he is little known on Wall Street and has spent most of his career focusing on taxes rather than monetary policy.
Odds: 8-1.

JOHN B. TAYLOR -- The undersecretary of the Treasury for international affairs, Mr. Taylor is one of the world's foremost monetary economists, and he came to Washington from Stanford last year as the front-runner to succeed Mr. Greenspan.
But his performance at the Treasury has left White House officials underwhelmed, and the conventional wisdom is that his chance of getting the Fed job has faded.
Odds: 8-1.

LAWRENCE B. LINDSEY -- Mr. Bush's chief economic policy adviser and a former Fed governor, Mr. Lindsey would be an obvious choice by the president.
But after bonding with Mr. Bush during the campaign and overseeing the development of his tax-cut plan, Mr. Lindsey has seen his influence wane, and he is regarded by Democrats as too partisan.
Odds: 8-1.

ROBERT D. McTEER JR. -- The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Mr. McTeer is the favored candidate of those who believe Texas connections have a big influence on Mr. Bush. Like Mr. Bush, he is folksy, optimistic and conservative, and favored by supply-siders.
But he does not have any particular stature on Wall Street, and he could face some uncomfortable questions in a confirmation hearing. Earlier this year, he arranged a conference at which a speech by a conservative author was criticized by some Fed officials as offensive to blacks and gays.
Odds: 10-1.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); POLITICS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (54%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); MCTEER, ROBERT D JR; LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; TAYLOR, JOHN B (UNDER SEC); HUBBARD, R GLENN; FERGUSON, ROGER W JR; FELDSTEIN, MARTIN S (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



245 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Follow Dividend Yields With Care

BYLINE:  By J. ALEX TARQUINIO 

 BODY:
YIELDS have been climbing on many large-capitalization stocks, not because they have raised their dividends but because their prices have fallen sharply.
 More than 50 companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index yield more than 4 percent, rivaling the yield on long-term Treasury bonds. In February, the yields of only three companies in the index were that high. 
 There are reasons to love dividends. In a flat or falling stock market, dividend-paying stocks usually have better total returns; in addition to the income they generate, high-yielding stocks tend to have better price appreciation, or at least shallower declines. Through Thursday, dividend-paying stocks in the S.& P. 500 were down 10.57 percent this year, on average, while those that didn't pay dividends were off 34.61 percent. 
Many high-yielding stocks, including names like J. P. Morgan Chase, Bristol-Myers Squibb and FleetBoston Financial, are viewed by analysts as solid investments. But high yields in themselves may not necessarily be desirable, said Richard Bernstein, chief United States strategist at Merrill Lynch. 
"High yield can mean two things," he said. "It can mean an opportunity, or it can mean the dividend is going to be cut and the market is anticipating that" -- and prices have therefore fallen for a good reason. 
Nevertheless, Mr. Bernstein said he thinks some classic value investments can be found in the high-yield group, particularly among pharmaceutical stocks. He warns investors to be careful, however, about high-yielding financial companies because of potential problems with bad loans and the possibility that the economy may be weakening again. But individual investors have one advantage over the professionals: time. "As an individual investor, you can buy early and you don't have to worry about quarterly performance," he said.
Among financial companies, share prices of Citigroup and J. P. Morgan Chase have dropped the most sharply -- with corresponding yield increases -- since the week of July 22, when bank executives appeared before a Congressional panel investigating the companies' roles in the Enron debacle. Citigroup now trades at $30.28, giving it a 2.38 percent yield, and J. P. Morgan is at $23.91, for a yield of 5.69 percent.
Though both companies have a long history of annual dividend increases, J. P. Morgan has now gone six quarters without one. "I strongly suspect that if there's no more bad news, they can maintain the dividend, said Donald Taylor, manager of the Franklin Rising Dividend fund. "But there's very little margin for error." 
FleetBoston has a yield of 5.96, but Mr. Luftig said he expects that its annual earnings growth rate over the next five years will be 4 to 5 percent. "We're not interested in stocks that have a higher yield where growth expectations are low," he said. He prefers Bank One and Washington Mutual, two expanding, regionally based banks with yields above 2 percent, and estimated annual growth rates of at least 8 percent.
THOMAS J. HUBER, manager of the T. Rowe Price Dividend Growth fund, favors pharmaceutical stocks. "They embody everything I like to see in a company: cash flow, high margins, a good dividend that grows over time."
Shares of Bristol-Myers have fallen since the end of July, when management acknowledged a Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry into wholesale sales incentives that might have inflated 2001 revenue by as much as $1 billion. The incentives created an inventory glut that management acknowledges will hurt earnings this year. 
Nevertheless, he regards Bristol-Myers as a classic value stock. The company has been the subject of persistent rumors that it is an acquisition target, and with a yield of 4.44 percent , shareholders are being paid to wait, Mr. Huber said.
Plenty of dividend opportunities are found in telephone and electric utilities, historically some of the highest-yielding stocks, but the group has many minefields, said Richard Behler, co-manager of the Morgan Stanley Dividend Growth fund.
Shares of the Baby Bells tumbled after one of them, BellSouth, cut earnings estimates for the fourth time this year on Aug. 29. BellSouth now trades at $22.67, for a yield of 3.53 percent. Verizon trades at $29.83 and has a yield of 5.16 percent.
Mr. Behler said the phone companies would need time to sort out consumer demand for a range of services, from wireless to broadband Internet. In the meantime, there will be pressure on profit margins.
Electric utilities, once called safe income investments for widows and orphans, are now widely regarded as risky if they have delved into any energy trading, Mr. Behler said. "Pure-vanilla utility stocks probably aren't too risky, but the valuations aren't extremely low, either," he said.
One utility company that Mr. Luftig recommends is Teco Energy, based in Tampa, with a yield of 8.70 percent and a price-to-earnings ratio of 7.07. Its stock closed at $16.33 on Friday, down 37.8 percent this year.
"The dividend is very secure," Mr. Luftig said. The company pays investors $1.42 a share, and he estimates that 2002 earnings will be $2.10 to $2.20 a share. He expects earnings of $2.10 a share in 2003, but new plants should bolster earnings 5 percent to 6 percent a year after that, he said.
Although there are exceptions, for most stocks a yield of much more than 7 percent may signal an impending dividend cut, said Arnold Kaufman, editor of The Outlook, a newsletter published by Standard & Poor's. "You should probably settle in the 3 percent to 6 percent area, particularly if you want some growth potential," he said.
Such rules of thumb are meant to apply to the current market, in which relatively low yields are commonplace. It wasn't always this way. In 1982, at a market bottom, the average yield of the S.& P. 500 was 6.7 percent; it is below 2 percent today. 
Shaky earnings have generally pushed dividend payments lower. Companies in the S.& P. 500 cut dividends 2.5 percent in 2000, on average, and 3.3 percent in 2001 -- the first back-to-back annual declines since 1951 -- and they have cut dividends an additional 1 percent so far this year.
DIVIDEND-PAYING stocks tend to be left behind in a bull market, when investors typically want companies to use profits to expand their businesses. Many young investors see dividend stocks as stodgy, said Dee Lee, a financial planner in Harvard, Mass. Ms. Lee said she might recommend General Electric to investors looking for growth. It now yields 2.54 percent. "I tell them, 'That's a bonus,' " she said.
Dividends are taxed at an individual's top marginal tax rate, making them less tax-efficient than long-term capital gains. One way around that is to hold dividend stocks in a tax-deferred account, like a retirement or college savings account.
But Ms. Lee says many dividend-paying stocks are such good investments that it makes sense to hold them in a taxable account. "Too often, people are driven by a desire to beat Uncle Sam," she said.
Arguments that dividends are tax inefficient contributed to their slide from grace. In the late 90's, rather than paying dividends, many companies chose to buy back stock, often at inflated prices. "That tax angle dovetailed nicely with the inflated use of stock options," Mr. Taylor said. "Buying back stock is a nice way to prop up the value of options." It was also necessary to keep the options from diluting outstanding shares, he said.
Will dividends ever return to their historical importance? Mr. Huber thinks so. "Unfortunately, we may get there the hard way," he said. "I think total returns are just going to be lower."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Bear Market Beneficiaries?"Stocks that pay dividends to investors have had a steadier performance than those that do not. Recent dips in prices have raised dividend yields, making some stocks particularly attractive, some analysts say. COMPARATIVE ANNUAL RETURNS Graph shows the annual return percentage of stocks that do not pay a dividend and stocks that pay a dividend since 1992. STOCKS THAT PAY DIVIDENDS: Teco EnergyPRICE-TO EARNINGS RATIO: 7.07DIVIDEND AS A PERCENTAGE OF STOCK PRICE: 8.70 % STOCKS THAT PAY DIVIDENDS: FleetBoston FinancialPRICE-TO EARNINGS RATIO: 11.30DIVIDEND AS A PERCENTAGE OF STOCK PRICE: 5.96 STOCKS THAT PAY DIVIDENDS: P. Morgan ChasePRICE-TO EARNINGS RATIO: 13.43DIVIDEND AS A PERCENTAGE OF STOCK PRICE: 5.69 STOCKS THAT PAY DIVIDENDS: VerizonPRICE-TO EARNINGS RATIO: 9.91DIVIDEND AS A PERCENTAGE OF STOCK PRICE: 5.16 STOCKS THAT PAY DIVIDENDS: Bristol-Myers SquibbPRICE-TO EARNINGS RATIO: 13.29DIVIDEND AS A PERCENTAGE OF STOCK PRICE: 4.44 STOCKS THAT PAY DIVIDENDS: BellSouthPRICE-TO EARNINGS RATIO: 10.03DIVIDEND AS A PERCENTAGE OF STOCK PRICE: 3.53 STOCKS THAT PAY DIVIDENDS: Washington MutualPRICE-TO EARNINGS RATIO: 11.12DIVIDEND AS A PERCENTAGE OF STOCK PRICE: 2.85 STOCKS THAT PAY DIVIDENDS: General ElectricPRICE-TO EARNINGS RATIO: 18.74DIVIDEND AS A PERCENTAGE OF STOCK PRICE: 2.54 STOCKS THAT PAY DIVIDENDS: CitigroupPRICE-TO EARNINGS RATIO: 10.48DIVIDEND AS A PERCENTAGE OF STOCK PRICE: 2.38 STOCKS THAT PAY DIVIDENDS: Bank OnePRICE-TO EARNINGS RATIO: 14.91DIVIDEND AS A PERCENTAGE OF STOCK PRICE: 2.13 *Through Thursday(Sources: Standard & Poor's; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); DIVIDENDS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (71%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: JP MORGAN CORP; BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (BMY) 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (71%); JPM (LSE) (71%); 8634 (TSE) (71%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); BMY (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (71%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: TARQUINIO, J ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



246 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2274 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
How to Tie Payto Goals, Instead of the Stock Price

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
IN a short memoir of his time at Yale University, James Tobin, the late Nobel-winning economist, separated professors there into two camps: the institutional types and the free agents. The institutional types were committed to building Yale's economics department and stayed loyal to the university. The free agents looked for better job offers and moved often.
 The free agents might have been brilliant scholars, but the institutional types, Professor Tobin observed, were more valuable to Yale. 
 There may well be a parallel in corporate America. 
In recent years, fatter and fatter pay packages, laden with stock options and other rewards like low-interest loans, have helped turn many executives into free agents.
Yet because it was the way to sure gains, the free agents often played to Wall Street and turned their stock and options into quick, easy money rather than ensuring their companies' long-term prospects.
Finding and retaining executives who are committed to helping a company grow over the long run might stop the cycle of skyrocketing pay and dwindling tenure. It might also help to curb the anything-goes ethics that led to the type of excesses seen at companies like Enron and WorldCom.
The question is this: How can companies reward executives in a way that provides proper incentives for good performance and encourages high-performance institutional types?
While corporate boards struggle to answer that question, professional experts on executive pay, as well as academics who study incentives, offer some guidance. Many recommend granting stock, especially with restrictions on its future sale, instead of granting options. Some suggest promoting loyalty and performance by tailoring executives' packages to their personal tastes -- within reason. Virtually all the experts recommend an emphasis on long-term rewards for long-term success.
Pay packages "will be more goal-oriented than purely market-oriented," said Steven E. Gross, who leads the United States employment compensation practice at Mercer Human Resource Consulting. Rather than depending on stock prices alone, rewards could include grants of cash or stock for concrete achievements over a period of years, he said.
The trend that culminated last year, when executives of failing companies cashed in huge stock grants and options, actually began two decades ago, during the leveraged-buyout wave of the 1980's. Firms like Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, as buyers of undervalued businesses, looked for ways to link the outsiders they installed as executives to their new companies' futures, according to a recent paper by Brian J. Hall, a professor at Harvard Business School. Institutional investors also pushed executives to take ownership stakes, thinking that the executives would work to increase the return on their investments, Professor Hall wrote. As an added incentive, the tax and accounting treatment of stock options made them cheaper to dole out than cash or stock.
But such pay plans, Mr. Gross said, have little downside for executives. "I'm encouraging you to take risks to raise the stock price," he said, taking the role of a corporate board. "What happens if you fail? Nothing."
IN the 1990's, the trend gathered speed. Pay packages became sweeter as the market for executive talent became tighter. The success of outsider chief executives led companies to realize that they might achieve impressive results by bypassing their internal talent pools, said Robert H. Frank, a professor of economics and management at Cornell University.
By 1993, top executives were moving among the country's biggest companies with increasing regularity. In that year, Eastman Kodak, I.B.M., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Sunbeam-Oster and Westinghouse Electric all found new chiefs from outside their own executive suites.
Professor Frank compared the budding market for executives to the advent of free agency in baseball in the 1970's. Once teams could compete to lure talent, some players' salaries broke through the traditionally flat pay scale.
"It just became a free-agent market once there was this seismic shift to the view that people outside your company might be able to help your company," Professor Frank said.
Equity-based pay may have begun as a way to align the interests of executives with those of shareholders. But with more competition for talent, favorable tax treatment and a rising stock market, it often became little more than a cheap solution for attracting top executives. By 1999, some 60 percent of chief executives' annual pay came from stock and options, according to Professor Hall's calculations. Many companies, concerned about meeting quarterly earnings projections, also began to orient their pay packages toward short-term rewards.
Evidence of that shift still pervades pay packages at big companies. "They're not thinking about long-term incentives," said Clair Brown, who heads the Center for Work, Technology and Society at the University of California at Berkeley. "Their long-term outlook is about a year."
In a perverse way, shortsightedness might make sense, given the labor market for executives. A worldwide study of midsized companies released in June by DBM, a human resources consulting firm, found that chief executives in 2001 had been in office an average of three years. Companies that had three or more chief executives in the last decade included especially troubled ones like Kmart and Waste Management, but also others like Apple Computer, Blockbuster and the Ford Motor Company.
Yet it takes about 18 months for a chief executive to feel at home, said Denis St. Amour, president of DBM's Center for Executive Options. "That, in effect, gives you approximately a year, after you've gone through the learning curve and the acclimatization curve, to do your thing."
Executives planning to stay only a few years might have done a good job of massaging numbers for quarterly earnings reports, when that practice was more in vogue. But taking time to think about creative, long-term projects could have been contrary to their best interests. Investing in such projects could hurt earnings in the short term, and executives could not necessarily count on being in office long enough to reap the rewards of the projects.
"How many quarters does a chief executive have before people are going to start grumbling?" Mr. Gross asked. "You force people to be courageous."
Executives had a stronger incentive to engineer quick jumps in stock prices. Having stock options that could be exercised at will only enhanced that incentive. "The idea that you could cash them in at any time did really give a huge payout to anybody who could jack the price up in a hurry," Professor Frank said.
If the share price did not rise, options offered little incentive for an executive to stay, said J. Mark Poerio, a lawyer specializing in executive compensation issues at Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker in Washington. If a shock to the market sent the stock tumbling, the executive might have considered the options worthless for the near future. "The stock options created an incentive to stick around and get rich," Mr. Poerio said, "but at the same time, if it didn't happen fast, it didn't give you the retention incentive."
During the recent boom, boards often found themselves looking for a hot new chief executive to slake Wall Street's thirst for shareholder value. A popular strategy, Mr. Poerio said, was to look for top talent holding apparently worthless options and to offer new grants at attractive prices.
Of course, companies trying to hold on to executives can also grant new options, or simply change the prices at which old options can be exercised. And many did.
In addition to encouraging decision-making horizons too short to guarantee long-term growth, the use of options might have made pay packages too mechanical. Job performance came down to a numerical formula involving stock prices and option values, both of which the executive could influence. "If I have a very complex performance package, I'm going to be spending all my time thinking, 'How do I game this system?' " said W. Bentley MacLeod, director of the Center for Law, Economics and Organization at the University of Southern California.
The system may well turn institutional types into free agents. "You've maybe taken a chief executive and you've turned that individual around to do things in a way that will only get short-term results," Mr. St. Amour said.
Even executives who are loyal to a company increasingly feel the lure of swimming with the sharks to become richer. "The stayers definitely are getting left behind," Professor Brown said.
The cycle that caused pay packets to bulge while companies sought out free agents may soon slow. Whether or not options work for setting incentives, the spreading practice of accounting for them as expenses -- and the wide perception of their misuse by executives -- is likely to limit their popularity.
Professor Frank said easy-money deals would fade. "We'll definitely see many fewer of these short-term options packages," he said. "No one had worked out what the possible implications of those packages were."
The diminished attractiveness of stock and options could make more room for traditional compensation, like cash, bonuses and benefits, or for new strategies.
"Some of this less-expensive compensation is not going to be there," Mr. Gross said. "Now, all of a sudden, the rules change."
Mr. St. Amour said companies could strengthen relationships with executives by tailoring pay packages to a particular person's aspirations. "You need to try and address what's important to the individual," he said. "For some people, maybe it's a secure retirement. For other people, maybe it is a plane, a car or a boat. For other people, maybe it's the opportunity to do something in the organization in a leadership-coaching role."
Mr. Gross said he favored indexing pay to a company's earnings relative to the market. "If the stock goes down, it doesn't mean you're a loser," he said, if other stocks are falling as well. Though the notion of using relative, or indexed, returns "hasn't been real popular," Mr. Gross said, more companies are beginning to consider it seriously.
A trend is already emerging toward restricted and deferred stock grants, Mr. Poerio said. These can cut down on poaching of executives by other companies, he said, because they are worth something even if a company's share price falls. Grants might be made on condition that certain goals are met or only after an executive has stayed several years; executives might also be barred from selling stock for long periods.
"You get rich if the company performs well long term," Mr. Poerio said. "That really better aligns the executive's interest with stockholders.' "
Experts offered some suggestions for deciding how and when to grant stock.
"What a chief executive really needs is a short-, medium-and long-term plan that's tied into compensation options," Mr. St. Amour said. "They need to have milestones for that. You can actually build in the safeguards that will prevent someone from doing something in the short term that will give a negative impact in the medium or long term."
Mr. St. Amour suggested that companies invest part of their executives' short-term compensation in an "internal banking system" from which it could be withdrawn at later dates, based on continued success. He also recommended giving a bonus at the end of a longer period, like 5 or 10 years, for consistency in meeting milestones.
Milestones should not be based solely on profits and revenue, he said. "To use and measure against them alone is to disregard the fundamental things that keep an organization strong," he said. Initiating projects for growth and building relationships with clients should also be rewarded.
A milestone plan would have to rely on regular, subjective evaluations -- a common feature elsewhere in the American workplace. "One of the big benefits of good management and subjective evaluation is that it allows the worker to be creative, do good things for the firm and be rewarded after that," Professor MacLeod said.
Such plans rely on implicit contracts -- unwritten agreements between executives and boards that long-term performance will be rewarded. Executives might commit to forward-looking investments, and directors would wait for long-term growth rather than fixating on quarterly numbers.
Professor Frank predicted that the stock market, having recoiled somewhat from the culture of quarterly earnings manipulation, might welcome this type of a model as long as chief executives communicate their plans clearly.
Such a trend could benefit the longest-serving chief executives, who are often founders or scions of founding families. In the 1980's, several such executives found themselves supplanted by professional managers installed by impatient boards or leveraged-buyout firms. Those who remained usually had an implicit contract with their boards by dint of their deep personal stakes in their companies.
After the market bubble burst, companies did look more toward longtime employees for leadership. The DBM study revealed that in 2001, the number of chief executives hired from outside dropped by half from the previous year.
But Professor Brown said the job market for executive talent could still obstruct a return to old-fashioned relationships built on patience and trust. "I don't think you can restore the implicit contract," she said. "We're in a new situation. Workers are going to continue to maximize their career possibilities, and companies are going to hire as they see fit. Everybody's given up on long-term loyalty."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (James Yang) Graph: "How Executive Rewards Grew"Pay using stock options and shares grew rapidly in the 1990's, especially in the United States, as big companies took advantage of the rising stock market to satisfy the demands of top executives. Average compensation for a chief executive in the United States, in 1998 dollars Graph shows the average compensation (equity-based pay, traditional salary and bonus) for a chief executive in the United States since 1980. Average composition of pay for top executives at companies with 500 million or more in sales, in millions, for 2000 Graph shows average composition of pay (equity-based pay, variable cash and other) for top executives at companies with 500 million or more in sales in the following countries: EuropeAsiaLatin AmericaAustralia, New Zealand, CanadaUnited States (Sources: Towers Perrin; Standard & Poor's ExecuComp; Incentive Strategy: "Executive Compensation and Ownership Structure," by Brian J. Hall, Harvard Business School)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); TRENDS (72%); ETHICS (72%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (69%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS 

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (62%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); MERCER INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (93%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (62%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (62%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: JAMES R TOBIN (90%) ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



247 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: An Uncertain Trumpet 

 BODY:
President Bush was hardly alone in hoping that America would emerge from the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 a stronger and more cohesive nation. Yet nobody framed the challenge better than he did in his State of the Union address last January. "In the sacrifice of soldiers, the fierce brotherhood of firefighters, and the bravery and generosity of ordinary citizens," he said, "we have glimpsed what a new culture of responsibility could look like. We want to be a nation that serves goals larger than self. We've been offered a unique opportunity, and we must not let this moment pass." In later speeches he pounded on the same theme, urging Americans to forswear the "culture of selfishness" and embrace a "new ethic of responsibility."
 What has Mr. Bush made of that moment of opportunity, which may have passed us by? Sad to say, not much. Most of us had expected the country to be in a different place by now, and the fact that it is not can be attributed largely (though by no means exclusively) to Mr. Bush's failure to leverage the political and moral capital Sept. 11 provided. 
 Mr. Bush had the words right. His problem was his failure to give them meaning, either because he did not know what had to be done or because what had to be done exceeded his political will. Sept. 11 summoned Americans to think differently about basic problems and to reach out to one another as never before. It was a moment to begin thinking about less wasteful energy policies, to envision new economic and social strategies, to examine programs of national service for the country's young people -- in short, to entertain genuine sacrifices linked to an elevated vision of America's possibilities. Despite lots of oratory, however, no real sacrifice has been demanded, no vision offered.
In his defense, Mr. Bush has been a busy and burdened man, and as the nation's leader, he has pushed us forward on several fronts. He has proposed a new architecture of homeland defense that could do much to rationalize our quarrelsome and porous security agencies. Abroad, he has prosecuted the complicated war on terrorism with patience and resolve. He certainly did not anticipate the explosion of exposes about appalling corporate behavior that has helped make 2002 a peculiarly "low dishonest" moment in American history (to borrow W. H. Auden's observation about the 1930's), instead of the year of fresh beginnings we wanted.
Nevertheless, the most glaring missed opportunities are directly linked to the president. For instance, it is hard to imagine a sharper reminder of America's dependence on the volatile regimes of the Middle East for their oil than the events of Sept. 11. Yet instead of charting a new course, one requiring major investments in energy efficiency and the development of alternative energy sources -- the two surest roads to greater energy independence -- Mr. Bush clung stubbornly to the notion that the United States could drill its way to self-sufficiency. Absent presidential leadership, a timid and unimaginative Congress did little better, rejecting modest efforts to tighten fuel economy standards while showering producers of traditional fossil fuels with a staggering array of subsidies and tax breaks.
Likewise, Sept. 11 seemed to have little impact on Mr. Bush's economic thinking. Everyone makes sacrifices in times of war, including leaders. Franklin Roosevelt, for instance, set aside cherished domestic initiatives after Pearl Harbor because he knew the country could not afford them. In a similar fashion, Mr. Bush might have postponed or even rolled back his tax cut and redeployed the money in more meritorious ways, perhaps to underwrite a serious program of foreign assistance to encourage the growth of democratic institutions in countries where poverty and corruption breed terrorists -- and cynicism about an American government that supports tyrannical leaders. It would have asked much of Mr. Bush to ask him to give up a program so central to his thinking and political strategy. Yet in clinging to the tax cuts as if they were holy writ, as the former presidential adviser David Gergen recently observed on the Op-Ed page, the president has sent a clear signal to the public that we can have both war and business as usual.
Finally, Mr. Bush has come up short in the one area where he seemed most determined to succeed: creating from the wreckage of the World Trade Center a new sense of purpose in our national life. Robert Putnam, an authority on American community life and the author of "Bowling Alone," argues that the attacks of Sept. 11 connected Americans in ways they have not been connected since World War II, creating a sense of solidarity that manifested itself in a heightened political consciousness, a surprising burst in trust for the federal government, an increase in racial and religious tolerance, and a rise in public-spiritedness in general. Mr. Bush himself noted the change immediately and marveled at what he called "the gathering momentum of millions of acts of decency and kindness." 
Unfortunately, though, the vehicle he created to capture this spirit and enlarge upon it -- the U.S.A. Freedom Corps -- seems to have drifted into irrelevance. It was little more than a gussied-up collection of existing programs to begin with, programs like John Kennedy's Peace Corps and Bill Clinton's AmeriCorps, and so far it has reached only a tiny fraction of America's young people. The administration hopes to double the size of the Peace Corps, to 14,000 from 7,000, and expand AmeriCorps to 75,000 from 50,000. Set against the manifest idealism inspired by Sept. 11, this seems a trivial response. Mr. Bush, as a longtime enemy of big government, seems unable to embrace wholeheartedly a challenge that requires making government programs grow.
If surveys by Mr. Putnam and others are any guide, the mood of sacrifice is fading, the window of opportunity for bottling the patriotism generated by Sept. 11 slowly closing. Mr. Bush continues to extol the virtues of voluntary service, and this is admirable. But it is hardly enough to resist the erosion in the level of public engagement as people return to everyday routines.
In retrospect, Mr. Bush would have been better served -- and the civic enthusiasm of the moment would have had a far greater chance of surviving -- if he had called for something truly bold, like a year of mandatory national service for everyone of college age. Of course, that might have kicked up a political storm. But of what use is political capital unless you spend it? Mr. Bush had plenty of capital to spend after Sept. 11. Sadly, on issue after issue, most of that capital is still in the bank, depreciating by the day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); ETHICS (74%); HISTORY (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



248 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Once Mayor of a Wounded City, Reflecting on the Hard, Dark Days 

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
There is no right way to observe the Sept. 11 anniversary, advises former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. "My advice is, the way you want to do it is the right way to do it," he said at a news conference on Wednesday. "You have to let people do these things on their own. There is no one way to mourn." (Journalists agreed not to report his comments until today.) 
 Sitting in the Times Square offices of his consulting and investing company, Mr. Giuliani began with a brief, informal statement about the coming memorial ceremony, then answered questions for about 45 minutes on subjects ranging from the political to the personal, at one point relating his memories of waking up on Sept. 12, 2001, to see the sun rise. 
 "There was this almost doubt that the sun would come up, and when I saw it come up I had this great feeling of strength," he said. "Maybe the feeling of strength was like, 'The city is still here, we're still here, now we've got to fight back.' "
Mr. Giuliani, who will, at the city's memorial service Wednesday morning, begin the recitation of the names of those who died in the attack on the World Trade Center, said he last visited the site Tuesday night when he went to the neighborhood to see a movie with his daughter, Caroline.
"I find it difficult going there," he said. "It's impossible to go down there without having your memory flooded with. . . . " He did not finish the sentence. "I drove down the way I drove down on the morning of Sept. 11th," he continued. "It's hard to drive those blocks without remembering all the memories I have of it."
Mr. Giuliani's manner was reserved.
Famous -- or infamous -- for his combative relationship with reporters when he was mayor, he was reflective as he sat at one end of a conference table in the offices of Giuliani Partners, flanked by the former police commissioner, Bernard B. Kerik, and the former fire commissioner, Thomas Von Essen, both of whom are now affiliated with the new company. Neither had much to say.
Mr. Giuliani, as ever, did. He reiterated his strong recommendation that all 16 acres of the disaster site become a memorial -- "with a library, a museum, a beautiful contribution to the skyline of the city." That kind of memorial would draw millions of people to the city and jump-start economic development, he contended.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and many people in business disagree, favoring a smaller memorial so some of the site can be used for business, housing and other purposes.
Despite that and other disagreements, Mr. Giuliani had only kind words for his successor, saying Mr. Bloomberg was doing "a good job" as mayor, running the city efficiently, "like a business." He has resolved not to criticize, he said. "I'm trying to stay out of things really not my business now," he said. "I've moved on."
He was, he said, busy establishing his company, fund-raising and campaigning for Republican candidates around the country and making paid speeches on the lecture tour. He said he was enjoying himself.
"I used to think the best thing about term limits was it saved you from yourself," he said. "Now I'm convinced of it. It gives you a chance to do something different, which is a good thing."
Asked about security in the wake of Sept. 11, he said he thought the country was doing well as it retools, but not well enough. "We have to start thinking through the things that can happen to you," he said. "We do need more urgency about it."
When he was asked about Iraq, since all mayors of New York have foreign policies, he said he thought the United States "should end Saddam Hussein's regime," preferably with its allies, but on its own if necessary.
Closer to home, he said, he supported giving all the money that is raised to survivors of rescue workers who were killed, and cited the cost of living in New York.
When he was asked the inevitable question about his interest in returning to politics, Mr. Giuliani, 58, repeated what he has been saying for several months: "I've always wanted to return to public life. That's something I think about and don't rule out in my future. I just don't know when that would be."
The man who led the city through its most traumatic time made one request of people observing the anniversary. Remember not only the horror, he asked, but the heroism and bravery and "generosity of spirit" in the city that day and in the aftermath. "There is this tremendous contradiction," Mr. Giuliani said. "When you remember Sept. 11, you should remember both parts of it, including the uplifting parts of it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "There was this almost doubt that the sun would come up," Rudolph W. Giuliani said of the morning after, "and when I saw it come up I had this great feeling of strength." (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); TERRORISM (73%); WRITERS (71%); POLITICS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) PURNICK, JOYCE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



249 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1696 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE POLL; 
Poll Finds Unease on Terror Fight And Concerns About War on Iraq

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER and JANET ELDER 

 BODY:
Americans increasingly doubt that their government has done enough to protect them against terrorist attacks and are convinced, despite misgivings, that there will be a war against Iraq, the latest New York Times/CBS News poll shows. Majorities do not want war without Congressional and allied support first and a clear explanation from President Bush. 
 One year after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, about half of the public said the Bush administration did not have a clear plan to fight terrorism, and nearly as many said they felt somewhat uneasy and not safe from another terrorist attack. 
 A quarter of the public, but a third of those in the Northeast, said they feared an attack in their area. One American in 10 said the administration had made "a lot of progress" in eliminating terrorist threats from nations besides Afghanistan. 
The survey portrayed a hesitant nation with a sense of inevitability and little of the eager combativeness that surrounded the reaction to the bombing of terrorist targets in Afghanistan last year. A large majority said it expected the American forces to "end up fighting against Iraq."
One-fourth said Iraq presented such a grave threat that the United States should act now, while two-thirds said the nation needed to wait for support from its allies. Another big majority said Mr. Bush should get Congressional approval before making war. 
The troubled answers about the campaign against terrorism at home and abroad conveyed a similar fatalistic, slightly cranky mood. A year ago, three-fifths of Americans said the government had done enough to protect them against another terrorist attack; now two-fifths do. That drop in confidence was mirrored in follow-up interviews.
Mary Wool, a retired store owner in St. Louis, said she objected to "the whole thing at airports, going through your luggage." She said: "I don't think they are serious. It's just harassment and to make people think they are doing something."
Such worries highlighted the importance of President Bush's speech to the United Nations on Thursday, in which he plans to set forth his reasons for regarding Iraq as an international menace. Sixty-four percent of the 937 adults interviewed by telephone last Monday through Thursday said the Bush administration had not clearly explained its position. Even 57 percent of those who said they thought an attack was needed now expressed that sentiment.
Mr. Bush's overall approval rating remains strong. Sixty-three percent said they approved of his handling of his job as president. That still represented a drop from 70 percent in mid-July and the mid-80's recorded last fall and winter. That rating was accompanied by a sharp drop in approval of his handling of foreign policy, to 54 percent from 68 percent in July, and by slight declines in support for his handling of the economy and the war on terrorism. The poll's margin of sampling error was plus or minus three percentage points.
The respondents said they thought the Bush administration was making "some" progress rather than "a lot" on goals Mr. Bush had set out for the war on terrorism. These goals included closing terrorist camps and establishing a stable government in Afghanistan, eliminating terrorist threats from other countries, making air travel safe and improving America's image in the Arab world.
Capturing or killing Osama bin Laden remains a benchmark of sorts for success in Afghanistan. Three-quarters of the poll's respondents said they think he is still alive; 61 percent said the United States will not have won the war in Afghanistan unless he is captured or killed.
The survey did not test political attitudes in depth, but offered some troubling signs for the president's party in the midterm elections. 
Thirty-seven percent of all respondents said they trusted the government to make the right decisions all or most of the time, down from 55 percent, the highest measure in decades, recorded last October in the first flush of support for the beginning of the war on terrorism. Another political indicator showed a steady negative, as 43 percent said the nation was going in the right direction while 49 percent said it was seriously "off on the wrong track."
A generic question about how registered voters planned to vote for representatives in November showed a statistically insignificant Democratic edge of 41 percent to 37 percent, a gap too small to foretell results in the three dozen or so closely contested House races. But among voters 45 and older, who make up about three-fifths of the off-year electorate, Democrats did much better.
The public is ambivalent over the issue of a pre-emptive attack of the sort urged by Vice President Dick Cheney and Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld.
Half the respondents were asked whether the United States should attack "another country" if that country did not attack first, and 47 percent opposed such an attack, while 41 percent favored it if the United States thought that country might launch an attack. 
The other half were asked the same question, but with the word "Iraq" used instead of "another country." Then 61 percent favored a pre-emptive strike and 26 percent opposed it. The margin of sampling error for each group was plus or minus five percentage points.
One respondent, Tom Tully of Columbus, Ohio, said, "Every day we wait to attack, Saddam is building more chemical weapons, and some sources say he already has nuclear weapons." Mr. Tully, 35, an unemployed computer engineer, said: "If not now, when? Might as well do it now than later when it gets more difficult."
But Leona Miller, 75, a retired nurse and real estate agent in Bremerton, Wash., said: "I oppose the attack on Iraq. George Bush is on a vendetta started by his father. It is getting-even stuff."
Support for a war declined when the public was offered other alternatives or considerations. Fifty-six percent cautioned delay so that the United Nations could try to get weapons inspectors back in Iraq. When asked if they would favor war if it would last "months or even years," 49 percent favored a war and 44 percent opposed it.
Sixty-two percent said the president "should have to get the approval of Congress before taking military action against Iraq." Among those 65 and older, or old enough to recall World War II, 74 percent said Congressional approval was required. Still, the 62 percent figure was down from the 71 percent who said so in a CBS News poll early in August.
Women and the elderly were least enthusiastic about war. For example, while 27 percent of the public said the nation should go to war now without waiting for allied support, 21 percent of women and 10 percent of people 65 and older took that view.
The Sept. 11 attacks have not passed out of mind. Three-fifths of the public said they thought about them at least once a week, and a third said they talked about them that often.
Two out of five respondents said their lives had changed since the terrorist attacks, and four out of five said the country had changed.
David Lechner, 47, a printer in Huntingburg, Ind., spoke of both changes, saying: "When I watched the trade center come down, tears ran down my face. It hit home that I'm no different from the rest of the people. I am conscious of it daily; it doesn't just come and go. But it made the nation 10 times stronger than it was. There is unity and strength."
Cheryl Krusinski, the wife of an Air Force captain, was teaching second grade in Washington a year ago. "They told us to lock our classrooms, that Washington was being attacked," Ms. Krusinski said. She said talking to her students, one of whom lost his father in the attack on the Pentagon, was "emotional," and she continually relived the experience. She said that day had re-emphasized the importance of her husband's occupation. "I know he'll be going and that has big emotional impact, but I realize it's for a greater purpose, to protect our country."
The view that the government had not done enough to protect Americans against terrorism held fairly steady across various demographic groups. Monica Sanders, 21, a college student from Modesto, Calif., said that airport security alone was not enough. "All other forms of transportation should be checked," she said. "There are terrorists in the country who could do something on a highway or a train."
Vic Stinnett, 35, a welder in Mountain Home, Idaho, said, "The government could do things like background checks on people who go in and out of the country." He added, "A thumbprint or fingerprint scan would be a good idea."
Louise Steward, 67, a retired bank worker in Tampa, Fla., said: "The only way we would feel more secure would be to clean up all of Iraq and all of Afghanistan. We need to get our troops out there and clean up the mess. That is what the government should do: mop it up."

How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Monday through Thursday with 937 adults throughout the United States.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take into account household size and number of telephone lines in the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Combating Terrorism"Percentage of people who approve of the way President Bush has handled the campaign against terrorism. Graph tracks the decline in percent of people who approve in Bush's handling of terrorism from Oct. 2001 to Sept. 2002 Action Against IraqDo you approve of the U.S. taking military action against Iraq to try to remove Saddam Hussein from power? 68%: YES24%: NO Should the U.S. take military action against Iraq fairly soon, or wait and give the United Nations more time to get weapons inspectors back into Iraq? ACT SOON: 35%GIVE U.N. TIME: 56% (The New York Times/CBS News Poll)(pg. 1) Chart: "On Bush's Antiterrorism Policies" Bush administration has a clear plan for the campaign against terrorism: 39%They are just reacting to events as they occur: 52%No opinion: 9% Federal government has done all it can be expected to do to make the country safe from future terrorism: 42%Government could have done more: 54%No opinion: 4% Has the Bush administration made a lot of progress, some progress, not much progress or no progress at all in . . . . . . putting a stable government in place in Afghanistan?A LOT: 7%SOME: 48%NOT MUCH: 26%NO PROGRESS: 8%NO OPINION: 11% . . . improving the image of the United States in the Arab world?A LOT: 9%SOME: 31%NOT MUCH: 34%NO PROGRESS: 21%NO OPINION: 5% . . . eliminating the threat from terrorists operating from other countries?A LOT: 9%SOME: 57%NOT MUCH: 24%NO PROGRESS: 9%NO OPINION: 1% . . . developing a comprehensive plan for protecting theUnited States against terrorism?A LOT: 17%SOME: 63%NOT MUCH: 13%NO PROGRESS: 5%NO OPINION: 2% . . . closing terrorist training camps in Afghanistan?A LOT: 17%SOME: 67%NOT MUCH: 9%NO PROGRESS: 4%NO OPINION: 4% . . . making air travel safe?A LOT: 27%SOME: 55%NOT MUCH: 14%NO PROGRESS: 4%NO OPINION: 0 On United States Involvement in Iraq Bush administration has explained the U.S. position regarding Iraq27%HAS NOT: 64NO OPINION: 9 The U.S. should not attack another country unless that country has attacked the U.S. first47% U.S. should be able to attack any country it thinks might attack the U.S.41%NO OPINION: 12% Favor U.S. military action against Iraq even if substantial U.S. military casualties occur50%OPPOSE: 38%NO OPINION: 12% Bush should get Congressional approval before taking military action against Iraq62% He should be able to make that decision himself38%NO OPINION: 3% (Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted Sept. 2-5 with 937 respondents.)(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (91%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROVALS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); HIJACKING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); AIRLINES (62%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

INDUSTRY:  SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) CLYMER, ADAM; ELDER, JANET; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAQ; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



250 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
For Buchanan, A New Pulpit And Target

BYLINE:  BY DAVID CARR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Patrick Buchanan has just finished another segment of MSNBC's "Buchanan and Press," the latest version of his televised love-hate relationship with the liberal commentator and fellow "Crossfire" alumnus Bill Press. Mr. Buchanan shows a bit of fang while the camera is rolling, but it is shtick. His real enmity is reserved for his fellow conservatives.
 "We need to recapture the conservative movement," he says, scrolling through the Drudge Report in his office at NBC in Washington after a taping session in late August. "The movement has been hijacked and turned into a globalist, interventionist, open-borders ideology, which is not the conservative movement I grew up with." 
 Having failed to become president, Mr. Buchanan is back to save the country from the faux conservatives. Instead of leading the "pitchfork brigade" of average Joes, he has corralled a group of like-minded intellectuals to produce a magazine of opinion. It will be called The American Conservative, reflecting both his bottom-line values and unapologetic nature. 
Mr. Buchanan once called Martin Luther King Jr. "immoral, evil and a demagogue," described Congress as "Israeli-occupied territory" and has suggested that gays are "Hell-bent on Satanism and suicide." His rhetoric has moderated somewhat over three runs for the presidency, but Mr. Buchanan still marches to his own martial music.
The American Conservative, financed and influenced by the shipping heir Taki Theodoracopulos, and edited by Scott McConnell, a former editorial page editor of The New York Post, is an attempt to garner intellectual capital, not market share, and a fairly rarified slice at that.
No publishing formula has been more efficient at putting money down a rat hole than has that of the political magazine. The constellation of magazines that try to own Beltway consciousness -- The New Republic, The Weekly Standard, The Nation, The Washington Monthly, National Review and The American Prospect -- may differ on points of ideology, but share a distinct propensity for losing money. (After a year of losses, George Gilder, owner of The Gilder Technology Report, returned control of the conservative American Spectator to its founder, R. Emmett Tyrrell.)
To help keep costs under control, The American Conservative will be printed on newsprint, much like its cousin on the left, The Nation. Published every other week beginning at the end of September, and mailed to 12,000 readers to gin up subscriptions, it will try to wrest the conservative agenda from the likes of The Weekly Standard and National Review.
Mr. Buchanan sees those magazines as practitioners of neoconservatism, which he believes is a corruption of conservative values. With his current jeremiads against adventurism in Iraq -- isolationism is a fundamental tenet of Buchananism -- and his protectionist bent toward the American worker, he has more in common with the left in the current debate over where the country is headed.
"Where are the conservatives who are against the war?" he says. "Kristol, Podhoretz, Will and Bennett -- they're all hot for war and can't wait to get started." He referred to the conservative commentators William Kristol, Norman Podhoretz, George F. Will, and William Bennett.
All crusades have their benefactors. Rupert Murdoch finances The Weekly Standard, and William F. Buckley Jr. supports National Review. At The American Conservative, the first million dollars, but probably not the last, will come from Mr. Theodoracopulos, a controversial Greek national who shares Mr. Buchanan's nationalistic bent, but not his conservative taste in matters of lifestyle. Mr. Theodoracopulos was convicted of cocaine possession in 1984, a fact he himself has written about, and would much prefer a day of yachting to a day among commoners.
A jet-setter who divides his time in the United States and Europe and writes Taki's Top Drawer for New York Press, a weekly alternative paper in New York City, he draws on his personal relationships with the dukes and duchesses of government and business to add sparkle to his hard-right view of global matters.
"He has an interesting life, and he writes well about it," said Russ Smith, the owner of New York Press.
All the founders of The American Conservative are deeply suspicious of United States support for Israel, but Mr. Theodoracopulos defines the outer limits of that debate. In a New York Press column, he argued that Abu Nidal was an Israeli agent, in between scoldings of those making money from the death of Mr. Theodoracopulos's friend Princess Diana. He worries that America's self-assigned role as global policeman is demonizing the country abroad. "Even the Swiss, who only care about money, are beginning to hate us," he said.
"When I was leaving Staad, my friends told me, 'Why not buy a couple of impressionist paintings instead of this quixotic venture?' and I really don't have a good answer for that," Mr. Theodoracopulos said. "If we fail, we fail."
It will be up to Mr. McConnell, along with managing editor, Kara Hopkins, to make sense of it all, and to put out a magazine that is waved around on the Sunday morning talk shows. In an office in Rosslyn, Va., Mr. McConnell and a small staff were gathering stories for the first issue. He says there is nothing elite about the magazine's position in the current debate.
"This used to be a country where working people could hold their head high," Mr. McConnell says. "Now we are in the process of turning the country into a place like Brazil, where only the most educated and skilled people can have a degree of economic security and comfort."
Mr. McConnell suggests that immigration has become an untouchable issue. "There is less room on the right than there used to be, and we want to have a place where those opinions, a large undercurrent of dissent, can have a platform," he says.
There was not a huge market in the last election for Mr. Buchanan's version of America First, but Mr. McConnell says he does not think it will be a hurdle. "I don't think that Pat's poor showing in 2000 is a reflection of the potential resonance of our kind of conservative magazine," Mr. McConnell says.
William Kristol, editor of The Weekly Standard, says he believes that the inclusion of Mr. Theodoracopulos is a mistake.
"I am all for another magazine, but I think that the inclusion of Taki, who is a pretty loathsome character, will hurt their credibility," he says.
Mr. Theodoracopulos says that he does not know Mr. Kristol and shrugs off the characterization as competitively motivated. "Apparently, they're very worried about us."
Regardless of who is involved, Mr. Kristol is not sure that there is a big market in being a scold of the right. "I think it is important for a magazine, any magazine, to try to say interesting things about the world," Mr. Kristol says. "I think a magazine would make a big mistake in saying that 'Our topic is another magazine.' "
Mr. Buchanan represents a significant asset in the fight for attention. He has cross-platform appeal, with a winning television disposition that takes some of the edges off his rather sharp-edge positions. Whether he is working a cafe in Iowa or a roomful of staff members at his new magazine, he can still command attention.
"Amongst a certain group, Pat can do no wrong," says the conservative commentator Lucianne Goldberg. "He could appear nude, with Gloria Steinem with his hair on fire, and they would still love him."
"Still," she says, "We have reached critical mass with giving our opinions. I mean, how big is the conservative sponge?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kara Hopkins, managing editor of The American Conservative, a new magazine, along with its co-editors, Taki Theodoracopulos and Patrick Buchanan. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. C1); The first issue of The American Conservative is set for this month. (pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); LIBERAL MEDIA (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); MARKET SHARE (69%) MAGAZINES; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CONSERVATIVE (MAGAZINE) 

PERSON: CARR, DAVID; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; THEODORACOPULOS, TAKI; MCCONNELL, SCOTT; HOPKINS, KARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



251 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1857 words

HEADLINE: Year After 9/11, Cyberspace Door Is Still Ajar 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
Sounding the alarm is not the same as paying for a deadbolt on the door. Which may explain why, despite the heightened fears of cyberterrorism and online security that followed last September's attacks in New York and Washington, few American businesses or organizations have responded with new measures to safeguard their computing systems from intruders.
 Harris Miller had hoped it would be otherwise. He recalls that warning Americans about cyberterrorism and online security before Sept. 11 had been an exercise in futility. 
 "I felt like Sisyphus," said Mr. Miller, president of the the Information Technology Association of America, a trade group, adding that his pleas for greater awareness and quicker action were consistently ignored. "Just rolling the stone up the mountain, and it kept rolling right back down again." For government, corporations and individuals alike, Mr. Miller said, computer security was always "the 11th item on a 10-item list." 
Then came the attacks -- and with them, a growing sense that terrorism could happen anywhere. And anywhere included the nation's computer networks and all the critical systems that were tied to them. 
"It really was a wake-up call," said Mario Correa, director of Internet and network security policy for the Business Software Alliance, an industry lobbying group in Washington. 
Security experts predicted that their calls would finally be heeded and that corporations and governments would shore up their cyberdefenses. Some even spoke of a "security dividend" for the industry arising from the attacks. The International Data Group, a publisher of trade magazines, even announced a new magazine, CSO, aimed at the hoped-for legions of deep-pocketed corporate chief security officers. 
So what has changed in the year since the attacks? 
Not so much, actually. 
The fretting, certainly, has been vocal. Companies say in survey after survey that they believe they, and the government, are still vulnerable to cyberattack. Indeed, a poll published this summer by the Business Software Alliance found that 60 percent of those who are directly responsible for their companies' network security believe that United States businesses are at risk for a major cyberattack in the next 12 months. 
And a government team led by Richard A. Clarke, the White House cyberspace security adviser, has been busy on a computer security framework that is to be announced next week and is expected to spell out actions that should be taken by government, industry and even individuals to safeguard the Internet.
The fretting and frameworking, however, has not escalated into spending. Money spent on security has been flat the last year, with no turnaround imminent, said Steve Hunt, a vice president of the Giga Information Group, a high-technology analysis company. 
"The security market is not going to benefit in 2002," he said. A survey of the customers of Sanctum Inc., a security company in Santa Clara, Calif., which said it had extensively interviewed 10 customers on the topic, showed that only three had made new Internet security moves because of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Other areas of security, like the disaster preparedness of information technology systems, have also come under increased scrutiny since Sept. 11. But, as with cybersecurity, little money has been spent. In a survey conducted for AT&T, 73 percent of those questioned said their companies had reviewed their disaster recovery planning after Sept. 11, but only one in 10 said business disaster planning had become a top priority after the attacks. 
That is not particularly surprising in tight economic times, when most information technology spending has focused on incremental improvements to current systems, said Art Coviello, the chief executive of RSA Data Security, a computer network security company in Bedford, Mass. At a conference of chief information officers early this year, Mr. Coviello recalled, executives listed the top three priorities in 2002 as "cut costs, cut costs and cut costs." 
"The next priority was to make more out of what they had," he said. "The next priority after that was security." 
Part of the reason for the lack of action is a growing sense of frustration with the task of making computer systems secure, said Peter S. Tippett, the chief technology officer of Trusecure, a computer security management firm in Herndon, Va. Trying to keep up with each individual software patch and vulnerability and apply each one to every computer and network has become an all but impossible task for many organizations. 
The Computer Emergency Response Team, a federally financed monitoring group and information clearinghouse at Carnegie Mellon University, identified 2,437 software vulnerabilities in 2001, but fewer than 1 percent were used in actual attacks. "Why don't we figure out what the essential security is?" Mr. Tippett said. 
He suggested that another reason companies had not acted decisively could be a growing sense among industry experts that the threat of cyberterrorism had been overstated. He noted that although the world's computer networks are increasingly tied to critical systems like power grids and telecommunications networks, a cyberterrorism episode is unlikely to stand alone, or to be devastating in itself. Instead, he said, such an attack would probably come in conjunction with physical attacks and be meant mainly to sow confusion. He compared such a disruption to "a snowstorm on top of an otherwise bad day." 
Still, Mr. Tippett and other security experts agree that the nation's computer networks need more effective and extensive shoring up. 
Meanwhile, Bush administration officials argue that despite the lack of progress cited by others, great strides have actually been made since last September. 
Mr. Clarke, chairman of the president's Critical Infrastructure Protection Board, said the real alarm was sounded not on Sept. 11 but on Sept. 18. That is when a piece of rogue computer software named Nimda spread through Internet-connected computers around the world and caused damage that was estimated in the billions of dollars. The creator of Nimda, which attacked computers and installed "back doors" for subsequent hacker attacks, has never been identified. 
"Sept. 11 made everybody in corporate America think about security," Mr. Clarke said. "Sept. 18 made them think about cybersecurity." 
Since then, he said, software companies have grown far more serious about plugging the kinds of vulnerabilities that Nimda exploited. Microsoft, for example, shut down its software development efforts for nearly two months in a $100 million effort to analyze Windows software for bugs and to train its engineers in "trustworthy computing" techniques. 
Other major software makers have announced similar efforts to make security "not an add-on, but a central thought" in software design, Mr. Clarke said. Industries that did not pay much heed to cybersecurity before -- Mr. Clarke cited power companies as an example -- have "really begun taking security seriously," with widespread use of encryption to shield data from prying eyes and authentication systems to ensure that only authorized people have access to critical system controls. 
And government is "beginning to walk its talk" by shoring up its own systems, Mr. Clarke said. The administration's proposed budget for the 2003 fiscal year calls for $4.2 billion for securing federal networks, a 56 percent increase over the the current fiscal year. And next week, on Sept. 18, Mr. Clarke's team plans to release its action plan for safeguarding the Internet.
But government can only do so much, since most of the networks and systems that need to be protected are in private hands, Mr. Clarke observed. "The government is not going to secure hospitals and banks and railroads -- they have to do it for themselves," he said. 
Mr. Correa's industry group has spent much of the last year trying to ensure that the government's responses to the Sept. 11 attacks do not do more harm than good. "You're seeing Congress look for what appear to be quick fixes and really are not," he said. 
The group opposed, for example, well-intentioned early efforts by lawmakers that would have required federal agencies to upgrade computer security using very specific technologies obtained through strict government procurement guidelines. 
Under early drafts of legislation, for example, the National Institute of Standards and Technology was to specify the kinds of antivirus and firewall software and hardware that would be used in government systems. Mr. Correa's group feared that the specifications would quickly become outdated, because antivirus software, for instance, must evolve continually to keep pace with new kinds of threats. 
So Mr. Correa's group and others requested -- successfully -- that the bills specify only performance goals, like a requirement that any firewall software be able to block a certain number of intrusions a second, without defining how the software accomplish that task.
"You've got to make those security standards performance-based, not technology-based," Mr. Correa said, or "they will be outmoded in a week."
Mr. Correa's group is also fighting an administration plan to put a unit of the Commerce Department that helps set computer security standards, the Computer Security Division, into the new Department of Homeland Security -- a move that they argue would make that group less effective by blurring purely technical issues with military and law-enforcement agendas that could end up with worse, not better, technology. 
His group has also tried to pave the way for greater cooperation among industries and the government on security issues. Those efforts have included legislative proposals for making sure that companies are willing to share information with the government by carving out exemptions in the Freedom of Information Act for such exchanges, so that information given voluntarily to the government about intrusions is not made public.
Mr. Hunt, the Giga Information analyst, sees reasons for optimism. "No security vendors are getting richer, and there are a lot of security problems yet to be solved," he said.
But, he added, companies have begun to shift toward viewing security as an integrated business function and not merely the province of a "little cult in the corner of the I.T. department." In surveys conducted more than a year ago, only 30 percent of all companies said they had a person responsible for connecting security efforts with the actual risks of the business, he said. Now, nearly 90 percent do. 
"This is not a 200 percent improvement in spending," Mr. Hunt said. "It is an improvement in quality, meaning the haphazard approach to security management of the past -- an approach that left many holes -- is steadily being replaced by robust processes of detection and response." 
Even Harris Miller says he is feeling less Sisyphean lately. "While there's been much more attention in the private sector, there's a long way to go," Mr. Miller said. "But I don't feel the exercise is as futile as it was a year ago. Now the need is to get the money spent."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mario Correa, director of network security policy for the Business Software Alliance, has been trying to ensure that the response to the attacks is adequate. (Iain White/Mac Innes Photography)(pg. C1); Richard A. Clark, White House cyberspace security adviser, will recommend measures to cut the risk of an attack on computer security. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. C5) Chart: "Worried and Unready"A recent survey found that people who run information networks for corporations are concerned about the prospect of cyberterrorism, but they are not confident that companies are prepared to deal with network attacks. What is the likelihood that U.S. businesses will be subject to a major cyber attack in the next 12 months? Information Technology Professionals LIKELY: 47%NOT LIKELY: 19 U.S. Adults LIKELY: 25%NOT LIKELY: 40 How prepared do you think U.S. businesses are for a major cyber attack? Information Technology Professionals PREPARED: 18%NOT PREPARED: 45 U.S. Adults PREPARED: 25%NOT PREPARED: 38 (Source: Business Software Alliance) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYBERTERRORISM (90%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); HIJACKING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); LOBBYING (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); PUBLISHING (69%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (69%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (65%); MARKETING SURVEYS (62%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TERRORISM; COMPUTER SECURITY; FINANCES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (54%); GIGA INFORMATION GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: RICHARD T CLARK (79%) SCHWARTZ, JOHN; CLARK, RICHARD A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (64%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



252 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Problems within the telecommunications industry have stalled the consolidation of wireless companies.

BYLINE:  By Simon Romero 

 BODY:
THE beleaguered wireless industry seems to be defying conventional logic these days.
 Just last week, for instance, millions of customers of VoiceStream Wireless, one of the nation's largest cellular carriers, received notice that their service was being renamed T-Mobile, as the company's parent, Deutsche Telekom, embarked on an effort to give its wireless properties in the United States and Europe a single brand. 
 Such branding campaigns, of course, became commonplace in wireless communications after a wave of consolidation reshaped the industry in the late 1990's. Brands like AirTouch, McCaw and Cellular One gave way to names like Verizon Wireless, AT&T Wireless and Cingular Wireless as a half-dozen national carriers came to dominate the industry.
But the new effort to rename VoiceStream struck analysts as odd, given recent reports that Deutsche Telekom was discussing the sale of VoiceStream to the nation's second-largest carrier, Cingular. If Deutsche Telekom planned to unload VoiceStream, why bother to rename it? 
"The smartest thing for them to do would be to pull the rebranding effort, since it doesn't make sense for them to have the T-Mobile brand after they sell it," said Jeffrey Kagan, an independent telecommunications analyst in Atlanta. "This is going to create a lot of confusion in the marketplace, no question about it."
Bryan Zidar, a T-Mobile spokesman, declined to comment on the branding move. 
There may actually be a logic in proceeding with the T-Mobile campaign: The sale of VoiceStream could be hard to carry off in the industry's currently depressed condition. Under other circumstances, the wireless industry would be ripe for consolidation. But despite rumors of deals, which have included talk of Nextel Communications being acquired by AT&T Wireless, and Verizon Wireless taking over Sprint PCS, the most probable acquirers do not seem to be much in the buying mood just now. 
There are several reasons for the great wireless consolidation wave that wasn't. Chief among them, perhaps, is that the nation's largest local telephone companies, SBC Communications, BellSouth and Verizon Communications, are not as financially formidable as they were a few months ago. 
Patrick Comack, an analyst at Guzman & Company in Miami who recently lowered his ratings on the three companies, said that he expected Verizon and SBC to follow BellSouth in lowering earnings estimates for this year as they struggle with the anemic telecommunications market.
The strength of those companies matters for the wireless industry because SBC and BellSouth together control Cingular, while Verizon controls the nation's largest cellular carrier, Verizon Wireless, in a venture with Vodafone of Britain. The erosion of the big phone companies' stock prices in recent months has also devalued an important currency, their stock, that could be used to acquire other companies. 
Deutsche Telekom might be looking to sell VoiceStream because the German company piled up more than $63 billion in debt the last few years as it acquired wireless licenses and other companies -- including VoiceStream, for $51 billion two years ago -- in a bid to become one of the world's leading wireless companies.
Now Deutsche Telekom, under its new chief executive, Helmut Sihler, is torn between the need to reduce its debt and the lingering desire to remain a global player, a person involved in the discussions with Cingular said. This person said Deutsche Telekom's consideration of selling VoiceStream was still only "in the dream stage." 
AT&T Wireless, which has also been mentioned as a buyer of VoiceStream, is in talks with Deutsche Telekom about a potential deal, though these negotiations are also in an early stage, a person close to both companies said over the weekend. Adele Ambrose, a spokeswoman for AT&T Wireless, declined to comment.
Meanwhile, even the biggest American cellular companies are grappling with their own issues. Some analysts, like Scott Cleland of the Precursor Group, argue that a company like Verizon Wireless, which already has 30 million customers, is big enough already. Like Cingular, its challenges may have more to do with securing enough airwaves to transmit calls reliably -- and thereby keep customers from canceling service -- than with trying to integrate an entire new network and new flock of customers into its nationwide network.
The difficulties of customer and network integration are such that Colette Fleming, an analyst at UBS Warburg, showed in a recent report how a merged company could actually lose combined market share. 
In a market like Chicago, for example, if Cingular already signed up 20 percent of new customers and VoiceStream captured 15 percent, Ms. Fleming said, the resultant company would probably get less than that combined share of 35 percent, partly because the companies would close redundant stores and reduce their total spending on advertising in those markets. 
Ms. Fleming also points out that when a potential new customer enters a third-party store that carries five of the major services, Cingular and VoiceStream now have a two in five, or 40 percent, chance of being selected -- excluding other factors, including advertising and discounts. If the two companies combined, that percentage would drop to one in four, or 25 percent. 
Another obstacle to industry consolidation is the incompatibility of many of today's networks. Three companies, AT&T Wireless, Cingular and VoiceStream, operate on one technical standard, GSM. Two other carriers, Sprint and Verizon, use another, called CDMA. Meanwhile, Nextel, uses its own system, Iden, which is incompatible with either GSM or CDMA. 
Raul Katz, a wireless expert at Booz Allen Hamilton, has proposed a solution: have an acquiring company transfer the entire customer base of the acquired carrier to its own network and simply close down the acquired system. "The technical challenge this notion presents," Mr. Katz said, "is far simpler than attempting to integrate two existing networks."
It is difficult to predict the consequences of such a move, however. Nextel, with its one-of-a-kind network, is sometimes mentioned as a candidate for this type of acquisition. But it is unclear whether Nextel's customers, which are mainly businesses, would agree to switch to another system -- one that might not offer the same number of service options as Nextel's system, which can combine elements of cellphones and two-way walkie-talkies. 
Also hovering over the entire consolidation debate, of course, is the question of whether regulators would permit a new wave of takeovers in the industry. The wireless industry, with six major carriers and numerous regional service providers, is often held up as an example vibrant competition that has resulted in a affordable, widely used service. 
Evidence of this competition strengthened last week as AT&T Wireless unveiled a calling plan offering 1,000 anytime minutes for $39.99, an offer that translates into calls anywhere in the country for about 4 cents a minute. Analysts are expecting this move to set off a new price war in the industry.
For competitive reasons, analysts predict that perhaps one major merger could pass muster at the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department. But regulatory approval for subsequent takeovers might largely depend on the competitive impact of the first. 
But it is anyone's guess when even one wireless deal might materialize. Mr. Katz, of Booz Allen, conservatively predicts a significant wireless merger within 18 months. Others, like Mr. Cleland of the Precursor Group, see little reason for any takeovers at all until the turmoil throughout the telecommunications industry subsides. 
Meanwhile, it may make sense for carriers to focus on winning new customers while retaining the ones they already have. Or in Deutsche Telekom's case, to proceed with the plan to incorporate VoiceStream into its global T-Mobile brand.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (95%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); BRANDING (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); AWARENESS MARKETING (76%); ACQUISITIONS (67%); DEVALUATION (60%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL; FINANCES 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (98%); AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (95%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (92%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM; VOICESTREAM WIRELESS CORP; T-MOBILE 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); DTE (FRA) (92%); DTE (BIT) (92%); VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (90%) SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



253 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Orders for Machine Tools Were Lower in July 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
Orders for machine tools declined in July to the lowest level in more than six years, according to an industry survey released today. 
 Bookings for domestic and foreign-made tools totaled $143.34 million in July, down 29.5 percent from June, the Association for Manufacturing Technology and the American Machine Tool Distributors Association said. 
 Total orders were 21 percent lower than in July 2001 and were the weakest since the two groups began publishing the figures in January 1996, according to the associations. 
Orders fell in three of the five regions surveyed, with the South reporting a 51.6 percent drop. Orders dropped 41.5 percent in the Midwest and 37.1 percent in the West. They rose 9.2 percent in the Northeast and 1.8 percent in the central region.
Machine tools are used to make a variety of parts, like tractor hoods or airplane wings.
The association said that the economy, which grew at an annual rate of 1.1 percent in April, May and June, down from 5 percent in the first quarter, is making factories cautious about investing in new equipment.
The Institute for Supply Management's factory index held at 50.5 last month, less than the 54.3 average for the first six months of the year.
A number above 50 indicates expansion. Economists said the reading suggests manufacturing has stalled after starting to recover in February from an 18-month slump.
Machine tool orders declined 23 percent in 2001 to $5.23 billion. Last year, about 35 percent of machine tools by value were produced by American manufacturers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY WHOLESALERS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%) MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY; AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS ASSN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



254 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Researcher Cuts Sales Forecast For Computers Through 2003 

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
Citing growing fears of the effect of a prolonged economic malaise, the market research firm International Data Corporation is scaling back its forecast on global personal computer sales.
 In a report to be issued today, the firm's researchers said they were lowering PC market forecasts for both 2002 and 2003 to reflect weakening demand among businesses and consumers. 
 Total worldwide PC shipments are now expected to reach only 135.5 million in 2002, an increase of 1.1 percent, and to grow 8.4 percent in 2003. 
In June, International Data forecast growth of 4.7 percent in 2002 and 11.1 percent in 2003.
"On the consumer side in the United States, people are spending their disposable income on cars," said Roger Kay, director of client computing at the firm. In the corporate market, the industry reached saturation several years ago, he said. As capital spending sags, new computers are easy to forgo.
Regionally, the forecasters reported that business demand for PC's improved in the United States during the second quarter but still remained low. Consumer purchases are expected to pick up in the second half of the year, but not as much as previously projected. 
Western Europe was also proving to be a disappointment, suffering from slow spending by businesses and consumers in the second quarter of 2002.
The world's only relatively bright spot appeared to be Asia, where in Japan, purchases were approaching expectations, although remaining weak. Only China, Australia and India, where PC ownership is relatively low, are expected to generate double-digit growth this year, International Data reported.
"When the economy moves, the PC market moves with it," Mr. Kay said. "Basically, Asia is the only bright spot, but it's not bright enough."
Global consumer demand for personal computers has collapsed since the end of the dot-com boom, the researchers found. Worldwide salse growth in personal computers peaked at 47.2 percent in 1999, fell to 26.6 percent in 2000 and sales actually declined 9.8 percent last year.
The only bright spots in the United States, for the moment, appear to be the government and small-business markets, the firm reported. 
Moreover, even though Dell has continued to show better-than-average growth, it has done so by taking market share from its competitors, like Hewlett-Packard, Compaq Computer and Sony, Mr. Kay said.
"You can even see signs of stress at Dell," he said. The company recently changed its strategy to include selling through dealers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (92%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); SHIPMENTS (73%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (69%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RESEARCH; SALES 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%)

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (91%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



255 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Consolidation Stalls In the Wireless Industry
The wireless industry seems to be defying conventional logic. Under most circumstances, the industry would be ripe for consolidation. But despite rumors of deals, most companies do not seem to be in a buying mood.
 There are several reasons for the lack of consolidations. Chief among them, perhaps, is that the nation's local telephone companies are not as strong financially as they were a few months ago. New Economy. Page C4. 

Forecast of PC Sales Is Scaled Back
Citing growing fears of the effect of a prolonged economic malaise, International Data is scaling back its forecast on personal computer sales for 2002 and 2003. C8.

Sandler Floods the Theater
At a time when many stars are working less, Adam Sandler will be flooding theaters in the months ahead, to the point where he may test audience tolerance for his brand of crude but good-hearted humor. No fewer than seven pictures he is involved with will be in theaters in the 12 months ending in June. C7.

Ads From Past With Modern Touches
Advertising and the popular culture that it reflects have been awash in comforting fare since Sept. 11, reviving time-tested advertising characters and commercials. But the latest marketing of the past has some modern touches. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C8.

Balancing Linux and Microsoft
The case of Bruce Perens, who until recently was a strategist for Linux software at Hewlett-Packard, illustrates the balance that companies must achieve as they promote Linux but continue doing business with Microsoft. C4.

Baseball Tests Online Broadcasts
A baseball strike would have done more than put a dent in the finances of online sports sites. The strike would have wrecked an experiment the league began just days before the bargaining deadline: live online broadcasts of games. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C6.

Reggae With That Queens Beat
A record company in Jamaica, Queens, has found its niche in dance hall reggae, a form of the music that emerged in the 1980's. C7.

Slot Machine for Miss America
A day after the 2003 Miss America will be named in on Sept. 21 Atlantic City, the nearby Harrah's casino will introduce the first-ever Miss America Slot machines. The 20 slot machines are decorated with an image of Miss America holding her scepter and wearing her crown. Besides the normal play, the machine offers bonus rounds, with trivia about past Miss America pageants. The money-losing pageant has been in financial turmoil and has even considered a new locale A part of the proceeds will be donated to the Miss America Organization for scholarships. C4.

Patent for a Mirror With Glasses
Two inventors have patented a small mirror with a prescription corrective lens mounted over it. "The visual effect," they write, "is to see one's image as if glasses were on without having glasses on. Patents. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 8,427.20 down 236.30Nasdaq composite -- 1,295.30 down 19.5510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.02% down 0.11The euro -- $0.9809 down 0.0008The dollar -- 118.39 yen down 0.29 Graph "TODAY" shows the amount of consumer borrowing.July figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: $9.5 billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); THEATER (88%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (79%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (75%); BASEBALL (69%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (52%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); CZR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (52%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (52%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%)

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (76%) NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



256 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: For Arizona Democrats, a Rare Air of Optimism 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Arizona's population grew to 5 million from 1990 to 2000, a 40 percent surge that brought two new Congressional seats and crushing financial strains on every level of government. The state budget deficit, now $400 million, could hit $1 billion next year.
 Through much of this growth, Republicans have controlled the governorship and Legislature. All but one of the state's current Congressional delegates are Republicans as well. 
 The party's dominance in a state where the political spectrum stretches from the center to the right is not likely to end after the November elections. But it is expected to recede, and with primaries scheduled for Tuesday, three major races -- those for governor and the two new House seats -- could go a long way toward determining how much.
"We're very optimistic," James E. Pederson, chairman of the state Democratic Party, said in an interview this week. "Voters need to see clear alternatives from Democrats, and for years they hadn't. We didn't have strong candidates. We didn't have party organization. We didn't have an entity that could consolidate concerns people had into a solid message. This year we do."
Even in a state where President Bush and his frequent adversary, Senator John McCain, remain hugely popular, Mr. Pederson's assessment does not draw much disagreement from Republican state party leaders. Brian Murray, executive director of the party, conceded that one of the new House seats was a sure Democrat pickup, that the other would be hotly contested and that the current fiscal crisis under Gov. Jane Hull, a Republican who is retiring, gives a major boost to the Democratic primary winner, no matter who wins on the Republican side.
"Otherwise, we should hold our own," Mr. Murray said, meaning Republicans expect no worse than the current 15-15 tie in the State Senate, where the president is a Republican; perhaps a few seats more in the State House, now a 36-24 Republican majority; and the 5 (of 6) Congressional seats they now hold.
Even so, Democratic victories for governor and the two other House races, high-profile as they are, would reflect a discernible shift in Arizona politics when failing state agencies are being asked to do more with less money and fewer people. For Democrats, especially the candidate for governor, it has become as potent a campaign issue as they could want.
"You can't discount the fact that the financial problems of the state can be laid at the feet of Republicans, who are supposed to be the best party at handing money," said Richard Herrera, a professor of political science at Arizona State University. "For four years, the problems have grown worse; at some point they can expect a backlash as the party held responsible."
For that reason, Professor Herrera added, Democrats have a rare opportunity this year: "If you take a long-term perspective, this is their best chance in years, especially with two new House seats. If you lose them, it's hard to come back, so it's a nice opportunity for Democrats."
The race for governor has attracted four Democrats, three Republicans, two Libertarians and one independent, and it has focused a harsh light on the state's financial mess, caused in large measure by passage of more than 120 tax loopholes over the last 10 years and a recent program that provided generous tax credits to state residents who bought vehicles that ran on clean-burning fuels. Projected to cost less than $10 million, the program became so popular that it drained the state of nearly $700 million in revenues. 
The fiscal situation has grown so dire that Republican candidates cannot put enough distance between themselves and Governor Hull. "If she's left a legacy," said one, Carol Springer, the Republican state treasurer, "it's not a very good one."
A recent statewide poll by The Arizona Republic, the state's largest newspaper, showed that Matt Salmon, a former Republican congressman, and Janet Napolitano, the Democratic state attorney general, are the party favorites on Tuesday, although Ms. Napolitano seems a surer bet than Mr. Salmon.
The poll, released last week, found Ms. Napolitano leading her nearest challenger, Alfredo Gutierrez, a former state lawmaker, 42 percent to 16 percent with 31 percent of respondents undecided. Among Republicans, Mr. Salmon led with 35 percent to 16 percent for Betsey Bayless, the secretary of state, and 9 percent for Ms. Springer. The largest number of Republican respondents, 38 percent, said they were undecided.
To help offset the Republicans' 6 percent advantage over Democrats in voter registration, Mr. Pederson said Democrats are pulling for Mr. Salmon, the most conservative of the Republicans who would offer the starkest contrast to Ms. Napolitano, a typical Western-style Democrat who favors abortion rights but also responsible gun ownership. A Salmon victory, he said, would enable Democrats to mount a stronger appeal to undecided voters and moderate Republicans who may consider some of his views extreme, like his opposition to abortion rights and his position that cutting more taxes would spur the state economy. 
In Congressional races, six seats are considered safe, including the Second District, where Bob Stump, a 13-term Republican incumbent, is retiring. Incumbents are certain to win the others -- John Shadegg in the Third, Ed Pastor in the Fourth, J. D. Hayworth in the Fifth, Jeff Flake in the Sixth and Jim Kolbe in the Eighth. Mr. Pastor is the only Democrat.
But the new First and Seventh Districts offer at least a split for the Democrats.
In the Seventh, a southwest area that includes Yuma and parts of Tucson, eight Democrats and four Republicans are running in a district where registered Democrats outnumber Republicans, two to one. "We have no chance at it," Mr. Murray conceded. "We're not in play."
The First, where Democrats have only a slight advantage in voter registration, could go either way. It is the largest of Arizona's Congressional districts, taking in more than 60 percent of the state, and the field includes seven Democrats, six Republicans and two Libertarians.
In a district so large, success probably will depend on which party can generate more turnout. Democrats have advantages in urban areas like Flagstaff, Prescott and Casa Grande, but much of the district is rural, an advantage for Republicans who generally have the support of farmers and ranchers.
With House control at stake this year, both national parties are expected to spend large amounts on behalf of their respective candidates. Among the Democrats, Steve Udall, the longtime Apache County attorney, and Fred Duval, a former official in the Clinton White House, are the front-runners. The Republican favorites are Rick Renzi, a businessman, and Sydney Hay, a conservative radio talk show host.
No matter how Democrats do in November, Mr. Pederson said, their strong campaigns this year suggest a party resurgence that can only benefit state voters. "If we do nothing else but get Republicans back in the middle," he said, "we've done a huge service to this state."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 11, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about yesterday's primary elections around the country, including the one in Arizona, misstated the given name of that state's attorney general, who was the most prominent Democratic candidate for governor. The error also occurred in a picture caption on Monday. As the related Monday article said, she is Janet Napolitano, not Jane.
The Sunday article also misstated the date of Bruce Babbitt's departure from office as Arizona's most recent Democratic governor. It was 1987, not 1992.



GRAPHIC: Photo: Carol Springer, a Republican and Arizona's treasurer, left, and Jane Napolitano, a Democrat and the state's attorney general, debated last Thursday in Scottsdale. Each woman is hoping to succeed Gov. Jane Hull. (Erik Guzowski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNORS (US); PRIMARIES 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; HULL, JANE DEE (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) ARIZONA

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



257 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Violent Crime Fell 9% in '01, Victim Survey Shows 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
The number of people who were victims of all violent crimes except homicide fell by 9 percent in 2001, sending the crime rate to its lowest level since it was first tracked in 1973, the government reported today.
 The drop was primarily due to a record low number of reported assaults, the most common form of violent crime. 
 The decline is detailed in the 2001 National Crime Victimization Survey, which is based on interviews with victims and thus does not include homicide. The Bureau of Justice Statistics report was obtained today by The Associated Press in advance of its release this week.
Preliminary figures from another F.B.I. report -- gleaned from local law enforcement agencies and released in June -- reflected a 3.1 percent increase in homicides in 2001.
Experts discussing the new report on violent crime said the decrease was a result primarily of the strong economy in the 1990's and the prevalence of tougher sentencing laws. The violent crime rate has decreased by almost 50 percent since 1993.
The report says that from 2000 to 2001 the number of people who reported they had been victims of violent crime fell to about 25 per 1,000 from about 28 per 1,000, a drop of about 10 percent. The number of people reporting that they were victims of violent crimes fell to 5,744,000 in 2001 from 6,323,000 in 2000. 
Assault was down 10 percent, but injuries increased by 13 percent.
The share of violent crimes involving guns held steady at about 26 percent.
Rape fell 8 percent, and sexual assaults, which include verbal threats and groping, fell 20 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (96%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (95%); VIOLENT CRIME (94%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); STATISTICS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); CRIME STATISTICS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SENTENCING (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (73%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



258 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Human Spirit Is Triumphant Downtown

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
MY pace slows on Fulton Street, a few blocks away. The reluctance, almost fear, grows. Another visit to what never should have been, to ground zero.
 My memories of each previous visit are raw. Early on, the acrid smells from the fires that seared the senses, the emptiness of the surrounding streets, the shocking evocation of pure evil. 
 As the months went on, the reactions changed to irritation, evoked by the callous natterings of tourists and by the souvenir-hawking of vendors, the worry that a place that is at once sacred and profane was being sullied.
Then came last week's visit, and I found myself reacting with hope. Maybe I want to. Because that is human nature. Which is the point.
What is happening downtown now is a tribute to the human spirit: the will, the need to overcome the darkness.
The 16 acres that were home to the twin towers and other buildings of the trade center destroyed by the attack of Sept. 11 were, as widely reported, cleared well ahead of schedule. It is one thing to know that. Another to see it.
The site that was an obscene pile of rubble, debris and melted steel after Sept. 11 is now almost pristine. Not only are the stark reminders of the destruction gone, but life is everywhere as workers repave, shore up, rebuild the subway.
Surrounding the site are signs of support, and flags. "We will never forget," reads one banner. Visitors snap photographs of it -- visitors, it seems, from everywhere. This time, maybe because the anniversary is approaching, they seem respectful, not callous. They are from Washington State and Delaware, Poland and Germany, Japan and Brooklyn, and they stare, point, remember. The tones are hushed.
"It's unimaginable," said a visitor from Puerto Rico who used to live in New York. "I can't get used to it without the towers."
Carl Weisbrod, president of the Downtown Alliance, which runs the Lower Manhattan Business Improvement District, walks by and says that the Winter Garden -- the glass atrium in the nearby World Financial Center -- is about to reopen; go take a look. The Winter Garden was badly damaged in the attack and underwent a $50 million restoration.
"It looked like a battlefield here," said Alan Silberman, owner of Custard Beach, an ice cream store near the Winter Garden that recently reopened. "It looked like it had gone through an aerial bombing."
Some of his store's windows were broken in the attack, letting in dust and debris. It took about $50,000 to restore. "We are lucky," Mr. Silberman said, citing his insurance coverage.
THE downtown economy is still struggling; tens of thousands of jobs have been lost, the commercial vacancy rate is higher than it is uptown, some who lived near the trade center are still displaced, some stores permanently shut. The loss of more than 3,000 lives in New York, at the Pentagon and in the crash of the hijacked plane near Shanksville, Pa., will forever be a painful tragedy. "People want to fight back, want to do something constructive," Mr. Weisbrod said.
Reopening buildings and streets where so many were closed, restoring electricity and telephone service, repairing subway stations, are part of that impulse, encouraged by government help.
The plaza of the marina bordering the World Financial Center, a staging area for rescue workers for months, filled with rubble, interrupted with security checkpoints, is now as elegant as before. Last week found diners eating their lunch outdoors. Nearby, across West Street from the trade center site, a sprinkler was watering a tiny patch of unexpectedly green Russian sage, hard by a sidewalk-rebuilding project.
The unlicensed vendors are back near ground zero when not chased away by police officers, selling their police and fire caps, T-shirts and souvenir booklets (in obvious violation of trademark laws).
I find myself deploring the commercialization but applauding the mercantile spirit. If there is an opening in New York, someone will fill it. This city is many things. Sentimental to the point of thwarting commerce is not one of them.
A young woman who works downtown and saw the attack last year was saying that she cannot escape the memories.
"I think of it every single day," she said. Maybe it was time to ask for a transfer, to force herself to move on? "But wouldn't that be letting the terrorists win?" she asked.
No chance. It feels neither premature nor blindly chauvinistic to suggest that they have already lost. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); VANDALISM (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); HIJACKING (72%); ICE CREAM (70%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); AIRLINES (67%); TERRORISM (67%); BOMBINGS (67%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (60%) TERRORISM; MEMORABILIA; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; VENDORS, STREET 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (68%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



259 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: Why So Many Disabled Workers? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Laid-Off Workers Swelling the Cost of Disability Pay" (front page, Sept. 2): 
 The government could improve the situation of low-skilled American workers by reducing the influx of low-skilled foreign workers, who are often willing to work long hours in bad conditions for wages below what Americans will accept. 
 According to a 1997 National Academy of Sciences study, competition with low-skilled immigrants was responsible for nearly half of the decline in the wages of high school dropouts from 1980 to 1995. To continue admitting large numbers of low-skilled workers into the country now, when the economy is in trouble, is a betrayal of the American worker.

JOHN BROCK
Staten Island, Sept. 2, 2002

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tim Carroll) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISABLED WORKERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (88%); DISABLED PERSONS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); IMMIGRATION (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (52%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; DISABILITY INSURANCE; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (57%)

PERSON: BROCK, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



260 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DOMESTIC SECURITY -- The Nuclear Threat; 
Tracking the Goods And the Guardians

BYLINE:  By DENNIS OVERBYE 

 BODY:
There is no evidence that Al Qaeda has nuclear weapons, experts say. But the cold war left the world awash in the materials and knowledge needed to create nuclear weapons, and indeed awash in the weapons themselves. 
 Last month, after two years of delays, the Department of Energy decided to move several tons of weapons-grade plutonium and uranium from a poorly guarded laboratory in Los Alamos to keep it from being stolen. 
 The same month, heavily armed Serbian troops, under the supervision of Russian, American and United Nations officials, flew 100 pounds of bomb-grade uranium from the Vinca nuclear reactor near Belgrade to Russia, where it will be blended with ordinary uranium and made unusable for weapons. 
The Bush administration recently signed an agreement with Uzbekistan to remove a similar stash of dangerous fuel from the Ulugbek reactor there.
The United States spends about $1 billion a year on various programs to reduce this threat and is deploying better sensors to detect radioactive material.
But these activities are spread among the Energy, State and Defense Departments and numerous smaller agencies and laboratories, and some experts say a lack of coordination leaves the nation at risk. In June, the National Academy of Sciences recommended that a single agency be in charge of all research on nuclear terrorism.
Nuclear materials -- even the kind used in hospitals and other civilian applications -- can be used with conventional explosives in what antiterror officials call a dirty bomb to spray radioactive material over a wide area. While they admit that the threat of such an attack is high, scientists say that it would do more economic and psychological harm than physical damage.
Worse, terrorists could set off a fire in the used fuel at a nuclear reactor, perhaps by crashing a plane into the pool where the highly radioactive fuel rods are kept underwater, said Dr. Frank von Hippel, a Princeton physicist.
Nuclear experts worry even more about the detonation of a stolen or homemade nuclear bomb.
An analysis by the Institute for Science and International Security recently concluded that Al Qaeda would be capable of building a crude bomb -- one that could be delivered by truck or ship -- if it had the right amount of enriched uranium, about 100 pounds. 
According to recent estimates by the Federation of American Scientists, Russia has produced about 1,000 tons of enriched uranium. Strategic and tactical nuclear weapons should eventually account for about 150 tons based on the cuts Russia has agreed to make in the arsenal. Russia has agreed to blend about 500 tons of this enriched uranium with ordinary uranium and sell it to the United States as reactor fuel, removing it from the potential black market. But this still leaves several hundred tons not covered by any agreement.
Moreover, tons of enriched uranium are at civilian research reactors scattered about the world, said Matthew Bunn, a research associate and nuclear expert at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. Many such institutions lack robust security, he and other experts say. 
According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, since 1993 there have been around 400 instances of trafficking in nuclear fuel or other radioactive materials. In all about 26 pounds of enriched uranium and almost a pound of plutonium have been seized in various arrests. Because of sloppy or nonexistent accounting, Mr. Bunn said, nobody knows how much has been stolen and not recovered.
To help shore up security and thwart nuclear smuggling, the Department of Energy has been providing training and surveillance equipment, including 30,000 Customs manuals, to Russian officials over the last decade. Some of this equipment is now coming back home and being retrofitted, said H. Terry Hawkins, director of the division of nonproliferation and national security at Los Alamos National Laboratory. 
Last spring, scientists from several national laboratories unveiled a handheld device that will allow customs inspectors to get a reading on what is inside a cargo container, based on radioactive emissions. Scientists hope to begin testing a larger device soon that will probe the contents of cargo containers by beaming neutrons or gamma rays at them, said Dr. William Dunlop, a nuclear physicist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. The hope, officials say, is to install such devices in distant ports.
"The battle for homeland security," Mr. Hawkins said, "begins in places difficult to pronounce." DENNIS OVERBYE

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Guard inspects trucks entering from Canada at the Ambassador Bridge in Detroit. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); RADIATION DETECTORS (78%); DIRTY BOMBS (78%); HIJACKING (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EXPLOSIVES (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (64%); AIRLINES (63%) TERRORISM; ATOMIC WEAPONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; ATOMIC ENERGY 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (55%)

PERSON: OVERBYE, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); SERBIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



261 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DOMESTIC SECURITY -- Aviation; 
Beyond Screening People and Bags

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
The federal government is trying to meet new deadlines set by Congress to improve the screening of passengers and checked bags, but security experts inside and outside government say that even in the unlikely event that both goals are met this year, they will not make aviation secure enough. 
 The public focus has been on two measures linked to deadlines: by Nov. 19 all screeners at checkpoints are supposed to be federal employees; by Dec. 31 all baggage loaded into cargo holds is supposed to be checked for explosives. 
 Representative John L. Mica, the Florida Republican who is the chairman of the House aviation subcommittee, said the Nov. 19 requirement for federalizing the screeners would probably be met. "We probably will have the passenger screening army in place," Mr. Mica said. The baggage screening deadline may not be met, he said. But, he added, "Far worse, we're losing sight of the other areas that could have great potential risk, like cargo security and the airport perimeter and general aviation." 
Steve Elson, a former Navy Seal who was a security official in the Federal Aviation Administration but quit in frustration, asked: "Who is watching the ramps? I guarantee you I can walk onto ramps. So can you, and so can Al Qaeda."
Another hole is in the integration of intelligence information about possible plotters and the dissemination of that information. 
In August, the Transportation Department awarded a major contract to build the computers to search databanks for information about travelers and workers to detect possible security risks, selecting, for example, foreign visitors living for long periods without fixed addresses or steady jobs.
Measuring how much has been achieved in aviation is difficult, intentionally so. From the number of air marshals on the planes to the fraction of checked bags selected for search, many details are classified. Nobody can say how many pilots will arm themselves if a bill approved by the House and Senate takes effect.
The airlines, meanwhile, are losing money at record rates. In the first half of the year they carried 258.6 million passengers, down 11.4 percent from the first half of 2001; the number of takeoffs and landings in that period fell by about 16 percent. No one is sure how much of the falloff is the economy and how much is fear. But despite the federalization of the security work force, security may suffer when the airlines are short of cash.
On the other hand, there has been a long-term change in the psychology of air travelers, as demonstrated by the passengers who tackled Richard C. Reid, the man accused of trying to blow up a jet last December with explosives hidden in his shoes. Anyone walking toward a cockpit now is likely to be noticed and challenged. MATTHEW L. WALD

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); AVIATION SECURITY (90%); AIRLINES (89%); HIJACKING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); TERRORISM (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); AL-QAEDA (65%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (64%); MISSING PERSONS (64%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; MISSING PERSONS; LUGGAGE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: JOHN L MICA (73%) WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



262 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DOMESTIC SECURITY -- The Infrastructure; 
National Smorgasbord For Terrorists

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN 

 BODY:
For all the attention paid to high-profile, symbolic targets like the John Hancock Tower in Chicago or the Mall of America outside Minneapolis, experts on domestic security see a far more complex challenge in the seemingly endless array of sites known as critical infrastructure.
 The Golden Gate is, after all, just one of 590,984 bridges around the nation. There is one Hoover Dam, but 54,065 public and private water systems. Eighty-five deep-draft ports. One hundred and three nuclear power plants. Untold miles of highways, railroads, underground tunnels and oil pipelines, innumerable electricity grids and telecommunications hubs, each vulnerable to attacks with the potential to disrupt commerce if not endanger lives. 
 "You've got to boil it down in such a way so that people don't roll their eyes and say it's too big," said Mayor Martin O'Malley of Baltimore, who has been a leading advocate of domestic security. "No, you can't protect every inch of American soil, and you know what? You don't need to. But there are critical areas that warrant better protection, smarter eyes, fences, cameras."
Nowadays, ships must give 96-hour notification before pulling into the nation's ports. Most nuclear plants have doubled their fenced-in perimeters, spending about $200 million on security upgrades. Florida bought two mobile $1 million gamma-ray devices to inspect truck cargo.
In Gilbert, Ariz., two police officers are freed from radio calls during heightened security alerts to patrol power plants and water wells, among other critical sites. Pembroke Pines, Fla., like scores of other cities, has posted a 24-hour armed guard outside its water plant; other places, like Palatine, Ill., simply changed the locks or, as in St. Charles, Mo., added a security camera. In Gary, Ind., visitors to the sanitary district facility must now be escorted by employees. In Elizabeth, N.J., new No Parking signs ring the natural gas tank. 
But vulnerability assessments of the water systems will not be complete until next year. Port authorities received only 13 percent of the $700 million in federal grants they requested for security measures. In Boston, inspection of cargo containers at the harbor has tripled, but is still only 15 percent.
"We still have yawning vulnerabilities," said Stephen Flynn, senior fellow in the national security studies program at the Council on Foreign Relations. "Virtually all the focus has been on the narrow issues of physical security, which are necessary baseline steps. What they have not done very well is, let's assume those measures fail, the attack is successful, what's our response?"
Juliette Kayyem, who runs the domestic preparedness program at the Kennedy School of Government, said the Bush administration was ideologically disinclined to impose mandates on the private sector or on local governments and that officials in smaller cities were losing their focus on terrorism in favor of more pressing issues, like the economy.
Donald F. Kettl, a public policy professor at the University of Wisconsin who is studying domestic security for the Century Foundation, said, "There are still a lot of cracks in the system because of the basic fissures in American federalism." JODI WILGOREN

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Coast Guard has stepped up its presence in New York Harbor in the aftermath of Sept. 11. The Statue of Liberty and other New York landmarks have been the subjects of vague threats resulting in heightened security. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (76%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); HARBORS & PORTS (75%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (75%); PORT AUTHORITIES (75%); HIJACKING (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (71%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (66%); AIRLINES (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (56%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (55%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING 

PERSON: MARTIN O'MALLEY (52%) WILGOREN, JODI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



263 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Long-Term Jobless Rose by 50 Percent Over the Last Year 

BYLINE:  By David Leonhardt 

DATELINE: TACOMA, Wash. 

 BODY:
Darrel Reiter has been out of work for nine months, and his wife, Norma, had not worked in five months when they climbed into their pickup truck to scour the West for jobs. But from Grand Junction, Colo., to Carson City, Nev., to Pendleton, Ore., the news was always the same, even if it came in different forms. 
 Their decades of experience in the work force did not make up for their lack of bachelor's degrees. The $17-an-hour job that Mr. Reiter had seen advertised actually paid $10.50 - about a third of his old wage at a manufacturing company - after the cost of health insurance and other benefits was deducted.
 After nine days on the road that used up $1,000 of Mrs. Reiter's retirement savings, the couple returned here in August still stuck in the nation's large ranks of long-term unemployed. While the job market remains unusually healthy for the end of a recession, with the unemployment rate below 6 percent, the number of people who have been jobless for months has climbed to a level more typical of a deep downturn. 
 Almost three million people nationwide have been out of work for at least 15 weeks, up more than 50 percent from a year ago. Half of them have not worked in at least 6 months, the Department of Labor said.
 Another million Americans appear to have dropped out of the labor force in each of the last two years, no longer looking for work or counted as unemployed.
 Like the Reiters, many people who have not worked in months have begun spending retirement savings that were already diminished by the stock market's fall. Others are considering low-wage jobs at a fraction of their old pay. In either case, their stretches of unemployment could define their financial futures for years.
 "It gets more complicated as time goes on," said Scott Barry, 41, of Tacoma, who was laid off at the end of last year from Boeing. He had worked at the company since graduating from high school, most recently helping airlines that owned Boeing jets solve mechanical problems.
 Having applied for about 350 jobs, in everthing from health care to the candy industry, Mr. Barry said he has begun to worry that he would have to use some of his 401(k) retirement savings to pay taxes on his unemployment benefits.
 "I don't expect to walk into a $60,000 job just because I had one," he said. "But I do expect to be able to walk into one that pays half that and maybe work my way back up."
 The growth of long-term unemployment takes some of the shine off of the general decline in joblessness over the last 20 years. A smaller share of the work force is unemployed today than was unemployed after the recessions of the early 1980's and 90's, but most of the decline has come among people out of work for a few weeks at a time.
 "The labor market got a lot better in the 90's at taking people who used to have small spells of unemploymnet and moving them from one job to another," said Lawrence Katz, an economist at Harvard University. H egave credit to the growth of temporary-help agencies and Internet job searches, as well as the unusual strength of the economy.
"But there are still a lot of people who experience long-term unemployment," he said.
 Economists say the aging of the work force and the globalization of many industries have combined to make a long stretch of joblessness more likely for many people.
 At the same time that millions of people have entered their 40's and 50's, when training for a new line of work is difficult, many of the middle-class jobs that sustained people without college degrees have moved to countries with lower wages. The jobs have often been replaced by service-industry jobs that either are out of reach for blue-collar workers or pay less than $10 an hour.
 "They keep telling me I need that piece of paper," a college diploma, said Danny Hicks, who has not worked in almost two years. Mr. Hicks worked at a paper mill for 28 years and has been unable to find a job that pays much more than minimum wage, he said.
 In addition, many women who lost their jobs in past downturns simply dropped out of the labor force until the economy improved. Today, however, most families depend on a woman's income to pay bills, and women are more likely to continue looking for work for months.
 A study last year by Katharine G. Abraham, a former commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and Robert Shimer, an economist at Princeton University, called women's "attachment to the labor market" the biggest cause of the increase in long-term joblessness.
 (On Friday, the Labor Department said that the average length of unemployment fell slightly in August, to 16.2 weeks. When the jobless rate hovered around 6 percent in the 1970's and 80's, as it has recently, the average length of unemployment was 10 to 12 weeks.)
 The job market seems particularly harsh in the Northwest, which was hit hard by the recession and that has perhaps recovered the least. For the 12th consecutive month, Oregon and Washington had the nation's highest unemployment rates - both above 7 percent - in July, the last month for which the Labor Department has released data.
 Boeing has cut thousands of jobs in the region in the last three years, as its rival, the European consortium Airbus, has become stronger and air travel has declined. The bursting of the technology bubble has eliminated jobs at dot-com start-ups and big computer-chip makers like Intel, which has plants in the Northwest. A surge in electricity prices and Japan's continuing economic woes have hurt some manufacturers of paper, chemicals, aluminum and even pickles here.
 "It all converged last year," said Gary Kamimura, a senior economist at Washington's Employment Security Department. "We don't think we're going to see my any sustained recovery until 2004 or 2005."
 Many unemployed people here share that view, saying they see little sign that companies will soon begin hiring in large numbers. And some are growing increasingly nervous because unemployment benefits that were extended - as part of federal laws to help workers whose jobs moved overseas or who were laid off after Sept. 11 - will expire soon.
 The expiration of benefits typically helps the economy, forcing people to find work eventually and preventing unemployment stretches from reaching the length they do in Europe, where benefits are more generous, economists say. But people who accept a new job out of desperation can also end up lowering their income for years to come.
 Over the last nine months, the Reiters have relied on almost $800 a week in benefits, which will lapse in December. With three of their seven children out of work as well, they also spent the $5,000 that had been in Mrs. Reiter's 401(k) plan, down from a peak of $10,000 during the bull market, she said.
 Last year, when the Reiters were both working, they were making amost $3,000 a week before taxes, well above the national average for family income, which is about $1,000 a week. After 9 years working for the Defense Department, she was in her 14th year at Boeing, earning about $45,000 a year in a plant that made airplane ducts. Mr. Reiter was earning about twice as much as a manager overseeing 35 people at a small manufacturing company.
 "At our age, it just doesn't seem feasible that this has happened," said Mrs. Reiter, who is 59, and whose husband is 58. "I really don't know what's going on but I'm really frustrated."
 "We're definitely going to leave if we can find a place to go," she said.
 During past downturns, many of today's unemployed workers were able to switch to healthier parts of the economy, using skills that applied to more than one job.
 Mr. Barry started at Boeing as a mechanic and later became an electrician. He worked in the company's commercial aircraft division, moved to its military division and then back to the commercial side before taking a white-collar job last year talking to Boeing clients by phone.
 This time, however, all of the big local industries seem to be contracting at once. For workers who have lost their jobs, the curretn recession feels no less severe than past down-turns that sent the unemployment rate spiraling toward 10 percent.
 "I'm so used to getting these cards and letters saying. 'We got your application,' " Mr. Barry said. "I'd just like one of them to say, 'Come on in.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Darrel and Norma Reiter of Orting, Wash., drove their pickup all over the West looking for jobs. They have been unemployed for months. Decades of work experience has not made up for their lack of college degrees. (Larry Davis for The New York Times) Graph: "Still Looking"The percentage of unemployed people who have been out of work for more than six months is as high as it was in past recessions, even though the overall unemployment rate has been much lower this time. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); US 401K PLANS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); BONDS (68%); FUTURES (67%); AIRLINES (60%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CARSON CITY, NV, USA (92%); TACOMA, WA, USA (90%); GRAND JUNCTION, CO, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



264 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Stance on Bush Policy Could Swing Election in Germany 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
The German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, and his conservative rival, Edmund Stoiber, locked in a dead heat before the voting on Sept. 22, clashed sharply tonight over questions of unemployment and Iraq in their second and final televised debate. 
 The two candidates, both wearing bright red striped neckties, dropped their tentativeness of two weeks ago to exchange barbs, interrupt one another and quarrel aggressively about their records, plans and even their upbringings. 
 Iraq and its impact on German-American relations were the new elements in this debate for an electorate already well informed about Mr. Schroder's failure to keep his pledge to bring down the number of unemployed, now over 4 million, to 3.5 million in his first term. 
The stagnant economy and high joblessness remain the No. 1 issue in the opinion polls for Germans, who tend to cast their votes for parties and platforms, not so much for personalities.
But Mr. Schroder's flat refusal to support German participation or funding in any war against Iraq, supported by the United Nations or not, has proved popular with Germans, and he scored points with his clear position tonight. "I'm against a military intervention -- clearly, without conditions," he said.
Mr. Schroder's opposition to any war in Iraq and his management of Germany's flood crisis have pulled his Social Democrats effectively even with Mr. Stoiber's conservatives. The election is likely to turn on what the 15 percent or so who are still undecided choose to do, how the liberal Free Democrats, Mr. Stoiber's likely coalition partner, fare, and whether the former Communists, the Democratic Socialists, make the cutoff to get parliamentary seats. Germans cast two votes, for a local candidate and for a party -- not for chancellor. The chancellor, as in any parliamentary system, is the leader of the party that forms the government.
The debate tonight is unlikely to change many minds, said Torsten Schneider-Haase of the Emnid polling group. "Tonight, both men performed to expectations," he said. "But the voters have already factored the personalities into the price, so this debate won't make too much difference."
But polls show that between 66 percent and 75 percent of Germans oppose a war in Iraq. "While the economy is still the most important issue," Mr. Schneider-Haase said, "Iraq is important, and tonight on Iraq Schroder was much better."
Mr. Schroder's position has angered Washington and caused a public spat between two close allies, worrying diplomats.
But Mr. Stoiber's more nuanced position -- Saddam Hussein is a nasty dictator, Germany should wait to see what the United Nations Security Council decides, then talk to its European allies, try to support Washington but oppose a war if possible, and certainly not support a unilateral American war -- may simply be too complicated to come over well in a televised duel like this one.
At one point Mr. Schroder, having repeated his refusal to allow any German military support for a war in Iraq, turned to Mr. Stoiber and said: "Say yes or no. That's the question."
Mr. Stoiber again talked of his opposition to war, and his support for the introduction of weapons inspectors to Iraq without preconditions as a way of avoiding war, and he criticized Mr. Schroder for harming the German-American alliance by not calling President Bush and discussing the issue privately. "I don't want a unilateral national decision on this," Mr. Stoiber said, stressing Germany's ties with the European Union, NATO and Washington. "No one should go it alone, neither here nor in America."
Mr. Schroder answered: "Friendship doesn't mean that you say yes and amen to everything."
Mr. Stoiber was aggressive tonight, but often became lost in details, and Mr. Schroder seemed tired. But the chancellor was more his telegenic self, using quips and sharp retorts to score points.
"I blame Schroder for simplifying the debate on Iraq too quickly and populistically," said Stefan Kornelius, editorial page editor of the Suddeutsche Zeitung. "Stoiber tried to walk a middle line, but his argument is too complicated. Which is why George Bush, if he sounds too much on the warpath this week at the United Nations, can win Schroder the election."
Mr. Stoiber did well on the economy, Mr. Kornelius said. "But his real weakness is that he can't shut up. He gets lost in the details."
Uwe Jun, a political scientist at the University of Potsdam, said Mr. Schroder was more aggressive but not as statesmanlike in this second debate. "I don't like to say this, but there is a bit of anti-American attitudes within part of the population, and most people don't agree with Bush, who seems a bit aggressive," Mr. Jun said. "Stoiber makes no points with this issue."
According to instant polls done by Infratest Dimap for ARD television, 50 percent found Mr. Schroder, 58, "more convincing" and 28 percent preferred Mr. Stoiber. 60.
On foreign policy, the poll found 57 percent thinking Mr. Schroder was more convincing, to 28 percent for Mr. Stoiber. But on questions of employment, Mr. Stoiber was found more convincing by 46 percent, compared to 30 percent for Mr. Schroder.
But the first debate, in which Mr. Stoiber did better than expected, did little to move the opinion polls, which have left this race too close to call.
Mr. Schroder's firm "hands off" Iraq, as he put it in an interview last week with The New York Times, has opened up a fierce squabble with Washington, Germany's closest ally, which has made some Germans uncomfortable.
American officials believe that Mr. Schroder is toying with the German-American alliance for votes, although Mr. Schroder denies it, and did so again tonight.
The American ambassador here, Daniel R. Coats, has taken the unusual step of public criticism of an ally in the midst of an election campaign, saying that Mr. Schroder's position on Iraq risked "isolating Germany from the main course of thinking in the European Union, and said that Germany's failure to support Washington has led to "a certain doubt about the closeness of the relationship."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A studio audience watched a televised debate last night between the German rivals Edmund Stoiber, left, and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TRENDS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%) ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-GERMANY; DEBATING 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); ERLANGER, STEVEN; STOIBER, EDMUND; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



265 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Rivalry on the Waterfront as 2 Cities Vie to Welcome a TV Tower 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

DATELINE: BAYONNE, N.J., Sept. 6 

 BODY:
The abandoned Army base here along the mouth of the Hudson River looks like just another weed-strewn former military installation. 
 But now, Mayor Joseph V. Doria Jr. has a new plan to revive the 450-acre peninsula, formerly called the Military Ocean Terminal Bayonne: building a $200 million, 2,000-foot television tower that would replace the giant antenna mast that topped the World Trade Center. It would also be the world's tallest free-standing structure, an instant tourist attraction. 
 That plan has set off a heated competition for economic development and bragging rights between Bayonne, a gritty industrial town trying to remake itself, and Jersey City, whose leaders want their city to be the site for the tower, which New York officials have made clear they do not want. Dueling proposals have restarted a feud between Jersey City and Bayonne;in 2000 they fought over which city would become the berth for the battleship New Jersey. (In the end, government officials sent the ship to Camden.) 
Having the largest anything may not mean that much to residents of New York City, the home to many greatest, biggest, longest and widest things. But in addition to Jersey City and Bayonne, several local governments in New Jersey are stumbling over themselves to get a meeting with television executives who have been seeking a site for a replacement antenna since last Sept. 11. 
"The mayor has had very preliminary conversations recently with representatives of the broadcasters," said Joseph E. Ryan, a spokesman for Mr. Doria. "We understand that other towns have had separate preliminary discussions, but it's really too early to tell where this is going."
After the Sept. 11 attack, millions of mostly poor and elderly television viewers lost several channels when the broadcast antenna atop the World Trade Center's north tower was destroyed. (The antenna added about 360 feet to the tower, extending the building to more than 1,700 feet.)
Broadcast executives initially proposed building a new antenna tower on Governors Island after the Bush administration agreed to turn the island, a former Coast Guard base, over to New York. But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg rejected the idea, saying a tower would not fit into his vision for the island and questioning the need for a new broadcast antenna because of the proliferation of satellite and cable television.
Regardless of the need, the Federal Communications Commission is demanding that New York broadcasters find a permanent location for an antenna. The Empire State Building had served in recent months as a temporary location for antennas, but the television broadcasters have said that it is not tall enough or strong enough to be the permanent home.
After Mr. Bloomberg rejected the Governors Island proposal, the stations turned to officials in New Jersey and to a private developer in the Queens West development district in Hunters Point. But the Bloomberg administration objected to the location, in Long Island City. One concern was that the tower would be across the East River from Sutton Place, and that Manhattan residents would object to the broadcast tower. 
Edward Grebow, the president of the Metropolitan Television Alliance, which represents the broadcasters trying to build the tower, said that Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey and his aides have "been terrific," but that "while a number of municipalities in New Jersey are interested in it, we continue to be surprised that New York City shows no interest in having this tower in the city, even though it is a very large construction project."
Mr. Grebow also said that the broadcasters have agreed not to seek any breaks on property taxes, adding that the "active sites that we are talking about are all in New Jersey."
Officials in Jersey City, just a short PATH train ride across the Hudson River from Lower Manhattan, have already begun rezoning two locations near the Liberty Science Center so a tower could be built in either place. If the tower were to be built at one of those locations, it would probably have a educational museum at its base and weather instruments at the top, officials said. 
Aides to Mr. McGreevey, who toured several sites with Metropolitan Television Alliance officials last Wednesday, said the governor is in favor of having the tower become a part of the memorial park for Sept. 11 victims planned for the Military Ocean Terminal Bayonne. 
Renamed the Peninsula at Bayonne Harbor this year, the terminal was supposed to have become home to a community of waterfront parks, restaurants and retail stores, along with amenities like an amphitheater and a marina, as well as luxury apartments with views of Manhattan. Instead, it includes government agencies, a car pound, housing for Continental Airlines flight crews, and was the set for the HBO drama "Oz." Parts of the movie "A Beautiful Mind" were also filmed there.
Discussing Bayonne's bid to become the site for a new antenna, one economic development official said, "Frankly, I am very surprised to hear that Jersey City is even in the running."
A Jersey City politician responded, "We have more going on and a better plan and can get it done faster."
Mayor Glenn D. Cunningham of Jersey City has been credited with attracting financial services and other companies across the river from New York. But he has come under criticism from other Hudson County politicians over economic development and other issues. A spokesman for Mr. Cunningham, Brian Dorf, did not return a telephone call seeking comment.
Mr. Grebow, of the television alliance, said that he would like to see construction on a broadcast tower begin as early as next winter. While a design has not been chosen, he estimated it would take 24 months to complete the tower once construction begins.
In explaining how it was quite likely the tower would end up in New Jersey, Mr. Grebow said, "Most of us involved in this project are lifelong New Yorkers, and as happy as we are about New Jersey, we are surprised and disappointed as well about New York's lack of interest."

GRAPHIC: Map of New Jersey highlighting Bayonne's Military Ocean Terminal Site: One proposed site for a $200 million television broadcast tower. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); ARMIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (55%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%) TELEVISION; ANTENNAS; EMPIRE STATE BUILDING (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%) BLAIR, JAYSON; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; JERSEY CITY (NJ); BAYONNE (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



266 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2650 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: BIOTERRORISM; 
Many Worry That Nation Is Still Highly Vulnerable to Germ Attack

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and JUDITH MILLER 

 BODY:
Although the Bush administration has invested hundreds of millions of dollars over the past year to strengthen the nation's defenses against a biological attack, experts say the United States remains highly vulnerable to bioterrorism, particularly strikes on the food supply.
 The long-neglected public health system, which was stretched thin during the anthrax attacks of last fall, has received nearly $1 billion. States have used the money for plans to cope with a germ attack, and some are already hiring workers who can respond to intentional attacks or natural outbreaks of diseases like West Nile virus. 
 "Each day we are getting stronger," said Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services. Even so, significant shortcomings remain. 
Many experts, including Mr. Thompson, say the administration has not paid enough attention to protecting the plants and animals in the food supply from biological attacks. The Food and Drug Administration doubled the number of food inspectors, to 1,500, this year, but even so, Mr. Thompson said, the government is "woefully inadequate in this area." He called this his biggest concern. 
Battles persist within the federal bureaucracy, particularly over the role of the new Department of Homeland Security in preparing for germ attacks. John J. Hamre, president of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a research organization devoted to security, says the bioterrorism effort is still "years away" from being properly organized.
"We're better prepared as a society, but not necessarily as a government," said Mr. Hamre, a deputy secretary of defense in the Clinton administration.
Meanwhile, a deep philosophical divide has emerged between scientists and intelligence officials over whether to withhold scientific information in the name of national security. A case in point is a rift over a study on agricultural bioterrorism prepared by the National Research Council.
The report, a draft of which was obtained by The New York Times, says the government lacked a comprehensive plan to respond to agricultural bioterrorism. But it has yet to be published, its authors say, because of fears that it could aid potential terrorists. 
"There's a possibility of it being literally classified," said Dr. Joshua Lederberg, a microbiologist and Nobel laureate who served on the committee that wrote the report. "Some people think it shouldn't be released."
So while government officials say considerable progress has been made against bioterrorism, they acknowledge that there is a long way to go.
"There are still some gaps," said Dr. Julie L. Gerberding, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "There is a kind of mosaic of capacity right now."
While public health agencies have received a big lift, hospitals have received far less money from the federal government, and many hospital executives say they cannot afford to prepare for bioterrorism on their own.
Although the budget of the National Institutes of Health has grown considerably to accommodate more research into new drugs and vaccines, the next generation of therapeutics is still years away.
"That just doesn't happen overnight," said David Franz, former commander of the Army's bioterrorism defense laboratory in Fort Detrick, Md.
Indeed, Dr. Franz and others say, the biggest change has been one of attitude.
Doctors and nurses who have never seen a case of smallpox -- a disease that was eradicated two decades ago -- are now learning how to identify its distinctive rash and how to administer the vaccine, which has not been routinely given to Americans since 1972.
Health officials pay closer attention to infectious disease. For example, Dr. Georges Benjamin, who runs the Maryland health department, now has his staff compile a monthly e-mail report of disease outbreaks overseas. 
"We didn't feel threatened by that before," said Dr. Benjamin, who is also president of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials. "The world has changed. Every time we get an outbreak at all, the first question we ask is, 'Was this intentional?' "

The Agencies: Boom Times
As director of the Iowa public health laboratory, Mary J. Gilchrist has long worried about germ attacks, but long had trouble getting colleagues interested.
"People thought I was from outer space," Dr. Gilchrist said. 
Last year, her bioterrorism preparedness budget was scant: $100,000, all of it from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
This year, with $1.5 million in federal bioterrorism money, Dr. Gilchrist is hiring laboratory workers and buying equipment to enable her technicians to conduct rapid tests on infectious agents. She says she worries that she will be unable to fill new positions because other public health agencies are also hiring.
"There's going to be a brain drain," Dr. Gilchrist predicted. 
Bioterrorism has brought boom times to public health agencies. In January, President Bush signed a bill authorizing $1.1 billion for bioterrorism preparedness, with the bulk of it, $930 million, designated to be parceled out among the states for improvements in public health.
The Office of Public Health Preparedness, created by Mr. Thompson, reviewed state plans and had disbursed nearly all the money by June, said Jerome M. Hauer, the office's director and an assistant secretary.
Now the states must carry out their plans.
In Massachusetts, for example, Nancy Ridley, assistant commissioner of the state's Department of Public Health, said it took several months just to get officials in 351 local health departments to agree on how to divide the state into regions so the federal dollars could be distributed. "Everybody wants a piece of the pie," she said.
In Texas, Dr. Eduardo Sanchez, the commissioner of health, is trying to determine how to handle an attack that would involve the state's neighbor, Mexico. Could Mexican hospitals care for American patients, and vice versa? Would Mexicans be eligible for smallpox vaccine from the United States stockpile?
Dr. Rex Archer, the director of health for Kansas City, Mo., said: "We as a nation have not defined how well we want to protect our public. We have not said that we need to be able to manage a major bioterrorism attack in, say, 50 states, and keep the number of casualties down to a certain level. Until you do that, you can't see how adequate your staffing is."

The Hospitals: Getting Ready
The nation's hospitals are not nearly as far along as public health agencies in preparing for a bioterrorist attack, Mr. Hauer says. They received an extra $135 million from the federal government, he said, but that is not enough. In his budget for 2003, President Bush has proposed $518 million for hospital preparedness.
A major concern is what experts call "surge capacity," the ability of hospitals to accommodate a sudden increase of patients. Mr. Thompson, the health secretary, says he wants each state to develop regional plans that would enable hospitals to handle an extra 500 patients on any given day this year, and 1,500 on any given day next year.
"Five hundred patients is feasible so long as people understand that not everybody is going to be in a hospital-style bed with all the accouterments," said James D. Bentley, a senior vice president at the American Hospital Association. "If we have to start using elementary schools or armories or other kinds of settings, that's what we will have to do."
Hospitals that ordinarily compete have begun joining forces. Dr. Paul Pepe, who runs the emergency department at Parkland Health and Hospital System in Dallas, said hospitals in the region were talking about "cross-credentialing" doctors so that they could treat patients anywhere.
"We're talking about buying in bulk, in economies of scale, with everybody participating," Dr. Pepe said. "Everybody is anteing up."
But, Mr. Bentley said: "There is a long way to go. It is going to probably take five years to get where we ought to be."

The Vaccines: Bolstering Supplies
As fear of anthrax swept the nation last fall, much of the public discussion about bioterrorism centered on the question of whether there would be enough drugs and vaccines to go around. Today, those worries have largely eased.
The biggest fear last fall was an insufficient supply of vaccine against smallpox. Mr. Thompson, the health secretary, signed contracts with two companies -- Acambis, a biotechnology concern, and Baxter, the pharmaceutical giant -- for a total of 209 million doses.
But in the interim, scientific studies have shown that the nation's existing stockpiles of smallpox vaccine could be diluted to provide 300 million doses, enough for every American to be inoculated, said Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which did the work.
The existing vaccine is old -- some of it dates to 1952 -- so the government still intends to buy the new vaccine. But, Dr. Fauci said, "If we had an emergency tomorrow we'd be good to go."
Still unresolved is the question of whether the government should offer the vaccine to health care and emergency workers as a precaution against a bioterrorist attack. In June, a national advisory panel recommended vaccinating about 15,000 health care professionals.
The issue has proved a vexing and politically delicate one, because the vaccine is made from a live virus that itself can lead to fatal complications in people who receive it or come into contact with people who receive it. People with impaired immune systems are especially vulnerable. The decision now rests in the hands of the White House; Mr. Thompson said an announcement was expected by the end of the month. (The new vaccine is also made from a live virus, vaccinia, but under safer conditions. )

The Food Supply: Another Front
Many officials and scientists say bioterrorist threats to the nation's food supply have had too low a priority in the war against terrorism. Understandably, one administration official said, the government initially concentrated on countering threats to people, and the relative complacency about agriculture was partly a result of the nation's success in controlling disease. 
"Most people take the programs for granted because we have been so well protected," Ann M. Veneman, the secretary of agriculture, said in an interview yesterday. But countering bioterrorist threats has the highest priority for her, she said. Since Sept. 11, with a $328 million budget appropriated by Congress, she has formed a homeland defense council to advise her and has taken other steps to reduce vulnerability, among them increasing border inspections and spending on research. 
Critics say too little is still being done, partly because of bureaucratic inertia and a passion for secrecy at the top.
"There is a true crisis in agricultural biosecurity that stems in part from from hostility to the very notion of vulnerability at the top of the Department of Agriculture," said Thomas W. Frazier, president of GenCon, a nonprofit group that promotes scientific and educational projects affecting agriculture. 
The issue is reflected in a dispute over the delayed release of the National Research Council's draft report, "Countering Agricultural Bioterrorism: A Framework for Action," commissioned by the government a year before the attacks but partly written after them.
The report warns that "gaps in biological and intelligence data on foreign-plant and foreign-animal pest and pathogens" and inadequate inspection at the nation's borders increase the chance that a terrorist armed with, say, foot-and-mouth virus or soybean rust could enter the country and deliberately spread diseases that could cripple the nation's livestock and plants.
It notes that only 1 percent of all private vehicles entering the country are inspected by the Agriculture Department. It concludes that the government has not developed "in-depth plans for defense against the intentional introduction of biological agents directed at agriculture." 
Dr. E. William Colglazier, the executive director of the National Academy of Sciences, which conducted the study, said that lawyers for the Department of Agriculture and the White House's Office of Homeland Security had asked the the academy not to publish the report because it might give terrorists a "road map" to striking American agriculture. 
Dr. Colglazier said the academy had been willing to omit from the published version of the study secret data or passages that could be harmful to national security, but the government had not identified such material. Scientists and other experts who worked on the study said it contained no secret information and the vulnerabilities it discusses could be found in publications on the Internet. He also said the academy planned to publish a version of the study, which it would edit. 
Ms. Veneman said she had not read the report. But Alisa Harrison, an Agriculture Department spokeswoman, said her agency and the homeland security office had not requested that the report be suppressed. 
At the same time, critics say, the government has been slow to spend money for initiatives like the creation of a new national laboratory network to detect infectious disease in animals.
Last year, Congress appropriated $23 million to plan the design of a new facility at Plum Island, off Long Island, the nation's only laboratory authorized to study and develop vaccines for such highly contagious animal diseases as foot and mouth. But nine months later, no design plans have been made. Agency officials say Congress has insisted that first a new study must be completed on whether a new, higher-security lab should be built on the island or the mainland. 
Anne K. Vidaver, chairwoman of the department of plant pathology at the University of Nebraska, said that plant research in general, despite the recent increases, remained underfinanced, and that federal and state labs communicate poorly with one another. In addition, she said, the response to a blight might be delayed by the Agriculture Department's concern about the effect of such a discovery on trade. 
"The United States is not unique in this respect," Dr. Vidaver said, "but if soybean rust shows up tomorrow, we might be ordered not to talk about it." 
Gordon D. Johndroe, a spokesman for the Office of Homeland Security, noted that President Bush listed bioterrorism prevention as one of his top four priorities this year, and that the White House had requested $7 billion for it in next year's budget.
He counseled patience as the government mobilizes for a long-term campaign against germs directed at people, plants and animals. "We're much better prepared than we were last fall," Mr. Johndroe said, "and we'll be twice as prepared a year from now as we are today."

Forewarned and Forearmed?
Most public health and intelligence officials agree that no matter how much money is spent, and how many plans are drawn, the nation will never be fully prepared for or protected against a biological attack.
"Prepare for what?" Dr. Benjamin, the Maryland health director, asked. "We are better prepared today to identify smallpox and anthrax than we were a year ago. There is still a whole list of organisms that we are not as prepared for."
In the end, experts say, the most important achievement since last September has been raising the nation's consciousness. 
"Our biggest success is not related to vaccines or drugs," said Dr. Franz, the former Fort Detrick commander. "It is related to awareness: Awareness among physicians to think about unusual diseases. Awareness among emergency responders, that if it looks like the flu, maybe it isn't the flu. Awareness among law enforcement, and the guys that walk around in those white shirts in airports. I don't think they would let a sick person, maybe with smallpox, sit in an airport and cough on people. That's the big difference, and that is all education and experience."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush examined inactive anthrax spores in February at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.; Participants in a bioterrorism preparedness drill held in April in McAlester, Okla. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (93%); NATIONAL SECURITY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ANTHRAX (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PATHOLOGY (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (77%); BACTERIA (76%); ANIMALS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); WEST NILE VIRUS (72%); FOOD INSPECTION (72%); VIRUSES (72%); WRITERS (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (59%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%) TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; FOOD; AGRICULTURE; ANIMALS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%) HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT; DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JULIE LOUISE GERBERDING (58%); TOMMY THOMPSON (56%) STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY; MILLER, JUDITH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



267 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: Short of Cash, Media Giants Are SellingAssets 

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK with LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
There is a sale on in the media business but hardly anyone is buying.
 A 20-year acquisition spree that turned the major communications companies into behemoths is shifting into reverse as many of them find themselves short of cash and looking to sell, leaving few to bid. 
 Vivendi Universal, facing the most severe cash shortage, has put the publisher Houghton Mifflin on the block. It is also considering its options for the Universal film and music studios and theme parks. But Houghton Mifflin has attracted only groups of opportunistic investment funds looking for bargains, according to people involved, and Barry Diller, considered a significant player in any partnership to bid for Universal, has recently pulled back, people close to him said. 
AOL Time Warner, under pressure to pay down debts to protect its credit rating, has started preliminary talks to sell its stake in the cable channel Comedy Central to its partner Viacom, said people involved in its plans Talks to sell its stake in Court TV to its partner in that venture, Liberty Media, are soon to follow, they said. Walt Disney, Bertelsmann, Cablevision Systems and several others are all seeking to sell units. Although the Federal Communications Commission is considering easing the limits on how many networks, stations and other businesses media companies can own, it is not clear which companies could afford a buying spree to take advantage of the change.
Meanwhile, an extraordinarily high number of multibillion-dollar buyout funds are waiting in the wings, hoping to profit from the media industry's hard times. Selling to the funds, however, presents the potential embarrassment of accepting a low price to raise cash after buying at top dollar.
Although many industries regularly experience cycles of overextension and contraction, investment bankers and analysts said that the media industry's current pinch was exceptional, in part because of the magnitude of the previous boom. "More than any time in recent memory, there is a greater supply than demand of, in some cases, real trophy media assets," said Jonathan A. Knee, managing director and co-head of the media group at Morgan Stanley. 
Some of the many properties now said to be on the market include Disney's sports teams, the California Angels of the baseball's American League and the Mighty Ducks of the National Hockey League; Cablevision's theater chain, Clearview Cinemas; the bankrupt cable company Adelphia's many systems, the film company MGM, and Bertelsmann's online retailer Bol.com. 
The media industry's collective retreat is an opportunity for the few companies with the wherewithal and inclination to spend, mainly Viacom and Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. But those two companies can only buy so much. 
Unlike in previous downturns, however, this time some investors were waiting for it. As an alternative to the late 1990's stock market bubble, savvy investors poured money into private funds that waited to look for bargains after the bubble burst. Such funds in previous decades almost never exceeded $3 billion, but now the Blackstone Group, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the Carlyle Group and the investor Thomas H. Lee have all amassed funds of more than $6 billion each. 
"They were holding their fire until they started to see the whites of their eyes, and now they are starting to see the whites of their eyes," said Steven Rattner, a media industry investment banker whose firm, the Quadrangle Group, was among those raising funds. 
For the last two decades, media industry chief executives have argued that businesses with the rights to films, television and music could only increase in value as new technologies like cable, video cassette recorders or the Internet added new ways to capitalize on old archives. And to ensure they were not shut out, media conglomerates raced to snap up distribution channels like cable systems, video rental stores and Internet services. 
During the Internet boom, when start-ups poured venture capital and public offering proceeds into advertising, many media companies borrowed heavily to make their acquisitions. In fact, even as their earnings and revenue rose, media companies optimistically borrowed so much that their debt levels rose even faster than their cash flow, said Neil Begley, an analyst for Moody's Investors Service. Lenders and bond buyers had a relatively high tolerance for risk, so when companies like Disney or the Tribune Company let their credit ratings slide a notch it did not make borrowing much more expensive, Mr. Begley said.
Now lenders and investors are much less tolerant of risk, and the long, deep drop in advertising revenue has left many companies tight for cash. That has pushed the price of media businesses down more drastically than at any time in recent years. 
"There is a sea change, where the psychology of the last 30 years -- grab more, bigger assets -- doesn't work any more," said Hal Vogel, a veteran media industry analyst. "We are going through a rough patch that in my view is going to last at least a couple of years."
In the most drastic case, Vivendi Universal's debt soared to $18.6 billion, until it nearly ran out of cash this summer. Now it is selling Houghton Mifflin and other recent acquisitions for prices that are expected to be well below what Vivendi paid during the boom.
AOL Time Warner's position is less severe but still constraining. It agreed to pay $8 billion in cash to Bertelsmann for its half interest in AOL Europe and AOL Australia two years ago, and this summer agreed to pay an additional $2 billion to AT&T as part of a deal to unwind a cable industry partnership, bringing the company's total debt to nearly $30 billion.
The credit rating agencies Standard & Poor's and Moody's have warned that, because AOL Time Warner had already exceeded the limits for its current investment-grade credit rating before its recent deal, the company must pay down debt soon or face a downgrade. That would unnerve investors and make borrowing more expensive, so Richard D. Parsons, its chief executive, has made retaining its credit rating a top priority. The company is planning a public offering of its cable division to raise funds, and in a recent interview, Mr. Parsons said he might seek to sell some noncore businesses.
The least painful business to sell are AOL Time Warner's half-interests in Comedy Central and Court TV. Kagan World Media, a media research firm, estimates that the channels are each worth more than $1 billion, although neither would fetch as high a price this year as it might have two years ago. AOL Time Warner executives stressed that the company had plenty of cash to pay its bills and would not hold a fire sale.
Still, analysts said that selling those stakes might not be enough. "They have a lot of great assets, but how do you sell in this market?" said Tom Wolzien, analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. "And after those two and some odds and ends, it starts cutting into the fabric of their business."
Disney, traditionally one of the most financially cautious United States media companies, has also come under pressure to hold the line on spending. Fitch Ratings recently downgraded it, although Disney remains investment grade; Moody's and S.& P. have also said that they are considering possible downgrades because of concern about flagging results at Disney's ABC television network and its theme parks. Adding to Disney's burden, just as advertising and theme-park attendance began to suffer after Sept. 11, Disney made a bet on its own future performance by using cash to buy back 50 million shares of stock from a major shareholder. 
The German media company Bertelsmann, the most cautious of the group, is held back by the extremely low tolerance for debt of its controlling shareholders, the Mohn family. The Mohns ousted Bertelsmann's former chairman, Thomas Middelhoff, after he pushed an aggressive series of acquisitions and Internet investments that lead to borrowing. His successor has begun pruning back those investments to pay off Bertelsmann's debts.
Mr. Murdoch pushed the News Corporation to the brink of bankruptcy by borrowing excessively in the 1980's boom. This time, Mr. Murdoch stayed out of heavy debt in part because he failed in his $22.5 billion bid to acquire the satellite television company DirectTV. But the rival bidder, EchoStar Communications, has not yet secured regulatory approval for its deal to buy DirectTV, so Mr. Murdoch may get another chance.
The cable television industry is perhaps most crowded with for-sale signs. Adelphia Communications is in bankruptcy and its cable systems are expected to be sold. Shares of Charter Communications, which is under investigation for its accounting, have fallen more than 75 percent this year to around $3 a share. Cablevision Systems faces a coming shortfall of $900 million in debt payments. It is seeking to sell its Clearview Cinemas division and is closing 26 of its Wiz electronics stores. Analysts have said that, if its results falter, Cablevision may also be forced to sell some of its cable television channels like American Movie Classics and Bravo. A spokesman for the company said its plan did not require selling those channels or additional assets.
The dearth of bidders is already luring some old timers back into the game. Last month, the cable company RCN sold the cable system surrounding Princeton, N.J., in an effort to bolster its balance sheet. With the major companies in the industry all tight themselves, the auction went to Steve Simmons, a former cable system owner who sold his first company in 1the mid-1990's and spent the last decade writing children's books. He recently formed a company backed by the Boston investment firm Spectrum Equity Partners to buy up other cable systems.
"This is a time when some of the large players in the industry are indeed stepping back and even selling systems that are not in their core strategy," Mr. Simmons said. "We think there will be some wonderful opportunities for us." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVESTITURES (90%); PUBLISHING (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); BASEBALL (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); SPORTS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); RETAILERS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (68%); MOVIE THEATERS (60%); INTERNET RETAILING (50%) MEDIA; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (80%); VIVENDI (72%); AOL INC (70%); VIACOM INC (56%); WALT DISNEY CO (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%) VIVENDI; AOL TIME WARNER; DISNEY, WALT, CO; BERTELSMANN AG; CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP; VIACOM INC; NEWS CORP 

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); VIV (PAR) (72%); VIV (BIT) (72%); AOL (NYSE) (70%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%); DIS (NYSE) (55%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (72%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (58%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%) KIRKPATRICK, DAVID D; HOLSON, LAURA M; MURDOCH, RUPERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002 



268 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1928 words

HEADLINE: Can These Boxes Be Locked Against Terror? 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
As postal authorities scramble to strengthen security of the mail, they face a daunting realization: the process will take years, it will cost at least a billion dollars and until it is finished the nation is probably even more vulnerable than it was last fall, when anthrax-tainted letters killed five people, sickened at least 17 more and caused widespread disruption and fear.
 Engineers are rushing to devise steps to deter bioterrorist mailings, or to speed detection of any such attacks. They are reconsidering almost every step in the chain that moves 200 billion pieces of mail a year -- from the design of the 350,000 street-corner mailboxes to the way postage stamps are printed and sold. Meanwhile, though, the postal system stands revealed as a potent tool for terrorism. 
 "We cannot believe that whoever did this is the only one capable or willing to do this," said Thomas G. Day, the Postal Service's vice president for engineering. The attacks last year served as a blueprint, he said. "Clearly anyone who hadn't thought of it now fully understands it." 
In fact, despite their toll, some postal authorities view last year's attacks as a close call, not a true disaster. For one thing, the tainted letters were apparently designed to affect only the mail recipients. Their seams were carefully taped and they were precisely addressed. But as they passed through high-speed machinery, they spewed a trail of spores that infected postal workers and, apparently, people who received other mail moving through the system at the same time.
"If such an incident was repeated on a larger scale, the consequence to the economic health of the entire nation could be truly incalculable," said Patrick R. Donahoe, the Postal Service's senior vice president for operations, in an August letter to the General Accounting Office.
The Postal Service, consulting with several federal agencies, contractors, scientists, and the Royal Mail and other postal agencies overseas, is proceeding with the first stages of a long-term plan to secure its sprawling system, in which almost every collection box is an unguarded portal.
Private corporations and government agencies that are potential targets or that handle floods of mail, among them Pitney Bowes and the Internal Revenue Service, are also conducting their own searches for ways to defuse biological threats without impeding their work. The only mail being routinely irradiated with bacteria-killing electron beams or X-rays is that bound for government agencies in Washington, leaving other offices, like the many addresses for paying tax bills, unsecured.
The mail network -- linking every address in America in a chain of boxes, trucks, letter sorters, 750,000 letter carriers and other postal workers -- will never be immune to terror, postal officials and experts say. But a number of steps could reduce the threat.
Some efforts focus on reducing the volume of anonymous mail, which now constitutes about 17 percent of the daily flow of some 680 million items. 
For example, the Postal Service plans eventually to change most stamps from uniform bits of sticky paper to personalized, encrypted records that would provide the postal equivalent of caller ID. This would make it harder for someone to send a malicious letter anonymously.
Letters, either the postage itself or a return address label, would be imprinted with a box containing a dense checkered pattern that encodes far more information than a conventional bar code, according to the postal security plan.
Such postage is already being sold over the Internet by companies like Stamps.com to consumers seeking convenience. But the Postal Service and private mail companies are considering a vast expansion of this technology, even offering it door to door.
Letter carriers may eventually wield hand-held printers -- somewhat like those used by workers checking in rental cars -- that can spit out personalized postage for each outgoing letter.
Any concerns about reduced privacy would most likely be outweighed, officials and experts said, by the knowledge that such mail would be in the fast lane -- in the same way that proposed special identification cards for frequent travelers might someday allow them to pass airport checkpoints.
Besides serving as a deterrent, the data-containing postage -- read by sorting machinery all along a letter's path -- would allow investigators of an attack to more easily trace an envelope back to its point of origin or sender.
The investigation of last fall's attacks remains hampered by a lack of any data trail pointing to a perpetrator. 
In fact, the only recent lead in the 11-month-old investigation is a chance trace of anthrax found on a single mailbox in Princeton, N.J., after swabs were done of more than 600 collection boxes in the central part of the state, where all the tainted letters are thought by investigators to have originated.
The tainted box was removed from a street corner and now sits in a sealed enclosure at the Army's Edgewood center, undergoing more analysis to see if its anthrax strain matches the deadly Ames variant used in the attacks, investigators said. In another effort to reduce the amount of potentially suspicious mail, the Postal Service is also working on certifying as secure the operations of the dominant users of its system: commercial mailing houses sending electric bills, fashion catalogs and the like.
With adequate security and screening of employees, such mail could be deemed "safe," postal officials say, cutting the volume of mail bound for biohazard detection systems or subject to irradiation.
The number of blue mailboxes is likely to be reduced, and those that remain may eventually be monitored by video cameras and have replaceable plastic liners that will prevent any contamination from spreading.
Other efforts focus on detecting the presence of pathogens in the mail.
At two mail-sorting hubs in Virginia, postal engineers and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health say they successfully tested new systems that check the dust that arises from sorting machinery as the mail moves through it. The checks, performed hourly using a process called polymerase chain reaction, would bathe dust samples in enzymes that cause DNA to explosively replicate, allowing quick comparisons to a library of known DNA sequences from anthrax, bubonic plague or other pathogens.
In theory, if DNA from one of the threats were present in the dust, the system would detect it and contaminated mail could be stopped before the first trucks rolled.
Detection systems are important, postal experts say, because even a single contaminated envelope can spread pathogens widely. This potential was vividly demonstrated in recent tests run on postal machinery assembled at the Edgewood Chemical Biological Center, the Army's main research center for testing chemical and biological defenses, in Aberdeen, Md.
Video cameras recorded close-up images as test envelopes containing spores of a harmless anthrax cousin moved through the machinery. "It's amazing how much comes out even when the corners on the envelope are taped shut," Mr. Day said.
The Postal Service is planning to award $200 million in contracts this fall to install the detection systems.
Meanwhile, companies like Lockheed Martin are developing more sophisticated detection systems for vulnerable agencies and businesses. These would set off extra biochemical tests if they detected particularly minute particles with the signature of bacterial spores.
In a separate effort to prevent spores from dispersing, the service also plans to spend an estimated $245 million on large networks of exhaust vents and vacuums that will draw dust out of the sorting machines and trap any particles in filters.
Until last fall's attacks, workers cleaned the machines by blowing compressed air through them, a process that is believed to have spread any anthrax that escaped from tainted letters.
It will take months to install the new equipment at all of the postal system's 282 hangarlike sorting centers.
Two sorting centers that handled the tainted mail, the Brentwood facility that serves Washington and one in Hamilton Township, N.J., where all the tainted letters apparently originated, remain sealed, awaiting cleansing with the same chlorine dioxide gas used to kill any lingering anthrax in the Hart Senate Office Building. That is where the anthrax mailings first came to light after the letter to Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic majority leader from South Dakota, was opened in a cloud of powder on Oct. 15.
Other post offices and transfer points where trace contamination was seen, from Florida to Connecticut, were cleaned last fall and remain open.
It remains to be seen, however, whether the new security and safety measures will work the way engineers hope they will. Yesterday, for example, the General Accounting Office, the investigating arm of Congress, strongly recommended more testing and analysis before the Postal Service begins installing the vacuum exhaust systems. One concern, the G.A.O. analysts said, is that the vacuums could disrupt the separate effort to sample air and test for biological hazards. Another is the cost of running them and providing enormous amounts of electricity.
On Friday, a new federal task force under the White House Office of Homeland Security and drawn from eight agencies will hold the first of several meetings to assess the DNA detection method that postal officials prefer.
Dr. Lawrence D. Kerr, the director of bioterrorism research and development in the Office of Homeland Security, said it would be a mistake to invest heavily in a new system, only to find out that it was still porous.
"The Postal Service has been in an almost yearlong 24-hour, 7-days-a-week process of searching for the ideal system to implement nationwide," he said. "But as we look to this technology, we still need to make sure it passes rigorous scientific review."
The prospect of further delays is frustrating to postal officials and workers alike. Employees from Brentwood and Hamilton, still traumatized by the deaths and illnesses of co-workers, say they are worried that the pace of adopting new protections will be too slow to save them from the side effects of another assault.
Mr. Day, the Postal Service official, said he was confident that the bioterrorism plan would pass muster and that the American public would be willing to invest in improvements that would make the postal system safer for employees and mail recipients.
"We're convinced that the technical fix we have coming forward will reduce the threat," he said. "If you're going to send a biohazard through the mail, we're going to detect it very quickly, get it isolated and contained and, if necessary, get people medicated."
In the end, however, the last line of defense will simply be mail handlers and recipients on the alert for suspicious envelopes or contents, and health workers alert to symptoms of exposure to biological or chemical weapons.
Dr. Clifton R. Lacy, the New Jersey health and senior services commissioner, whose state remains a focal point in the anthrax investigation, said he was confident that from this perspective at least the response to any new assault would be far more effective.
"It's like what happens to the human body when it's exposed to a foreign substance -- a virus, the flu, whatever," he said. "With the second exposure, the response is quicker, more coordinated and more decisive."
"Health care providers and the public have undergone quite an education," he said. "We're ready."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mailboxes on Nassau Street in Princeton. The middle box replaced one found to be tainted with anthrax. (Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. F1); In an effort to prevent deadly pathogens like anthrax spores from dispersing, the Postal Service plans to spend about $245 million for exhaust vents and vacuums that draw dust from sorting machines and trap particles in filters at the nation's mail-sorting centers. (United States General Accounting Office)(pg. F4) Chart: "Securing the Mail"Eleven months after the anthrax attacks, the post office is planning big changes in its operations. Anonymous MailThe Postal Service is looking for ways to make it harder to send truly anonymous mail, or at least to pinpoint the drop box a particular letter came from. It is exploring three ideas: INTELLIGENT POSTAGE -- In place of a uniform design, stamps would have a unique bar code (left), printed at purchase. Purchasers would be photographed at kiosks and counters, and their pictures matched with the postage data, so a letter could be linked to its sender. Internet purchases could be linked to a computer, credit card or ID. BETTER RECEPTACLESMailboxes and post-office lobby slots could be lined with plastic bags coded for each lot of mail. SURVEILLANCEVideo records could be kept at all post offices. Bulk MailMore than 80 percent of all mail is sent by big commercial users. If their procedures can be certified in advance as safe, the Postal Service can focus on monitoring or decontaminating mail that is more likely to be a threat. Distribution System SECURITY -- The Postal Service is tightening security at shipment depots and other buildings and in its transport vehicles. SAFETY -- The service plans to install filtered blower-vacuum systems on the big canceling and sorting machines in its 282 sorting centers. A prototype, above, is in use in Virginia. In tests, these systems prevented at least 98 percent of all particles from leaving the machinery and drifting into areas where they could harm workers or contaminate other mail. DETECTION -- A DNA test called polymerase chain reaction can identify a variety of dangerous microbes with very few false results. The service plans to use this method at all its sorting centers. HOW IT WILL WORK1. Constant sampling of dust and particles from sorting machines.2. A 15-minute test every hour.3. The outgoing mail accumulates about eight hours before shipment, so well before any trucks roll each night, testing will indicate whether anything suspicious has passed through a particular sorting machine. DECONTAMINATION -- High-risk mail to Washington government offices (like Senator Patrick J. Leahys, below) continues to be irradiated by electron-beam machines. Decontamination is planned this fall at the Brentwood facility in Washington, where two workers were fatally stricken with anthrax and three others survived infection, and the center in Hamilton, N.J., where six workers survived infection. (Source: United States Postal Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHRAX (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); BACTERIA (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); ACCOUNTING (62%) POSTAL SERVICE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; MAIL BOXES; STAMPS (POSTAL) 

COMPANY: ROYAL MAIL GROUP PLC (58%); PITNEY BOWES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (92%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%)

TICKER: PBI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (58%); SIC4311 UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



269 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Offers An Aid Plan For Its Banks 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
Desperate to defend the nation's banks from plunging share prices, Japanese lawmakers today introduced a plan to bolster the equity market, but critics say the plan erodes Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's credentials as a reformer.
 The ruling coalition scrambled to assemble its plan amid worries that with stocks near 19-year lows, Japan's largest banks will report billions of dollars in losses on their equity portfolios when the half-year ends this month. The patchwork of new and already planned measures is reminiscent of other "price keeping operations" the government has engineered -- often unsuccessfully -- over the last decade. 
 The measures, most of which are likely to be approved by Sept. 20, were hastily compiled before Mr. Koizumi flew to Washington today to meet President Bush later this week. Like his predecessors, Mr. Koizumi is eager to prove that he has a handle on his nation's economy, the world's second largest, despite more than 10 years of stagnation. 
But in backing his party's efforts to prop up stock prices and the banks, he has again contradicted his promises to let market forces determine winners and losers. 
The highlight of the government's "antideflation package" -- the catch-all phrase lawmakers use for steps to raise asset prices -- includes a plan to buy up to 3 trillion yen ($25 billion) of exchange-traded funds, or bundles of stocks linked to an index, with money from the national pension plan. The ruling Liberal Democrats also want the government-financed Resolution and Collection Corporation to pay more for nonperforming loans to induce the banks to unload them. The government is considering injecting more money into the corporation to help it pay for the more expensive loan purchases.
The government may also speed up planned tax cuts to encourage capital spending and stock trading.
As with past announcements, today's plan gave investors at least a psychological lift. The Nikkei 225 index rose 1.9 percent, to finish at 9,306.26. If the rally continues in the coming weeks, as the government hopes, the burden on the banks' balance sheets is likely to ease. As it stands, if stock prices close at current levels on Sept. 30, the banks will have lost 4 trillion yen ($34 billion) on their equity portfolios, the Daiwa Institute of Research estimates.
Despite the efforts to help the banks, critics say the government's plan is unlikely to improve souring market conditions over the long term. In recent weeks, more signs have emerged that Japan's weak recovery is already flagging as growth slows globally. The market has also been rocked by a series of scandals that have toppled executives at some of the country's largest utilities, food processors and trading companies.
Japan's largest banks and insurers, which together hold about $365 billion in stocks, have also been selling their shares to reduce their exposure to the market. Foreign investors, the linchpin to previous rallies, have been net sellers all summer as they send money home to support their sagging portfolios.
"It all comes back to falling stock prices, and the outlook here is not good," said Marshall Gittler, a strategist at the Bank of America in Tokyo. "Investors are simply alienated from the stock market."
Mr. Gittler's pessimism about the government's ability to manipulate the equity market is backed up by events. In four of the five stimulus packages the government has compiled since 1998, stocks were lower six months after the plan was released.
This dismal record may be repeated if the Health and Welfare Ministry, which controls the national pension plan, sells the exchange-traded funds it buys and sends stock prices lower as a result. The government has also not clarified whether or how it plans to limit its potential losses.
Regardless, Tokyo's measures may not solve the banks' more serious long-term problems: too many bad loans, deflation and not enough capital. Many analysts, and even Masaru Hayami, the Bank of Japan governor, have said the banks may need injections of public funds to help them write off bad loans.
Once investors refocus on this situation, share prices will probably sink again, leading the government to assemble yet another package, analysts said.
"Historically, Japanese policy makers have only taken stock market declines seriously when the financial system itself is threatened," said Peter Tasker, a strategist for Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); DEFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); BONDS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); SCANDALS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: DAIWA INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH LTD (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) BELSON, KEN; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



270 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE GROUND -- Kansas City; 
Border-Hopping, Barbecue and Rolling Hills

BYLINE:  By MARCI ALBOHER NUSBAUM 

 BODY:
Border-hopping is a part of daily life in Kansas City, which is at the intersection of the Kansas and Missouri Rivers and divided by the boundary between the two states. Many locals live in one state and work in the other. And as a traveler you are likely to visit both states without ever realizing you have crossed a border. Regardless of which side you're on, you'll see green rolling hills and smell the crisp Midwestern air.
 Travelers tend to be more familiar with the Missouri side, which has the airport, the downtown and the showpiece Country Club Plaza. These days, though, more people are finding themselves on the Kansas side as the sprawling industrial zone in Overland Park grows. Sprint, Kansas City's largest private employer, recently completed construction of its new corporate headquarters there. The complex -- its own minicity complete with a ZIP code, post office and 17 office buildings -- will house more than 14,000 Sprint employees. 
 Travel to Kansas City became more challenging when Vanguard Airlines filed for bankruptcy protection in July, raising the possibility of fewer flights and higher fares. Vanguard isn't the first airline to have a tough time there. "Kansas City is toxic for airlines as a hub," said Henry Hardeveldt, a senior analyst at Forrester Research. Eastern, T.W.A. and Braniff also ran into difficulties.

HOTELS
The Country Club Plaza is a natural destination for just about any business you have in town. Built in 1922 and inspired by the architecture of Spain, it's great for meandering and shopping. Two high-end hotels are in the Plaza, the FAIRMONT KANSAS CITY AT THE PLAZA (816-756-1500, from $129), the grand dame of Kansas City hotels and the RAPHAEL (816-756-3800, from $130), a boutique hotel.
The Fairmont, popular with visiting celebrities, has a full range of services for business travelers from wireless Internet access in the lobby to cellular phone rentals, and a business center open around the clock.
Lee Derrough, president of Hunt Midwest, a real estate company, likes to put up out-of-towners at the Raphael, which he describes as "a delightful place, like a small European hotel."
For a downtown old-time Kansas City feel, there is the HOTEL PHILLIPS (816-221-7000, from $179), a renovated historic landmark two blocks from the Kansas City Convention Center.
The SOUTHMORELAND ON THE PLAZA (816-531-7979, from $100), an upscale bed-and-breakfast founded by two corporate dropouts from the Ford Motor Company, woos business travelers with amenities like gourmet breakfasts, an airport shuttle service, dinner delivery from area restaurants and membership at a neighborhood health club. B. K. Christopher, a Kansas City native and a partner at the law firm of Horn, Alward & Bandy, sends business guests there and says they love it.

DINING OUT
For lunch, Ms. Christopher recommends LIDIA'S (816-221-3722, pasta sampler lunch is $44 for two, including wine and tip), with its interior designed by David Rockwell. "Everyone goes for the pasta sampler," she said. "The chef walks around with the pan in his hand and serves it right onto your plate."
No visit to Kansas City would be complete without indulging in some of the local barbecue. There is a longstanding rivalry between GATES BAR-B-Q (913-383-1752, $22 for lunch for two, including drink and tip) and ARTHUR BRYANT BARBEQUE (816-231-1123, $22), both of which have multiple locations and are popular for lunch. But Larry Blumenthal, an artist and retired sporting goods executive, favors FIORELLA'S JACK STACK (816-942-9141, $32 for dinner for two, including wine and tip) for "leaner meat, the best beans you've ever put your teeth into, cheesy corn pudding and outrageous onion rings by the stacks." Be prepared for a long wait.
For client entertaining, Sean Hogan, an account executive at the advertising agency VML, often chooses the AMERICAN RESTAURANT (816-426-1133, $90 for dinner for two, with wine and tip) with its sparkling nighttime views and cuisine that many consider the best in town. It is also the showpiece of the Hallmark Company's Crown Center complex.
For a power lunch, Mr. Hogan says nothing beats PLAZA III THE STEAKHOUSE (816-753-0000, $56 for two, including wine and tip), the local favorite for Kansas City strip steak and other carnivorous excesses.
One of the hottest new tables in town is PIERPONT'S (816-221-5111, $100 for dinner for two, including wine and tip), a shrine to seafood, in the renovated Union Station.

ENTERTAINMENT
Up late? Take in some jazz at 12 BALTIMORE (816-346-4410) at the Hotel Phillips, the PHOENIX PIANO BAR AND GRILL (816-472-0001) or the American Jazz Museum's BLUE ROOM (816-474-2929).

ON YOUR OWN
The NELSON-ATKINS MUSEUM OF ART (816-751-1278) and the KEMPER MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (816-561-3737) are notable as much for what is outside as what is inside. On the Kemper's front lawn is a giant Louise Bourgeois spider sculpture weighing 1,600 pounds (a small sibling climbs the museum's east door), while the Nelson-Atkins outdoor sculpture garden offers 17 acres of open-air art, including the largest collection of Henry Moore bronze monuments outside of Britain.
Also worth a visit is the NEGRO LEAGUE'S BASEBALL MUSEUM (888-221-6526)

This feature about places to stay, eat and visit in business destinations appears every Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A giant 1,600-pound Louise Bourgeois spider sculpture in the yard of the Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art in Kansas City, Mo. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HISTORIC SITES (69%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (66%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (65%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (52%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (60%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (60%); F (NYSE) (60%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (60%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: NUSBAUM, MARCI ALBOHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (95%) MISSOURI, USA (95%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) KANSAS CITY (MO)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



271 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Tower at Financial Center Changes Hands for a Song 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
A major downtown skyscraper is changing hands for a surprisingly low price, in what may be the latest indication of how steeply property values have dropped in Lower Manhattan in the last year.
 Brookfield Financial Properties, the largest downtown landlord, signed a contract last week to buy Lehman Brothers' 51 percent stake in the skyscraper, the American Express Tower, for $158 million. While Brookfield professed optimism, the sale reveals a sharp drop in the prices of downtown buildings. 
 Since the attack on the World Trade Center a year ago, the vacancy rate at downtown office buildings has tripled and rents have declined as companies relocated and laid off employees. 
Brookfield is paying $127 a square foot to buy the American Express building, at 3 World Financial Center, some of the best office space in Lower Manhattan. But that is less than one-third of the price per square foot paid less than two years ago by Deutsche Bank for the office tower at 60 Wall Street.
Still, Brookfield executives and some real estate brokers expressed optimism about the future, saying the malaise downtown is temporary. 
"This puts our money where our mouth is," said Richard B. Clark, president of Brookfield Financial Properties. "We've been very bullish on the future of Lower Manhattan, notwithstanding that it's a bit wounded at the moment."
After months of negotiations, Brookfield is buying slightly more than half of the 52-story, 2.3-million-square-foot tower. American Express will remain a co-owner. The building is one of four towers at the financial center, the commercial complex in Battery Park City that was developed in the 1980's. Brookfield already owned two of the towers outright and 51 percent of a third. 
Richard Baxter, an executive managing director at Insignia ESG, cautioned against viewing the sale as an indicator of the market. He said the building price was low because Brookfield will have to share ownership with American Express and because neither company owns the land beneath the tower.
"I don't think this one is a bellwether," Mr. Baxter said. "It's got a very peculiar ownership structure. I think you'll see a couple of properties trade in the next six months. Then we'll know where things are at."
But Douglas Durst, chairman of the Durst Organization, which had also expressed interest in buying Lehman's stake in the tower, said he was surprised. 
"It's a very cheap price," Mr. Durst said. "We were willing to pay more. But there is nothing moving downtown, so it's impossible to gauge the market."
According to Cushman & Wakefield, a real estate company, the vacancy rate downtown has jumped to more than 16 percent from 3.8 percent at the end of 2000. If space that is available but unadvertised is included in the total, said M. Myers Mermel, chief executive of TenantWise, a real estate company, the vacancy rate rises to 20 percent.
With layoffs at most of the city's investment banks, economists and downtown landlords are wondering who will fill up the empty space.
There is about 2.5 million square feet of vacant space at the World Financial Center, including an additional 700,000 square feet under lease to Lehman Brothers. Brookfield and Lehman have been squabbling over that space since last fall.
After the attack on the trade center, Lehman Brothers decided to abandon the World Financial Center, which had been damaged, and its longtime home in Lower Manhattan. The investment bank quickly bought a skyscraper under construction in Midtown, at Seventh Avenue, between 49th and 50th Streets, for about $700 million, or $700 a square foot.
While lots of vacant space is available in Midtown, real estate investors are still paying top dollar for first-class buildings. Boston Properties, one of the largest publicly traded real estate companies in the country, paid the highest price this year for a Manhattan skyscraper, $1.06 billion, or $630 a square foot, for the tower at 399 Park Avenue.
Real estate brokers and investors said that pension funds, real estate companies and foreign investors continue to view New York real estate as a good investment because of historically low interest rates and the volatility in the stock market.
"In the long run, New York is a safe haven for investment," Mr. Baxter said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); BROOKFIELD FINANCIAL PROPERTIES INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



272 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Ford Expects a Profit On Cuts and Strong Sales
Buoyed by strong industry sales and cost cuts, Ford said that it expected to post an operating profit for the third quarter. Analysts had expected an operating loss of 10 cents a share.
 The profit forecast, analysts said, showed that Ford was making progress in cutting costs. The results were also bolstered by continued spending by Americans on automobiles. Ford's August sales rose 8.2 percent, though it lost market share. But Ford did sell more of its Explorer sport utility vehicle than in any other month before. Page C14. 

Push for Change at Citigroup
Analysts and investors said the decision by Sanford I. Weill, Citigroup's chief executive, to promote his former in-house lawyer to run Salomon Smith Barney showed how much Mr. Weill wanted to rid the bank of its legal and regulatory problems. The move has also led to speculation that Mr. Weill was again hinting at a possible successor. C2.

Siebel Tries to Salvage Options
Siebel Systems is starting an innovative plan that allows it to shed stock options while giving employees a windfall. The plan would allow employees with options that have exercise prices of $40 a share or higher to sell them back for $1.85 an option. The price would be paid in stock for employees with options worth more than $5,000 and in cash for those with less. Floyd Norris: Market Place. C15.

Oil Companies Receive Ultimatum
Saudi Arabia has moved to end a yearlong deadlock with the oil companies over a $25 billion project to develop some of its natural gas fields, asking the companies to decide by early October whether to continue talks under new, arguably more risky, conditions. C2.

Markets Rally to Close Higher
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 92.18 points, to 8,519.38. It fell 2.7 percent last week. The Nasdaq index rose 9.30 points, to 1,304.60. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 9.04 points, at 902.96. C15.

Wholesale inventories rose in July for a second consecutive month, the first back-to-back increase in 19 months. Also in July, consumer debt rose at its fastest pace in eight months as credit-card purchases increased the most since November. C19.

Japan Offers Aid to Its Banks
Desperate to defend banks from plunging share prices, Japanese lawmakers have introduced a plan to bolster the equity market, but critics say the proposal erodes Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's credentials as a reformer. World Business, Section W.

Privatization Derailed in India
A rift in the Indian cabinet has derailed, at least for now, the country's efforts to sell a host of state-owned companies. The coalition of Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee, left, has announced a three-month freeze on sales of strategic stakes in state-owned companies while the privatization process is reviewed. World Business, Section W.

Cancer Drug Fails Late-Stage Trial
Genentech said that a drug that aims to block the flow of blood to tumors has failed its first late-stage clinical trial -- a blow to the company and to what has been considered a promising approach to treating cancer. C19.

Role of Business in British Decision
A new report illustrates the role of big business, especially Nestle, in the British government's handling of last year's outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. The report examines the reasons behind the perplexing about-face, when officials first signaled a readiness to vaccinate livestock and then backed away from the plan. World Business, Section W.

Flying as an Act of Defiance
Some business executives will be flying tomorrow on discretionary trips they could have made some other time. They will be doing it, they say, to make a statement that no crazed terrorist is going to tell them what to do. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C13.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,519.38 up 92.18Nasdaq composite -- 1,304.60 up 9.3010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.06% up 0.04The euro -- $0.9791 down 0.0018The dollar -- 118.76 yen up 0.37 Graph tracks share prices of Citigroup for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); STOCK OPTIONS (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); PERSONAL DEBT (60%); MARKET SHARE (57%); EXECUTIVES (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); ORACLE CORP (82%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); INDIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



273 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Liberty Bonds to Finance New Brooklyn Offices 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
A new Brooklyn office tower to be built by Forest City Ratner Companies and occupied by the Bank of New York will be the first commercial construction project to be financed by Liberty Bonds, which were approved by Congress in response to the Sept. 11 attacks, city and state officials said yesterday.
 The board of the city's Industrial Development Agency is expected today to approve the issuance of $113.9 million in Liberty Bonds for the development of the 10-story building above Atlantic Terminal, the borough's largest transit hub, according to officials of the Empire State Development Corporation and the city's Economic Development Corporation. 
 The new tower, with 396,000 square feet of office space, will be built atop a five-story retail complex under construction on a site bounded by Flatbush Avenue, Atlantic Avenue, Fort Greene Place and Hanson Place. 
The Bank of New York, whose offices near Wall Street were severely damaged in the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center, is expected to move 1,400 of 7,700 employees to the site and will occupy 80 percent of the office space beginning in mid-2004.
Keeping the bank in New York City has been a project of major importance to city and state officials over the last year. The bank was one of the few major financial institutions with executive offices, support staff and computer operations all in Lower Manhattan. As a result, it was unable to restore service to its network of automated teller machines for more than a week after the attack. The bank estimated the attack cost it $140 million.
The Bank of New York is one of the largest providers of securities settlement for Wall Street. It eases the movement of money and securities from stock and bond trades executed by brokerage firms. In that process, the bank holds large sums of cash for a day or two, and much of its income comes from investing that cash, an activity that was disrupted in the days after the attack. 
The savings from the use of Liberty Bonds, which are tax exempt and therefore cost the issuer less in annual interest payments than similar, taxable financing, will flow to Forest City Ratner and do not have to be passed on to the Bank of New York. 
But the bank itself was previously awarded a $37.5 million grant for keeping 7,700 jobs in New York City for at least 12 years. In addition, last month the Industrial Development Agency approved the bank for up to $2 million in sales tax exemptions for tenant improvements and the purchase of equipment and machinery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BONDS (90%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); TAX LAW (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORISM (77%); HIJACKING (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); SALES TAX (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: RATNER COS (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW YORK; INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



274 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Race for Governor Grows Tighter, Drawing Attention 

BYLINE:  By PAUL ZIELBAUER

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, most experts expected Connecticut's race for governor to remain a largely perfunctory exercise for John G. Rowland, a confident and well-financed two-term Republican incumbent who was considered almost invincible on Election Day.
 Well, not anymore. 
 With the state's budget shortfall and a lingering Enron-related financial debacle providing a political tail wind, Mr. Rowland's less-known, less-financed, less-experienced but no less aggressive Democratic challenger, William E. Curry Jr., suddenly seems capable of pushing the race to the wire, the experts now say.
As a series of independent and internal party polls have shown Mr. Rowland's once-enormous lead over Mr. Curry shrinking steadily since April, analysts here and outside the state have begun to look at the race in a new light. 
Today, The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter in Washington that monitors state and federal campaigns, changed its prediction on the race from "likely Republican" to the less certain "lean Republican," said John Kohut, the analyst for Connecticut.
Last week, the Democratic Governors' Association marked the contest as a priority race this November, which will probably deliver more consulting and logistical support, and probably more money from private donors, to Mr. Curry's underdog campaign. "It is definitely now up on our big screen," said Ramona Oliver, a spokeswoman for the association. "This has definitely progressed as a campaign to the point where we think this is a very winnable race."
Not that Mr. Rowland has lost the upper hand; he remains the odds-on favorite to win on Nov. 5. But with two months to go, even the governor's supporters are bracing for a closer race than they had expected.
Mr. Rowland's advantage over Mr. Curry -- a former state comptroller from Farmington who has not held public office since 1995, when he lost the governor's race to Mr. Rowland -- has steadily diminished in polls since January. The Rowland lead then stood at 31 percentage points. It slipped to 25 points in April, to 15 in July and now stands at just 9 points, according to data from the Center for Survey Research and Analysis at the University of Connecticut. 
"This is a horse race," Ken Dautrich, the center's director, said on Friday. He added: "Most of the deterioration in the lead comes at the expense of support for Rowland; there hasn't been an increase in support for Curry," only an increase in voters who are undecided.
"But the underlying message," he said, "is this is a real race."
The center's poll interviewed 607 registered voters from Sept. 3 through Sept. 5, and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.9 percentage points.
Mr. Rowland's shrinking advantage is not a surprise, analysts said. Popular governors in other states are seeing generous leads in the polls narrow as the electorate is divided by a sputtering national economy and the specter of a war with Iraq, among other issues. In New York, Gov. George E. Pataki's lead over his Democratic challenger, H. Carl McCall, is down to 15 percentage points from 30 in April, according to a poll released today by the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion. 
In Connecticut, given Mr. Curry's comparative lack of funds and name recognition -- Mr. Rowland's $3.6 million campaign war chest is five times larger, and nearly one-fifth of recently polled voters said they still do not know who Mr. Curry is -- eyebrows are arching at the speed with which the aggressive challenger has closed to within single digits of a powerful two-term incumbent. 
"It suggests that maybe the race could be in play," Mr. Kohut said. "Rowland is still the favorite as the incumbent. However, it makes me want to watch this race now." 
Four debates scheduled for next month will most likely push the swelling number of undecided voters into either Mr. Rowland's or Mr. Curry's column as the two familiar opponents hammer away at their campaign themes and each other.
Mr. Rowland, 45, calls Mr. Curry an inexperienced tax-and-spender. He portrays himself as the only candidate who can be trusted to revitalize Connecticut's moribund large cities and see the state through its first budget shortfall in about a decade, roughly $350 million in the current year's $13.2 billion budget.
Mr. Curry, 50, always eager to cast the governor as an ethically challenged defender of the rich, is promising to reduce the state's high property taxes by $730 million and to restore a "culture of integrity" to state government. 
Along with the shrinking of his lead, Mr. Rowland's decision to spar publicly with Mr. Curry has raised the challenger's campaign profile, political analysts said, and energized Curry supporters. 
For now, Mr. Rowland seems to control his own destiny, political experts said. His campaign has bought more than $1 million in television airtime through Election Day, and has the financial wherewithal to buy a lot more. 
Nuala Forde, Mr. Rowland's campaign spokeswoman, said the nine-point spread in the latest UConn poll was no surprise, and certainly no cause for alarm. "We always knew the race would come down to single digits," she said. The gap will probably even shrink a bit further, she said, before stabilizing into a lead for Mr. Rowland, who as chairman of the Republican Governors Association can summon outside help from members and donors nationwide.
Mr. Curry said that what he lacks in money, he can make up with a large get-out-the-vote effort organized by labor unions. "Of course, it's still an uphill fight," he acknowledged in an interview Friday, hours after the UConn poll results were published. "But we've just gone from 'Man of La Mancha' territory to single digits."

GRAPHIC: Photos: William E. Curry Jr., left, speaking in West Hartford, Conn., on Friday. Polls show Gov. John G. Rowland's lead over Mr. Curry in the governor's race is narrowing, but Mr. Rowland, who spoke to a nursing class in Hartford last week, retains the advantage in funds and name recognition. (Associated Press); (Tom Brown/The Hartford Courant) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



275 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 6593 words

HEADLINE: PORTRAITS OF GRIEF: THE VICTIMS; 
Serene Woman, Practical Joker, Gentle Uncle and Brilliant Niece

BYLINE:  These sketches were written by Jessica Bagdorf, Carla Baranauckas, Tara Bahrampour, Anthony DePalma, Shaila K. Dewan, Elissa Gootman, Constance L. Hays, Jan Hoffman, Nat Ives, Dylan Loeb McClain, Mireya Navarro, Andy Newman, Michelle O' Donnell, Michael Pollak, Melena Z. Ryzik, Marc Santora, Seth Solomonow, Barbara Stewart, Michael Wilson and Edward Wyatt.

 BODY:
 Here are glimpses of some of the victims of the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center.

LILLIAN FREDERICK
A Modest Woman of Faith

At Aon Corporation, where Lillian Frederick was an administrative assistant, her colleagues heard only a few tales from the warm, serene woman who was an office presence, but hardly its social butterfly. They heard the reactions of Ms. Frederick, a native Manhattanite, after she and her husband, Henry Lambert, bought a house in Teaneck, N.J. Flowers had to be . . . planted? In the dirt? With all those slugs?
 And they heard everything about her granddaughter, her son's child.
Because Ms. Frederick, 46, was modest, she never mentioned that she had served in the United States Navy and the Reserve. She didn't describe her church work: she had studied extensively so she could teach new worshipers at Greater Refuge Temple, a Pentecostal church that she attended three times a week.
Her mother, Mattie, whom Ms. Frederick visited often and fussed over, raised her six children in the church, but her daughter's faith grew stronger still. Mr. Lambert, to whom she was married for 14 years, said his sweet, joyous wife had a full life outside of church, too.
"We went bowling and had cookouts with her family in the backyard," he recalled. "When I was sick, she stayed on my case and made sure I took my medicine. When she was sick, I worried about her. She was my pride and joy."

WAI C. CHUNG
Abiding Gentleness, and Wit

Wai C. Chung was quiet and painfully shy -- if a stranger said good morning, he'd be flummoxed -- but neither quality muffled his abiding gentleness. "You couldn't not like him," recalled Jon Worth, his boss at UBS PaineWebber in Weehawken, N.J., where Mr. Chung, 36, was a vice president. His co-workers have not had the heart to touch his desk, or take down the cards that poured in.
Those with whom he felt comfortable were privy to his cerebral wit. Mr. Chung, who immigrated here from Hong Kong as a child, read history and science texts incessantly and had near-photographic recall.
He was a fixture at the office. Mr. Chung never took vacations longer than an extended weekend, fearing a database problem would erupt. But Mr. Chung, who lived in Brooklyn with his parents and younger brother, Richard, also enjoyed both his solitude and spending time with his nieces and nephews.
When one niece, Maurita Tam, was a toddler, he mesmerized her by blowing Kleenexes in the air and watching them artfully descend.
Ms. Tam worked at the World Trade Center and died on Sept. 11. Her uncle, hit by debris while waiting for a commuter bus the same day, died on Sept. 15.

MAURITA TAM
Awesome, but With a Giggle

Perfect was not quite the right word for Maurita Tam of Staten Island. After all, she flunked her first driving test.
Smart? At 22, she spoke Japanese, Korean, French, Cantonese, Mandarin and English. She flew through Manhattan's Stuyvesant High School and Amherst College, where she was an economics whiz. And where she was computer-comfortable enough to be a Webmaster of several sites.
But smart isn't the whole tale. She was not just a bookworm: she had a yellow belt in tae kwon do and was a leader of an Asian student group at Amherst.
Artistic?
She played piano, sang exuberantly in the college choir and painted.
Fun-loving? She was frisky and gregarious. Her mother, Julie Tam, chided her halfheartedly about her unladylike giggle. "She would giggle at every little thing and kick both legs up in the air," Mrs. Tam recalled. Her room at college was a flop-stop for so many friends, who giggled with her, teased her about a pinup poster of an Asian performer and picked her brain.
On one Web site, a friend of Ms. Tam's suggests "crazywonderful" to describe her. Almost there.
Ms. Tam, an executive assistant at Aon Corporation, whose uncle Wai Chung also died in the World Trade Center attack, described herself best. 
"I'm awesome!" she would shout, dissolving into giggles.

MICHAEL O'BRIEN
'Didn't Believe in Shortcuts'

Pity anyone who fell asleep at one of Michael O'Brien's parties. A drowsy offender might wake up with a mascara mustache, hands full of shaving cream or, as his brother-in-law Don once discovered, shaved legs.
"He could always make me laugh," said his wife, Rachel. She encountered his sense of humor on the first Christmas she visited his family's house. She had a headache. He said all he had were chewable aspirin. She chewed. He laughed. She gagged. 
Mr. O'Brien's sense of humor balanced his practical side. In 1990, he and a few associates successfully started their own municipal bond trading company. In 2000, they sold it to Cantor Fitzgerald and Mr. O'Brien became vice president for Cantor's municipal bond desk.
Mr. O'Brien, 42, was a stickler for detail; he would research cameras for weeks before buying one and then wouldn't snap a single shot until he had read the entire manual. "Anything he did he took from start to finish," said Craig Calafiore, a close friend. "Mike didn't believe in shortcuts." 
That was especially so when it came to being a father to his three children. He coached soccer and took the whole family camping and rafting every summer. Then his wife would stay home and he took the children camping on his own. "The look in his eyes when he saw his children summed up everything," said his sister Bridget. "He raised the bar on fatherhood." 

LOUIS MARIANI
His Town and His Pictures

Wherever Louis Mariani went, he was sure to have his trusty Minolta camera with him. "He just loved taking pictures," recalled his daughter, Lauren Peters.
In addition to working at the Blue Ribbon dairy farm in Bedford, Mass., Mr. Mariani shot pictures for his local paper, The Bedford Minuteman. He spent his whole life in Bedford, and he was very proud of the town, Mrs. Peters said. Even as he climbed into middle age, he wore pins supporting the high school football team. Mr. Mariani did not travel much, said his daughter, but he certainly got about town. "Everyone knew him," she said. On Sept. 11, he was on Flight 175, going to his stepsister's wedding.
Everyone also knew his photography. His daughter recalled when Mr. Mariani, 58, first set up a darkroom in the bathroom in their house and taught her how to develop film. "I loved going in there with him," she said.
Mrs. Peters said one of the few things that competed with her father's love of photography was his passion for dessert. "He always wanted peanut butter pie," she said.

ROBERT J. FOTI
Lessons of Helpfulness

To know Robert Foti, 43, meet his children: Alycia, 13, Robert Jr., 12, and James, 5. This winter, Robert Jr. walked down a snowy mountain -- twice -- to retrieve a stranger's snowboard. When Alycia was 11, she spent the holidays with her stepmother's family and cheerfully helped out in the kitchen. James, little James, is obsessed with the twin towers that claimed his father's life.
For a while Engine 16 and Ladder 7 displayed a snapshot of James and his father that was hard to forget. The "Santa Claus picture," Firefighter Foti's wife, Mary Grace, calls it. She saw them in the bathtub with soapsuds beards like Santas. She ran to get the camera.
"You can't take our picture," Firefighter Foti protested, laughing. He was chewing a cigar and had his arm around James. 
"But it's so cute," Mrs. Foti said, snapping the picture.
Now James says, "My daddy died in the twin towers," to everyone he meets. 
"He was always stopping to help someone or doing the dishes," Mrs. Foti said. "He would go on all the field trips with the mothers. It was his nature to help others, which explains why he became a fireman."

EILEEN M. GREENSTEIN
A Sense of Loyalty

When she finally moved from her old neighborhood of Jackson Heights, Queens, to the leafy suburb of Morris Plains, N.J., three years ago, Eileen Greenstein was determined to stay in touch with her extended family. So she helped start a cousins' club and went to dinner or a show with them once a month.
Ms. Greenstein had a knack for maintaining contacts, even when she didn't try.
She worked in the claims department at Aon in the World Trade Center, and from Morris Plains she could still see the silhouette of the towers. 
"She was always kidding that she couldn't even get away from those things when she wasn't working," said her brother Howard. 
Ms. Greenstein, 52, cherished loyalty. She never forgot birthdays, not even those of her friends' children. 
She visited Florida several times a year, even in summer, to spend time with her brothers and her mother, who all lived there. 
She was well known in the neighborhood as a person who would take in older cats no one else wanted. "She always was helping out the downtrodden and the castoffs," Howard Greenstein said. 
When her final two-week visit to Florida ended last Sept. 8, Michael, another of her three brothers, drove her to the airport. "The strange thing about that visit was that there was no yelling, none of the typical family arguments," he said. "It was a really good trip." 

ERIC TAUBE OLSEN
Firefighter Who Saw Beauty

What Taube and Barbara Olsen recall about their son was his ability to see things not as they were, but as they could be.
They said their boy, Eric Taube Olsen, had a passion for finding the beauty in an old car that might seem little more than a busted-up clunker.
They said he enjoyed whittling away the hours with a block of wood and turning it into something more. They say he loved working in stained glass, and the way it could change the color of light.
Firefighter Olsen, 41, a firefighter with Ladder Company 15, had a particular fondness for collecting Cadillacs from the 1940's. In all, he had acquired 11 vehicles, including one old fire engine.
On the morning of Sept. 11, Firefighter Olsen and a buddy, Arthur T. Barry, another off-duty firefighter, were planning on tinkering with one of the cars. Instead, they rushed off to the World Trade Center.

JOHN SBARBARO
A Knack for Getting a Laugh

On birthdays, John Sbarbaro sent sympathy cards, said Kathy Pinto, his sister. When he went to Florida for the Mets' spring training, he and his friends played the kazoo and led cheers and danced. Every year the local newspaper ran a photo of them with the same caption: "The Crazy Guys From Brooklyn."
At costume parties, she said, he dressed up as a flasher, as Tinker Bell, as a patient in a skimpy hospital gown with an oversized thermometer attached to a strategic area.
"He was the cool brother," said Ms. Pinto. "Everybody would say: 'Ooo, Johnny's your brother? Wow!' All these girls had crushes on him."
Mr. Sbarbaro, 45, was a bond trader for Cantor Fitzgerald for nearly 10 years. Before that, he owned Libations, a bar in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, where he had lived all his life. He loved golf and the Jets, the Mets and the Knicks and getting a rise and a laugh out of people.
Once, he took his mother's carefully preserved wedding gown, slit it up the back and wore it to a party, lacing it up loosely. He sang "I Am Woman" and won first prize. Ms. Pinto said their mother was angry when she found out -- for about 10 seconds. "She said: 'Oh, John!' " Ms. Pinto recalled. "Then she said: 'Oh, never mind.' She was laughing too hard to stay mad."

ROCCO NINO GARGANO
High Taste at an Early Age

To many 12-year-olds, X-Men comics are the limits of high art. But at 12, Rocco Nino Gargano was painting his own Renaissance-style pictures after school -- St. John the Baptist, the Resurrection of Christ, the Virgin holding the blessed infant.
"He loved da Vinci and Raphael," said Kathy Dalessandro-Gargano, his sister, who raised him while their mother worked long hours as a chef at the family's restaurant in Manhattan's financial district. "He got art books from the library and studied them."
As he grew older, his tastes became even more sophisticated. At Columbia University, among classmates in Banana Republic pullovers, he dressed in Armani jeans and Prada shirts. 
At 28, an investment banker at Cantor Fitzgerald, he knew the best wines, operas and travel spots. After his father's death, she said, he began pursuing the world's most delicious, beautiful and thrilling things more urgently.
"He was seeking the finer things in life," she said. "His biggest dream was to be famous. He realized that life is too short."

DOUGLAS OELSCHLAGER
A Family on a Motorboat

Sometimes Douglas Oelschlager's consuming twin loves -- his family and fighting fires -- conflicted. "I used to tell him all the time to get your priorities straight," said his wife of 13 years, Suzanne. It wasn't easy.
Firefighter Oelschlager, 36, had been a volunteer fireman on Long Island for nearly two decades before joining the New York Fire Department in 2000. Over time, he learned how to balance things. "He would try to make my life easier so he could go to his meetings," Ms. Oelschlager said. He gave their daughters, Kayla and Brittany, baths and cooked dinner before his wife got home from work so he could slip away from their house in St. James, on Long Island, to Fire Department meetings at night.
He slipped away from work sometimes, too, taking his family out on the water in their 32-foot motorboat, Island Hopper, which they took to the Hamptons, the Connecticut coast and even as far as Cape Cod, with Ms. Oelschlager the first mate.
During one of their favorite vacations, they moored the boat on the New Jersey side of New York Harbor so they could soak up the view of the Manhattan skyline.
Since Sept. 11, Ms. Oelschlager has become captain of the boat and Kayla and Brittany have become the first mates.

MICHAEL C. SORRESSE
Making a House a Home

"He always had a plan and a project, and even the occasional Homer Simpson-like harebrained scheme," recalled Michael C. Sorresse's wife, Catherine. The best of these contributed to Mr. Sorresse's success at Marsh Inc., where, at 34, he was already a vice president. But there were also his small-scale ventures in real estate with his brothers, his long efforts to get his mother, Maria, and brother Lenny to eat healthy and his notorious home repair projects, most with mixed results.
There was the time he painted his parents' bathroom without a hitch, but also the time he drove a backhoe into a trench while helping with construction on their house.
In November 2000, he and his wife bought a house in Morris Plains, N. J. "Last summer we replaced a wall in the dining room with new Sheetrock, spackled and painted it," Catherine Sorresse said. "Someone commented that you could still see the seam in the wall, and I was very upset about that because Mike worked so hard on it." When I told him about the comment, instead of getting upset, he paused, laughed, and said, 'That's what makes a house a home.'
"From that point on, that was our joke response to anything wrong or annoying that we found with the house. Toilet backed up? That's what makes a house a home!"

MARTIN MICHAEL WORTLEY
Happy to Be 'Grumpy'

Among the ways Karen Wortley remembers her husband, the most visible must be the tattoo on her ankle -- "Grumpy."
It's true, the relentless hours Martin Michael Wortley worked at Cantor Fitzgerald, where he dealt in interest rate options, left him a little cranky when he got up some mornings at the house the couple rented in Park Ridge, N.J. But when she called him grumpy for the first time, the observation just seemed to deflate his bad mood. He agreed, and it became a nickname. Later he got "Grumpy" tattooed on his right calf and named his boat, "Grumpy's Toy."
At 6-foot-5, Mr. Wortley would have been intimidating if he had actually been surly. In reality, Mr. Wortley, 29, could walk into a room not knowing anyone and leave knowing half the people there. 
His height helped Ms. Wortley, who is 5-foot-4, keep track of him in a crowd. "Anytime I would lose him anywhere all I had to do was look up," she said. 'You could see him from a mile away."

NICHOLAS A. BOGDAN
With a Protective Side

Nicholas A. Bogdan had an idea of his perfect wife. "She had to like computer games, she had to like to read, she had to be interested in Dungeons and Dragons, and she had to be single," said the woman who eventually filled out the ticket. "I had everything on the list except the single part, so he set about to make that happen."
It was 1989. He'd come by as her shift ended at Roy Rogers in Hightstown, N.J. He'd tell her how great she was and how she ought to get out of her bad relationship and go out with him instead.
On their first date, his protective side showed in the Dungeons. When her band of adventurers met monsters, he announced that her character was stuck in a locked room.
"I said, 'Look, I'm your girlfriend in real life, not in the game. Let me have some fun, too,' " she recalled.
She became Dorothy Bogdan in 1997. He was 34 last year, a computer operator for Marsh & McLennan. They had two children.

JANE SIMPKIN
'An Ongoing Art Project'

Jane Simpkin seemed drawn to the unusual, and vice versa. When she was standing on her mother's porch in Wayland, Mass., one day, a baby bald eagle landed at her feet. While she was driving to work one time, a bright blue parakeet flew into the car.
She was amassing tattoos, which her sister Laura called "an ongoing art project." There was a British lion on each of her shoulder blades, applied when she visited England recently, and a gryphon on her chest. She loved to travel; often the tattoos were mementos of places she visited.
She worked for the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, but her plan was to become an entertainment lawyer. Last Sept. 11, she was a passenger on United Airlines Flight 175, on her way to Los Angeles for a meeting.

LISA M. KING-JOHNSON
A Day Off for Kindergarten

A year ago today, Lisa King-Johnson's younger daughter, Katie, was starting kindergarten, and so she took the day off from her job at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods on the 89th floor of the World Trade Center's south tower. She got Katie dressed for school and was there waiting for her in the sunshine when everyone was ready to go home.
"She loved her children so much," said her friend Kara Iaconis. "She was always talking about them. She stayed totally committed to making their upbringing perfect." If she went on a business trip, she made sure to bring something back for them. If they needed clothes for school or some other occasion, she made sure they had them, no matter how busy she was at work. 
Ms. King-Johnson, 34, was divorced from their father, Paul King, and had remarried the previous May. "I could see what a good mother she was," said her husband, Jim Johnson. There was that winter day, cold as ice, a few years ago when they all traveled upstate with a group of neighbors from Rockaway Park, Queens, to select a Christmas tree. Cheeks red, breath puffing, he and she and the two girls all converged on the same perfect tree at the same time.

ANTHONY J. COLADONATO
'It's Not About Winning'

Anthony J. Coladonato almost never left his wife's side. "We were attached at the hip," said Debbie Razzano. They went into the city together early in the morning, so they could both go to the gym. She worked at the Citicorp Building in Midtown; Mr. Coladonato, 47, worked in customer service for the eSpeed division of Cantor Fitzgerald, in the World Trade Center's north tower.
On weekends, they sat on the beach together near their place in Belle Harbor, Queens, armed with a newspaper, maybe one of the Dick Francis novels that he liked, and plenty of bagels and coffee. When he returned from a business trip abroad, she drove to the airport to pick him up. "We just missed each other terribly when we were away from each other," she said. 
He was resolutely cheerful, no matter the hour or what was going on. "He wanted everybody to feel good," said his son, Alex, 19, whose father would always be cheering him on at his high-school hockey games. "He would always tell us, it's not about winning. As long as you go out and have a good time, that's the most important." 
On Sept. 11, Ms. Razzano dropped her husband off at the trade center and said goodbye. "We kissed, and did the 'see you later,' " she said. "And then he smiled."

JOSEPH J. ZUCCALA
'Everybody's Best Friend'

Joe Zuccala left a big void when he died, and not just because he was 6-foot-5 and weighed about 275. Mr. Zuccala, 54, a banking consultant who was at Fuji Bank in the south tower on Sept. 11, was, as his pal Tim Horgan put it, "everybody's best friend," and that included his wife, Madeleine, his two daughters and Mr. Horgan's two sons.
Mr. Zuccala's appetite for life and for fun, especially music, matched his size. Generally, he was an oldies guy. He gave a party at his house in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., a few years ago; everyone had to come dressed as they did for their high school prom. But he was branching out. A few weeks before he died, Mr. Zuccala was persuaded, against his better judgment, to attend a Bon Jovi concert at the Meadowlands. "His wife was really into them, but he didn't want to go," Mr. Horgan said. "But by the end of the evening, to the extent that he could dance, he was dancing in the aisles."

LIAM JOSEPH COLHOUN
Always a Free Spirit

As Liam Colhoun's career took off, reaching a position as a manager of options operations at Bank of America Securities, he had to part with some of the trappings of what his parents called his free spirit. He relegated his leather motorcycle jacket to weekend wear, trimmed his auburn hair, pocketed his earring.
But on the elevator ride down from the 81st floor of the World Trade Center, he would slip the stainless steel hoop back into his ear, and the free spirit would resurface.
At home in Flushing, Queens, Mr. Colhoun, 34, would crank up the Beatles or heavy metal and dance wildly around the house, flailing his arms and cracking up his wife, Helen, and their daughter, Brigid, who turns 6 on Sept. 18. Then it would be bath time for Brigid; Mr. Colhoun would wear an eye patch and play pirate. 
On weekends there were water gun battles, pillow fights and photography outings. Mr. Colhoun would take his camera, and Brigid would take hers, a Fisher-Price starter camera her father had given her.

JASON SABBAG
An Anonymous Reviewer

Was it Jason Sabbag who noticed the "total mayhem" at the Elephant bistro, the "gentle prices" at Miracle Grill, the fact that "women feel comfortable" at the Post House steak restaurant?
Mr. Sabbag, 26, and his friends made it their goal to get their anonymous comments published in the Zagat survey of restaurants. Once, on a night when they were going to celebrate Mr. Sabbag's having cleared part of the exam to become a chartered financial analyst, they spent so long riffling through the Zagat guide that it was too late to make a reservation.
"Anyone could go to Le Cirque," said Mark Hagan, Mr. Sabbag's brother-in-law. "He was always trying to find a restaurant that had a rating over 24 and a cost under $40. That was his mission."
Mr. Sabbag, an assistant portfolio manager at Fiduciary Trust, loved to dine with Mr. Hagan, his sister, his longtime girlfriend and his younger brother, Cliff. On weekends at his parents' home in Greenwich, Conn., Mr. Sabbag made the mojitos and made sure everyone had fun. 
He knew how to tease without going too far. A high school tennis champion, he would easily beat his father. Until one morning, when his father won the first two games, to the cheers of onlookers. Mr. Sabbag picked up the ball and went to the net. "Dad, it's your serve, and I just wanted to let you know -- happy Father's Day."

JOHN A. COOPER JR.
An Inquisitive Mechanic

John A. Cooper Jr. was only 5 when he started removing the backs of the transistor radios in the apartment in Williamsburg with a screwdriver. He was looking for something. "He wanted to see where the man was talking from," said his mother, Clowdia Cooper, "and he'd put it back together but it wouldn't work then. And the clocks!"
Mr. Cooper, 40, grew up an avid athlete, playing football around Brooklyn. He met Cathy DeCicco in the late 1980's, when they worked for the same company. Their first date was in the rowdy section of a New York Rangers' hockey game at Madison Square Garden, where he had season tickets.
By the time they married in 1993, she was also hooked on the Rangers. She had a son, Jeffrey, three days after going to a game; another son, Adam, followed in June 2001. Mr. Cooper worked for SunGard Trading Systems in Jersey City. He sold computer software, and was visiting Sandler O'Neill in 1 World Trade Center on Sept. 11. Lately, little Jeffrey has been tinkering with the radios around his family's Bayonne home. 

CARLOS DOMINGUEZ
Deeply Shared Values

There was always enough room for a Christmas tree and a menorah in the Dominguez living room in December. The holidays reflected a commitment that Carlos Dominguez and his wife, Maureen, made to each other in 1991 -- a wedding ceremony presided over by both a priest and a rabbi, and with the blessings of both families. "When you got down to it," Mrs. Dominguez said, "our values were the same."
Mr. Dominguez, 34, was born in Little Italy, the second son of Cuban immigrants. He was the first in his family to go to college, attending New York University. "He was just a very kind, caring person," Mrs. Dominguez said. During their courtship, the two volunteered in soup kitchens on the Bowery. After marrying, they converted their public service commitment into parenthood, with three daughters: Maria, 10, Amanda, 6, and Michelle, 20 months.
He was an independent contractor for Marsh & McLennan for three years, setting up firewalls for their computers. In 2000, the family moved from Brooklyn to a house in East Meadow, N.Y., and bought a second car. Things were looking up: Marsh made him a permanent employee on Sept. 10.

DOROTHY A. deARAUJO
Follower of Artistic Dream

An artistic longing stayed with Dorothy deAraujo from a childhood in Depression-era Chicago to a retirement spent painting in vivid colors in the Naples community of Long Beach, Calif.
Her father sold clothes wringers while her mother worked in a department store. She studied nights at the Art Institute of Chicago but her parents didn't see a future in her paintbrushes. And so she deferred her dream.
Mrs. deAraujo spent 20 years as an executive administrative assistant at California State University's Long Beach campus. On retiring, she was allowed free courses there. "She wanted to advance beyond watercolors and learn about decoupage, oils and sculpture," said her son, Tim deAraujo Jr. At 69, she earned a B.A. in fine art.-
Mrs. deAraujo, 80, drew pen-and-ink postcards of Naples' Italian-style canals. Soon, she had a budding art business and an atelier above her garage to show her work.
She kept art supplies at her son's home in Bedford, Mass., so she could paint when visiting there, as she was last September, before getting on Flight 175 for her return.

THOMAS DOWD
Jokes and Furious Sports

It was easy to tell if Thomas Dowd liked you, because if so, he would insult you.
"He never changed who he was based on the people who he was with," said Scott Harris, whose bonds with Mr. Dowd were forged when their neighboring town houses burned down in 1994.
Mr. Dowd would laugh at his own jokes harder than anyone, and as a bond broker at Cantor Fitzgerald, there were plenty of jokes -- a sign on someone's back, Parmesan cheese in the telephone receiver.
But if he sometimes seemed brusque, perhaps someone -- often himself, sometimes someone else -- was not measuring up to expectations. At 37, he coached basketball like a fury, pouring his time and emotion into three youth neighborhood and regional leagues. The time not spent with his three children -- Heather, 17, Tommy, 15, and Brittany, 10 -- was devoted to his childhood friends from the neighborhood, Inwood, in Upper Manhattan.
Years earlier, his pursuit of one friend, Kerriann Cregan, had been particularly steadfast. "He would walk up the block with his basketball, and I knew he was coming because I would hear it bouncing," she said. "He had to pass my window, and I hid to watch him go by. My father always asked, 'Did he look?' " Often enough, said the former Miss Cregan, who became Mrs. Dowd in 1984.

JAMES PAPPAGEORGE
Dedicated to Saving People

As a boy, James Pappageorge was afraid of doctors. But he spent much of his adult life learning about medicine and saving people -- as an emergency medical technician, then a paramedic and, finally, a firefighter. "He was always carrying books, and he was always enrolled in some sort of course," said Gina Pinos, his fiancee.
Not that Firefighter Pappageorge was the bookish type. His 6-foot-1 bodybuilder's physique by itself drew attention. Then there was his hair -- flowing locks that earned him the nickname Fabio before it was shorn for enrollment at the Fire Department academy. If that were not enough, there was a souped-up white Mustang, with flashing lights and an ambulance siren, "everything but the gurney," Ms. Pinos said. 
It was not just for show. In the back, Firefighter Pappageorge, 29, carried a full medical kit, just in case. He decided to join the Fire Department, said his sister, Helen Pappageorge, because its schedule would leave him free time to be a paramedic.
Firefighter Pappageorge and Ms. Pinos were saving for a September 2002 wedding. Last Sept. 11, she phoned him just as Engine 23 was being sent to the trade center.

WILLIAM O'KEEFE
Watching Daughters Run

One night at a club in Staten Island, two young men approached two young women. They paired off and chatted for a few minutes, until one of the men whispered to his friend that he wanted to switch partners. So they did. And that is how William O'Keefe met his wife, Ginny.
Never loud or aggressive, Captain O'Keefe was nevertheless assertive. (He was the one who wanted to switch partners.) He had a quiet way that served him well as a firefighter, and, later, an officer. "He wasn't a blowhard," Mrs. O'Keefe said. "He was never boastful. He was a gentleman."
The only thing Captain O'Keefe, 48 and in the best shape of his life, liked more than running was watching his daughters, Tara, 20, and Kaitlin, 17, compete at track meets. With his flexible schedule, he spent many days cheering them on. "He was proud of that. No regrets," Mrs. O'Keefe said. "He was a great father and a great husband. He was the best."

CHARLES A. ZION
Family, Company and Golf

Charles A. Zion loved his job as executive vice president at Cantor Fitzgerald, and he loved golf. "It was hard to get him out of there," said his wife of 20 years, Carole. "When he started to play golf, I thought that was a good thing for him, because it gave him another focus." Mrs. Zion took up golf as well, as did their son, Zachary, 19.
Father and son bonded over both work and golf. "I was looking forward to having him mentor me. He really loved teaching people the market," said Zachary. "That really kills me. That I'm not going to be able to sit there next to him on the desk and see what he did so well."
Mr. Zion, 54, was the son of a rabbi, and spent his early childhood in Davenport, Iowa. At the age of 12 or 13, his family moved to New York City -- a big transition for him. Later, he preferred to stay close to home. "Whenever you tried to get him to go somewhere, he would say, 'I know a great place -- it's close to a golf course, there's a garage, and it's air-conditioned,' " recalled Zachary. "And I would get excited, and I would say 'Where?' and he'd say, 'Right here!' "

LAURENCE C. ABEL
Bond Analyst and Car Lover

Laurence C. Abel was a sports enthusiast -- he played as much tennis, basketball and golf on his Sony PlayStation as he did on the courts -- and a car lover. In 2000, Mr. Abel, 37, bought a Honda Accord Coupe in shiny black. "We must have gone to 10 different car dealers in all five boroughs and the tri-state area," said his companion, Beverly C. Williams. "That car was half his heart, or a quarter of his heart."
Mr. Abel, a bond analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, still officially lived in the same Upper Manhattan apartment he grew up in. But as his relationship with Ms. Williams progressed, he all but officially lived with her in Jamaica, Queens. 
Ms. Williams recalled the moment when she felt that her relationship with Mr. Abel might be something special. Mr. Williams gave her a card for her 33rd birthday a few years ago in which he wrote: "It's difficult to find a friend, a companion and a lover all in one person. And I truthfully think that I've found that in you."

THOMAS MOODY
Fire Officer and Engineer

Captain Thomas Moody loved to give people "the elbow." He would be telling a joke, kidding someone, and if they didn't get it right away, "he would give you the elbow in the ribs," said his wife, Maureen. "He loved to tease."
Captain Moody also had a certain way with names. His daughter Deirdre's first-grade teacher, Mrs. Fear, became Mrs. Afraid. Mr. McDonald became Mr. Arby's. And when he was growing up in Brentwood, on Long Island, his younger sister, Lorraine, became "the secret helper." "Whenever he wanted to get my sister to do something, he'd call her his secret helper, and he would con her into doing these little favors for him," recalled Frank Moody, an older brother.
But for all his teasing, and (literal) ribbing, Captain Moody, 45, was quiet at heart. An 18-year veteran of the Fire Department, he was working to be transferred to the hazardous materials team, so he could make full use of his degree in chemical engineering; he started his career as a chemical engineer. He still got consulting work as an engineer, but his adventurous side was most fulfilled working in the Fire Department. "He was in probie school when we met," said Mrs. Moody. "He was so excited about it, so content."

JAMES MAOUNIS
A Friend for a Lifetime

How many guys would blow off drinking with their pals in order to drive their sister to the beauty parlor? ("You got a brother?" asked Anthony Giammona. "Would he do that for you?")
Mr. Giammona's friend James Maounis would. "He'd take his sister out to dinner," he said, adding that the Maounis clan -- two brothers, one sister, the parents -- were "more like friends than a family unit."
In the same vein, Mr. Maounis, Mr. Giammona and their friend Ralph Baione were a lot like family. As teenagers growing up in Gravesend, Brooklyn, in the 1970's, they went to discotheques together; as adults, they biked, traveled, got haircuts and met women together. They even shared a nickname: Way.
"You're out and you're amongst others, if you give out a 'Waaaaay,' it alerts the people in our group," Mr. Giammona said. 
Mr. Maounis, 42, was an account administrator at Fiduciary Trust on the 90th floor of 2 World Trade Center; his sister Mary Jane worked in the same building on the 62nd floor. She survived.

ROBERT C. KING JR.
Fires and Furniture

Robert C. King Jr. was married on a Saturday and had to be back at the Fire Academy nine days later. On their honeymoon, the couple read academy manuals and practiced tying emergency knots. "For the nine years he was on the job, he always came home happy," Theresa King said.
Firefighter King, 36, was an avid woodworker. His company, Engine 33 in the East Village, eats off a trestle table he made that seats more than 20. Expanding the wood shop in the firehouse basement, he made a table for the watch room, and cabinets for some firefighter friends who had helped him work on his house in Bellerose Terrace, on Long Island. 
At home, there were the bunk beds for his two boys, and paneling and more cabinets. Theresa King's favorite piece is a waist-high oak Quaker table for her vestibule. His sister Joann DeTommaso's favorite is a wooden dump truck he made for her son. His mother, Audrey, loves a jewelry box he fashioned. And Adirondack chairs, big and child-size. His children are Thomas, 6, Elizabeth, 5, and Stephen, who will be 3 on Sunday.

KENNETH ALBERT ZELMAN
Inseparable From Daughter

Kenneth Albert Zelman and his daughter, Olivia, had their routines. When Mr. Zelman walked through the door of his house in Succasunna, N.J., Olivia, who will be 5 in November, would throw her arms around him and say, "Daddy's home." When Mr. Zelman put Olivia to bed, they would make up stories and tell them to each other.
When Mr. Zelman met his brother for coffee at a local shop, Olivia went along and sat with them and had a chocolate milk. On Sundays, when Mr. Zelman, his wife, Karin, Olivia and her younger brother, Ethan, who is now 2, went out to eat, they always had pancakes.
In the summer, when the family went to a nearby ice cream stand, Mr. Zelman and Olivia always split an ice cream cone. And when Mr. Zelman did work around the house, Olivia walked around with him with her own set of tools.
"She was Daddy's girl," Mrs. Zelman said.
Mr. Zelman was a software consultant for Oracle who had been working for a year on a project at Marsh & McLennan on the 99th floor of the north tower. He usually arrived early and stayed late, but Mrs. Zelman said, "Ken's big thing was always his family."
She said Ethan did not have many memories of Mr. Zelman, but they had been starting to bond. On Sept. 11, as Mr. Zelman left for the train, Ethan sat blowing kisses at his father.

CARLOS SEGARRA
A Final Act of Kindness

Three years ago, after Carlos Segarra's only son decided to marry, Mr. Segarra and his wife, Antonia, decided to sell their home of 24 years in Brooklyn and get a bigger one so their son, his new wife and even the wife's mother could move in. "We had never been separated," said Antonia Segarra, who had been married to him for 31 years. "We were always such a united family."
For most of Sept, 11, Mrs. Segarra waited in front of the two-family house in Dyker Heights in Brooklyn for her husband to come home. 
Mr. Segarra, 54, a supervisor at Wachovia/First Union on the 46th floor of 2 World Trade Center, had called his son, Juan Carlos, and told him he was on his way out of the building. The family later found out he had been delayed helping an asthmatic colleague and that the two had made it down to the lobby before the building collapsed. "His final actions sum it all up," Juan Carlos Segarra, a 28-year-old accountant in Manhattan, said. "He was very kind."
Mr. Segarra loved the romantic ballads of Latin trios and spent many weekends taping Spanish-language radio shows that featured classics by groups like Trio Los Panchos from Mexico. He left his wife with dozens of the recorded cassettes, but she said she had yet to listen to a single one.
"I can't play them," she said.

ORASRI LIANGTHANASARN
Loving Her First Job

Orasri Liangthanasarn loved flowers, especially sunflowers. "She's very joyful," her sister, Dr. Passara Liangthanasarn, said in a telephone interview from California. "She makes everyone around her happy."
On Aug. 1, 2001, Ms. Liangthanasarn started working as an administrative assistant at the Windows on the World restaurant. "It was the first job in her life and she was so happy," her sister said.
A recent graduate of New York University's master's program in food and nutrition management, Ms. Liangthanasarn, 26, embraced work with gusto. "She went there early and she went home late," her older sister said.
The sisters came to the United States from Thailand in 1998. After a year in central Illinois, they moved to Bayonne, N.J. Ms. Liangthanasarn met with N.Y.U. officials and persuaded them to admit her to the food and nutrition program.
In addition to her studies, Ms. Liangthanasarn took care of her older sister as she dealt with the rigors of medical training. She did the cooking and "helped me any way that she could," Dr. Liangthanasarn said, adding, "She always made people around her happy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kristin Kuveikis, 19, at a service yesterday in Williston Park, N.Y., Firefighter Thomas Kuveikis, who died Sept. 11. (Associated Press)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); RELIGION (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AON PLC (91%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

TICKER: AON (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (91%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



276 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: A Rosy, Pink Cloud, Packed With Pollution 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
A faintly pink haze, in the unexpectedly innocuous hue of a baby's coverall, clung to this city's famous harbor and curled among the skyscrapers today as Hong Kong recorded its worst air pollution yet.
 A silent wave of tiny dust particles and other pollutants has been sliding over the hills and down the Pearl River from mainland China, from Guangdong Province, once a quiet agricultural area and now one of the world's biggest manufacturing centers. One nearby city, Dongguan, now has 18,000 factories, and with scant enforcement of environmental regulations, they constantly pour smoke from innumerable chimneys. 
 Fresh breezes from the South China Sea usually keep the filthy mixture at bay during the summer. But a huge storm that passed to the north over the weekend bottled up the usual air flows and left the mixture to cook in the tropical sunlight, which changed many of the pollutants into more harmful substances, said Thomas Chow, Hong Kong's deputy secretary for the environment, transport and works.
The murky air has become the talk of Hong Kong. Yin Yuk-kwang, a 62-year-old retiree, clutched his 2-year-old grandson to his chest protectively this afternoon as he walked to the supermarket, passing one of the government's air-quality monitoring stations -- a pair of grime-coated, white boxes the size of curbside mailboxes, sitting next to a six-lane road in the Causeway Bay neighborhood.
"Hong Kong has become a horrible place for children, and sometimes I just don't want to walk in the city with my grandson," Mr. Yin said. "He is so small, and I feel the bad air is eating him." 
The smog has been a concern for tourism, which accounts for 5 percent of the economy. When the Hong Kong Tourism Board asked visitors in 2000 for their biggest complaints, pollution led the list, cited by 11 percent of the survey's respondents.
"One of the great sights in Hong Kong is the view from the peak of the harbor, and if you can't see it very well, that will not help a lot of visitors' vacations," said Simon Clennell, a spokesman for the board, referring to Victoria Peak.
Mr. Chow asserted, and academic experts here and in the United States agreed, that the air was not quite as bad as it looked. Hong Kong's topography -- 1,500-foot hills sloping down on both sides of a broad harbor -- makes it possible to see buildings many miles away on a clear day. Limited visibility on a dirty-air day is much more noticeable than it would be in a flatter city.
"In Hong Kong, if you have a very good view, you can see the smog reflecting the sunshine like a mirror," Mr. Chow said. "If you look across the harbor, you can see the open space filled with smog."
The pollution looked last week like an immense wad of semitransparent bubble gum; the haze thinned today, but invisible pollutants set a record near the Guangdong border. Typical days are comparable to those in big American cities and less serious than in many inland cities in China, said Wang Tao, an associate professor of civil and structural engineering at Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
Hong Kong itself has taken many actions to reduce pollution. Most taxis have been converted from diesel to cleaner-burning liquefied petroleum gas, and the diesel fuel sold here is considerably cleaner than similar fuel in the United States. Guangdong Province and Hong Kong agreed on April 29 to a 10-year plan to reduce air pollution, but Guangdong's soaring manufacturing output will make this difficult. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Chinese junk in the harbor in Hong Kong. Industrial growth on the mainland has resulted in choking smog. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); SMOG (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); PARTICULATE MATTER (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); POLLUTION MONITORING (77%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (72%); AIR QUALITY INSTRUMENTS (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); MOUNTAINS (65%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (62%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (62%) AIR POLLUTION 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (91%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (77%) HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) HONG KONG; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



277 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: The Long Haul 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Americans should be proud of their reaction to Sept. 11. They didn't respond to calls for sacrifice, because no such calls were made. But they did respond to horror with calm and tolerance. There was no panic; while there were a handful of hate crimes, there were no angry mobs attacking people who look different. The American people remained true to what America is all about.
 Yet a year later there is great uneasiness in this nation. Corporate scandals, dropping stocks and rising unemployment account for much of the malaise. But part of what makes us uneasy is that we still don't know how to think about what happened to us. Our leaders and much of the media tell us that we're a nation at war. But that was a bad metaphor from the start, and looks worse as time goes by. 
 In both human and economic terms the effects of Sept. 11 itself resembled those not of a military attack but of a natural disaster. Indeed, there were almost eerie parallels between Sept. 11 and the effects of the earthquake that struck Japan in 1995. Like the terrorist attack, the Kobe earthquake killed thousands of innocent people without warning. Like the terrorist attack, the quake left a nation afflicted by nightmares and deep feelings of insecurity. And like the terrorist attack, the quake struck a nation already struggling with the aftermath of a financial bubble.
Yet the Kobe earthquake had only fleeting effects on the Japanese economy, suggesting that the effects of Sept. 11 on the U.S. economy would be equally fleeting. And so it has proved. Kobe had longer-term effects on Japan's psyche, just as Sept. 11 has had on ours. But Japan has mostly moved on, and so will we.
Of course there is a difference between an act of God and a deliberate atrocity. We were angry as well as shocked, determined to pursue and punish the perpetrators. It was natural to think of Sept. 11 as the moral equivalent of Pearl Harbor, and of the struggle that began that day as this generation's equivalent of World War II. 
But if this is war, it bears little resemblance to the wars America has won in the past. Where is the call for sacrifice, for a great national effort? How will we know when or if we've won? One doesn't have to be a military expert to realize that the struggle ahead won't involve any D-Days, nor will there ever be a V-J day. There will never be a day when we can declare terrorism stamped out for good. It will be more like fighting crime, where success is always relative and victory is never final, than like fighting a war.
And the metaphor we use to describe our struggle matters: some things that are justifiable in a temporary time of war are not justifiable during a permanent fight against crime, even if the criminals are murderous fanatics.
This is true even of how we deal with pedestrian matters like the federal budget. Wars are traditionally a valid reason to run budget deficits, because it makes sense for the government to borrow to cover the expense of a severe but temporary emergency. But this emergency is neither severe nor temporary. Is there any reason to expect spending on homeland security and national defense to fall back to pre-Sept.-11 levels, let alone far enough to restore budget balance, anytime in the foreseeable future? No, there isn't. So we had better figure out how to pay the government's bills on a permanent basis.
Far more important, of course, is the question of law and civil liberties. Great democratic leaders have broken the rules in times of war: had Abraham Lincoln not suspended the writ of habeas corpus in 1861, there would be no United States today. But the situation was extreme, and the lapse was temporary: victory in the Civil War brought a return to normal legal procedure. Can anyone think of an event that would persuade our current leaders that they no longer need extraordinary powers?
The point is that our new, threatened condition isn't temporary. We're in this for the long haul, so any measures we take to fight terrorism had better be measures that we are prepared to live with indefinitely.
The real challenge now is not to stamp out terrorism; that's an unattainable goal. The challenge is to find a way to cope with the threat of terrorism without losing the freedom and prosperity that make America the great nation it is. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BUDGETS (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (71%); SCANDALS (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%) TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; CIVIL RIGHTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (52%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



278 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
The Forecast Is the Usual But Different

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
IT'S warmer today than it has been of late. The temperature has climbed to the mid-80's, and the skies are overcast. They say it will rain before the day is through. Well, we could use it.
 It has been fairly quiet. But you know how it is. There's always something going on -- some of it serious, some of it silly. A lot of it is the kind of stuff you hear all the time. 
 Clothes seem to be on people's minds, judging from what's in the news.
Teachers and principals are not happy with the way many kids are dressing for school. What else is new, huh?
It seems girls are showing way too much skin, from their navels on up or on down, depending on where your eyes go. And the boys! Forget about the boys. For some reason, they want to look as if they're ambling through Cellblock D at Attica, with pants drooping down and underwear showing.
School districts are talking about the need for new dress codes, to crack down on what some see as runaway sexualization.
There's runway sexualization, too.
The designers have put their latest women's collections on display. Two of them have come up with a dress that has cords wrapping around the body and seams that suggest quilting. It says here in the newspaper that these two have a knack for "chaste dressing that still leaves their fashion sisters free to assert their sexuality." There's nothing like freedom, is there?
And can you ever get enough of the Trumps? Ivana Trump has just ended a summer vacation aboard her yacht. But it wasn't all play, no sir. She would rise before dawn to work on a book she is writing about women in business. "It's much easier to write fiction," she says, "because you can just make everything up." Hard to argue the point.
Let's see, what else is going on today? 
There's the same old same old. The Yankees have left the Red Sox in the dust, and the Mets are going nowhere again, never mind that they manage to win a few in a row now and then. Pete Sampras made it to the finals at the United States Open, and, naturally, so did the indomitable Williams sisters.
The Israelis and the Palestinians are still killing each other with depressing regularity. President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe is under attack for the way he is confiscating and redistributing land held by white farmers. 
A congressman is in big trouble politically for not coming clean about what he was up to. In Washington, leaders in both major parties are debating the wisdom of further tax cuts in this shaky economy.
Then there's a sex-discrimination suit that a bond saleswoman filed today in federal court in Manhattan. She says a high-profile Wall Street firm denied her the extra pay and the promotion that she deserved. Don't mean to sound ho-hum about a serious matter. But alleged sexism on Wall Street -- what a shocker!
There are some unusual things swirling today, though.
A primary is upon us in New York. In North Carolina, Elizabeth Dole is running for the United States Senate. She has quite a resume: presidential candidate, cabinet secretary, president of the American Red Cross. It's hard to imagine that having the Red Cross as a credential could hurt.
A FGHANISTAN is getting more attention than usual. There is a short article today about an attempt to kill an important opposition leader in the country's north. This man was injured, it says. If he dies, it could complicate the situation over there. It's sticky enough as it is.
If you want to feel your skin crawl, you may want to glance at a new book by Bill Ayers, a leader of the old Weathermen. That's the group on the loony left that was bombing government buildings three decades ago. There is "a certain eloquence to bombs," he now says, "a poetry and a pattern from a safe distance." Charming, no?
People can say and do unbelievable things. Take what's happening today in New York. Hospital workers are caring for a newborn girl who was left on the ground, wrapped in a blanket, in Central Park. The placenta was still attached.
Probably, someone called 911, the emergency number.
Of course, what else could those numbers, 9 and 11 mean? There is but one definition, the same as "ground zero" means the area directly below or above the point where a nuclear bomb goes off, "Connect the Dots" is a game book for children, and "footprints" are what you leave in the sand.
Anyway, that's how it is today, Sept. 10, 2001.
Tomorrow will be cooler, with azure skies, they say. It should be a beautiful day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); WOMEN (74%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); QUILTS & QUILTING (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); LITIGATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



279 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
SNAP-ON SAYS THIRD-QUARTER EARNINGS WILL FALL SHORT

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Snap-on Inc., a tool maker, said yesterday that third-quarter earnings would fall short of forecasts as weak economic conditions in North America and Europe cut into demand for its products. 
The warning sent Snap-on shares plummeting almost 13 percent. The company, based in Kenosha, Wis., said it was being hurt by lower sales and increased bad debts in July and August. Snap-on, a maker of hand tools and auto diagnostic equipment, said it now expected net income for the third quarter, ending Sept. 28, of 32 cents to 35 cents a share. Analysts polled by Thomson First Call expected, on average, earnings of 48 cents a share in the third quarter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HAND & EDGE TOOL MFG (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); POLLS & SURVEYS (84%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SNAP-ON INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: SNAP-ON INC 

TICKER: SNA (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3546 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOLS (97%); SIC3423 HAND & EDGE TOOLS, EXCEPT MACHINE TOOLS & HANDSAWS (97%) SIC3423 HAND & EDGE TOOLS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (90%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



280 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Siebel Systems picks up the pieces from the bubble by salvaging sunken options.

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
ONE leftover of the burst bubble in technology stocks is the existence of millions of employee stock options that are far out of the money. Such options provide little in the way of incentive for employees to stay, and companies have looked for ways to change that without outraging existing shareholders.
 Now an innovative plan is being offered by Siebel Systems, a software company that remains profitable but whose revenue has fallen this year along with its share price -- to $8.60, down 93 percent from its 2000 peak of $119.88. The step means that Siebel is likely to shed a lot of those options at the cost of providing employees with a substantial windfall. 
 The plan allows employees with options that have exercise prices of $40 a share or higher to sell them back to the company for $1.85 an option. That price will be paid in restricted stock for employees with options worth more than $5,000 and in cash for those with less.
 If all eligible employees take up the offer, 32 million options will be canceled. The employees who take the offer will be better off with this plan unless the share price rises substantially, but the company will benefit by having less potential dilution of its stock.
 While some of the restricted stock that will be issued can be sold immediately, other shares cannot be sold for up to four years. And in an unusual requirement, Siebel bars employees from hedging their positions by buying options or other devices until the shares can be sold. That will force the employees to maintain a stake in the company.
 The plan, announced late last month, appears to be unique. Thomas M. Siebel, the company's chief executive, said he conceived it and knew of no other companies that had made similar offers.
 The plan drew cautious praise from Charles M. Elson, the director of the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware, who said it seemed appropriate for lower-level employees, assuming the value of restricted stock was reasonable. "An option that is so dramatically underwater becomes a disincentive," he said. But he said he would oppose offering such a trade to senior executives who had the power to negotiate option grants and who had known of the risk the share price would decline. At Siebel, the only current employees not eligible for the exchange are those who serve on its board.
Siebel has been a generous issuer of options over the years. According to its most recent financial report, it had 477 million shares outstanding and options outstanding to issue 228 million more shares. In an interview last week, Mr. Siebel said the company had historically relied on options for a substantial part of compensation.
 Because it has so many options outstanding, Siebel was not in a good position to use either of the tactics some companies have used in the last couple of years to provide new incentives for option holders. One tactic, pioneered by Sprint, offered employees the choice of canceling some existing options and then receiving new options six months and a day later at the market price.
 Were Siebel to do that, it would cause an enormous dilution for existing shareholders, and it would devastate earnings-per-share calculations if the stock recovered even slightly. That is because accounting rules would require the company to count some of those shares as outstanding as soon as the price rose above the exercise price.
 Another tactic, used by companies like Microsoft and General Electric, would have been to issue a second round of options in a year. That would raise the threat of substantial dilution and would have further increased the number of options outstanding at Siebel.
 Recently, however, Siebel has been reluctant to grant options. Its practice has been to give options to all new employees and issue options to outstanding existing employees each January. But it issued no options to existing employees this year, and Kenneth A. Goldman, Siebel's chief financial officer, said in an interview that the company would not issue new options in the next six months to any employees who accepted the current offer, which expires Sept. 30. He said the company might not issue any options at all to existing employees.
<gfbullet> One issue for Siebel is whether it will be forced to treat the value of newly granted options as an expense. In the past, it has been profitable only because accounting rules allowed it to ignore the value of options it granted in calculating its profits.
 Had it treated the cost of options as an expense -- as accounting rules encourage but do not require -- its profits of 49 cents a share in 2001 and 24 cents in 2000 would have turned into losses of $1.02 and 29 cents, respectively.
 Those losses reflect calculations of the values of options when issued, calculations that are based on the Black-Scholes formula. Mr. Siebel and Mr. Goldman said they thought that that formula might overstate values because it relied so heavily on stock-price volatility, which has been been high for Siebel and many other technology stocks.
 Nonetheless, Siebel used Black-Scholes calculations to determine the value it will pay for the options in the current offering. Mr. Goldman said the options with $40 exercise prices had a current value of about $1.85 each by that model. He said that the ones with higher exercise prices were worth less but that the company had nonetheless decided to offer the same price for them. 
 If accounting rule makers were to force companies to count options as an expense, Mr. Goldman said, the company would almost certainly move in the direction of issuing more restricted stock to employees. It would also issue performance-based options, where employees would be able to exercise the options only if their unit met certain performance goals, he said.
 Current accounting rules force both restricted stock grants and those of performance-based options to be treated as an expense. That has encouraged the use of conventional stock options, which ensure a profit for the holder if the stock price rises over the 10 years after the option is granted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (90%); EXECUTIVES (86%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (56%) STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (98%)

ORGANIZATION: SIEBEL SYSTEMS INC 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (98%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (98%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (98%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



281 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Rose in July And Shoppers Added to Debt 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
Wholesale inventories rose in July for a second consecutive month, the first back-to-back increase in 19 months, the government reported today.
 Inventories gained 0.6 percent, to $284.2 billion, the Commerce Department said, led by increases in cars, machinery and clothing. That followed a 0.4 percent rise in June and was the biggest increase since June 2000. Sales at wholesalers rose 0.6 percent in July, to $231 billion. 
 Machinery inventories, the largest category in the report, increased in July for the first time since May 2001, rising 0.9 percent after declining 0.2 percent in June.
"The recovery will proceed at the slow pace we're seeing for a while, with a gradual pickup in capital spending, and employment growth through the end of the year," Cathy Minehan, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, said in a speech today.
The inventory-to-sales ratio for wholesalers, a measure of how long goods remain unsold, held at 1.23 months, where it has been since April.
Stockpiles at wholesalers of durable goods, which include furniture, computers and electrical equipment, rose 0.5 percent after increasing 0.2 percent in June, the report showed. Sales of durable goods fell 0.1 percent after rising 0.5 percent.
Wholesale inventories of nondurable goods rose 0.9 percent after rising 0.8 percent in June. Sales of nondurable goods rose 1.2 percent in July.
In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said today that consumer debt rose in July at the fastest pace in eight months as credit card purchases increased the most since November.
Personal borrowing, excluding mortgages, rose at a 7.6 percent annual rate, or $10.8 billion, in July, the Fed said. In June, debt rose at a 6.2 percent pace, or $8.9 billion. Total consumer debt rose in July to $1.724 trillion from $1.713 trillion in June. 
Nonrevolving credit, which includes car loans, rose $4.4 billion in July after rising $5.3 billion in June, revised from a $4.6 billion increase. Credit card and other revolving debt rose $6.5 billion, after a $3.5 billion increase in June, previously reported as a $3.8 billion gain.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Borrowing"Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted. Annual Rates of Change July: 7.6%June: 6.2May : 6.2 Graph tracks rate of change from Feb. 2001-July 2002. (Source: Federal Reserve Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (91%); INVENTORIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



282 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Democrats, Using Finesse, Try to Neutralize the Gun Lobby's Muscle 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
Senator Jean Carnahan, the Missouri Democrat, pulled out her 20-gauge Browning Citori shotgun the other day and fired off a few rounds as part of a skeet-shoot benefit for a home state research center.
 In Alaska, Lt. Gov. Fran Ulmer, the Democratic candidate for governor and owner of a permit to carry a concealed weapon, went gun shopping in July with reporters in tow. Ms. Ulmer, who owns eight firearms, mostly rifles, told The Anchorage Daily News that she needed something to make her feel safe on the campaign trail -- and that she did not own anything small enough to fit in her purse. 
 In New Mexico, Bill Richardson, the Democratic candidate for governor, was a member of the Clinton cabinet and former ambassador to the United Nations. Although his voting record in Congress was generally pro-gun, his association with the antigun Clinton administration is enough to worry the gun lobby. Anticipating such concern, Mr. Richardson is marketing himself as "the choice for New Mexico gun owners and sportsmen."
These Democrats and others nationwide are well aware that gun owners cost Al Gore crucial votes in a handful of states in the 2000 presidential election, including Tennessee, his home state. They are also aware that Mark Warner, a Democrat who was elected governor of Virginia in 2001, neutralized the gun issue in his campaign by reassuring white male voters in rural areas that he did not want to take their guns.
As a result, many candidates this year are eagerly emulating the Warner model. Across the country and across party lines, candidates -- many of whom are running on a big day of primaries on Tuesday -- are supplicants to their pro-gun-rights constituents. They may not be advancing the agenda of the National Rifle Association, but they do not want to alienate the powerful gun lobby. Rather, they are trying to inoculate themselves against the N.R.A.'s Election Day forces.
The association endured organizational problems in the 1990's but has since rebuilt its fund-raising and remains an important force in the Republican Party.
Now, Democrats are so eager for the gun lobby's endorsement that the rifle association is involved in three times as many Democratic primaries this year as it was during the 2000 elections, said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the association.
Gun control advocates concede that some candidates need to assuage their constituents who own guns. But, they argue, that does not reflect the sentiment in most of the country.
"There is no question that candidates running in rural areas -- Democrats and Republicans -- find themselves forced to cater to the gun lobby," said Michael Barnes, a former Democratic representative from Maryland and now president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, formerly Handgun Control. "And you've got such a pro-gun administration -- Bush, Cheney, Ashcroft are all so extreme on the issue -- that there's more focus on it."
But, Mr. Barnes cautioned, "the N.R.A. is running against the tide of demography in the United States."
Wayne LaPierre, executive vice president of the National Rifle Association, countered: "There's been a sea change on this issue since the 2000 election. Democrats are running away from gun control like the plague, and we are just not being attacked. If they're not agreeing with us, they're silent. They're either looking for the N.R.A. endorsement or they're making sure the N.R.A. doesn't do anything against them."
The rifle association will not endorse candidates until late October. But it is leaning toward giving its blessing to more Democrats than ever before.
"Because more Democrats are restructuring their position, that may happen," Mr. Arulanandam said. "But our endorsement process is fairly rigid. We're concerned that we might have a lot of fair-weather friends. These people are obviously paying attention to the changing political winds and right now everyone is currying favor with the N.R.A., but will they be there when something bad happens and we need their vote?"
Mr. Barnes said Democrats for gun control needed to hold their ground.
"Democratic members of Congress might be saying the party has to focus on rural white males, but my response to that is, if you believe the future of American politics is winning the votes of rural white males, you're crazy," he said. "The future is the suburbs, especially women."
The affluent suburbs of big cities are still among the most reliably antigun strongholds in the country. In suburban Maryland, all five candidates -- four Democrats and the Republican incumbent -- for the House support gun control. Mark K. Shriver and Christopher Van Hollen Jr., both Democrats, are each running television commercials declaiming their antigun credentials; the winner of their Sept. 10 primary will face Representative Constance A. Morella, a Republican who is already advertising the fact that she has been endorsed by the Brady Campaign.
Such jousting in the suburbs, however, seems to be the exception. 
Not far from Ms. Morella's suburban Maryland district is a rural House district where Representative Wayne T. Gilchrest, a six-term moderate Republican, is being challenged by a conservative Republican in the Sept. 10 primary. Mr. Gilchrest is running commercials calling himself a "Marine hero, longtime N.R.A. member who understands the need to protect our Second Amendment rights." (Officials from the gun lobby say Mr. Gilchrest joined their organization only in June.)
In Tennessee, where Mr. Gore lost in 2000 to George W. Bush by 47 percent to 51 percent, several Democratic candidates are similarly casting themselves as the sportsman's friend. These include Lincoln Davis, running for the House seat where Mr. Gore began his political career. He has the backing of the former vice president and the gun lobby.
Steve Rosenthal, political director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that in 2000 the labor movement was "extremely antsy" about the gun issue because the gun lobby was making inroads with union members based on their cultural affiliation with guns.
"We had to say, 'It's not about guns; it's about your family's economic security,' " Mr. Rosenthal said. "And we'd say, 'Gore doesn't want to take away your gun, but Bush wants to take away your union.' 
"In places where we took them head-on, we won," he said, adding that 58 percent of union members who own guns voted for Mr. Gore, while 37 percent voted for Mr. Bush.
This year, Mr. Rosenthal said, "our folks are encouraging candidates to keep the spotlight off the gun issue."
This season, gun control has vanished from the Democrats' agenda on Capitol Hill. The Senate and the House have bills that would give gun makers federal immunity against civil lawsuits, but analysts predict there will not be any votes on major gun legislation before the election.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Jean Carnahan, left, Democrat of Missouri, at an Aug. 30 skeet-shoot benefit in Braggadocio, Mo. Lt. Gov. Fran Ulmer of Alaska tring out a .40-caliber Glock semiautomatic in July as Gordy Cruger watched at his shop in Galena. Ms. Ulmer, a Democrat who owns several firearms, said she needed a gun small enough to carry in her purse while she campaigned. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (95%); GUN CONTROL (93%); GOVERNORS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%) FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%) ;NATIONAL RIFLE ASSN 

PERSON: AL GORE (89%); BILL RICHARDSON (88%); MARK WARNER (78%) CARNAHAN, JEAN (SEN); ULMER, FRAN (LT GOV); RICHARDSON, BILL; GORE, AL; WARNER, MARK R (GOV); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) MISSOURI; VIRGINIA; NEW MEXICO; ALASKA

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



283 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE NORTHERN BORDER; 
Bush and Chretien Discuss Easing Customs Delays

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
President Bush and Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada met today at the continent's most active border crossing for trade and announced new steps to reduce customs delays for authorized truckers and travelers while remaining vigilant against terrorists.
 In a 30-minute session with Mr. Chretien, Mr. Bush continued to make his case for urgent action against Iraq, and he reiterated a concern that Iraq might be close to developing nuclear arms, officials said. Mr. Bush did not provide Canada with new evidence, and did not ask for anything from Ottawa, the officials said. 
 Mr. Chretien, who has voiced skepticism about the American strategy, said he urged Mr. Bush to act through the United Nations. "I told him that we were asking them to go through the United Nations first before taking any other action," Mr. Chretien told reporters after returning to Canada.
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said Mr. Bush was consulting with world leaders in preparation for his speech on Thursday before the United Nations General Assembly.
Over the course of the day, Mr. Bush spoke with Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit of Turkey; Secretary General Kofi Annan; Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen of Denmark, who currently holds the presidency of the European Union; Lord Robertson, the secretary general of NATO; and Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia. He was also to talk with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, Mr. Fleischer said.
The White House expressed optimism today that its campaign to focus on the dangers posed by Iraq might be making progress. Without commenting directly on a new two-stage proposal by President Jacques Chirac of France, Mr. Fleischer said, "It does appear that a movement is budding to put some force to previous U.N. resolutions." 
In an interview over the weekend, Mr. Chirac proposed giving Iraq one more United Nations deadline to permit weapons inspections, then seeking a resolution permitting an attack if Baghdad refused. 
Mr. Fleischer declined to say whether President Bush would embrace Mr. Chirac's call. But White House officials appeared gratified at the proposal from France, which has a veto on the Security Council and has been strongly opposed to a go-it-alone American attack against Iraq.
Mr. Chretien adopted a stance similar to Mr. Chirac's, which appeared to leave the door open for Canadian support of a multilateral campaign against President Saddam Hussein. He spoke warmly of the pride his nation felt in taking part in the ousting of the Taliban from Afghanistan.
"I agree that Saddam Hussein is somebody who has done terrible things in the past," Mr. Chretien said, referring to the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq in 1990 and Mr. Hussein's use of chemical weapons against Iraqi separatists. "But at this moment there is no plan that has been given to me by the president and no request for Canadian assistance." 
Mr. Fleischer said the positions of Canada and other nations would become more apparent after Mr. Bush laid out the case against Iraq on Thursday. "After Thursday's speech, you'll start to see where the world community lies," Mr. Fleischer said.
In Iraq today, allied warplanes attacked an air defense command-and-control site about 170 miles southeast of Baghdad, the United States Central Command said. The command described the strike as "a self-defense measure in response to Iraqi hostile threats and acts."
American and British planes have carried out 37 attacks this year in the no-flight zones of southern and northern Iraq, according to Pentagon statistics.
On a sweltering day, Mr. Bush and Mr. Chretien surveyed their common border, the longest nonmilitarized border in the world, and pledged to find ways to keep security concerns from impeding $475 billion a year in two-way trade. The two countries are carrying out a 30-point plan to develop a "smart border," one that avoids trade-crippling backups and frustrations for frequent travelers, they said, but that recognizes threats as they arise.
The White House highlighted two programs today. 
The first would offer expedited clearance for shippers and exporters engaged in "low-risk, legitimate trade" who have previously enrolled with American or Canadian authorities. 
Under that procedure, businesses may register their vehicles and drivers and notify United States customs agents of their cargo's imminent arrival at the border. The truck would then be able to travel through a dedicated lane, and customs agents would identify and clear the shipment with a radio device. 
"Stop times will be reduced from a few minutes to seconds, and that's important," Mr. Bush said.
The other measure allows screened travelers who are considered low risk to pass through the border here with little or no delay by using a special photo-identification card. A similar program is already in place on the border between Washington State and British Columbia.
The trading relationship between the countries is the world's largest, with one-third of that commerce moving through Windsor and Detroit. More than 7,000 trucks cross the Ambassador Bridge between the cities. Today, that suspension bridge was festooned with American and Canadian flags and a banner that declared "United We Stand."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Jean Chretien and President Bush at the Ambassador Bridge in Detroit yesterday. The leaders met to discuss tightening security against terrorists while keeping the border open to trade. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); VETO (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); IMMIGRATION (78%); REFUGEES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); TALIBAN (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); INSPECTIONS (71%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (70%) TERRORISM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CANADA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%) ;UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: JEAN CHRETIEN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (65%); HOSNI MUBARAK (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN); MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) IRAQ (95%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); DENMARK (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%) CANADA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



284 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: In Defense of Deterrence 

 BODY:
The suddenness and ferocity of last September's terror attacks tore the United States free from the foreign-policy moorings that had served the nation well for more than five decades, including the central notion that American military power could by its very existence restrain the aggressive impulses of the nation's enemies. In its place, the Bush administration has substituted a more belligerent first-strike strategy that envisions Washington's attacking potential foes before they hit us. That may be appropriate in dealing with terror groups, but on the eve of the anniversary of Sept. 11 there is still an important place in American policy for the doctrine of deterrence. 
 Deterrence is diplomatic parlance for a brutally simple idea: that an attack on the United States or one of its close allies will lead to a devastating military retaliation against the country responsible. It emerged as the centerpiece of American foreign policy in the early years of the cold war. Some of the debates that preceded its adoption sound strikingly similar to arguments being made today. During the Truman administration, some strategists suggested attacking the Soviet Union while it was still militarily weak to prevent the rise of a nuclear-armed Communist superpower. Wiser heads prevailed, and for the next 40 years America's reliance on a strategy of deterrence preserved an uneasy but durable peace. 
 One advantage of deterrence is that it induces responsible behavior by enemies as a matter of their own self-interest. Even dictators tend to put certain basic interests above all else -- pre-eminently their survival in power, with their national territories and a functioning economy intact. Aggression becomes unattractive if the price is devastation at home and possible removal from power. By contrast, the threat that America will strike first may give foes an incentive to use their military forces, including unconventional weapons, before they lose them.
The logic of deterrence transcends any particular era or enemy. It has worked, for example, to restrain further North Korean aggression since the Korean War. A decade ago, a clear message of deterrence delivered by the first Bush administration persuaded Saddam Hussein not to use his chemical and biological weapons against America or Israel during the Persian Gulf war. 
In the wake of Sept. 11, President George W. Bush has made a convincing case that international terrorist organizations, which have no permanent home territory and little to lose, cannot reliably be checked by the threat of retaliation and must be stopped before they strike. Whether Saddam Hussein falls into that category is a question that the country will be debating in the days ahead. But by and large, we believe that deterrence can still be a powerful force in managing many of the threats the United States faces. Protecting America's security requires weighing all available policy options and choosing the wisest. Deterrence, the least risky and most time-tested tool in America's national security arsenal, should not be hastily discarded. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); COUPS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); KOREAN WAR (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); STRIKES (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EDITORIALS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (52%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



285 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Senators Seek More 9/11 Aid 

BYLINE:  By Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT) (Compiled by Yilu Zhao) 

 BODY:
 Senators Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton said yesterday that they would press the federal government for future aid to New York for its recovery from the terrorist attack last fall. In addition to seeking money to study the health of workers at ground zero, the senators said they had introduced legislation to extend unemployment insurance to June 1, 2003, for eligible New Yorkers, and would push legislation to forgive student loans for spouses of those killed or permanently disabled in the attack. Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (87%); HIJACKING (87%); BUDGETS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (84%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); CHARLES SCHUMER (89%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



286 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Oil Companies Receive Saudi Ultimatum 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia has moved to end a yearlong deadlock with the world's biggest oil companies over a $25 billion project to develop some of its largest natural gas fields, asking the companies to decide by early October whether to continue talks under new, arguably more risky, conditions.
 The Saudis and the major oil companies have dealt in ultimatums before over the gas project, exchanges that analysts have shrugged off as the posturing bred by complex negotiations. But some industry experts say that the Saudis are now tiring of inching toward compromise. That view stems from a letter that the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, sent to the companies last week and comments earlier this summer by Crown Prince Abdullah that he wanted the matter resolved quickly. 
 "I don't think this is more of the same," said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, an industry-financed group. "This is a little bit like the baseball strike, when you decide when to walk out or not. And I think the Saudis are getting closer to the deadline and are playing hardball."
The letter, which offers less promising fields than those initially proposed, is ratcheting up the tension in negotiations between the Saudis and oil companies, including Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch/Shell, BP and TotalFina Elf, at a time when relations between the kingdom and the United States are particularly strained. 
Saudi Arabia's ties to Al Qaeda and, more recently, its opposition to any American attack on Iraq, have engendered bipartisan criticism of the kingdom in Congress and division in the Bush administration about how to manage relations with the Saudis.
But industry experts who spoke on condition of anonymity said that while politics may have played a role in the Saudis' tougher stance, economic and financial considerations are at the heart of the unresolved negotiations.
"I think politics is complicating it, though I don't think it is the reason," said one former oil industry executive who is tracking the talks. "There are people on both sides of the fence in the royal family. For those who oppose opening the fields to foreigners, the strained ties gives them another chip."
The letter was first reported yesterday by The Wall Street Journal.
About two years ago, the Saudis invited foreign oil companies to draw up plans to develop some of the kingdom's largest natural gas reserves. For Western oil companies, the invitation promised the first such opportunity in Saudi Arabia since the 1973 oil crisis. According to industry analysts, they hoped that the gas projects would eventually lead to invitations to help develop Saudi Arabia's vast oil reserves, by far the largest in the world.
Over time, though, the natural gas project has lost much of its allure, industry analysts said. Months ago, the best natural gas fields, which held huge proven reserves, were taken off the table by the Saudis, who now want foreigners to find new fields, not develop existing reservoirs. The companies were instead offered areas where reserves are not clearly established: one area south of the enormous Ghawar oil field; another by the Red Sea; and a third, called Shaybah, in the south of the country. The recent letter adds more acreage with reserves that are uncertain.
"They're relatively far from large, proven gas fields," Thierry Desmarest, the chairman and chief executive of the French oil concern TotalFina Elf, said in an interview yesterday. "We're concerned that after working for a few years, we won't have enough gas."
Moreover, the oil companies, organized into three groups, want a greater return on their investment than the Saudis have been willing to offer. The companies sought something like 15 percent to 19 percent, industry experts said, while the Saudis offered 10 percent to 12 percent. 
But Mr. Desmarest and some Saudis with ties to the project said they were optimistic that the foreign oil companies and the kingdom would reach an agreement. "It is important to keep contact and find ways to implement this initiative," Mr. Desmarest said, "even if the project is not the same size as was initially expected."
The oil companies are studying the Saudi proposals. Whether the gas project will survive may become apparent early next month, when they make their counteroffers. People in the oil industry say that it is common to begin talks with a country aimed at snagging one project only to end up with another.
But for many months now, the relationship between the foreign oil companies and the Saudis has been cool. "Often in these projects, there are huge disappointments," one oil company official said.
Opening Saudi Arabia's largest natural gas fields to foreign exploration is widely seen as a pet project of Crown Prince Abdullah, who effectively rules the kingdom because of the failing health of King Fahd, his half-brother. 
His aim, analysts say, is to improve the country's energy industry while setting into motion huge projects that would put jobless young Saudis to work. The oil companies would not only extract natural gas, but develop operations that the gas would feed, including water desalination and power plants. 
But the initiative has divided the Saudi elite into those who back the project and the economic reforms it could bring and those who oppose it, either to protect their particular interests or for fear of signing over the country's best gas properties to foreigners. The latter camp has been shaped by the state oil company Aramco, analysts said, but it also includes leading members of the ruling al-Saud family. 
The expectation, of course, is that the companies, eager to be in place to pump oil one day, ultimately will go along with what the kingdom offers.
If the project falls apart, it will prove an acute embarrassment to Crown Prince Abdullah, industry analysts said. But given the tinderbox the kingdom has become, he may be willing to risk that to keep the peace within the royal family, they said. 
'Abdullah may not want internal debate right now, " one industry executive said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); POLITICS (88%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); BASEBALL (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GAS (FUEL) 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (67%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); TOTAL SA (54%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%) EXXONMOBIL CORP; ROYAL DUTCH/SHELL GROUP; BP PLC; TOTALFINA ELF SA 

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (67%); RDSA (AMS) (67%); RDS.B (NYSE) (67%); RDS.A (NYSE) (67%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); TTA (LSE) (54%); TOT (NYSE) (54%); TOT (BIT) (54%); FP (PAR) (54%); FP (BRU) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (67%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA; FAISAL, SAUD AL- (MIN); ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE OF SAUDI ARABIA) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) SAUDI ARABIA

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002 



287 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: THE BATTLEFRONT; 
Gratitude And Doubt In New Life Of Afghans

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: GHAZNI, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
IN this nation of 23 million people, just about everyone has an opinion on the changes since American military power toppled the Taliban. But there are few places where enthusiasm runs higher than along a potholed back street in this crumbling outpost 90 miles southwest of Kabul.
 Once the capital of an empire sweeping from Persia to India, Ghazni has been a deeply conservative backwater since it was razed by Genghis Khan nearly 800 years ago. Its capture by the Taliban in 1995, without a shot fired, was an important step toward gaining control of Afghanistan. But last November, local people were quick to haul down the Taliban's white flags as soon as American bombing brought the mullahs' repressive rule in Kabul to a sudden end. 
 At that moment, Ghazni stood as a symbol of an Afghanistan that had rejected the Taliban. But at the end of July, Taliban die-hards struck back, leaving their new redoubts in the mountains to bomb the yard of a girls' school, one of thousands reopened since the lifting of the Taliban's ban on education for girls. Nobody was hurt, but leaflets scattered nearby threatened death to any women or girls who returned. 
Ghazni's leaders responded by posting armed guards at the school and carrying right on with classes.
Since then, 2,500 girls in black cotton uniforms and white head shawls have packed the school each day, attending in two shifts. The students are blithely unconcerned that they have almost no desks or chairs, and that supplies of notebooks and pens are inadequate. The joy of one group of 10- to 12-year-olds, sitting on the floor, was infectious, and a visitor had only to ask whom they credited for their change of fortune to set off a cheerful chorus.
"America! America! America!" they cried, and then, "George W. Bush!"
Across Afghanistan, the joy of freedom regained is evident wherever a traveler goes: in the bazaars, thriving with an instinctive Afghan entrepreneurship that withered under the Taliban; in the cheerful traffic jams that choke cities like Kabul, where emptied streets echoed just a year ago; aboard trucks bearing some of the 1.5 million refugees returning home after years as refugees in Pakistan and Iran; and among the millions whose livelihoods, and simple pleasures, the Taliban repressed.
Women work again. Traders fly off to cut deals in Karachi and Delhi and Dubai. Families argue over which television programs to watch on their new satellite systems. People play music again and sing traditional Afghan ballads. Old men parade caged birds, and small boys fly kites.
Any fair reckoning of what America has accomplished here since Sept. 11, and what it has not, does well to begin with these liberties, for they are the starting point for Afghans when they are asked about the past 12 months. Most say the country has known nothing like the air of possibility ushered in with the Taliban's defeat since the days before the Communist coup in 1978.
Just as surely, many Afghans proceed to a litany of hopes and promises they consider unredeemed, and for which, fairly or not, they hold the United States to account.
The list varies little in details: the bounty of Western aid that has yet to flow in ways that help ordinary people; jobs not yet created in a country where 70 percent of able-bodied men are unemployed; thousands of villages and neighborhoods that still lie in rubble; ruined highways that slow even the toughest jeeps to a crawl and turn short distances into journeys that last days; barely functioning hospitals and water and power systems that remain pretty much as they were when the Taliban fled.
The contending views of America -- gratitude for driving out the Taliban, deep disappointment at the slow pace of reconstruction -- are everywhere.
In Ghazni, the headmaster, Abdul Samad, 56, beamed as he listened to the girls bubbling with enthusiasm for America. But then took a visitor aside to offer a sober sentiment: "Please tell America we feel very sorry for happened on Sept. 11, because thousands of innocent people were killed. But please tell them, too, that Sept. 11, for us, was a starting point, and not the end.
"This time, we need America to stay with us, and not to run away."
Such appeals echo the pledge made by President Bush after the Sept. 11 attacks were linked to Osama bin Laden's network in Afghanistan. It was a promise born of the United States' past involvement here, as the principal backer of the Muslim guerrillas who drove off Soviet occupation forces: that this time, America would remain committed until Afghanistan was rebuilt and would not lose interest as it did after the Soviet defeat in 1989, leaving a ruined land that was easy prey for the Taliban.
Above all, Afghans speak of the failure of the new American-backed government of President Hamid Karzai to have much effect beyond the limits of Kabul, and of its failure even to establish a convincing climate of security in the capital. The bomb blast on Thursday that killed 30 people and injured 170 others on a crowded Kabul street, and a failed attempt on the same day to assassinate Mr. Karzai in Kandahar, only reinforced the deep sense of uncertainty.
For this, too, many Afghans hold the United States primarily responsible, saying that in its determination to hunt down the remnants of Al Qaeda and the Taliban, it has defined its military role here too narrowly. They say that creating the lasting peace Afghanistan craves will require more than teams of Green Berets and Apache helicopters combing distant villages and the country's impenetrable mountains.
American military strength in Afghanistan stands at about 7,800 troops, but their mission, and that of about 3,500 other troops from allied nations including Australia, Britain and Canada, has been defined by Washington as the pursuit of what remains of Al Qaeda and the Taliban.
The most visible foreign military contingent is the International Security Assistance Force, commanded by a Turkish general, which includes 4,800 soldiers from more than a dozen nations. Its role has been limited to Kabul.
THESE arrangements have left almost all Afghanistan outside the capital in the control of warlords who offer only nominal fealty to Mr. Karzai's government.
The result for millions of Afghans has been that they have swapped the medievalism of the Taliban for a life under armed bands who recognize only the warlords' authority. Some of the warlords, like Gul Agha Shirzai in Kandahar and Ismail Khan in Herat, have governed better than others and have won a measure of popular support. But the absence of law, and the rife banditry outside Kabul, has been a major impediment for the United Nations and relief agencies eager to begin the reconstruction work the country so desperately needs.
The lack of security outside Kabul has also provided many of the nations that pledged a $4.5 billion reconstruction fund for Afghanistan at a Tokyo conference in January with a grounds for delay.
To meet those concerns, the United States is taking the lead role in training a new national army, but it could be as long as five years before the Kabul government will have a credible force of its own. Senior Bush administration officials, in a major reversal, recently abandoned their opposition to Mr. Karzai's calls for an expansion of the international peacekeeping force beyond Kabul, but they added what could be a disqualifying condition -- that other nations step up with the necessary troops.
In the meantime, of the $1.8 billion pledged to Afghanistan for this year, barely $600 million has arrived. Almost half of that, $290 million, has come from the United States. Many other nations have been miserly, even as officials from those nations who hold many of the top positions in international aid groups blame the United States.
Other critics say that Washington, in spending $1 billion a month on military operations here, about 40 times what it will spend on economic aid, has got the balance wrong. "The military side is far too expensive," said Lakhdar Brahimi, the former Algerian foreign minister who is the United Nations' top official here. "If you spent a little bit more helping the people of Afghanistan, it would certainly do much better in helping them to stop the use of their country as a breeding ground for terrorism."
At least half of the international aid that has arrived has gone to providing emergency assistance, primarily in the form of food, shelter and medical care for the most vulnerable Afghans. That leaves little for the kind of rebuilding projects that will give Afghans tangible evidence that the world, this time, intends to help the country revive.
On top of these problems, the United States has endured criticism for putting together a government in Kabul that is ethnically unbalanced, overly dependent on the United States, and prone to factionalism and jockeying for power.
Mr. Karzai was, in effect, chosen for leadership by Washington, which found in him many desirable qualities, including his close American ties, his photogenic nature, and the fact that he is an ethnic Pashtun, the country's largest ethnic group and the one that predominated among the Taliban.
But many Afghans say his principal recommendation was that, without any strong political base, even among Pashtuns, he was weak enough not to threaten the new government's real power brokers -- a group of ethnic Tajik ministers from the Northern Alliance, America's partner in fighting the Taliban. The result, these Afghans say, is a government that is inherently unstable, at least until elections scheduled for 2004.
As a counterpoint, the relief that swept the country after the assassination attempt against Mr. Karzai failed offered a compelling argument for his importance.
"Weak he may be in political terms, but without him, the government would lose all credibility in the Pashtun heartland, and that's exactly why the Taliban wanted him dead," one Western ambassador said. "After Kandahar, a lot of Afghans are going to think again and give thanks for the government they have instead of bellyaching about the one they don't."
Among those who hold views like those, the United States' balance sheet at the end of a tumultuous year in Afghanistan is well into the black. "Our promise at the outset was that we would get rid of the Taliban and Al Qaeda and make sure that they didn't come back, and we're well on the way to accomplishing that," Robert Finn, the American ambassador, who has won wide admiration among Afghans for his efforts to speed up the flow of aid, said in an interview last month. "But we're at the beginning, not in the middle, and not at the end. In the meantime, there are many more things that are going right in Afghanistan than are going wrong."
But even Mr. Karzai, by nature an optimist, is finding it hard to wait. During a visit last month to the northern city of Kunduz, he sat alone in the rear of a British military transport plane, playing with a loop of prayer beads. On arrival, he asked a crowd if they were frustrated by the lack of progress in rebuilding the country, especially the roads. Amid cries of assent, he shouted back: "Let me tell you, so do I. When I am driving outside Kabul, I get so frustrated I feel like jumping out, grabbing a shovel and filling some of the potholes myself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, Abdul Rahim and his family, once refugees in Iran, returned to Afghanistan after the Taliban's fall and now live in a crumbling building in Kabul. Middle, most roads have become little more than glorified trails, like this one traveled by a shepherd near Ghazni. Bottom, an American Black Hawk helicopter near Kabul. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HIJACKING (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); WOMEN (72%); WOMEN WORKERS (71%); POLITICS (71%); SHOOTINGS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); REFUGEES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (60%); RELIGION (54%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FOREIGN AID 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) BURNS, JOHN F 

GEOGRAPHIC: GHAZNI, AFGHANISTAN (95%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (72%); DELHI, INDIA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GHAZNI (AFGHANISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



288 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2622 words

HEADLINE: COMPANIES; 
For Towers' Refugee Businesses, a Year of Struggle and Change

BYLINE:  Reporting for this article and the related chart was provided by Kevin Flynn, Robert F. Worth, Terry Pristin, Elissa Gootman, Yilu Zhao, Jennifer Bayot and Michelle O'Donnell. 

 BODY:
WHEN the World Trade Center towers fell, they took more with them than human lives. A huge segment of the downtown economy collapsed with the falling steel and concrete, and the disaster encompassed far more than the large financial firms that are most often identified with the Sept. 11 attacks.
 The trade center was home to hundreds of diverse companies, a polyglot village spanning everything from Asian food importers to graphic designers to dentists. Many had inhabited the towers for decades. 
 Those companies, more than half of which had fewer than 20 employees, became refugees on Sept. 11. Some have folded, overwhelmed by the deaths of owners or employees or undone by a lack of cash. Others have eked out a living in kitchens and basements. Some have relocated to Florida or Texas, while others have insisted on staying within a few blocks of ground zero. Some, miraculously, have flourished, growing even as the local economy foundered. 
The New York Times set out to chronicle the fate of the complex's tenants as they struggled to re-establish themselves over the past year. After compiling lists of tenants from several sources, The Times estimates that about 700 companies and organizations occupied the trade center buildings. Defining a more precise number, however, is difficult because so many of the companies were subtenants whose occupancy did not appear on official lists.
A team of seven reporters tracked the whereabouts and recorded the accounts of more than 500 businesses that had offices or stores in the trade center on that morning. Of those businesses, 39 no longer exist. Another 30 are working out of private homes, striving like Kasadel, a computer consulting firm, to make a go of it in cramped quarters until they can lease new offices. Kasadel, which once occupied a 15th-floor office in the south tower, has relocated its 18 employees to a basement donated by a friend in Hollis, Queens.
Most of the companies have chosen to stay in Manhattan. More than 350 have relocated to new offices there, including eight that moved into the Empire State Building. More than 80 picked locations south of Chambers Street, within blocks of ground zero.
Forty-nine companies moved some or all of their operations to New Jersey. Fourrelocated some employees to Connecticut, and 17 moved to areas of New York State outside the city. Several companies based overseas withdrew their employees to those countries.
With its constant foot traffic, the trade center's concourse was a powerful draw for retailers, including several dozen independents and 57 chain stores, like Cole Haan and J. Crew. Only a handful of the chain stores, including Nine West and Duane Reade, have opened new stores in Lower Manhattan over the past year, although several opened outlets elsewhere in the metropolitan area.
The problems the businesses have encountered this year are as varied as their products. Relocation posed a particular problem for independent retailers like Minas Polychronakis, whose shoe-repair store had thrived on the trade center's perpetual tide of shoppers. He says he will probably never find a location that is its equal.
Other companies have struggled to do business after having records destroyed. Everything from legal contracts to client lists went missing in the rubble. Some of the records were essential to prove that the companies even existed for grant applications and insurance claim settlements. Indeed, a year later, many companies remain entangled in red tape. Some are locked in legal battles with insurers who have been reluctant to pay claims or make advances without proof of the companies' assets.
World Trade Center Dental, the only dentists in the complex, considered shutting down when it lost its medical records. Then a consultant revealed that he had fished a computer diskette from the trash -- with most of the firm's patient information on it. 
"I was ready to quit, but we kept getting calls from patients encouraging us to go on," said Dr. Angelo Longo, one of the group's four dentists. 
Many small-business owners complain that they have not been fairly compensated for their losses and are angry at the city and state for classing them with other downtown businesses when handing out grants.
"We are a distinct group, because our offices were completely destroyed," said Michael Koulouroudis, the owner of an import-export company and the leader of a small-business advocacy group. "Yet we find ourselves on the same footing as businesses that were a few blocks away and were just shut for a few weeks."
Like many other former trade center tenants, Mr. Koulouroudis has faced a peculiar problem. Eager for help, he is also reluctant to draw too much attention to his needs, fearing that his clients may smell failure and bolt. As a result, Mr. Koulouroudis said, he is sometimes shy about acknowledging that he now works from home.
"Image is extremely important. That's why we were there," he said of his former offices at the trade center.
All the former tenants have grappled with some form of emotional trauma from the attacks, from lasting grief to the lingering anxieties of those who awoke to find their offices gone. To get some sense of the range and nature of these experiences, The Times focused on five of the more than 500 companies that have spent the past year trying to rebuild their business lives.

Murray Surety Bonds
Margo Murray and Sonia Espinoza sat at a conference table at the office of a friend of a friend in Berkeley Heights, N.J. In front of them lay all their professional belongings: a new yellow legal pad and a pen.
It was Monday, Sept. 17, less than a week after the towers' collapse. Although still dazed, both women hoped the workday routine would return normalcy to their lives. The only problem was that their company, Murray Surety Bonds, like hundreds of other businesses at the trade center, had lost all its records, even its backed-up data, making the return to business for the two-person firm virtually impossible.
For many of the businesses, the only things to survive the collapse were millions of sheets of paper that fluttered to the ground only to be scooped up and thrown away in the aftermath. Business owners would have seemed callous asking rescue workers to stop their desperate dig for human remains to collect the papers. Yet without the files, many businesses lost decades worth of records. They were suddenly and entirely dependent on the shaken memories of their employees.
The women sat silently for a few minutes. Then Mrs. Espinoza, seven months pregnant, her belly pressed against the table, remembered the name of a lawyer they once dealt with. She grabbed the pen and wrote down the name. Ms. Murray remembered another name and wrote it down. The company had several thousand clients and business associates. By day's end, they had written down the names of about 20. 
Over the next few weeks, every workday in the barren, borrowed space began with the same brainstorming session. Sometimes they learned of bonds when a lawyer would call out of the blue to close an account, and they would excitedly ask him to fax a copy of the entire file.
A year later, they have located all but 90 of their 2,000 clients, whose premiums the company continues to pay.
The office's newest arrivals, in addition to a framed photo of Mrs. Espinoza's infant son, are two file drawers nearly full of thin manila files.
"Look at all we've got," Ms. Murray said. "It's amazing."

Intera Corp.
His old long-distance phone bills had to be somewhere in the mess of files he had strewn across his carpet, Meyer Feig later recalled.
He had been searching for several days. Without those bills, it would be impossible to apply for a $10,000 grant to help restore his business, Intera Corp., the computer staffing firm he had operated on the 18th floor of the south tower. Even if he found them, Mr. Feig remembers thinking last October, what would $10,000 do to help reconstruct a $900,000-a-year business?
And how many other grants would he have to secure? Each one would require him to call grant or loan officers. He had already had his fill of business-recovery forums, consultations with his bank, number-crunching sessions with his accountant, and the hassle of coaxing business records from swamped phone and utility companies.
"When you first sit down with a grant application, it's like you're sitting down for a final exam or the SAT's," Mr. Feig said recently. "Actually, it's really worse -- there's so much riding on it.'
Mr. Feig was beginning to run the gantlet that many business owners had to survive after the towers' collapse. The city, state and federal governments, as well as private foundations and a microlender, were offering grants or loans. But each required a different application, and grant administrators were asking for documents that everyone knew had been lost. Business owners spent weeks obtaining original paperwork from various public offices.
For Mr. Feig, the process became so arduous that on three occasions he resolved to quit applying. Eventually, however, he completed seven applications, driven to rebuild a business he had been operating on his family's behalf for five years. To date, he has received $45,000 in grants. He anticipates $53,000 more.
But he said the biggest payoff had been helping other small businesses to secure their own grants. He has founded an association of former businesses of the World Trade Center, and the 75 members have come to believe, he said, that there is some peace of mind, if not strength, in numbers.
Mr. Feig said he found it therapeutic "being with other people who've gone through the same experience, the same frustrations, the same concerns and issues."

Cornucopia
When Larry Fox opened Cornucopia, his health food store, in the World Trade Center in 1977, it was a pioneering move. The complex was new and untested, and shops like Cornucopia were still a novelty.
The store went on to become very successful. But now, Cornucopia is one of at least 39 businesses in the complex that have not been able to resurrect themselves. Some have gone under because a key executive died in the attack, others because they lost equipment they could not afford to replace. In Mr. Fox's case, he is unwilling to start over at age 65 and is trying to find an existing business to buy.
Mr. Fox remembers struggling in Cornucopia's early years, leaving his home in Melville on Long Island at 5 a.m. each morning to open the store. It was along a corridor near the south tower, between Minas Shoe Repair, which was still there last Sept. 11, and M. H. Lamston & Company, the defunct five-and-dime store chain that left years before.
Toward the end, however, many stores on the concourse were replaced by fancier retailers, and the mall became one of the country's most lucrative shopping centers.
Cornucopia grew to reap annual sales exceeding $1 million. Vitamins were the biggest seller, but the store also carried whole-wheat wraps, salads, health shakes and organic coffee. Mr. Fox spent $250,000 to spruce up his 1,900-square-foot space not long before the collapse.
"It was my life," Mr. Fox, 65, recalled recently. "I had a great store and a great manager, and I didn't have to kill myself."
Mr. Fox did not know the names of most of his customers, but after Sept. 11 he recognized many faces on the missing-persons fliers. "I saw so many people that I knew," he said. "I'm not a crier, but I cried."
After Sept. 11, Mr. Fox helped some of his 12 employees find jobs with his wholesalers. But he himself is more tanned and rested than he wants to be. If he has no deal in place by the Sept. 30 deadline for applying for a Small Business Administration loan, he will have to look for a job, he said.
Mr. Fox still has the Battery Park City condominium he bought in 1986, but he said he can no longer afford the other trappings that went along with his six-figure income and has traded his Jaguar for a Toyota.
Still, he said, "whatever hand is dealt me, I'll have to accept it."

Clearforest
On Sept. 12, Barak Pridor went back to work. He spent the day trekking up and down Manhattan to find temporary space for his company, Clearforest, a software firm. On Sept. 13, Mr. Pridor and his staff contacted each of their customers, telling them, "Clearforest is still alive." On Sept. 14, they were operating from new offices and buying new supplies.
By late fall, the company had added the federal government to a client list that already included General Motors, the World Bank and Kodak. Now, a year later, the company has 25 employees -- five more than it did when the towers collapsed. It has moved to a permanent office near Union Square that has 6,200 square feet -- 600 more than the old office in the north tower.
Dozens of companies dissolved after the terrorist attack.
But Mr. Pridor's company is one of several that actually grew in the following year, thanks in part to a product that was bound to do well in a more complicated world: software that can read 18 languages including Arabic, distill core information from vast numbers of documents, and aid in the response to terrorism.
Mr. Pridor is an Israeli who moved from Tel Aviv two years ago. He credits some of his resolve to having had previous encounters with terrorism.
"Being an Israeli doesn't make you more resilient," Mr. Pridor said. "But you know what's going to follow the trauma. The nightmares, the need to be around somebody all the time, the need to be listened to."
He knew he needed to both push and pull to get Clearforest through. When some of his employees refused to report to work on Sept. 14, the Friday following the attack, he was the iron-fisted boss who insisted on prompt arrival. But that day he brought in a clinical psychologist to talk to everyone. In the months after, he patiently listened to his employees recounting their escape from the melting towers "hundreds of times."
"Working was actually very therapeutic," said Karin Herrmann, one of the company's lawyers, who walked down the stairs from the company's 47th floor office the day of the attacks.

R. S. Properties
For Rolen Sabet, finding a new office for his R. S. Property Company was not so much a matter of fear, cost or convenience as of principle.
"It was an honor, a pleasure to be in such a building," Mr. Sabet, 71, said of the trade center, where he worked on the 46th floor for almost 28 years, importing and exporting car parts and later managing real estate -- sometimes with his brother or a son to help. "If I move to another, smaller building, it looks that they threw me out of my house and put me in a smaller apartment."
So in April, after a disappointing tour of Lower Manhattan office buildings, Mr. Sabet settled into an office on the 44th floor of the Empire State Building. "When your number is up," he explained, "it's up."
Mr. Sabet's pluck may be striking, but it is not unique. While most trade center tenants ended up in low-profile buildings, eight relocated to the Empire State Building. Seven are at One Penn Plaza. Three moved to the Woolworth Building.
After the attacks, 32 business owners or managers are still working from home. Mr. Sabet tried this, but found work could not compete with the temptation to have coffee with friends in his neighborhood of Forest Hills, Queens, or take a nap after lunch.
Even with the new office, where a photograph of the trade center sits by a window with sweeping views of Lower Manhattan, Mr. Sabet does not have much hope of truly reviving his businesses, including the Auto Imperial Company and R.S. Property Company. That is not to say he is giving up.
"If I don't have much business," he said, with a survivor's smile and a wave at the window, "I have at least a good view here."

GRAPHIC:  The data shown in the maps, charts and tables on these pages were compiled by 15 reporters, graphic artists and researchers who set out to learn what happened to the tenants of the World Trade Center in the year since it was destroyed. The team used tenant lists provided by the Port Authority, by the landlord, Silverstein Properties, and by Westfield America, which operated the concourse mall. Relocations were plotted on the basis of more than 900 interviews and data collected from the United States Small Business Administration, the Empire State Development Corporation, the New York City Department of Business Services, the World Trade Center Small Business Association, the World Trade Center Tenants Association, TenantWise.com, the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council and Seedco. The task of identifying the precise number of trade center tenants was complicated by the destruction of the official business records for the complex. The surviving records, which had been maintained off-site, did not list many subtenants and included the names of many other tenants who had previously moved from the buildings. But the number of office tenants appears to have been somewhere between 600 and 700. That estimate does not include the hundreds of commodities brokers who operated from the trading floor at 4 World Trade Center or the dozens of companies and organizations whose only presence at the buildings was their rental of space for storage or equipment. The Times was able to locate 506 tenants from the lists. Another 65 of the listed tenants could not be found. Of those that were located, 39 businesses have either ceased operations or have shut down their New York offices. Another 57 tenants were identified as affiliates of chain retailers. Their relocations, if any, were not plotted because in most cases new store openings were not made in direct response to the demise of a trade center outlet. Some Never Recovered...Thirty-nine W.T.C. businesses closed entirely or closed their New York office after Sept. 11 ...But Most of the Companies Found New HomesThe map below shows new locations of businesses that operated in the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001. Chart shows companies out of business and locations of companies that relocated after Sept. 11. (Maps and Graphics by William McNulty and Andrew Phillips/The New York Times)Photos: Top, after working in the trade center for 28 years, Rolen Sabet has an office on the 44th floor of the Empire State Building. Bottom, Dr. Angelo Longo's dental group recovered its old sign but has a new location, at 42 Broadway. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); Employees of Kasadel, a computer consulting firm, now work in a donated basement in Queens. From left, Ijaz Rasheed, Tahir Ali, Kashif Munshi, and, on phone, Adnan Khawaga. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) Chart/Map: "What Happened to the World Trade Center's Tenants?"About the Survey The data shown in the maps, charts and tables on these pages were compiled by 15 reporters, graphic artists and researchers who set out to learn what happened to the tenants of the World Trade Center in the year since it was destroyed. The team used tenant lists provided by the Port Authority, by the landlord, Silverstein Properties, and by Westfield America, which operated the concourse mall. Relocations were plotted on the basis of more than 900 interviews and data collected from the United States Small Business Administration, the Empire State Development Corporation, the New York City Department of Business Services, the World Trade Center Small Business Association, the World Trade Center Tenants Association, TenantWise.com, the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council and Seedco. The task of identifying the precise number of trade center tenants was complicated by the destruction of the official business records for the complex. The surviving records, which had been maintained off-site, did not list many subtenants and included the names of many other tenants who had previously moved from the buildings. But the number of office tenants appears to have been somewhere between 600 and 700. That estimate does not include the hundreds of commodities brokers who operated from the trading floor at 4 World Trade Center or the dozens of companies and organizations whose only presence at the buildings was their rental of space for storage or equipment. The Times was able to locate 506 tenants from the lists. Another 65 of the listed tenants could not be found. Of those that were located, 39 businesses have either ceased operations or have shut down their New York offices. Another 57 tenants were identified as affiliates of chain retailers. Their relocations, if any, were not plotted because in most cases new store openings were not made in direct response to the demise of a trade center outlet. Some Never Recovered...Thirty-nine W.T.C. businesses closed entirely or closed their New York office after Sept. 11 ...But Most of the Companies Found New HomesThe map below shows new locations of businesses that operated in the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001. Chart shows companies out of business and locations of companies that relocated after Sept. 11. (Maps and Graphics by William McNulty and Andrew Phillips/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TERRORISM (77%); HIJACKING (77%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); SHOE & LEATHER REPAIR (69%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%)

PERSON: FLYNN, KEVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



289 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 2654 words

HEADLINE: AMERICAN CULTURE; 
And Now, Back to Our Regularly Scheduled Programming

BYLINE:  By MICHIKO KAKUTANI 

 BODY:
IN the uncertain days after 9/11, one of the few things asserted with absolute certainty was that our culture would be indelibly altered. A year later, very little has changed.
 Irony thrives. Gratuitous film and television violence rules. And instead of a kinder, gentler, more high-minded society, we are given Anna Nicole Smith lolling about her bedroom, Playboy bunnies doing "Fear Factor" stunts, and celebrities boxing. 
 Though movies like "Collateral Damage" with Arnold Schwarzenegger were initially postponed, the big screen has since been awash in blow-'em-up extravaganzas, including "The Sum of All Fears," a No. 1 hit that showed us the nuclear destruction of Baltimore. While Barney, the annoying purple dinosaur, is trying to make a comeback in what many predicted would be a more family-oriented environment, prurient shows like "The Bachelor" and "Meet My Folks" have turned sexual commerce into prime-time entertainment, and Darwinian competition and sophomoric mean-spiritedness continue to thrive on "Dog Eat Dog" and "Spy TV." 
The glossy magazines are once again filled with pieces deconstructing J. Lo's wardrobe and Tom Cruise's love life; shark stories were a summer staple again on television; and Ashleigh Banfield has returned from her peregrinations in the Middle East to report on child kidnappings in the United States.
Thus far, the events of Sept. 11 and the current economic downturn have not produced a cultural U-turn, but simply turned up the heat on trends, both bad and good, that were already on simmer. More car-wreck TV. More escapist fluff. But also, perhaps, a waning of political correctness (even Eminem's last album failed to elicit the usual howls of protest that have accompanied his work in the past) and a growing impatience with the sort of suburban angst and urban Seinfeldian navel-gazing that was so fashionable in the 90's.
More lasting cultural changes, however, will not be visible for years. Because we still do not know where the war on terrorism is headed, we do not know whether 2001 will be seen in retrospect as a truly epochal year, as Arthur C. Clarke predicted (though in a different context) in his sci-fi classic, or whether the much ballyhooed New Normal will turn out to be very much like the Old Normal, as it has so far.
As for the changes that occur eventually, they will not be the boldfaced ones commentators were so quick to predict, but more subtle ones dealing with the subliminal mutations that 9/11 produced in the national consciousness. After all, that day rocked many of the preconceptions that have informed the country's identity since its inception: from a sense of Manifest Destiny and historical immunity, conferred by the blessings of America's geography (bounded on either side by oceans and far from the bloody battlefields of the Old World), to an often Pollyanna-ish faith in progress and technology. A new sense of vulnerability, wrought by 9/11, is sure to ripple through artists' work, as will a new awareness of limitations, galvanized not only by the terrorist attacks but by current economic woes as well.
HOW will this state of affairs affect artists' work in the long term? The horrors of World War I gave birth to the fragmentations and elisions of modernism. Political adversity and turmoil in Eastern Europe and Latin America led to the blossoming of magical realism. And the cold war and nuclear fears promoted black humor, noirish drama and sci-fi nightmares. But while the social confusions of the Vietnam era gave rise to a golden age of filmmaking in America, many novelists turned, turtlelike, to solipsistic mappings of their own inner weather; in the 60's, they started feeling overwhelmed by a reality that, in Philip Roth's words, stupefies, sickens, infuriates and acts as "a kind of embarrassment to one's own meager imagination" -- and this, with nothing remotely approaching the shock of seeing New York's tallest buildings collapse on live television into a mass cemetery.
It's too soon to tell whether the fallout from 9/11 will goad some artists into an imaginative retreat -- withdrawing, as Matisse did during World War II, into the serenity of a Nice hotel room (stocked with tropical birds and plants), where he could produce his prettily colored fantasies of a more idyllic world -- or whether it will push more of them into tackling broader social canvases. It's too soon to tell whether it will encourage a more pared-down, self-abnegating prose style -- similar to the chastened one that Edmund Wilson says the Civil War helped promote -- or whether it will nurture more expansive, hyperbolic narratives that attempt to capture the surreality and horror of a world in which men fly airplanes into buildings in order to kill as many people as they can. 
Will artists remain true to their own internal compasses or increasingly feel pressure to create willfully relevant works? Will the defiant antiestablishment poses of bands like Rage Against the Machine lose their allure, or will the bubble-gum pop of Britney Spears and 'N Sync be renounced as trivial and dated? Will the recent flood of war movies like "Black Hawk Down," "Behind Enemy Lines" and "Hart's War" (which went into production long before 9/11) continue, or will people flock in growing numbers to escapist comedies and musicals, as they did during the Depression?
Sept. 11 changed the context in which we live, and so it percolates beneath artists' choices and audiences' expectations in myriad, unseen ways. It's there in Bruce Springsteen's new songs memorializing the victims, but it's also there in the lumbering suspense of the Mel Gibson thriller "Signs," which plays to our anxiety about the unknown, and the Jodie Foster movie "The Panic Room," which suggests that there is no place safe to hide.The title of the second film installment of the Tolkien trilogy, "The Two Towers," has taken on an unwanted collateral meaning, and in the case of the Stephen Sondheim and James Lapine musical "Into the Woods," the plot -- involving an angry giantess who menaces the show's fairy tale community -- now resonates with new associations. When the show was first staged 15 years ago, it reverberated with the threat of the AIDS crisis; today, it is terrorism that lurks in the giantess's shadow.
NOT surprisingly, Americans' responses to art, in the first year of the 9/11 era, have been highly contradictory. On one hand, the Grammy Award-winning "O Brother, Where Art Thou?" soundtrack, with its gentle, down-home celebration of American roots music, enjoyed an unexpected success; on the other, "The Eminem Show," from Detroit's bad boy of rap, sold more than five million copies. And while the last year has produced a flood of jingoistic country music tunes like "Courtesy of the Red, White and Blue" and "Where the Stars and Stripes and the Eagle Fly," it has also produced hip-hop songs like "My Country" and "Home of the Brave" that question the war in Afghanistan and the American way of life -- protest songs that mark a sharp departure from rap's recent focus on sex and money and a return of sorts to more socially conscious roots.
With movies, television and Broadway shows, it's often less a question of what artists are thinking or what the public wants than what second-guessing producers think will sell. Given the shrinking economy, there is now an even more pronounced tendency to go for the tried and true (franchise sequels, star vehicles and remakes of old hits) and low-cost programming like reality TV or, as in the new version of "The Beverly Hillbillies," a combination of recycling and reality TV all in one.
In the wake of the blockbuster success of "Spider-Man" this spring, studios have jumped on the comic-book bandwagon; there are more than a dozen superhero movies in development or production, including ones about the Incredible Hulk, the Fantastic Four, Daredevil, Iron Man, Catwoman and Ghost Rider. Much like the Harry Potter franchise, they are movies meant to generate good clean escapist fun, while dramatizing President Bush's good vs. evil language and neatly evading the complexities of depicting the real world.
Spy movies, which run the gamut from the ancient James Bond franchise to the anti-Bondian "XXX" to spoofs like "Undercover Brother," are also enjoying a renaissance not seen since the heyday of the cold war. In fact, at the very moment when the C.I.A and F.B.I. are coming under fire for intelligence failures, their operatives are being portrayed by an array of high-priced movie stars. Ben Affleck ("The Sum of All Fears"), Matt Damon ("The Bourne Identity"), Chris Rock ("Bad Company") and Al Pacino ("The Recruit") all play C.I.A. operatives, while Tommy Lee Jones ("The Hunted"), Tom Hanks ("Catch Me if You Can"), Edward Norton ("Red Dragon") and Antonio Banderas ("Ecks vs. Sever") have been cast as G-men.
The other thing Hollywood and Broadway producers have decided Americans want is nostalgia -- the logic being that people in times of trouble will gravitate toward comfort entertainment that reminds them of simpler, happier times. In much the same way that "American Idol" recalls the old Ted Mack "Amateur Hour" and Ed McMahon's "Star Search," the candy-colored Broadway musical "Hairspray" and the much hyped new NBC show "American Dreams" draw on fond remembrances of the "American Bandstand" era.
Broadway, which gave this year's Tony for best musical to the thoroughly insipid "Thoroughly Modern Millie," has a lineup of forthcoming shows tilted toward revivals, including "Man of La Mancha," "Gypsy," "Flower Drum Song" (albeit with a revamped book), "Little Shop of Horrors," "Nine," "Dinner at Eight" and "Our Town."
Television is in full-time travel mode as well. After a Carol Burnett special drew a startling 30 million viewers last fall, television executives began hustling out tributes to old favorites like "The Honeymooners," "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," "Laverne and Shirley," Bob Hope and Bill Cosby, as well as some truly lame exercises in recycling like "The Rerun Show," which features actors recreating episodes of television shows like "The Partridge Family" and "Saved by the Bell."
This fall, ABC and the WB network are both scheduling shows in which grown-ups travel back to their high school days in the 1980's. NBC and Fox are both doing family-based shows set in the 60's, a more innocent era in many ways, but also one informed by such traumas as the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, the Cuban missile crisis and the Vietnam War. And CBS is working on an assortment of made-for-TV movies about such 50's and 60's icons as Lucille Ball, Jackie Gleason, and Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis.
In the last year, old favorites like "Friends" (which blithely tried to act as if 9/11 never happened) have thrived, as have crime series like the "Law and Order" franchise and the forensic drama "C.S.I." And a host of new crime and medical shows are on the way this fall, including "Without a Trace," a procedural drama about the Missing Persons Squad of the F.B.I.
The appeal of such shows, particularly in unsettled times when the threats to our nation feel both intractable and amorphous, is akin to the appeal of old-fashioned detective stories: something terrible, be it a crime or an accident, occurs, and then order is reassuringly restored through the application of reason and expertise. A similar sense of control and safety underlies the growing popularity of home improvement and "fix-it" shows, which, like cookbooks, appeal to the post-9/11 "cocooning" impulse.
In the last year, a lot of art was also produced in direct response to the terrorist attacks of 9/11: an outpouring of photographs, drawings and collages, exhibited around New York City; poems, reminiscences and meditations by well-known and not so well-known writers, collected in an assortment of books; songs by Paul McCartney, Neil Young and a bevy of country music singers; and a variety of theatrical works and performance pieces based on the events of that day.
This month, the Toronto Film Festival will screen the film version of Anne Nelson's 9/11 play, "The Guys," and "11'09"01," a series of short films from 11 directors including Sean Penn, Claude LeLouche, Ken Loach and Danis Tanovic. John Adams's piece for chorus and orchestra "On the Transmigration of Souls," with a text drawn from cellphone transcripts and firsthand accounts of 9/11, will premiere later this month at the New York Philharmonic, and Neil LaBute's new play, "The Mercy Seat," a drama of adultery set in Manhattan on September 12, 2001, will open later this fall.
THERE was a raw eloquence and immediacy to many of the amateur artworks produced in response to 9/11 -- some were exhibited in gallery shows opened to contributions from the general public -- and like the many homemade shrines that sprang up around the city, these works attested to the therapeutic and documentary uses of art, while pointing to a democratization of the cultural machinery.
Other artistic projects, however, reeked of exploitation or, at the very least, bad taste. In a performance piece at the Museum of New Art in Detroit, a New York artist, Amy Shapiro, poured flour over herself (to symbolize ashes), then wrapped herself in an American flag and donned a gas mask. And in a new video, which MTV declined to air, the metal group Disturbed used apocalyptic images of buildings crumbling and bursting into flame -- images that seemed deliberately evocative of the destruction wreaked on Lower Manhattan last September.
Such works raise important questions (first addressed by the critic T. W. Adorno in reference to the Holocaust) about the morality of artists' trying to depict an "unimaginable ordeal": while art can bear witness to history, it can also trivialize and demean it.
Thus far, much of the art created in direct response to 9/11 has been thoroughly mediocre. With only a year's time, it is difficult to achieve detachment or understanding of that terrible day, and many rapid-response works have tended either to reiterate, heavy-handedly, what we all know -- that the firefighters were brave, that the victims who died will be missed -- or to issue facile calls for transcendence.
Bruce Springsteen's hit album "The Rising," while heartfelt in its calls for redemption, sounds trite and curiously abstract, compared with his best work of the past. "The Guys," by the first-time playwright Anne Nelson, is similarly well-intentioned, but often labored and sentimental in effect. And the Maya Angelou poem "How Do We Heal Ourselves?" is little but a maudlin greeting card verse about heroic acts healing "a wounded heart."
No doubt artistic treatments of 9/11 will grow increasingly metaphorical in the years to come.
As literature about the Holocaust, Hiroshima and AIDS shows, the earliest responses to a traumatic event tend to be autobiographical accounts that pay witness to history; the fictional works that ensue tend to evolve from somewhat didactic, explanatory accounts into stylized ones, in which the tragedy is universalized, or woven into the fabric of ordinary life, as ripples from the event, rather than the event itself, assume center stage.
It will take time -- and emotional distance -- for artists to achieve perspective on Sept. 11, 2001. Tolstoy wrote "War and Peace" some 60 years after Napoleon's invasion of Russia. Benjamin Britten's "War Requiem," memorializing World War II, was not heard until 1961. And John Corigliano's "Symphony No. 1," the so-called AIDS Symphony, did not premiere until 1990, a decade after the composer began losing friends to the illness.
In the case of last year's terrorist attacks, novelists, filmmakers and other artists are still gestating or working on projects informed by 9/11, trying, in Don DeLillo's words, to "understand what this day has done to us," and to give "memory, tenderness and meaning to all that howling space" at ground zero.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 30, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture on Sept. 11, in the special section "A Nation Challenged," showing Amy Shapiro, an artist, wearing a flag and a gas mask, carried an erroneous credit. It was by Julius Vitali.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After 9/11, the musical "Hairspray" evoked simpler, happier days. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Amy Shapiro put on a flag and gas mask; Eminem didn't cause an uproar. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); (Frank Shifreen); "Spider-Man," starring Tobey Maguire, captured the taste for escapist fun. (Columbia Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); TRENDS (77%); AIRLINES (74%); FILM (72%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); HIJACKING (70%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (69%); BOOK REVIEWS (67%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); CULTURE 

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (57%); TOM CRUISE (57%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%) KAKUTANI, MICHIKO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



290 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: AN ALTERED LANDSCAPE; 
The Capital as 3 Cities, Each One Now a Fortress

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE 184 deaths at the Pentagon were modest compared with the toll at the World Trade Center, and the damage did not spread beyond part of one building. But no other city was more heavily subjected than Washington to the apocalyptic refrain of pundits and politicians that everything had been changed by the terrorist attacks, and that nothing would ever be the same again.
 Washington is really not just one city. It is three. The world knows political Washington, where policy is made by the prominent. Americans of all ages know symbolic Washington, where they come to witness their government and honor its marbled past. Only Washingtonians themselves know the city where hundreds of thousands who have never been mentioned on television or in a guidebook live and work. 
 In all three Washingtons, much has changed but much has also drifted back to where it used to be, or never changed at all. Alice M. Rivlin, a Brookings Institution fellow and former vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve Board, said, "I think much less has changed than many of us, including myself, thought would change at the time it happened." She said there was no sense of a need to "have a whole new look at how our government operates, or how we shore up our economy." Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, said: "This was not a Pearl Harbor. It was a jolting, terrible moment, but not one which changed our lives in depth."
Fewer tourists have visited. Security has been tightened in public areas, evident in an epidemic of roadway barriers, monstrous pseudo flower pots, yellow tape, wire fences and shabby guard shacks growing up around federal buildings and monuments.
Some of the most profound changes have been less visible. Jessica Tuchman Mathews, the president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said: "We did have this illusion of living apart from, of being different from the world, of being a city on the hill. Technology and globalization had turned that into an illusion, and 9/11 tore that away."
For many ordinary Washingtonians, there is a continual sense of anxiety. To some, the changes have been merely inconvenient: being barred from getting up to go to the bathroom on a shuttle flight to or from New York, for example. To others, like waiters or security guards, the changes have altered lives. Some are unemployed, the others working compulsory overtime. 
More guards and fewer tourists are seen. For security, much of the capital has been disfigured. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the retired senator, said, "Capitol Hill looks like a crime scene." He warned: "You don't want to manifest fear in your public places. We have defensive concerns, yes, but we are not fearful."
In political Washington early last September, President Bush seemed to lose the initiative after Senator James M. Jeffords's support gave the Democrats a Senate majority. Norman J. Ornstein, a Congressional scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, noted: "We were heading at Labor Day last year to a major confrontation over budget issues. But it wasn't at all clear that Bush and the Republicans would emerge stronger."
But after Sept. 11, the president reached out to Democrats and they embraced his determination and leadership. Carla A. Hills, a Republican trade expert, said the Bush presidency was transformed. "His popularity was in the middle range" before the attack, she said, but "the real turning point was his speech to the joint houses of Congress" on Sept. 20.
Mr. Ornstein recalled that evening as offering "an image that suggested a radical change -- President Bush coming down off the podium and embracing Tom Daschle."
BUT the bipartisan spirit did not last until Christmas, except over foreign issues. Donna Brazile, who managed Al Gore's presidential campaign, said: "For a moment we went through a great renewal. Party labels didn't matter, race, background, almost as if it was a new religion." Now, she said, "We're back drawing up partisan lines again."
Inside the executive branch, influence has shifted toward the military and toward law enforcement. That has brought a concern about threats to civil liberties -- a concern that Dick Armey, the conservative House majority leader, shares with the American Civil Liberties Union.
Catherine E. Rudder, a professor of public policy at George Mason University, said, however, that those concerns were less prominent among ordinary Americans. "One thing 9/11 did was to make Americans a little less reflexively supportive of civil liberty," she said. "That has emboldened the administration." She cited closed immigration hearings, and prisoners being denied attorneys.
But Ms. Rivlin struck a more cautious note, saying that while concerns might be appropriate, "To say that liberties are imminently threatened would be alarmist."
The weak economy has been a part of the problem for symbolic Washington, one of the reasons the tourist industry has suffered, though fear was probably a bigger element. Some local officials contend tourism has rebounded, but Tom Mack, head of the Tourmobile system that takes visitors from one site to another, said, "Clearly our ridership is down, significantly down." 
The only sites that keep good track of visitors are the Smithsonian Institution's museums. They had 2,844,615 visitors in August, down 7 percent from last year, after many months of 20 percent declines. At the world's most visited museum, the National Air and Space Museum, the drop-off in April, the peak month for school visits to Washington, was 52 percent. 
Two of the most popular tourist destinations, the Capitol and the White House, are no longer easy to visit. The White House is closed to everyone except school groups scheduled in advance. Access to the Capitol is much more limited than it used to be, and the alternatives are getting a representative's or senator's office to organize a staff-led tour, or to line up for one of a few hundred daily tickets for a guided tour. 
FOR most permanent working Washingtonians, the changes may not have been dramatic, but they matter. Dwight R. Bowman, president of Local 2463 of the American Federation of Government Employees at the Smithsonian, said the aftermath of the attacks "made the people that I represent much more anxious, not only worrying about a terrorist attack." He added, "Tempers are much shorter, there is a feeling that they are underappreciated." For security workers, he said, things are worse. Compulsory overtime means "they are unable to schedule their lives, plan day care, go to school at night, work a part-time job." 
Even when the immediate burdens are no more than wearing identification cards or passing through metal detectors on the way back from lunch, said Larry Drake, a government employees' union official at the Department of Labor, there is the added stress of feeling like a target. "You figure you're at ground zero," he said. 
Patricia McGuire, the president of Trinity College here, said she thought people in the city now "are more cautious, a little more suspicious, more watchful of neighbors or people who don't look like us." She added, "People are walking around with this low-level headache because of relentless warnings that something is going to happen." 
Those problems don't compare to those of workers in the tourist industry. Tom Snyder of the hotel and restaurant workers union said as many as half its 5,400 members here were out of work last fall. On one day the union distributed five tons of food to its workers. Even though things have picked up quicker than "anyone would have expected last September," he said, "we have a permanent job loss of 500 to 1,000 members." 
For those outside government, Ms. McGuire said, Sept. 11 made the federal presence much more dominant. With street closings and opaque warnings, she said: "The F.B.I., the Secret Service and everyone else took over the city. We were reminded, very rudely at times, that this is not our city at all."
But she also rejoiced in a change that did not happen; her college, like others here, worried that fearful students would stay away from a terrorist target city. She said, "In fact we're going to enroll the largest freshman class in 20 years." 
There is one unarguable change that affects all three Washingtons -- the way the city looks.
Richard L. Friedman, the Cambridge, Mass., developer, headed a National Capital Planning Commission study that this summer produced designs to show that security from truck bombs was attainable without scarring the city if architects and not bureaucrats designed the barriers. He acknowledged that the security plague began some years ago, but was "catapulted into orbit" by Sept. 11. 
"To me," he said, "It's appalling that the capital of the free world looks like a fortress or like a third-world country. We have this image of a nation in fear which is unacceptable." For all three Washingtons, he said, "You can't cut off arteries on the city and have the city function."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The look of Washington today, with its visible signs of increased security. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); HIJACKING (76%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); AIRLINES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%); OVERTIME (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; PUBLIC OPINION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%) CLYMER, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



291 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: IMMIGRANTS; 
Going by 'Joe,' Not 'Yussef,' but Still Feeling Like an Outcast

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
AT a recent meeting of the Wednesday Club, two dozen Arab-American businessmen traded bawdy jokes across a table laden with plates of fettoosh and flaming platters of broiled meats, until Ahmad Chebbani interrupted with an announcement.
 "If you're a green card holder, you have to file a change of address within 10 days," Mr. Chebbani, a tax accountant, read from an e-mail message he had received that afternoon. "It's an old law. Now they just want to implement it." 
 Someone muttered something about how overwhelming this would be in Arizona and California, places flooded with immigrants from Mexico. 
"No," corrected Nasser Beydoun, executive director of the American Arab Chamber of Commerce. "It's just for Arabs."
For the men of the Wednesday Club, as for many in the nation's growing Arab and Muslim communities, this has been the year the American dream descended into nightmare. What began as a backlash of hate crimes immediately after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks has stretched through months of suspicion and losing friends. Domestic and foreign policies, especially on Afghanistan, Iraq and Israel and particularly those about civil liberties, have exacerbated feelings of alienation.
"It's like abuse," said Nazih Saad, 41, an engineering consultant. "In a bad marriage, if a husband abuses the wife, she starts to feel she deserves the beating. That's the same thing, you start to feel there must be something horrible about being Arab."
Here in Dearborn, a Detroit suburb where a third of the 100,000 residents are of Middle Eastern descent, the largest concentration of Arab-Muslims in the country, the scars are evident. 
For nine years, the Wednesday Club has been a monthly respite, a night out to catch up with old schoolmates between puffs on imported cigars and belts of arak, the Lebanese liquor.
But now, like most everything here, the social club has taken on a more serious tone, as a support system and information network for a group increasingly under stress and scrutiny.
They still tell jokes, poking equal fun at Attorney General John Ashcroft and the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat. But they also swap stories of being singled out at airports -- or of choosing driving vacations to avoid the humiliation at airports. They share concerns about children who have surprised them lately with questions like "Are we Arab?" and struggle together over whether to change their names from Yussef to Joe, Muhammed to Mike, as so many neighbors and colleagues have done. 
They talk of buying homes in the old country, just in case, and imagine, only half-laughing, playing cards at an internment camp somewhere in Louisiana.
With 750 Middle Eastern immigrants having been detained without explanation, and at least twice that number interviewed at random by the authorities, many here find themselves wondering who is listening in on their phone lines, and whether they might be the next to be named an enemy combatant.
"After Sept. 11, we worried about being targeted, being suspected," said Hassan Jaber, deputy director of the Arab Community Center for Economic and Social Services, known as Access. "A year has made it clear that Arab-Americans are the targets, Muslim-Americans are the targets." 
Complaints to the Council on American-Islamic Relations -- from verbal abuse to violence, job loss to denial of access to public facilities -- increased threefold this year, to 1,516. This summer, nearly half the 945 Muslims that the group surveyed said their lives had deteriorated over the last year. A poll in May by the Arab American Institute Foundation found 40 percent of Arab-Americans knew someone who had been discriminated against since Sept. 11; one in five -- mainly the young, Muslim or foreign-born -- said they had experienced discrimination themselves.
Some community leaders do see an upside: the public's increased interest in Islam has allowed them to forge bonds with other faith groups. Apathy has given way to activism, with a surge in voter registration and turnout motivated by the perceived threat to civil liberties. 
Still, many say they feel doubly victimized, first suffering along with the rest of the nation during the attacks, now feeling hated both by Americans and by Muslims abroad.
Ismael Ahmed, executive director of Access, said requests for mental health services were up at least 10 percent. "It's not just that more people need more help, it's what they're saying when they come in to get help," he explained. "People suffering from depression talk about racism. People suffering from psychosis, the person chasing them around is F.B.I. or C.I.A."
For some, the impact has been more direct -- and more devastating. Ahmed Esa lost his job. Dean Hachem lost his profit margin. Saleh Almansoop lost his father.
Ali Almansoop's name will not be read at any of the memorials on the anniversary of 9/11. His picture will not appear among victims' photos in the newspapers. Instead, it tops the mantel in the modest home here where Saleh, 26, a restaurant dishwasher and busboy, is now responsible for the $1,500 mortgage, a $420-a-month car lease, and the care of his mother and three younger siblings, who arrived recently from Yemen.
Ali Almansoop, who had lived in America for 32 years, was killed Sept. 19 in one of a dozen murders nationwide attributed to anti-Muslim sentiment after the attacks. Among the victims were Sikhs mistaken for Muslims. Brent Seever, who was convicted of the shooting in June, said he was incensed at Mr. Almansoop's relationship with his former girlfriend, but also told the police, "I was motivated by all this terroristic activity."
Saleh Almansoop said of his father's slaying: "Same terrorists, this is the same. Same New York, same killed my dad. I lose my dad, I lose everything."
LIKE Ali Almansoop, Ahmed Esa came from Yemen without his wife and children, in 1976. He worked as a welder in a factory for 15 years -- until Sept. 12, when his boss sent him home, screaming, "Go pray," and, "Go to your leader." Mr. Esa is now suing the company, IW&S.
Paul Rokoczy, the company president, said that he sent Mr. Esa home mainly because he had little for him to do that day, and because "the religious activity bothered me, because of the bombing."
Mr. Esa, 53, refused to return the following week. He eventually found a job as a security guard.
Dean Hachem had always felt welcome in the heavily Jewish suburb of Orchard Lake, where he opened his restaurant, the Sheik, in 1996. 
But on Sept. 11, an e-mail message spread like cholera saying that employees at the Sheik were seen celebrating in front of the television that noon. Though security videotapes showed no such thing, the ensuing boycott has ruined Mr. Hachem's business; he is closing his second restaurant, in a nearby mall, this month; receipts are still down 30 percent at the original restaurant.
"You feel like you've been stabbed," he said on one recent dinner hour, when 30 of the 39 tables sat empty. "When you get accused of something, you have nothing to do with it, you cannot focus your mind."
Such a response was expected, and perhaps inevitable, in the weeks after the attacks. What is surprising is that it has not subsided. Just last month, a woman came into Play Ball, the sporting goods store that Mohamed Odetalle owns in suburban Westland, looking for a Red Wings jersey. She left without buying, only to head for the Play Ball store in a mall across the street -- which Mr. Odetalle also owns but never works at -- where she paid $10 more for the jersey.
"I knew the lady was uncomfortable; she and her husband were whispering," Mr. Odetalle said, shrugging. Other customers, he said, have told his manager at the mall that they would rather pay extra than do business with the foreigner across the street.
Basim Alkhateeb was in his native Jordan, where he is a major in the military, on Sept. 11. He came to the United States in January to pursue a Ph.D. in electrical engineering at Oakland University. On June 20, Mr. Alkhateeb was on his way to take a final exam when, he said, an undercover police officer pulled a gun on him in suburban Waterford.
"The first question, 'Are you Arabic?' " Mr. Alkhateeb, 36, remembered. "I told him, 'Yes, I'm Arabic.' He pushed me to the ground."
Mr. Alkhateeb added: "He began to beat on my back and my leg. He still had his gun against my head and my face. I didn't understand him. I'm just waiting for his gun to explode."
Mr. Alkhateeb was not arrested; he is planning to file a lawsuit -- and to return to Jordan. "I feel we are not welcome here, everybody hates us," he said. " "It may happen in my country. It may happen in any country, but in America? It's incredible."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ahmed Esa, bottom left, prays at a Michigan mosque, where men gather outside after a service. But in the larger community, some Arab-Americans have felt more alienated since 9/11. Mohamed Odetalle, above, says people have walked out of his sporting goods store after seeing him behind the counter. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) Graph: "In Times of Crisis, More Choose to Be Americans"There have been some significant spikes in the number of legal immigrants seeking citizenship in the months following Sept. 11, but it is too early to see an overall trend because the naturalization process is long. But the increase is reminiscent of similar surges in naturalization rates after World War I and during World War II. Graph tracks Citizenship Applications Filed by Month Jan. 2001-July 2002. Graph tracks Persons Naturalized by Year 1925-1950. Late 1920sAfter World War I, a surge in immigration led to restrictive laws for immigrants, causing citizenship requests to rise. 1939-1945Immigrants from nations allied with Germany in World War II, like Italy and Bulgaria, sought citizenship to avoid the label of enemy aliens. Naturalization was expedited for those in the military. (Sources: Immigration and Naturalization Service; "And Still They Come: Immigrants and American Society," by Elliott Barkan 1996 )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARAB AMERICANS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WORLD WAR I (79%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); TERRORISM (72%); HIJACKING (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); MARRIAGE (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RELIGION (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ENGINEERING (66%); AIRLINES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ARAB-AMERICANS; HATE CRIMES; MUSLIM-AMERICANS 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%); BULGARIA (75%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); DEARBORN (MICH)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



292 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: MEASURING RESILIENCE; 
For Many New Yorkers, a Tentative Normality

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT and MARJORIE CONNELLY 

 BODY:
MAYBE it is willful ignorance, some suggest. Maybe it is the conviction that living in fear is no way to live. But one year after the attack on the World Trade Center, nearly half of all New York City residents say the event has not changed their lives.
 Those New Yorkers may find themselves thinking about it far more often than they would have imagined. They may even become teary-eyed at the memory. But most have lost no sleep, they feel comfortable in skyscrapers and they travel by subway. They say their daily routines are unchanged. 
 "I love the city, and I'm not about to hunker down in my apartment and not go anywhere," said Rebecca Press Schwartz, a 26-year-old graduate student and parent who was one of 1,008 adult New Yorkers questioned in a recent New York Times/CBS News poll. "And I honestly don't know that that would make a difference." 
"If there isn't another terrorist attack, then we're all fine," Ms. Schwartz, who lives in Washington Heights, added in an interview after the poll. "And if they smuggle a suitcase-size nuclear weapon into Manhattan, then we're all dead. Either way, I don't see much to be gained by sitting around in fear."
In the poll, conducted by telephone from Aug. 25 to 29, 48 percent of the people questioned said their lives had not changed as a result of Sept. 11. Seventy percent said their routines had returned to normal. Most said they no longer felt nervous or edgy, if they ever had, while about a quarter acknowledged that they remain anxious. Most said they had done nothing different in response to government warnings of possible new attacks.
Which is not to suggest that lives have not been touched. Sixty-one percent of those polled said that they or one of their friends knew someone who had been hurt or killed. Forty-seven percent said their lives had changed; they cited a wide variety of experiences, including the loss of jobs and income, feelings of fearfulness and a sense of new perspectives on life and a new closeness with neighbors.
While 11 percent called terrorism their biggest concern about living in the city, more than twice that many cited financial worries caused by things like the high cost of living, high rents and the economy. Among parents, 75 percent said their children had never been awakened by post-9/11 nightmares; half said theirs had never expressed concern about their own safety or that of anyone in the family.
C. R. Snyder, a professor of clinical psychology at the University of Kansas who specializes in the study of human motivation, hope, stress and coping, said the findings were consistent with some of his own. His observations of behavior after other traumatic events, he said, show that most people are remarkably resilient -- something he attributes not to denial but to hope.
"It's not that these people don't realize the depth of the tragedy and what's happened," he said in an interview. "But they realize that they have a life to live and that other people depend on them, and that there's a better use of their time than worrying about things that in all likelihood they can't control."
The poll, which had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points, found that 62 percent of New Yorkers described themselves as very concerned about another attack on the city, down from 74 percent in a poll last October. Only 35 percent said they felt safe. One in three reported thinking about Sept. 11 daily; one in five had talked about it weekly. Of those who had thought or talked about it, most said they became choked up at least some of the time.
Tony DiTomasso, a 49-year-old paramedic for New York Presbyterian Hospital, said two of his colleagues were killed at the World Trade Center that day. "I sometimes wonder what the heck made me different from those guys," he said in a follow-up interview. "And a woman parked in an ambulance next to mine: she's dead. What caused me to zig and her to zag?
"I still don't sleep well occasionally -- like last night, I woke up every half-hour. I'll look at everything every now and then, remembering the buildings coming down, and I feel it in my gut. Sometimes I'll get a pang in my heart, like when I miss the two guys that died. So whenever I'm at work, I'm still dealing with what happened."
For those less directly affected, life returned to normal more quickly. Nathan Berman, 80, a retired school principal and teacher who watched the smoke from the trade center billow up the East River toward his home on Roosevelt Island, said his everyday life had continued to be consumed by his family, his community and his work.
"It's a horrible, horrible thing," he said of Sept. 11. "But for someone who was in the Battle of the Bulge, it's not the end of the world."
Mike Davies, 56, an unemployed computer scientist who lives in Jackson Heights, Queens, said he flew to London the week after Sept. 11 and has deliberately adhered to his daily routine at home. The attack is a fait accompli, he said; nothing can be done about it. He conceded that perhaps he is blocking the memory out -- an observation others made about themselves.
"It makes it easier to go about my everyday life if I don't think about it," Ms. Schwartz said. "But it may also be that with terrorism, or the fears of terrorism, the danger is so diffuse. Maybe the fact that New York was struck once means it's a prominent target, but maybe it means that next time they'll strike somewhere else."
Thirty-three percent of those polled said they thought New York City would be a better place to live in 15 years -- down from 54 percent in October, but higher than the percentages in polls in the 1980's and 1990's. Twenty-three percent predicted that New York would be worse, up from 11 percent last fall but less than in earlier decades. Thirty-eight percent said it would be the same.
While New Yorkers remained fairly confident that the city's economy will recover from the effects of the attacks, those who said they were very confident dropped to 36 percent, down from 48 percent in June. Forty-nine percent said they believed the threat of terrorism was greater in New York than in other cities, down from 60 percent of people polled in June.
Perhaps not surprisingly, the attitudes of New Yorkers differ noticeably from those of people elsewhere in the country who were questioned as part of another New York Times/CBS News poll made public Sunday. For example, 47 percent of New Yorkers said they approved of the way President George W. Bush is handling his job, compared with 63 percent of people polled nationwide.
Fifty-seven percent of people nationally, compared with 48 percent of New Yorkers, said their life had not changed as a result of Sept. 11.

How the Poll Was Conducted
The New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted from Aug. 25 to 29 with 1,008 adults across New York City. Interviews were conducted in either English or Spanish.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a list of all city exchanges. The exchanges were chosen to assure that each part of the city was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated at random to be the survey respondent.
The results have been weighted to account for household size and the number of telephone lines into each residence and to adjust for variations relating to race, Hispanic origin, sex, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, results based on such samples will differ by no more than 3 percentage points in either direction from those obtained by seeking out all adults in New York City. For smaller subgroups, the potential sampling error is larger. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New York City, a Year After"Concerns about terrorism have declined . . . Say they are very concerned about another attack in the city.JUNE 2002: 70%AUGUST 2002: 62 The threat of terrorism is higher in New York City than other big cities.JUNE 2002: 60%AUGUST 2002: 49 . . . But optimism about the city has declined as well. Say New York City will be a better place in the next 10 or 15 years.JUNE 2002: 41%AUGUST 2002: 33 Want to be living in New York City in four years.JUNE 2002: 63%AUGUST 2002: 57

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); TERRORISM (89%); CHILDREN (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CITIES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); TRENDS (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); SMUGGLING (66%); COST OF LIVING (65%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (51%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES 

PERSON: SCOTT, JANNY; CONNELLY, MARJORIE; SNYDER, C R (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



293 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 One Year Later

Personal History
Throughout the section
The story of Sept. 11 is really the sum of the experiences of thousands of individuals: stories of heroism and fear, joy and loss, from people like Nick Chirls, far right, the teenager who, with a sparrow's help, created an unforgettable eulogy for his mother after the towers' fall.

The Children's Pain
By Jacques Steinberg
Across the country, signs of lasting trauma in children are appearing that have little to do with physical proximity to ground zero. Page 4.

Memories and Change
Times staff
From Fulton Street to the White House Emergency Bunker, indelible recollections of the moment disaster struck, and personal images from then and now. Pages 6-7.

Arab, American, Afraid
By Jodi Wilgoren
Since Sept. 11, Muslims and people of Arab descent have reported a huge increase in incidents of hatred and discrimination, making a nightmare of their American dreams. Page 15.

Out of Flames, Friendship
By Elizabeth Becker
It was a rescue worthy of the big screen -- the broad-shouldered Army sergeant pulling the gravely burned Navy officer from the Pentagon inferno. A year later, Sgt. First Class Donald Workman and Lt. Kevin Shaeffer, retired, have forged an epic bond, too. Page 16.

A Flight of Heroes
By Jere Longman
Hijacked passengers who refused to give in without a fight: the story of United Flight 93, from takeoff to its crash in Pennsylvania. Page 21.

Refugee Businesses
Times staff
When the twin towers fell, they took a huge part of the downtown New York economy with them. After months of investigation, Times reporters have chronicled the fates of the trade center's business tenants as they have struggled, and sometimes failed, to re-establish themselves. Pages 24-25.

The Real Estate Effect
Times staff
In diagrams and personal stories, tracing the effect of the Sept. 11 attacks on downtown real estate prices and availability. Page 27.

A New Kind of War
By Patrick E. Tyler
In the campaign to strike back against terrorists, America has taken on a challenge profoundly different than its earlier battles -- and after a year, the war is just beginning. An analysis, and also a day-by-day look at events since Sept. 11. Pages 28-29.

Rebuilding a Country
By Tyler Hicks
From the faces of Afghan schoolgirls concentrating on schoolwork for the first time in years, to the helping hands of aid workers and Western soldiers, the story of a nation's resurrection, in pictures. Page 30-31.

Afghans' New Freedom
By John F. Burns
Across Afghanistan, delight at the Taliban's fall can be seen in soaring kites and bustling bazaars. But along with their gratitude, Afghans have hard questions about America's commitment. Page 32.

The Cameras' Day
By Sarah Boxer
It started with one shot -- a rookie filmmaker heard a roar, turned his camera upward, and captured the first aircraft strike on the north tower. The story would soon be taken up by thousands of photographers across the city. Page 34.

The Year in Arts
By Michiko Kakutani
Despite predictions of how American arts would be profoundly changed by Sept. 11, a year later, the same trends are in place and intensifying. Page 35.

A Year of Grief

Death, the Companion
By Dan Barry
Meditations on a loss of life so staggering that it has changed the way Americans think about death, down to the very language of mortality. Page 37.

A Meeting in Harm's Way
By Leslie Wayne
They came from several countries, and from cities across the United States. -- 81 people who converged on Windows on the World for a conference on Sept. 11. Unlike so many others who died with colleagues in familiar surroundings, these people died with strangers, far from home. Page 40.

The Human Toll
Pages 41-47
The losses from Sept. 11 were unimaginable -- 3,025 victims in all. Here are the faces of lost siblings, parents, strangers, friends.

More on the Web and on TV
 A multimedia presentation at "nytimes.com/nationchallenged" includes all Times coverage related to the Sept. 11 anniversary from Sundays magazine articles to the "Perspective" interview series to todays special sections.
 On television tonight, The Times has produced three related documentaries: "Portraits of Grief" on Discovery Channel, 8 p.m. Eastern, and Discovery Civilization Channel, 9 p.m.; "Rebuilding Ground Zero" on Discovery Channel, 10 p.m. and Discovery Civilization Channel, 11 p.m.; "Anatomy of September 11th" on A&E Network, 8 p.m.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TERRORISM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ARAB AMERICANS (74%); ARMIES (74%); DISASTER RELIEF (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); TALIBAN (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); HIJACKING (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); REFUGEES (66%); RELIGION (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



294 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: THE CHEF: BARBARA LYNCH; 
Pasta, the Irish-Italian Way

BYLINE:  By MARK BITTMAN; Barbara Lynch is the chef and owner of No. 9 Park in Boston.

 BODY:
HOW a working-class Irish girl from South Boston became a chef with a national reputation for making pasta is one of those virtually unanswerable nature-vs.-nurture questions. But to watch Barbara Lynch as she mixes dough with her hands and feeds it into an old pasta machine that's no bigger than a home model is to see a young woman with the soul of an Italian grandmother.
 Wouldn't she save time by using a food processor? 
 "I never tried it," she said. 
Ms. Lynch, 38, is the chef and owner of No. 9 Park in Boston, a four-year-old restaurant in a renovated 19th century mansion that sits directly across from the Massachusetts State House and Boston Common. It's a spare and stylish place, with a largely familiar, upscale country European menu: butter-poached lobster, herb-crusted lamb, crispy duck and the like. Reviews have been strong. Ms. Lynch has won a number of awards and, in Boston at least, she is a celebrity chef. 
What those reviews always mention, though, and what really keeps everyone I know who's been to No. 9 Park going back is the pasta. Ms. Lynch and her staff produce seven types of pasta most days, for specials and for regular menu items. Each is seductive, pliant and reflective of a bit of her past. Most are not only traditional pastas but also common ones: they will not sound like new recipes, nor should they. Instead it is the precise combination of ingredients in the doughs and sauces that set these dishes apart. 
For the tagliatelle here, Ms. Lynch piled flour on the counter. She mixed in a little salt, broke eggs into the center of the flour and began integrating flour and egg. The tools were: her countertop, a fork and a scraper for cleaning the counter.
But her hands did the real work, kneading, sprinkling more flour, shaping and rolling. They seemed to move unconsciously and almost effortlessly. She chatted as she worked. There was a cavalier quality to her movements that seemed to belie her gift. 
How Ms. Lynch developed this gift is not readily apparent. "I figured I'd own a sub shop or a bar in Southie," she said of her career prospects in the years following her near-graduation from high school in 1982. "I was three points shy and refused to go to summer school," she said. 
She had one favorite class, though: home economics. Her instructor had a job at a culinary school in Cambridge, and encouraged Ms. Lynch to go. She couldn't afford it, but went to a few classes anyway. Then she got a job as a server at the old-fashioned St. Botolph Club in Back Bay. At home, she found herself keeping up with the reading.
Kitchen work followed, as flowers do a bud. Ms. Lynch got a job at the Harvest, a Harvard Square restaurant that has spawned some of Boston's best chefs, including Chris Schlesinger, Lydia Shire and Jimmy Burke. From there, she went to Michaela's, where Todd English was emerging as a national "name" chef. 
"At that point," she said, "I was cooking all day, then staying up half the night reading cookbooks and trying to learn the drill." 
When Mr. English opened Olives, Ms. Lynch took some money she had saved and headed to Italy, where she cooked alongside local women in the home of a friend. It was there, she said, that "it all fell into place." 
Ms. Lynch spent three weeks abroad -- learning how to make pasta and sauces, baking bread in wood-fired ovens and roasting meats in them as the ovens cooled, preserving tomatoes and other foods but mostly, she said, "following the women around all day." 
The recipe here is one of the first she learned: an ultra-rich pasta dough cut into the ribbons known as tagliatelle, and served with a traditional Tuscan meat sauce that differs from other typical meat sauces in several ways, chief of which are its two key ingredients, chicken livers and sage.
"There must be chicken liver for this sauce to be authentic," she said, "and it must be cooked with sage." She adds to this base other meats, preferably equal amounts of ground pork, veal and lamb. Beef, she insisted, will not work: the flavor is wrong. And then she lets everything simmer.
The process of cooking is, in fact, very simple: some aromatic vegetables are sauteed in olive oil, followed by the liver and sage, some red wine that's allowed to reduce, the ground meats, stock and tomatoes. The result, with or without cream, is bold and rich, a sauce that requires a big pasta to stand up to it. 
As for that pasta -- as anyone who has made fresh pasta a few times but has not made it a daily habit -- things are not quite so simple. It takes time. As a result, I've given proportions here for making enough pasta for four people. Since the sauce will cover pasta for eight, you can make it to serve two pounds of dried pasta, or use some of the sauce on one occasion and one on another. Or you can double the fresh pasta recipe. 
Either way, if you're rolling out pasta for tagliatelle, it's best to follow Ms. Lynch's lead exactly: use your hands, and work with total confidence despite all appearances. It works.

TUSCAN MEAT SAUCE
Time: 90 minutes

1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, diced
1 celery stalk, diced
1 medium carrot, diced
5 ounces chicken livers, diced
1/4 cup chopped fresh sage
Salt and pepper
1 1/2 pounds ground meat, preferably 1/2 pound each of veal, pork and lamb
1 1/2 cups red wine
2 1/2 cups veal or chicken stock
1 1/2 cups chopped canned tomatoes
1/2 cup chopped fresh basil
1 cup heavy cream, optional
Freshly grated Parmesan cheese.
1. Put olive oil in a deep skillet and turn heat to medium-high; add onion, celery and carrot and cook, stirring occasionally, until vegetables begin to become tender. Add chicken livers and sage, sprinkle with salt and pepper and cook, stirring, until liver pieces lose their red color. 
2. Add ground meat in bits, along with more salt and pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, again until redness is gone. Add the wine, raise heat to high, and cook until wine is almost all gone, about 15 minutes. Add stock, tomatoes and basil. Bring to a boil, then adjust heat so mixture simmers gently. Cook about 45 minutes, until mixture is dark and rich. 
3. Just before serving, stir in optional cream. Serve over tagliatelle or other pasta, topped with freshly ground black pepper and Parmesan cheese. 
Yield: 8 servings.

TAGLIATELLE
Time: 1 hour

About 2 cups all-purpose flour, more as needed
1 teaspoon salt, more for cooking noodles
2 whole eggs
3 egg yolks.
1. Combine 1 1/2 cups flour and the salt on a counter or large board, making a well in the middle. Break whole eggs into well and add the 3 yolks. Beat eggs with a fork, gradually incorporating a little flour. When mixture becomes too hard to stir with fork, use your hands. When all the flour has been mixed in, knead dough, pushing it against counter and folding it repeatedly until it is quite stiff and not at all sticky. Sprinkle with a little reserved flour. Clean your hands. Cover dough with plastic or a cloth and let it rest for about 1/2 hour. (You can store dough in refrigerator, wrapped in plastic, up to 24 hours, until you're ready to roll it out.)
2. Sprinkle counter lightly with flour. Cut off about one third of dough; wrap rest in plastic or cloth while you work. Roll dough lightly in flour, and use your hands to flatten it into a rectangle about the width of your pasta machine. Set machine to its highest (thickest) setting, and crank dough through. If it sticks, dust with more flour. Repeat. Set machine to its next thinnest setting and push dough through, adding flour again if pasta sticks. Repeat. 
3. Continue to work down the settings on machine. If dough tears badly, bunch it together and start again. Use as much flour as you need, but only in small amounts. 
4. Pass dough through machine's thinnest setting only once. (If pasta tears at thinnest setting, stop at the second-thinnest setting.) Flour dough lightly, cover it and set aside. 
5. Cut each sheet into rectangles roughly 16 inches long and as wide as the machine; trim ends to make it neat. Put pasta through machine once more, this time using the broadest (tagliatelle) cutter. Cook right away or hang strands to dry for up to a couple hours. 
6. To cook noodles, drop them into boiling salted water; they'll be done when tender, in less than 3 minutes. Toss with meat sauce and serve. 
Yield: 4 servings.

GRAPHIC: Photos: OLD WORLD WAYS -- Barbara Lynch of No. 9 Park in Boston makes fresh tagliatelle, above, and serves it with a Tuscan meat sauce. (Photographs by Rick Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (91%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%) COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; SURVEYS AND SERIES 

PERSON: BITTMAN, MARK; LYNCH, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



295 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: $25 AND UNDER; 
In a Red Hook Diner, Cheeseburgers Are Not Enough

BYLINE:  By Sam Sifton

 BODY:
DEEP in Red Hook, Brooklyn, down Van Brunt Street, where you can smell the salt off New York Bay, there's a new diner, the Hope & Anchor. It's a neighborhood place in a neighborhood that doesn't have a lot of people, and it needs to serve a number of purposes at once.
 It's a standard-issue diner breakfast spot -- eggs served all day -- and a purveyor of lunchtime sandwiches to local artists, homesteaders and layabouts. It's also an art-world dinner spot, serving would-be Basquiats luxe tuna steaks on the cheap, and a wings-and-burgers joint for those on their way home from work or on their way out to a bar. It ought to be the sort of place where you could trade a painting, or your services as a plumber, for a nice dish of monkfish. 
 And who knows, it very well might be. The owners -- Dianna and Kenneth Munz, who also run Panino'teca 275 in Carroll Gardens, and Gary Rego -- seem always to be present in the airy, mirrored dining room. And they take seriously the notion that they should greet all those who would venture through the door and onto their black plywood floors. There is a lot of handshaking at the Hope & Anchor.
There is also a lot on the menu, both upscale and down, which can lead to amusing combinations. You might see cheeseburger baskets arrayed across a table of friends here, but these could very well be joined by a prodigious and excellent Cobb salad ($7) or homemade potato gnocchi in fresh tomato sauce ($11) or an incongruous plate of cumin-dusted hummus and pita ($6). A plate of delicious plain pirogi ($7), served with a darkly sweet compote of cherries, grilled onions and sour cream? Sure, that, too.
The restaurant's name honors the birthplace of one of the owners, Rhode Island. Its state flag, a miniature of which sits above the restaurant's bar, is adorned by a golden anchor, with a blue banner floating beneath it on a sea of white, reading, "Hope." 
As a starter that continues the theme, there are plump and bready Rhode Island clam cakes ($5), served with a thick mayonnaise-like dipping sauce. Hope & Anchor serves a credible, though hardly perfect, version of the dish. (As in Narragansett, so too in Brooklyn: each fritter is far more dough than clam.) 
For bistro-like verisimilitude, there are also perfectly breaded, imperfectly over-fried calamari ($7) on the starter menu, served with a piquant garlic aioli. And for what was once that dish's socio-economic antipode, a plate of hot wings ($6), deep-fried in batter and served with a blue cheese dipping sauce of the sort most often found in establishments with multiple televisions.
Feel like a flat-patty cheeseburger ($6), with golden shoestring fries and a tomato-onion-lettuce pile on the side? You'll do very well here. Likewise with a cheese steak ($7) on soft bread with onions and those same crunchy fries. 
Less assured is herb-roasted chicken ($10) with mashed potatoes. The chicken was bone-dry one night, which only highlighted the excellence of the whipped and buttery starch. Balsamic-glazed calf's liver ($9) is a deliciously tweaked version of a diner classic, here delivered with thick, juicy bacon and caramelized onions. Seared tuna steak ($12) comes wrapped in a thin sheet of ham -- yes, ham -- with lemon butter and a potato pancake, and is likely to start discussions among even the closest friends. It's either a clever rendition or a ridiculous one, and while smart money would bet "ridiculous," it would lose.
Best, perhaps, is a terrific bowl of seared monkfish ($12), served in a bright tomato broth run through with the low, humming acidity of olives and chorizo, supplemented by sliced calamari and garbanzos for heft. It's puttanesca with a Portuguese accent.
Dessert is what's available in the retro-kitsch spinning glass refrigerator in the corner of the dining room: chocolate pudding ($5) to take you back to grade school, for instance, or apple pie a la mode ($6).
Hope & Anchor is not a destination restaurant, to be sure. It's a locals-rule sort of spot. But imagine a perfect fall weekend morning and a bike ride along wide, empty streets down to the Red Hook waterfront. The sun glints off the water, the Statue of Liberty rises in the distance, a breeze sends leaves skittering down a block. Then it would be just the thing: a cheeseburger deluxe and a good dose of neighborhood cheer.

Hope & Anchor
347 Van Brunt Street (Wolcott Street), Red Hook, Brooklyn; (718) 237-0276.

BEST DISHES: Cobb salad, cheese steak, pirogi, clam cakes, balsamic-glazed calf's liver, seared tuna steak, monkfish.
PRICE RANGE: Breakfast, $3 to $6.50. Appetizers, $4 to $8; main dishes, $5 to $12.
CREDIT CARDS: All major cards.
HOURS: Sunday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Tuesday to Thursday, to 10; Friday and Saturday, to 11; closed Monday.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS: Restaurant is up one step; ramp available.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); DRINKING PLACES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



296 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
History Lessons on Tax-Policy Strife

BYLINE:  By ALLAN SLOAN; Allan Sloan is the Wall Street editor of Newsweek.

 BODY:
THE GREAT TAX WARS
Lincoln to Wilson -- The Fierce Battles Over Money and Power That Transformed the Nation
By Steven R. Weisman
419 pages. Simon & Schuster. $27.
 Federal tax policy, normally relegated to the business pages, is hot news these days. 
 The sudden return of federal budget deficits has ignited a debate over the role that President Bush's 2001 tax cut has played in transforming huge projected surpluses into huge deficits. We are bombarded with revelations of how corporations and rich individuals are playing games, such as moving to Bermuda, to avoid taxes. And in the not-too-distant future questions of the fairness and adequacy of Social Security taxes will move front and center when the country finally confronts the gigantic gap between Social Security's commitments and its projected revenues. 
 "The Great Tax Wars: Lincoln to Wilson -- The Fierce Battles Over Money and Power That Transformed the Nation," by Steven R. Weisman, focuses on this timely topic. But this book does not really integrate those past battles with the current ones, which is unfortunate. We need a book that uses history to illuminate today, rather than leaving us to connect most of the dots ourselves. And Mr. Weisman, an editorial writer for The New York Times, could do a good job of writing such a book. He has written about business and economics for years, and has the ability to explain complicated subjects in ways that nonmavens can grasp. 
But "The Great Tax Wars" does perform a useful service by providing historical context, which is sorely lacking in most current discussions. The tax wars that Mr. Weisman writes about involved arguments over fairness, the taxation level at which people would no longer care to work and the differing ways that employment income and investment income are taxed. Sound familiar? Many of today's debates involve those very topics.
The book covers the period from 1860 to 1920. Unless you are a financial historian, the logic behind picking this period is not immediately apparent. Mr. Weisman starts his history shortly before Abraham Lincoln got a temporary federal income tax passed to help pay the North's Civil War expenses, and he ends during the Woodrow Wilson administration, when the income tax became entrenched a few years after the adoption of the 16th Amendment. That amendment overturned an 1895 United States Supreme Court decision -- at the time, as controversial as Bush v. Gore -- that declared the personal income tax illegal. It is no coincidence that the period Mr. Weisman writes about begins and ends with wars. Wars are expensive, and the country could not borrow enough to cover the whole bill. Hence the pressure for revenues from income taxes.
Mr. Weisman halfheartedly tries to tie his history into today's debate with a short introduction and a 19-page epilogue, but these read like afterthoughts. His real passion is making 60 years of economic debates read like newspaper articles, a project that he says he started thinking about six years ago.
What comes through clearly in "The Great Tax Wars" is that even though income taxes are accepted today and seem to have been around forever, they are a relatively recent development. For most of the 18th and 19th centuries and the early part of the 20th, the federal government depended not on income taxes, but rather on revenues from customs duties, liquor and tobacco. These are all consumption taxes, based on what people consume. They are the polar opposite of income taxes.
On a proportionate basis, high-income people are less affected by these consumption taxes than low-income earners because they spend a smaller proportion of their income on consumer goods. The opposite is true of income taxes, which affect high-income people much more than low-income ones. 
Mr. Weisman attributes the Union victory partly to the North's willingness to raise significant sums through an income tax, which the Confederacy did not do. The South, where most wealth consisted of slaves and agricultural property, was at a disadvantage compared with the North, where the rising merchant and manufacturing classes were better able to pay taxes than the asset-rich but cash-poor Southern gentry.
Mr. Weisman occasionally leavens his history with little anecdotal gems. For instance, he describes Mark Twain's brush with the tax man. Mr. Twain "reported in 1864 that he had paid an income tax of $36.82, plus a $3.12 fine for filing late," Mr. Weisman writes. He continues, "But this was all right with him, he said, because it made him feel 'important' that the government was finally paying attention to him." 
The consumption-versus-income-tax battle raged for decades, with income taxes periodically adopted and then dropped, and customs duties rising and falling, depending on political fashion. The Supreme Court outlawed the personal income tax in a controversial and confusing decision in 1895 that was overturned when the 16th Amendment was ratified in 1913. One result, Mr. Weisman writes, is that in 1913, "nearly 95 percent of federal revenues came from the purchase of commodities, which were paid disproportionately by families of modest means." He continues, "By 1930, by contrast, even after the tax reductions following the end of the war, two-thirds of federal revenues came from income and corporate taxes." 
The nation's income tax debate, nearly 150 years running, will probably continue indefinitely, with critics attempting to roll back President Bush's tax cut, which grows rapidly in future years and disproportionately benefits a few people with very high incomes. It especially benefits the heirs of the 2 percent of taxpayers whose estates are subject to the inheritance tax. The inheritance tax is scheduled to be repealed entirely in 2010, but to return in 2011. Mr. Bush pushes at every opportunity to make the cuts permanent.
It is a shame that Mr. Weisman did not fully incorporate contemporary tax battles into his book. But even in its current form, "The Great Tax Wars" is useful reading for anyone interested in understanding what tax debates are all about.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven R. Weisman (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); HISTORY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); LITERATURE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); WRITERS (72%); LITIGATION (64%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); APPEALS (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; TAXATION 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: AL GORE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) SLOAN, ALLAN; WEISMAN, STEVEN R 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: GREAT TAX WARS, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



297 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Issues Report On a Fiasco In the Market 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
A government-appointed panel of inquiry concluded today that some officials had made errors in connection with the issuance of a trading proposal that set off a steep decline among penny stocks here, angering many investors.
 But the panel said that some of the errors were "understandable," and largely confined itself to suggesting ways to improve the regulatory structure instead of assigning personal responsibility for the fiasco. 
 After consulting with regulators, the Hong Kong stock exchange proposed on July 25 to delist stocks that traded below 50 Hong Kong cents (6.4 United States cents) for 30 consecutive trading days. The proposal did not say how investors would be able to buy or sell these shares after they were delisted. 
Hong Kong lacks an equivalent to the bulletin board, or "pink sheets," trading for very cheap or delisted stocks in the United States, so the proposal prompted a rout the next day that erased a tenth of the market value of penny stocks here, or $1.3 billion. The exchange soon withdrew the delisting proposal.
The fiasco prompted many calls for the resignation of Frederick Ma, who had just become the secretary for financial services and the treasury when the Hong Kong government reorganized its departments and senior administrators on July 1. There was also some criticism of Antony Leung, the territory's financial secretary and its third-ranking official, who shares regulatory policy responsibilities with Mr. Ma.
But though today's report largely steered clear of assigning blame to individuals, it did question a few of Mr. Ma's actions. "This inquiry should not be taken as a fault-finding exercise," said the document, which was produced by a two-member panel selected by Mr. Leung.
"We uncovered some instances of errors of judgment, some perhaps even understandable in the circumstances, a few mishaps, items of miscommunication and some systemic wrinkles here and there," the report said. "None of the shortcomings we have identified are in themselves major."
Mr. Ma, who acknowledged at a separate legislative hearing that he had been sent the proposal before its release but said he had not taken the time to read it, apologized today for his conduct. "I accept the criticism sincerely and pledge to do better in the future," he said at a news conference this afternoon.
Emily Lau, a member of Hong Kong's Legislative Council, popularly known as Legco, dismissed the report as inadequate. "I don't think they can really satisfy the public -- I have been a member of Legco since 1991 and I have not seen such a big deal," she said.
The legislature is scheduled to hold another hearing on Wednesday.
Today's report did provide a surprisingly long list of recommended changes to Hong Kong's regulatory structure. The report especially urged the government to redefine the responsibility for listing and delisting stocks.
In Hong Kong, the authority to decide what stocks are traded lies not with regulators, as it does in many important financial markets, but with the politically influential, for-profit company that runs the markets, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd.
Corporate governance experts have long criticized this arrangement for giving Hong Kong Exchanges an incentive to halt trading in low-volume, low-priced stocks, which are expensive for the stock exchange to administer.
The report also pointed out that Hong Kong Exchanges had strongly objected a few months earlier to having regulators share policy proposals with shareholders to gauge possible market reaction, except when Hong Kong Exchanges specifically approved such sharing. Today's report recommended better consultation in the future.
It also said that the panel had been unable to find any evidence that the fall in penny stocks had been caused by market manipulation, an explanation that the government and the stock exchange had initially favored after share prices tumbled.
In a statement tonight, Hong Kong Exchanges repeated its recent apologies for the steep fall in penny stocks. The company "acknowledges that there is room for improvement in a number of areas and accepts in principle the panel's recommendations," the statement said.
David Webb, the editor of the nonprofit Webb-site.com, which covers corporate governance and economic issues here, said that the report provided strong support for long-needed changes. "The recommendations make a lot of sense," he said.
Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong's chief executive, said this evening at a news conference that he welcomed all of the report's recommendations, but he did not say whether they would be adopted.
Despite the report's gentle conclusions, Mr. Tung seemed to be distancing himself from Mr. Ma and Mr. Leung. Each of the three men took turns holding news conferences late this afternoon at the government's central offices here, with each man entering and leaving with his own aides but not being seen or photographed with either of the others.
Mr. Tung was criticized a month ago for allowing Mr. Leung to choose the two members of the panel of inquiry, Robert G. Kotewall and Gordon C. K. Kwong.
Today's report also mentioned an unusual alternative to delisting stocks that had been considered and rejected before Hong Kong Exchanges issued the actual proposal. The Securities and Futures Commission had "suggested the possibility of allowing delisted companies to remain traded, but with a prefix '4,' commonly regarded as meaning 'dead' in Cantonese, to distinguish them," the report said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong's chief executive, said last night at a news conference that he welcomed all of the recommendations made by an inquiry panel, but he did not say whether they would be adopted. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELISTINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); DEREGULATION (72%); RESIGNATIONS (52%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; TUNG CHEE-HWA 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (98%); UNITED STATES (92%) HONG KONG

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



298 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Curbing Their Appetite for Stocks 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
In the early 1990's, Edouard Winckler decided to bet on the future. A scholarship he landed to finish business school offered him a nest egg to invest. Beginning with low-risk money market funds, he gradually diversified into stock. The market was rising, and the French government, short of cash to balance its budget, was selling off chunks of nationalized industries like the oil company, the phone company and the national airline.
 After landing a job as a financial controller in the mid-1990's, Mr. Winckler kept buying stock. "Everybody was influenced by the Internet phenomenon," he said. "I decided to take more risks." 
 Now all bets are off. "I was really hit by the downturn," Mr. Winckler, 30, said recently.
The stock market slump, and the uncertainty it breeds in investors, is threatening Europe's fragile new faith in stocks as an investment.
In the booming 1990's, American-style stock ownership, long regarded in the Old World as too risky for most ordinary people, began to catch on among Europeans. In Europe's five biggest economies -- France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Britain -- stock's share of total invested assets grew to more than 46 percent by the end of 2000, according to Schroder Salomon Smith Barney. To be sure, that figure reflected the inflated share prices of the time, and it remained far below the 57 percent share in the United States, said Moneesh Puri, an analyst who helped compile the figures. But it was a big increase from the 38 percent of assets Europeans allocated to stock four years earlier.
Indeed, over the same period, the number of French households owning stock other than through mutual funds rose by half, to 20 percent in 2000 from 13 percent in 1996. In Germany, the number of people over 14 who owned stock, either directly or through funds, climbed to 20 percent of the total population by 2001, more than double the proportion of five years before. In Italy, it reached 11 percent, from 6.5 percent in 1998.
Yet Europeans have slowed their net new investment in stocks to a trickle in recent months. They poured a net 56 billion euros ($54.6 billion) into stock funds in the first quarter of 2000; in the period this year, the figure was only 6.5 billion euros. And the number of people holding stock has started to retreat again: it fell to 17.9 percent in Germany in the first half of 2002. Statistics for other countries are not yet available, but experts detect a similar trend across Europe.
"People are cautious," said Franz-Josef Leven, spokesman for the German Stock Institute in Frankfurt. "A lot has changed."
Mr. Leven said the stock euphoria of the 1990's was borne aloft in part by the successful efforts of newly privatized state companies, like Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom, to promote the idea of investing in stock. At the same time, companies began trying to motivate employees with generous employee share-ownership plans, often with share-price guarantees that assured employees a risk-free investment. Now that has changed.
In France, the big electrical equipment maker Alcatel introduced a stock purchase plan for employees in 2000, about 59,000 workers, or half the global payroll, signed up for the plan, including three-fifths of the company's workers in France. The board considered renewing the offer this year, but decided against it, in large part because the company's stock price has fallen by more than three-quarters since Jan. 1.
The Continental shift toward stock ownership in the 1990's reflected a growing sense among Europeans, whether Germans, French, Italians or Spaniards, that they were responsible for their own financial security. As governments stopped being able to afford cradle-to-grave social services, Europeans were urged to diversify their investments into stocks. The change was especially stark in Sweden, which last year began channeling a portion of social security contributions into mutual funds. In January, Germany began offering so-called Riester pensions, after Walter Riester, the social affairs minister who enacted them; the plans enable Germans to invest part of their pension contributions in stocks.
The Swedish plan is attracting a growing share of assets, but the Riester pension system has been slow to catch on in Germany. "Partly, it is too complicated," Mr. Leven said. "But there has been no great echo."
Continued weakness in stock markets has led European governments to shelve plans for more privatizations and for more programs to encourage citizens to invest in stock.
Online brokerages operations, which fanned out across Europe in the 1990's, are suffering from the change in mood. In Germany, the largest online brokerage market after Britain, the three largest players reported a cumulative loss of almost $560 million last year. Comdirect, controlled by Germany's third-biggest bank, Commerzbank, has closed affiliates in Italy and Spain and plans to lay off 308 of its 1,029 employees. Heavy losses at DAB Bank, a unit of the HypoVereinsbank group, have fueled speculation that it might be sold. Another rival, Consors, was forced recently into a deal with the French bank BNP Paribas to survive.
Many first-time stock investors were urged in by their banks, which began selling mutual funds over the counter in the 1990's. Ingrid Mosch, 66, a retiree in Zwickau in eastern Germany, was one who bought for the first time.
In late 1999, looking to invest some savings to supplement her monthly social security payments, Mrs. Mosch invested through her bank in DIT-Kapital Plus, a diversified $1.6 billion fund managed by Allianz Dresdner Asset Management. The fund posted a 15.4 percent gain in 1998 and rose 10 percent in 1999. But last year, it lost almost 3 percent, and by the end of June this year, a further 3.4 percent.
"It seemed clever and attractive," Mrs. Mosch said. "Now I really regret it."
Mrs. Mosch's adviser at the bank told her to hang on, that experience taught that the fund would recover. Asked whether she would increase her investment, she replied, "Oh, my lord, no."
Of course, not everyone is turning away. "There is still a lot of enthusiasm for the stock market," said Maurizio Dellocchio, a professor of finance at the Bocconi University School of Management in Milan. "Barring any extraordinary events, people will return."
Mr. Winckler agrees. "I want to hold on until it goes up again," he said.
"In France, the mentality has changed dramatically in the last 10 years," he said. For the older generation, it has to do with supplementing traditional social security payments. "That is certainly the reason for my father, and for the generation before me," he said.
But for younger people like him, he said, it is more a question of building trust in the economy. "I think we have no choice but to go with the market," he said. "If you're confident in the economy, you have to invest."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Losing Favor"In the booming stock markets of the 1990's, Europeans seemed on their way to developing a culture of widespread share ownership like that in the United States. But the trend has been slowed or halted by the slump in the markets since 2000. Graph tracks stock owned directly or through mutual funds, as a percentage of invested assets from 1998-2002 (june) in the following countries: United States Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Britain Graph tracks percentage of French households that own stock directly from 1986-2000.Note: Survey not conducted every year. Graph tracks percentage of Germans over 14 who own stock directly or through mutual funds from 1998-2002. Graph tracks percentage of Italians over 14 who own stock directly or through mutual funds. (1998-2002) (Sources: Schroder Salomon Smith Barney; INSEE; Infratest; Eurisko)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); EURO (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BONDS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); STATISTICS (70%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (65%); AIRLINES (56%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%) EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%) EUROPE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



299 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Securing Freedom's Triumph 

BYLINE:  By George W. Bush; George W. Bush is the 43rd president.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Sept. 11 attacks moved Americans to grief and horror and moved our nation to war. They revealed the cruelty of our enemies, clarified grave threats to our country and demonstrated the character and decency of our people. At a moment of great testing, the spirit of men and women in New York City, at the Pentagon and aboard Flight 93 became the spirit of our country. Tonight in New York, I will be speaking of what our nation has lost, what we have discovered about ourselves and what lies ahead.
 The terrible illumination of these events has also brought new clarity to America's role in the world. In great tragedy, we have also seen great opportunities. We must have the wisdom and courage to seize these opportunities. 
 America's greatest opportunity is to create a balance of world power that favors human freedom. We will use our position of unparalleled strength and influence to build an atmosphere of international order and openness in which progress and liberty can flourish in many nations. A peaceful world of growing freedom serves American long-term interests, reflects enduring American ideals and unites America's allies. We defend this peace by opposing and preventing violence by terrorists and outlaw regimes. We preserve this peace by building good relations among the world's great powers and we extend this peace by encouraging free and open societies on every continent.
The defense of peace is a difficult struggle of uncertain duration. America, along with our allies, is relentlessly pursuing terrorist networks in every part of the world to disrupt their planning, training and financing. With our allies, we must also confront the growing threat of regimes that support terror, seek chemical, biological and nuclear weapons, and build ballistic missiles. On this issue, the consequences of inaction could be catastrophic. We must deny terrorists and their allies the destructive means to match their hatred.
At the same time, we have the best opportunity in generations to build a world where great powers cooperate in peace instead of continually prepare for war. The 20th century, in particular, was dominated by a series of destructive national rivalries that left battlefields and graveyards across the earth. Competition between great nations is inevitable, but armed conflict in our world is not. Sept. 11 revealed more clearly than ever that the world's great powers stand on the same side of a divide -- united by common dangers of terrorist violence and chaos, and moving toward common values.
The United States, Japan and our Pacific friends, our NATO allies and now all of Europe share a deep commitment to human freedom. Russia is now a nation in hopeful transition, a country reaching for a better future based on democracy and the free market and an important partner in the war on terror. Chinese leaders are discovering that economic freedom is the only source of national wealth. In time, they will find that social and political freedom is the only source of national greatness. America will continue to encourage the advancement of democracy and economic openness in both Russia and China because these shared commitments bring true friendship and peace.
Common interests and values among the great powers are also the basis for promoting peace and security around the globe. In the past, great-power rivals took sides in difficult regional problems, making divisions deeper and solutions more complicated and elusive. Today, from the Middle East to South Asia, we are gathering broad international coalitions to increase the pressure for peace. America needs partners to preserve the peace, and we will work with every nation that shares this noble goal.
As we preserve the peace, America also has an opportunity to extend the benefits of freedom and progress to nations that lack them. We seek a just peace where repression, resentment and poverty are replaced with the hope of democracy, development, free markets and free trade.
More than ever, we know that weak states, like Afghanistan, can pose a great danger to the peace of the world. Poverty does not transform poor people into terrorists and murderers. Yet poverty, corruption and repression are a toxic combination in many societies, leading to weak governments that are unable to enforce order or patrol their borders and are vulnerable to terrorist networks and drug cartels.
America is confronting global poverty. Free trade and free markets have proved their ability to lift whole societies out of poverty -- so the United States is working with the entire global trading community to build a world that trades in freedom and therefore grows in prosperity. Through the Millennium Challenge Account, the United States will deliver greater development assistance to poor nations that govern justly, invest in their people and encourage economic freedom. And we will continue to lead the world in efforts to reduce the terrible toll of AIDS and other infectious diseases.
America will also take the side of brave men and women who advocate human rights and democratic values, from Africa to Latin America, Asia and the Islamic world. In our diplomatic efforts, development aid, international broadcasting and educational assistance, the United States will promote moderation, tolerance and the nonnegotiable demands of human dignity -- the rule of law, limits on the power of the state, and respect for women, private property, free speech and equal justice.
Terrorism has not only challenged the world, it has clarified some fundamental values. Every nation now faces a choice between lawful change and chaotic violence; between joyless conformity and an open, creative society; and between the celebration of death in suicide and murder and the defense of life and its dignity.
Many governments are being forced to reexamine their own tolerance for fanaticism and their sponsorship of hateful propaganda. Even free nations have been forced to reexamine the nature of their commitment to freedom -- to determine if this commitment is a reflection of convention and culture or the universal demand of conscience and morality.
America's people and its government are responding decisively to the challenges of our changed world. We are committed to defending our society against current and emerging threats. And we are determined to stand for the values that gave our nation its birth. We believe that freedom and respect for human rights are owed to every human being, in every culture. We believe that the deliberate murder of innocent civilians and the oppression of women are everywhere and always wrong. And we refuse to ignore or appease the aggression and brutality of evil men.
Throughout history, freedom has been threatened by war and terror; it has been challenged by the clashing wills of powerful states and the designs of tyrants; and it has been tested by widespread poverty and disease. What has changed since Sept. 11 is our nation's appreciation of the urgency of these issues -- and the new opportunities we have for progress. Today, humanity holds in its hands the opportunity to further freedom's triumph over all its age-old foes. The United States welcomes its responsibility to lead in this great mission.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); CEMETERIES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); AIRLINES (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



300 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Airlines Suffer From U.S. Embargo That Includes Planes 

BYLINE:  By NAZILA FATHI 

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
Roxana Pourshapour was on a flight from Shiraz to Tehran last month when she smelled something burning. Then the oxygen masks dropped.
 "Ladies and gentlemen, please stay calm and use the oxygen masks only if you have to," the pilot said over the loudspeaker, without further explanation. "We are on our way back to Shiraz." 
 The passengers fell silent as the plane steadily lost altitude, a terrifying experience for many who recalled two major crashes in the past year. In February a Russian Tupolev crashed near Khorramabad, killing all 118 passengers. In the summer of 2001 a Russian Yak-40 went down near the Caspian Sea; the 21 dead included the transportation minister and seven members of Parliament.
Even though the authorities ascribed the crashes to human error, the incidents increased public mistrust of Iran's aging aircraft, especially Russian-made planes that are replacing American-made Boeings.
It took just half an hour for Ms. Pourshapour's flight to return to Shiraz. The problem, it seems, was a fire in the ventilation system.
The passengers then learned that they had been told not to use the oxygen masks unless absolutely necessary because the pressure in the tanks was so low that they hardly functioned. In fact, there was not enough oxygen for Ms. Pourshapour and the two other passengers in her row to breathe into their masks at the same time.
With the aging of Iran's air fleet, reports of similar incidents appear more often.
For example, newspapers reported last month that the emergency door of one plane flew open last month while the plane was trying to land and that another flight was delayed for hours while waiting for a tire to be delivered from here. 
Even President Mohammad Khatami's plane was delayed for three hours because of technical problems when he was returning from an official visit to Athens in March.
Most Iranians blame the sorry state of Iran's aircraft on the longstanding United States trade embargo. Only 15 of the 30 American-built Boeings that Iran had in 1979 are still flying.
Because the embargo bars American companies from doing business with Iran, the Boeings are being replaced with Russian or secondhand European planes. Iran Air, the leading government airline, and the five smaller airlines have leased dozens of Russian-built planes.
In 2000, Iran agreed to buy four new planes from Airbus. Rolls-Royce was to provide the engines. But because most of the Rolls-Royce engines are made in the United States, the deal was called off, Davoud Keshavarzian, Iran Air's managing director, announced last month.
Iranian officials argue that the ban endangers civilian lives.
Mahmoud Mehranpour, Iran Air's deputy managing director for corporate planning, said, "The cost of maintaining these planes has increased in Iran because of the embargo, and so have the risks." Spare parts bought from a third country are more expensive than those bought directly from the United States. Mr. Mehranpour said Iran had 30 years' experience with Boeings and so remained reluctant to replace them with other plane.
He added that if not for the embargo, Iran would be willing to buy even used aircraft of bankrupt American airlines because of the good reputation American planes have here.
Over the next five years Iran will need at least 100 more planes, Mr. Mehranpour said. "Iran is a good market now," he added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (86%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (66%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%)

PERSON: FATHI, NAZILA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHIRAZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) CASPIAN SEA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAN (90%) IRAN; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



301 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Stores Open in Vermont Town, but Squabbles Live On 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

DATELINE: WILLISTON, Vt. 

 BODY:
Best Buy, big box, shining in the night: won't you make your sign less bright?
 It seems a small request, and elsewhere the quick answer would be no, but here in Vermont, the question was more of a demand. It came from the state Environmental Board in October, complete with the threat of fines or even criminal charges against the developer of a mixed-use project planned as this town's second center. 
 The project is called Maple Tree Place, a 71-acre complex intended to have 299,000 square feet of retail stores, 100,000 square feet of office space and 50 rental apartments surrounding a modest patch of land that the developers describe as a town green. (Williston, a suburb of Burlington, has a small historic downtown area, but no town green.) Three decades in the making, it has been opening in pieces over the last year, starting with the so-called big box retail stores, the, perhaps, least loved but most profitable buildings. 
The idea of the development began in the 1970's, when Williston was a farming community of 1,000. The historic town center could not be expanded without ruining its aesthetics, so Williston set aside a commercial development zone two miles up the main street, Williston Road, beside a highway interchange. The town wanted to generate tax revenue to support the school system.
The Pyramid Companies of Syracuse proposed a 700,000-square-foot shopping mall, but Williston rejected that design and others over the next decade. Ben Frank, a local architect, joined the project along the way.
Eventually, a task force was formed with a community group called Citizens for Responsible Growth, and the concept of an open-air, mixed-use complex was developed. In the end, Mr. Frank could not secure a construction loan, and again the project stagnated.
"I think he got tired," said Michael J. Munson, the town planner. "They put in a decade pulling this together."
In 1997, when the zoning was approved, Pyramid sold a two-thirds share in the development to Starwood Ceruzzi, a development company based in Fairfield, Conn., for a little more than $15 million.
The town's motivation changed simultaneously. Vermont started a redistributive property tax system for education that effectively nullified any benefit to the town's schools from commercial development. Aesthetics became the only thing that mattered, Mr. Munson said.
"We have really tried to adhere to the specifics and to the intent of what the town wanted, to make this a vibrant part of Williston, to give it a downtown feel," said Stephen J. Berini, an executive vice president of Starwood Ceruzzi who is managing the project. The company closed on a construction loan in August 2000 and began building the big box retail stores, planning to spend $85 million on the entire project.
The big boxes are open, with Staples, Dick's Sporting Goods and Linens-N-Things on one side of the site and a Shaw's Supermarket on the other, and Best Buy and a Chili's restaurant in between. They pay about $20 a square foot in annual rent to the developer. They pay their own property taxes and other expenses.
With Mr. Munson largely satisfied and the community group all but disbanded, the state has stepped in to regulate the developers.
The environmental board has ordered Starwood to overhaul Best Buy by changing the illuminated sign, making a new entrance facing the town green and lowering the facade as much as nine feet in some places. Also, the board said, Chili's roof should be more steeply sloped. Starwood is complying.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service has rented 28,000 square feet of office space, while 24,000 square feet sit vacant. A total of 100,000 feet of office space is planned around the town green, as is a 10-screen movie theater.
The green itself is less than an acre of weed-filled grass, surrounded by lampposts. Mr. Berini said he would add a gazebo in the spring.
Steven Bradish, a former leader of Citizens for Responsible Growth, said, "We're in a mode of keeping a close eye on what they're doing, that they don't get the advantages of the big boxes they want and not provide the town center."
Mr. Berini said his company had an economic incentive to finish the town green. The linens, sporting goods and office supplies stores, he said, "are always going to be successful on their own."
"I'm not going to make my return on investment on those three stores. That's 20 percent of the deal."
Still, Mr. Berini added, "generating income during a protracted development process has helped a lot."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (76%); ZONING (76%); APPROVALS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); HISTORIC SITES (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (55%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; SIGNS; FINES (PENALTIES) 

COMPANY: PYRAMID COS (82%)

ORGANIZATION: STARWOOD CERUZZI LLC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (82%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (82%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (79%) VERMONT, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%) VIRGINIA; WILLISTON (VA)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



302 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET-- Downtown Manhattan; 
A Big Victim Is Still Empty After a Year

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
Only the magnitude of disaster a few yards away could have eclipsed the painful story of the former Federal Office Building at 90 Church Street.
 This imposing one-million-square-foot Art Deco structure was handsomely renovated in the late 1990's by Boston Properties, which holds the master lease. Until Sept. 11, it housed nearly 3,000 employees of the United States Postal Service, the New York City Housing Authority and the Legal Aid Society. Today, it is empty and sealed off. No one knows when it will reopen. 
 Though it looks undamaged to passers-by, the building was permeated by contaminants, including lead, mercury and asbestos, from the collapse of 7 World Trade Center and the twin towers. 
"It just rained down and in," said Dan Kessler, general services director for the Legal Aid Society, which had its headquarters and numerous divisions in the top three floors of the 15-story building, completed in 1935.
If there was anything resembling good news that morning, it was that no one who worked at 90 Church Street was killed or seriously injured.
Any hope that the building could be quickly reoccupied vanished in the months after the attack, as the degree of contamination became apparent.
"Levels of specific contaminants alone are a concern, and combined they form a contaminant cocktail that represents a significant health and liability risk," the Airtek Environmental Corporation said in a report prepared for the Legal Aid Society. Airtek found asbestos, lead dust, fungi, fiberglass dust, heavy metals, mercury, bacteria and decayed organic matter.
Apart from buildings like 1 Bankers Trust Plaza and 90 West Street, which were catastrophically damaged, 90 Church Street is the last of the big office towers around ground zero that remains vacant, according to Insignia/ESG, a commercial real estate company.
It is too early to gauge the economic consequences for the building, because it is not yet entirely clear how the structure will be cleaned and who will pay for doing so. There are no property taxes to pay because the building is owned by the Postal Service and leased to 90 Church Street Ltd., an affiliate of Boston Properties, the real estate investment trust.
Boston Properties and the tenants have been working on a cleaning plan and are "very close to an agreement," said Robert E. Selsam, the senior vice president and regional manager of Boston Properties. 
"We had to develop a clean-up approach from scratch because there is no standard for many of the contaminants we found," he said. "We've taken a very careful, measured and reasoned approach. The last thing I want is somebody back in the building if it's not safe."
The lobby, a luminously memorable space with 20-foot-high green marble columns under a ceiling of translucent glass panels, was used as a temporary morgue after the attack. It has since been cleaned, Mr. Selsam said, and hundreds of broken windows have been replaced.
Reclaiming the tenants' spaces will mean extensive interior demolition, because contaminants have been found behind walls, on ceiling tiles and inside office partitions. The cost will run into the tens of millions of dollars.
"Our most important value is the safety and health of our staff, clients and visitors," Daniel L. Greenberg, president of the Legal Aid Society, said. "We've been told by environmental specialists that the only way to be sure of safety is demolition to the walls. It obviously has large and profound insurance implications."
Work might begin this November, Mr. Selsam said, and take about three or four months. After the retesting of the spaces for contaminants, tenants could begin rebuilding their offices, meaning a possible return to 90 Church Street late next summer or early fall.
"We would rather do it better than quicker," said David L. Solomon, the Postal Service vice president for the New York metro area. The service operated a post office in the first four floors, with about 850 employees. Contaminants found in the post office space included mercury, lead, cadmium, asbestos and polychlorinated biphenyls, said Jamie Cohen, the facility activation coordinator at the Postal Service for the metro area.
As it stands, the Church Street station may not reopen until November 2003. Even that date is tentative, Mr. Cohen said, because it "requires so many time frames and pieces of the puzzle fitting together."
Customers at the Church Street station included the tenants of the World Trade Center and World Financial Center, the Parking Violations Bureau and numerous banks and insurance companies, Mr. Solomon said, some of whom receive their mail in five-ton trucks.
Most operations were moved to the James A. Farley Building across Eighth Avenue from Pennsylvania Station.
The Housing Authority, by far the largest tenant, occupied nearly 450,000 square feet on seven and a half floors. Some 1,500 to 1,700 people worked in design, construction, finance, human resources, computer services, tenancy administration and housing applications, in the adjudicatory division and welfare employee program and in other fields.
The authority has leased 100,000 square feet of space at 90 Fifth Avenue, at 14th Street. It has also moved employees to its headquarters at 250 Broadway and other existing offices, including 350 Livingston Street in Brooklyn and 23-02 49th Avenue in Long Island City, Queens.
It estimates the cost of damages and dislocation from 90 Church Street at $93 million, said a spokesman, Howard Marder. That includes cleaning and rebuilding, replacing lost property and destroyed vehicles, and counseling its employees, many of whom witnessed horrific scenes that morning.
"Initially, the instruction was not to leave," recalled Mr. Kessler of the Legal Aid Society. "People were falling. Pieces of the building were falling. Flaming debris was falling." Part of the jetliner that hit the north tower plummeted to the roof of 90 Church Street, directly over the juvenile rights division, knocking loose the entire suspended ceiling frame. No one was hurt.
Had the attack occurred a bit later, the office would have been full. About 400 people worked in administration, payroll, accounting and human resources and in divisions handling homeless rights, health law, immigration, law reform, civil appeals and death penalty cases.
In addition, the society's computer system -- 65 servers in all -- is at 90 Church Street, linking offices and courtrooms citywide.
Building engineers managed an orderly shutdown of the ventilating and electrical systems, Mr. Selsam said. But the collapse of 7 World Trade Center set numerous fires in 90 Church Street. The sprinkler tanks emptied, filling the structure with water, which coursed down elevator shafts, causing further damage.
"Then we weren't able to get into the building for a long time," Mr. Selsam said, "so mold developed and spread everywhere."
With the help of Boston Properties and an emergency generator, the Legal Aid Society was able to jury-rig a power supply to its computers about 10 days after the attack. They have been running since. In midwinter, the society removed 20,000 cartons of material to Linden, N.J., after cleaning it in makeshift decontamination chambers in the elevator lobbies at 90 Church Street.
Employees are scattered in the society's 22 offices, including 49 Thomas Street in Lower Manhattan. Headquarters are in 25,000 square feet at 1 Battery Park Plaza, on a sublease from the law firm of Pillsbury Winthrop. The society also plans to take space at 199 Water Street.
Factoring in the expense of stripping the space at 90 Church Street to the slab and rebuilding it, the society estimates the cost of recovering from the attack at $25 million to $30 million, said Theresa de Leon, the chief operating officer and chief financial officer.
"We didn't realize at each step how long it would be," she said. "We thought it would be a matter of six weeks, a short-term issue, that we would be back at our desks by the holidays."
They may yet. Thanksgiving 2003.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Federal Office Building, 90 Church Street, at Vesey Street, was permeated by contaminants, including lead, mercury and asbestos. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times) Chart: "Data Update"New privately owned housing units authorized by building permits, seasonally adjusted, through July. Graph tracks privately owned housing units (regional in thousands) for the South, West, Midwest, and Northeast from 2000-2002. NATIONAL IN THOUSANDSJULY '01: 138.3MAY '02: 161.0JUNE '02: 156.0JULY '02: 157.3 (Source: U.S. Census Bureau) Map of Manhattan highlighting 90 Church Street 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); ASBESTOS (88%); LOBBYING (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGAL AID (76%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (74%); LEAD (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); FIBERGLASS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); TERRORISM (71%); HIJACKING (71%); POSTAL SERVICE (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); BACTERIA (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (64%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; LEAD; ASBESTOS; MERCURY (METAL) 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%) ;INSIGNIA/ESG 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



303 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: A Group Seeks to Rescue Endangered Scholars 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Juan Carlos Vallejo, a law professor at the University of Medellin in Colombia who has done research on human rights, was teaching last February when he noticed an unfamiliar man at the back of the room taking copious notes. After class, the man approached Professor Vallejo, asking leading questions about whether he felt safe walking home alone and whether he had known a colleague who had been murdered.
 In the following weeks, the professor found himself being followed, and friends told him that three armed men were looking for him. He stopped sleeping at home, and eventually escaped to the United States. 
 Professor Vallejo, who is now temporarily in residence at the University of New Mexico, is one of five foreign scholars who came to this country or are being helped to stay with the help of the newly created Scholar Rescue Fund, which is based in New York City. 
Rescuing endangered intellectuals is not new. In the 1930's, when Hitler's rise put many European scholars in danger, educational institutions, philanthropists and foundations arranged the rescue of more than 600 intellectuals, including Hannah Arendt. Soviet repression in Hungary and Czechoslovakia prompted similar efforts.
But with the fall of the Soviet Union, there was a sense that the greatest danger had passed, and interest in such efforts lagged. Now, however, the Scholar Rescue Fund is among several groups grappling with the problem again, as scholars are being harassed, imprisoned and sometimes killed in countries like Colombia, Indonesia and Pakistan.
"A lot of us were operating with the faulty assumption that with the end of the cold war, scholars would make out O.K.," said Allan E. Goodman, president of the Institute of International Education and former executive dean of Georgetown's School of Foreign Service. 
"We got it wrong. What we have learned is that scholars around the world face the same risks as human rights activists and journalists, and that not only will they be harassed, but some will be killed."
The new rescue fund was created by the Institute of International Education, which manages the Fulbright exchange program and other international exchanges and played a central role in the rescues in the 1930's. Besides Professor Vallejo, a scholar the fund is helping this year is Qinglian He, a Chinese economist whose work criticizing China's economic program was banned. She is now at the College of Staten Island.
The others are a constitutional scholar from Bangladesh who was threatened by government agents because of his open opposition to government policies, and is at the University of California now; a Ukrainian marine biologist who is working at the State University of New York at Stony Brook; and an Ethiopian engineer who is at a university in Illinois.
Next month, the fund will select 15 to 20 more threatened intellectuals from among roughly 50 applications from countries like China, Ethiopia, Burma and Iraq. Some have already fled their countries, and others are still in danger.
"I'm amazed at the number of things you can get in trouble for," said Robert Quinn, director of the rescue fund, pointing to the case of the Ukrainian marine biologist who studies plankton who found that government officials were unhappy about his desire to share his data with people in other countries.
"It tends to be the social scientists and humanists who get in trouble for the content of their work," Mr. Quinn said, "and the scientists who get in trouble for wanting to share information. Many states find that objectionable."
Two years ago, a group of academics established Scholars at Risk, a network intended to help endangered scholars find host universities outside their own countries.
The network, which Mr. Quinn also directs, is at the University of Chicago and now includes about 70 colleges and universities, but has no financing to support scholars. About 10 universities have pledged to support people, and at least five, including Harvard and the University of Toronto, already have scholars in residence who were threatened in their countries.
Concerned about the crisis-driven, ad hoc nature of the rescue missions, Mr. Goodman proposed last year that the institute create an endowed rescue fund of at least $10 million so money would always be available.
"I thought we should have a permanent endowment, so that we don't have to wait for three scholars to be killed before we rescue the fourth," he said.
His trustees not only backed the idea, but wanted to start immediately.
"Since my family were middle European refugees who came here in the 1930's, the Rescue Fund was a natural for me," said Henry G. Jarecki, a psychiatrist and businessman and one of the institute board members who supported the project. He and others, including George Soros's Open Society Institute, contributed $2 million to start the project, which has also begun to seek money for an endowment.
Pointing to the Jewish lives lost during World War II while organizations dithered over how to save them, Dr. Jarecki said it was important to help people in danger now, even if details were not worked out and the endowment not in place.
The rescue fund provides up to $20,000 a year per scholar, and requires that each scholar have a host university that at least matches that amount. In choosing the scholars, it weighs their academic qualifications, the dangers they face, their ability to work in another country and the likelihood that they will be able to return home at some point. The scholars are helped for up to a year, with the possibility of renewing for another year.
Aiding scholars for a year or two may not sound like much, but Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, says it is often enough.
"Usually the danger against a scholar is not permanent," he said. "Typically, there is a moment of extreme tension when danger is at its height. If you can pull a scholar out of a country at the period of maximum threat, it often is possible for the scholar to return later."
Professor He, the Chinese economist at the College of Staten Island, whose book, "The Pitfalls of China," was a best seller in China until it was banned, said she hoped to return to China.
"That's my motherland," she said through a translator. "But the newspapers and publishing houses that published my work were reprimanded, and told that if they had articles written by me they can be closed down." 
"Under these circumstances," she said, "I have no chance to go back. If the Chinese Communist Party does not change its current policy toward intellectuals, I cannot go back. How long that will take, I have no idea."
For now, she is continuing her work on Chinese corruption, collaborating with Ming Xia, a professor at the College of Staten Island on a project about Chinese gangs and organized crime, and studying English.
Professor Vallejo, too, is studying English, while he works at the Latin American and Iberian Institute of the University of New Mexico. He is conducting research on human rights, writing articles and working with students interested in Latin America and human rights.
He says the rescue program is a "great humanitarian gesture" that has made it possible for him to survive. Still, exile weighs on him.
"I believe all exiles dream of going home to their country," he wrote in an e-mail note translated by Mr. Quinn.
"Every morning I awake, believing I am in my apartment in my country; I am late; I must run to give my classes, to see my students, my friends. But no. Reality is that I am not there, and what is worse, I cannot return."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Qinglian He is a Chinese economist whose work criticizing China's economic program was banned. She is now at the College of Staten Island. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (89%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (89%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); MARINE BIOLOGY (73%); CHARITIES (73%); PHILANTHROPY (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SCHOLARS AND SCHOLARSHIP; ACADEMIC FREEDOM 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO (56%) SCHOLAR RESCUE FUND 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; HE, QUIGLIAN (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDONESIA (92%); HUNGARY (79%); IRAQ (79%); UKRAINE (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%) COLOMBIA; PAKISTAN; INDONESIA

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



304 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS; 
A Mobile Clinic Delivers Good Health and Grades

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein 

DATELINE: CHULA VISTA, Calif. 

 BODY:
FOUR years ago Dennis Doyle, an assistant superintendent of schools in this town on the Mexican border, reviewed attendance and test score data at the elementary schools. Not unexpectedly, schools with low scores also had poor attendance. Dr. Doyle figured that achievement would rise if he could keep the children, many from low-income and non-English-speaking families, in class.
 Meanwhile, Britt Berrett, chief executive of Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center, worried about a related problem: his hospital's uncollected bills for children without regular health care, who used emergency rooms for nonurgent treatment. 
 At a meeting of the local Human Services Council, Dr. Doyle and Mr. Berrett discussed their troubles and devised a solution: a mobile clinic sponsored by the school district, the city, Sharp Chula Vista and another local hospital. The clinic, with a nurse, a nurse practitioner and a nurse assistant, began rotating among five schools with high absenteeism, treating problems that would otherwise have kept pupils at home, like asthma.
Now attendance has improved, and scores have risen.
That success also stems from the clinic's ties to other services. After a pupil has been treated at the clinic, volunteers introduce the child's mother to a family center on school grounds. There, mothers are recruited for English-language classes, and a paraprofessional tries to enroll their children in a health plan. Some, whose family income is too high for Medicaid but too low to afford private coverage, may be eligible for the federally subsidized Children's Health Insurance Program, enacted by Congress in 1997. Children who are not citizens may get coverage from a patchwork of less-well-known public and private programs.
Aida Meza, a paraprofessional at the family center adjoining the Vista Square Elementary School, says follow-up contacts are often needed because many mothers hesitate to enroll their children in the federal insurance program: although children born in the United States are eligible as citizens, their parents may be in the country illegally and fearful of government agencies. 
Because the plan requires parents to enroll personally, Ms. Meza must call them back to the center at each step of the application process, translating for them on a speaker phone to health department officials. The plan requires small monthly premiums and periodic re-enrollment; Ms. Meza helps those daunted by the paperwork to comply.
Then she must take care that the coverage is actually used. Many immigrants are unfamiliar with the concept of preventive care and seek treatment for children only after an illness becomes serious. So Ms. Meza calls parents often, to ensure that their children get regular checkups and treatment for minor illnesses before they progress.
Largely because of Ms. Meza's efforts, three-quarters of Vista Square pupils now have health insurance. Most of the rest get free care at the mobile clinic.
The family center also provides training for mothers who work as community liaisons throughout Chula Vista. The mothers conduct classes for neighbors on issues like the importance of prenatal care, watching for diabetes and identifying women in depression.
A mobile clinic at the school site creates more work, not less, for Vista Square's regular nurse. Medications must now be dispensed. Children with asthma now have inhalers to be administered. With children enrolled in health plans, they now have regular doctors with whom the school nurse can consult when she observes new symptoms.
The clinic, the family center and the school nurse all share a common purpose: to keep children healthy enough to attend school, and alert enough to do well. Asthma, for example, does not harm performance just by keeping pupils out of class. If they are awake at night wheezing, they are too tired to pay attention even if they do make it to school the next day.
These services cost an average of about $300 a pupil per year, paid by the two participating hospitals, San Diego County, the City of Chula Vista, Medicaid, private foundations and the school district. Dr. Doyle insists, and data seem to confirm, that this spending has contributed to gains in test scores and other measures of student learning.
In a report for the National Bureau of Economic Research, Janet Currie of the University of California at Los Angeles and Mark Stabile of the University of Toronto, both economists, estimated that among children whose mothers are not high school graduates, each incidence of serious disease or injury raises the chance of being in the bottom fifth of the test score distribution by 7 percent.
That is a bigger impact than most analysts have previously identified. But in Chula Vista, Dr. Doyle seems to have come to a similar conclusion, and acted upon it.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); FAMILY (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); PARAEDUCATORS (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); MEDICAID (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); EXECUTIVES (56%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ABSENTEEISM; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; TESTS AND TESTING; NURSING AND NURSES; ASTHMA 

ORGANIZATION: SHARP CHULA VISTA MEDICAL CENTER 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) CHULA VISTA (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



305 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns; 
For Better And Worse, Life Goes On

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY 

DATELINE: SUMMIT, N.J. 

 BODY:
THAT morning, the controlled chaos of the New Jersey Turnpike turned haywire. Cars were abandoned. Doors were flung open.
People stood watching the horror across the marshland. Car radios narrated the nightmare. People snapped pictures of history, or the end of it. 
"There are thousands of people dying right now," one man said to me.
 "God help us," said another. 
 At that moment, it was distance that helped us. But in some ways, the divide between city and suburb had evaporated. The next day, Sept. 12, this town, which thrives on Wall Street money, was a representative suburb bracing for disaster. When the tallying was complete, Summit had lost eight people, a staggering toll that prompted an outpouring of support. 
Dan Confalone, who works in Lower Manhattan, was running errands that morning in Summit. Among the local victims was a friend with whom he had a tennis date for that day. "People just look at you, and you look at them, and you know they, too, have experienced a loss," he said then.
A year later, Summit represents a more complicated moment in time. For those not hit directly, for those in the shadow of the tragedy, there is the luxury of being able to choose whether to dwell or not dwell on it. Over the last year, whatever separates a community from Manhattan -- marsh, distance, water or other barrier -- has reasserted itself. 
"You still hear people saying that we will never be the same," said Rabbi William Horn. "The truth is, except for the economic level, things are pretty much the same."
The rabbi is not being callous. It is a measure of the country's comforts that life can take such a blow and spring back to a close approximation of its previous shape.
That is not necessarily a virtue. "We're spoiled Americans," said Linda Dellaert, who works at a decorating shop. "That's what I think. We take a lot for granted."
Darren Gerig, 27, a tile installer, said, "People who were rude and ignorant and didn't care still are ignorant and rude and don't care." But, he said, as grief over the tragedy recedes, others "are trying to pull the goodness out of it."
Mr. Confalone said the other day that the loss of his tennis friend and others affected him deeply, but he struggled to pinpoint how. "For the most part, we're the same people," he finally said, "but, for me, things that were usual are no longer usual."
It's small things, like kissing his children when he gets home late, even if it means waking them, or putting down the newspaper on the beach this summer and trying his kids' skim board. He's now a soccer coach and an Indian Princess chief. He's no hero, just another guy who can't forget the image of all those people who went to work one morning and never came home.
Carolyn Warren says many people she talks to at her busy store, the World of Music, have examined their lives, as you might after a funeral. "People come in and say, 'I'm going back to the piano, I'm going to take up an instrument, I'm going back to what's important in life,' " Ms. Warren said. "What's important has shifted."
BUT in the same store, a saleswoman, Mary Mahony, said, "I think we've gone back to our hectic lives."
Perhaps both are true. It depends on your distance from the tragedy, particularly in suburbs as seemingly plush and protected as this one.
Robyn and Rick Roberts are among many helping their neighbor Lucy Thompson, whose husband died Sept. 11. Dozens of friends surprised the family in November, when they were on vacation, by renovating the Thompsons' basement, complete with furniture and an entertainment center.
"Give to people who need help," is the lesson she said she hopes her children learn, though it's cold comfort for the loss of the irrepressibly funny and friendly Ian Thompson. 
Ms. Roberts' plans for today are much as they were for last Sept. 11: work at her home accountant office in Summit until her children come home from school, and then supervise homework and the home front. At night, her family will light a candle for Mr. Thompson. 
She said a friend recently noted that in Judaism, if a death occurs close to a planned wedding, just the music is canceled, not the ceremony.
"It doesn't mean you have to dance, but the wedding has to go on," she said. "That was so right. We don't have to be dancing, but life goes on." 



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (79%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (78%); SUBURBS (70%); TERRORISM (68%); BEACHES (65%); SOCCER (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) SUMMIT (NJ); WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



306 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 7386 words

HEADLINE: THE VICTIMS; 
Strangers, Dads, Sisters, Friends

 BODY:
 The human toll of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, is still unimaginable: 2,801 killed in the towers of the World Trade Center and in the two airplanes that were flown into them, 125 dead at the Pentagon and 59 aboard the plane that struck it, and 40 passengers and crew members aboard Flight 93 killed when that hijacked plane crashed into a field near Shanksville, Pa. In all, 3,025 victims united by a date -- Sept. 11. Here are those people. 

Aamoth, Gordy
Abad, Edelmiro
Abad, Marie
Abate, Andrew
Abate, Vincent
Abel, Laurence Christopher
Abraham, Alona
Abrahamson, William
Aceto, Richard Anthony
Ackermann, Heinrich B.
Acquaviva, Paul
Adams, Christian
Adams, Donald
Adams, Patrick
Adams, Shannon
Adams, Stephen
Adanga, Ignatius Udo
Addamo, Christy A.
Adderley, Terence E. Jr.
Addo, Sophia B.
Adler, Lee
Afflitto, Daniel
Afuakwah, Emmanuel
Agarwal, Alok
Agarwala, Mukul K.
Agnello, Joseph
Agnes, David
Aguiar, Joao
Ahearn, Brian G.
Ahern, Jeremiah J.
Ahladiotis, Joanne
Ahmed, Shabbir
Aiken, Terrance
Ajala, Godwin
Alagero, Gertrude
Alameno, Andrew
Alario, Peggy
Albero, Gary
Albert, Jon Leslie
Alderman, Peter Craig
Aldridge, Jacquelyn
Alegre-Cua, Grace
Alger, David
Alikakos, Ernest
Allegretto, Edward L.
Allen, Eric
Allen, Joe Ryan
Allen, Richard Lanard
Allen, Richie
Allingham, Christopher
Allison, Anna S.
Alonso, Janet
Alvarado, Anthony
Alvarez, Antonio
Alvarez-Brito, Victoria
Alvear, Telmo
Alviar, Cesar
Amanullah, Tariq
Amaranto, Angelo
Amato, James
Amatuccio, Joseph
Ambrose, Paul W.
Amoroso, Christopher C.
Amundson, Craig S.
Anaya, Calixto Jr.
Anchundia, Joseph P.
Anderson, Kermit C.
Anderson, Yvette
Andreacchio, Jack
Andrews, Michael
Andrucki, Jean
Ang, Siew-Nya
Angelini, Joseph J.
Angelini, Joseph J. Jr.
Angell, David L.
Angell, Lynn Edwards
Angilletta, Laura
Angrisani, Doreen
Antigua, Lorraine
Aoyama, David Seima
Apollo, Peter A.
Apostol, Faustino
Aquilino, Frank Thomas
Aranyos, Patrick M.
Arce, David
Arczynski, Mike
Arena, Louis
Arestegui, Barbara Jean
Arias, Adam P.
Armstrong, Michael J.
Aron, Jack Charles
Aron, Joshua
Aronow, Richard A.
Aronson, Myra Joy
Asaro, Carl
Asciak, Michael
Asher, Michael
Ashley, Janice
Ashton, Thomas
Asitimbay, Manuel
Atlas, Gregg
Atwood, Gerald
Audiffred, James
Aversano, Louis F. Jr.
Aviles, Ezra
Ayala, Sandy
Babakitis, Arlene T.
Bacchus, E. Rudy
Badagliacca, John J.
Baeszler, Jane Ellen
Baierwalter, Robert J.
Bailey, Andrew J.
Bailey, Brett T.
Bailey, Garnet
Bakalinskaya, Tatyana
Baksh, Michael
Balkcom, Sharon
Bane, Michael Andrew
Bantis, Kathy
Baptiste, Gerard
Baran, Walter
Barbara, Gerard
Barbaro, Paul
Barbella, James W.
Barbosa, Victor
Barbuto, Christine J.
Barkow, Colleen
Barkway, David
Barnes, Matthew E.
Barnes, Melissa Rose
Barnes, Sheila
Baron, Evan
Barry, Arthur T.
Barry, Diane
Barry, Maurice
Bart, Scott
Bartels, Carlton W.
Barzvi, Guy
Basina, Inna
Basmajian, Alysia
Basnicki, Kenneth
Bates, Stephen J.
Battaglia, Paul J.
Bautista, Ivhan Luis C.
Bautista, Marlyn
Bavis, Mark
Baxter, Jasper
Bay, Lorraine G.
Beale, Michele du Berry
Beamer, Todd
Beatini, Paul F.
Beatty, Jane
Beaven, Alan
Beck, Larry
Beckles, Manette Marie
Bedigian, Carl J.
Beekman, Michael
Beilke, Max J.
Belilovsky, Yelena
Bell, Nina
Bellows, Debbie
Belson, Stephen E.
Benedetti, Paul
Benedetto, Denise Lenore
Bennett, Bryan C.
Bennett, Eric
Bennett, Oliver
Benson, Margaret L.
Berger, Jim
Berger, Steven H.
Bergin, John P.
Bergsohn, Alvin
Bergstein, Daniel
Berkeley, Graham
Berkeley, Michael
Bernard, David W.
Bernstein, William H.
Berray, David M.
Berry, David S.
Berry, Joseph John
Bethke, William R.
Betru, Yeneneh
Betterly, Timothy D.
Beug, Carolyn
Beyea, Edward F.
Beyer, Paul
Bharvaney, Anil T.
Bhukhan, Bella
Biegeleisen, Shimmy D.
Bielfeld, Peter A.
Biggart, Bill
Bilcher, Brian
Bingham, Mark
Bini, Carl
Bird, Gary
Birnbaum, Josh
Bishop, George
Bishundat, Kris Romeo
Bittner, Jeffrey
Blackman, Balewa Albert
Blackwell, Christopher J.
Blagburn, Carrie R.
Blair, Susan L.
Blanding, Harry Jr.
Blaney, Janice Lee
Blass, Craig
Blau, Rita
Blood, Rick
Boccardi, Michael A.
Bocchi, John
Bocchino, Michael L.
Bochino, Susan
Bodley, Deora
Boehm, Bruce
Boffa, Mary
Bogdan, Nicholas A.
Bohan, Darren
Boisseau, Lawrence
Boland, Vincent
Bolourchi, Touri
Bondarenko, Alan
Bonheur, Andre Jr.
Bonnett, Colin
Bonomo, Frank J.
Bonomo, Yvonne
Booker, Sean
Booms, Kelly Ann
Boone, Canfield D.
Bordeaux, Sherry Ann
Bordenabe, Krystine
Boryczewski, Martin
Bosco, Richard E.
Bouchard, Carol M.
Boulton, J. Howard Jr.
Bourdier, Francisco
Bowden, Thomas H. Jr.
Bowen, Donna M.
Bowers, Kimberly S.
Bowers, Veronique
Bowman, Larry
Bowman, Shawn E. Jr.
Bowser, Kevin L.
Box, Gary
Boyarsky, Gennady
Boyce, Pamela J.
Boyle, Allen P.
Boyle, Michael
Braca, Alfred J.
Brace, Sandra Conaty
Bracken, Kevin
Bradshaw, Sandra W.
Brady, David B.
Braginsky, Alex
Brandemarti, Nicholas
Brandhorst, Daniel
Bratton, Michelle Renee
Braut, Patrice
Bravo, Lydia Estelle
Breitweiser, Ronald
Brennan, Edward A. III
Brennan, Francis Henry
Brennan, Michael E.
Brennan, Peter
Brennan, Thomas M.
Brethel, Daniel
Bright, Gary
Briley, Jonathan Eric
Brisman, Mark
Bristow, Paul
Britton, Marion
Broderick, Mark Francis
Broghammer, Herman
Broomfield, Keith
Brown, Bernard C. II
Brown, Janice
Brown, Lloyd
Brown, Patrick J.
Browne, Bettina
Bruce, Mark
Bruehert, Richard
Brunn, Andrew
Brunton, Vincent
Bucca, Ronald
Buchanan, Brandon J.
Buck, Greg
Buckley, Dennis
Bueche, Nancy
Buhse, Patrick J.
Bulaga, John E. Jr.
Bunin, Stephen
Burford, Christopher L.
Burke, Matthew
Burke, Tom
Burke, William F. Jr.
Burlingame, Charles F. III
Burnett, Thomas E. Jr.
Burns, Donald J.
Burns, Kathleen A.
Burns, Keith J.
Burnside, John P.
Buslo, Irina
Bustillo, Milton
Butler, Thomas
Byrne, Patrick
Byrne, Timothy G.
Caballero, Daniel M.
Cabezas, Jesus N.
Caceres, Lillian
Cachia, Brian Joseph
Cafiero, Steven
Caggiano, Richard M.
Caguicla, Cecile M.
Cahill, John B.
Cahill, Michael J.
Cahill, Scott Walter
Cahill, Thomas
Cain, George C.
Calabro, Salvatore B.
Calandrillo, Joseph M.
Calderon, Edward
Calderon-Olmedo, Jose
Caldwell, Kenny
Calia, Dominick E.
Calixte, Felix
Callahan, Frank
Callahan, Liam
Calley, Suzanne M.
Calvi, Gene
Camaj, Roko
Cammarata, Michael
Campbell, David O.
Campbell, Geoff
Campbell, Jill
Campbell, Robert A.
Campbell, Sandra
Campos, Juan Ortega
Canavan, Sean
Candela, John A.
Cangelosi, Vincent
Cangialosi, Stephen J.
Cannava, Lisa Bella
Cannizzaro, Brian
Canty, Michael
Caporicci, Louis Anthony
Cappello, Jonathan N.
Cappers, James C.
Caproni, Richard
Cardona, Jos
Carey, Dennis M.
Carlino, Edward
Carlo, Michael
Carlone, David G.
Carlson, Rosemarie C.
Carpeneto, Joyce
Carrington, Jeremy
Carroll, Michael
Carroll, Pete
Carson, James J. Jr.
Carstanjen, Christoffer M.
Carter, Angelene C.
Cartier, James Marcel
Carver, Sharon A.
Casalduc, Vivian
Casazza, John F.
Cascio, Paul
Casey, Neilie Anne
Cashman, William
Casoria, Thomas A.
Caspar, William
Castano, Alejandro
Castrianno, Leonard
Caswell, William E.
Catarelli, Richard G.
Caton, Christopher S.
Caufield, Robert John
Caulfield, Mary Teresa
Cavalier, Judson J.
Cawley, Michael
Cayne, Jason
Ceballos, Juan Armando
Cecil-Carter, Marcia
Cefalu, Jason
Celic, Thomas
Centeno, Ana
Cesta, Joni
Chada, John J.
Chairnoff, Jeffrey
Chalasani, Swarna
Chalcoff, William
Chalouh, Eli
Chan, Charles L.
Chang, Mandy
Chapa, Rosa Maria
Charette, Mark
Charlebois, David M.
Cheatham, Del-Rose
Checo, Pedro
Cherry, Douglas M.
Cherry, Stephen P.
Cherry, Vernon
Chevalier, Nestor
Chevalier, Swede Joseph
Chiang, Alex
Chiarchiaro, Dorothy
Chimbo, Luis
Chin, Robert
Ching, Eddie Wing Wai
Chiofalo, Nicholas Paul
Chipura, John
Chirchirillo, Peter
Chirls, Catherine Ellen
Cho, Casey
Chowdhury, Abul K.
Chowdhury, Mohammad S.
Christophe, Kirsten
Chu, Pamela
Chucknick, Steven
Chung, Wai
Ciafardini, Christopher
Ciccone, Alex
Cilente, Frances
Cillo, Elaine
Cintron, Edna
Cintron, Nestor A. III
Cirri, Robert
Cisneros, Juan
Clark, Benjamin K.
Clark, Eugene
Clark, Gregory A.
Clark, Mannie Leroy
Clark, Sara M.
Clark, Thomas R.
Clarke, Christopher
Clarke, Donna Marie
Clarke, Michael
Clarke, Suria
Cleary, Kevin Francis
Cleere, Jim
Cloud, Geoffrey
Clyne, Susan Marie
Coakley, Steven
Coale, Jeffrey
Cody, Patricia A.
Coffey, Daniel M.
Coffey, Jason M.
Cohen, Florence G.
Cohen, Kevin S.
Coladonato, Anthony J.
Colaio, Mark
Colaio, Stephen
Colasanti, Christopher
Colbert, Kevin N.
Colbert, Michel P.
Coleman, Keith
Coleman, Scott
Coleman, Tarel
Colhoun, Liam
Colin, Robert D.
Coll, Robert J.
Collin, Jean
Collins, John
Collins, Michael
Collins, Thomas
Collman, Jeffrey D.
Colodner, Patricia
Colon, Linda M.
Comer, Ronald
Concepcion, Jaime
Conde, Albert
Conley, Denease
Conlon, Susan
Conner, Margaret
Connolly, Cynthia Marie
Connolly, John
Connor, James L.
Connors, Jonathan
Connors, Kevin
Conroy, Kevin E.
Conway, Brenda E.
Cook, Dennis Michael
Cook, Helen
Coombs, Jeffrey
Cooper, John A.
Coppo, Joseph J.
Coppola, Gerard
Corbett, Joseph A.
Corcoran, John
Cordero, Alejandro
Cordice, Robert
Correa, Danny A.
Correa, Ruben
Corrigan, Georgine Rose
Corrigan, James J.
Cortes, Carlos
Cosgrove, Kevin M.
Costa, Dolores M.
Costanza, Digna A.
Costello, Charles
Costello, Michael
Cottom, Asia S.
Cottoy, Conrad
Coughlan, Martin
Coughlin, John G.
Coughlin, Timothy J.
Cove, James E.
Cox, Frederick
Coyle, James R.
Coyle-Eulau, Michele
Cramer, Anne Marie Martino
Cramer, Christopher
Crant, Denise Elizabeth
Crawford, James L. Jr.
Crawford, Robert
Creamer, Tara
Cregan, Joanne
Crifasi, Lucy
Crisci, John
Crisman, Daniel H.
Cross, Dennis
Crossin-Kittle, Helen
Crotty, Thomas G.
Crowe, John
Crowther, Welles Remy
Cruz, Francisco
Cruz, John R.
Cubas, Kenneth John
Cuccinello, Thelma
Cudina, Richard
Cudmore, Neil J.
Cullen, Thomas
Cullinan, Joan
Cummins, Brian Thomas
Cunningham, Michael J.
Curatolo, Robert
Curia, Larry
Curioli, Paul
Currivan, Patrick
Curry, Beverly
Curtin, Michael
Cushing, Patricia
Cushny, Gavin
D'Allara, John
D'Amadeo, Vincent
D'Ambrosi, Jack
D'Atri, Eddie
D'Auria, Michael D.
D'Esposito, Michael
Da Mota, Manuel
Dack, C. Arron
DaCosta, Carlos
Dahl, Jason
Dale, Brian Paul
Damaskinos, Thomas
Damiani-Jones, Jeannine
Danahy, Patrick W.
Danz, Vincent G.
Darcy, Dwight
Darling, Elizabeth
Dataram, Anette
Davidson, Lawrence
Davidson, Michael
Davidson, Scott M.
Davidson, Titus
Davila, Niurka
Davis, Ada M.
Davis, Clinton
Davis, Wayne Terrial
Dawson, Anthony R.
Dawson, Calvin
Day, Edward
De Araujo, Dorothy Alma
De Barrera, Gloria
De Cola, Paul
De Fazio, Jason
De Jesus, Jennifer
De Jesus, Monique E.
De Jesus, Nereida
De La Pea, Emerita
De La Torre, Azucena
De Martini, Frank
Dean, Billy
DeAngelis, Robert J. Jr.
DeAngelis, Thomas P.
Debek, Tara Moore
Debeuneure, James D.
DeBin, Anna
DeBlase, James V.
DeChavez, Jaycery ll
DeConto, Gerald F.
Dedvukaj, Simon
DeFeo, David A.
Delapenha, Donald A.
DeLeo, Vito
Delie, Danielle
Della Bella, Andrea
Della Pietra, Joseph A.
Delli Gatti, Palmina
Deloughery, Colleen
Deluca, Joseph
DelValle, Manny Jr.
Demas, Anthony
DeMeo, Martin
Deming, Francis Xavier
Demitz, Carol
Dennis, Thomas F.
DePalma, Jean Caviasco
Deraney, Robert
DeRienzo, Michael
DeRubbio, David P.
DeSantis, Jamal Legesse
DeSimone, Christian L.
DeSimone, Edward III
Desperito, Andrew
Deuel, Cindy
DeVere, Melanie Louise
DeVito, Jerry
Devitt, Robert P. Jr.
Devlin, Dennis L.
Dewan, Gerard P.
Dhanani, Simon A.
Di Pilato, Joseph L.
Di Tullio, Donald
DiAgostino, Michael L.
Diaz, Matthew
Diaz, Nancy
Diaz-Piedra, Michael A. III
Diaz-Sierra, Judith
DiChiaro, Patricia F.
Dickens, Rodney
Dickerson, Jerry D.
Dickey, Joseph Dermot Jr.
Dickinson, L. Patrick
Diehl, Michael D.
DiFato, John
DiFazio, Vincent F.
DiFranco, Carl A.
DiFranco, Donald J.
DiMartino, Deborann
DiMeglio, David
Dimino, Stephen P.
Dimmling, William
DiNardo, Marisa
Dincuff, Christopher
Dingle, Jeffrey Mark
Dionisio, Anthony Jr.
DiPasquale, George
DiStefano, Douglas
Doany, Ramzi
Doctor, Johnnie Jr.
Doherty, John J.
Doi, Melissa C.
Dolan, Brendan
Dolan, Robert E. Jr.
Dollard, Neil M.
Domanico, James Joseph
Domingo, Benilda
Dominguez, Alberto
Dominguez, Carlos
Dominguez, Jerome
Donnelly, Kevin
Donovan, Jacqueline
Dorf, Stephen S.
Dowd, Thomas
Dowdell, Kevin
Dowling, Mary Yolanda
Downey, Raymond M.
Doyle, Frank
Doyle, Joey
Drake, Randy
Driscoll, Patrick
Driscoll, Stephen P.
Dudek, Luke A.
Duffy, Christopher M.
Duffy, Gerard
Duffy, Michael J.
Duffy, Thomas
Duger, Antoinette
Duggan, Jackie Sayegh
Dukat, Sareve
Dunn, Patrick
Dunstan, Richard A.
Dwyer, Patrick Thomas
Eacobacci, Joseph Anthony
Eagleson, Bruce
Earhart, Edward T.
Eaton, Robert
Eberling, Dean P.
Echtermann, Margaret
Economos, Constantine
Edwards, Barbara G.
Edwards, Dennis Michael
Edwards, Michael Hardy
Egan, Christine
Egan, Lisa
Egan, Martin Jr.
Egan, Michael
Egan, Samantha
Ehrlich, Lisa Caren
Eichler, John Ernst
Eisenberg, Eric A.
el-Hachem, Peter
Elder, Daphne
Ferlinda
Elferis, Michael J.
Ellis, Mark J.
Ellis, Valerie Silver
Elmarry, Albert Alfy
Elseth, Robert R.
Emery, Edgar H. Jr.
Eng, Doris
Epps, Christopher S.
Ericson, Ulf R.
Erker, Erwin L.
Erwin, William J.
Escarcega, Sarah Ali
Espinoza, Fanny
Esposito, Brigette Ann
Esposito, Francis
Esposito, Michael
Esposito, William
Esquilin, Ruben Jr.
Ette, Sadie
Etzold, Barbara
Evans, Eric B.
Evans, Robert
Ewart, Meredith
Fagan, Catherine K.
Fagan, Patricia
Fairbanks Barbosa, Ivan
Fairben, Keith
Falkenberg, Charles S.
Falkenberg, Dana
Falkenberg, Zoe
Fallon, Jamie L.
Fallon, William
Fallon, William F. Jr.
Fallone, Anthony
Fanelli, Dolores B.
Fangman, Robert J.
Fanning, John Joseph
Faragher, Kathleen
Farino, Thomas
Farley, Nancy
Farley-Hackel, Paige
Farmer, Betty
Farnum, Douglas J.
Farrell, John
Farrell, John W.
Farrell, Terrence P.
Farrelly, Joseph D.
Farrelly, Thomas P.
Fatha, Syed Abdul
Faughnan, Christopher
Faulkner, Wendy
Fava, Shannon
Favuzza, Bernard
Fazio, Robert Jr.
Fazio, Ronald C.
Feehan, William
Feely, Francis J.
Feeney, Garth E.
Fegan, Sean B.
Fehling, Lee S.
Feidelberg, Peter
Feinberg, Alan D.
Feliciano, Rosa Maria
Felt, Edward
Fergus, Edward T. Jr.
Ferguson, J. Joseph
Fernandez, Henry
Fernandez, Judy H.
Ferraina, Elisa Giselle
Ferreira, Anne Marie S.
Ferris, Robert J.
Ferrugio, David Francis
Fersini, Louis
Ferugio, Michael
Fetchet, Bradley James
Fialko, Jennifer
Fiedel, Kristen Nicole
Fields, Amelia V.
Fields, Samuel
Filipov, Alexander
Finnerty, Timothy J.
Fiore, Michael C.
Fiorelli, Stephen J.
Fiori, Paul
Fiorito, John
Fischer, John R.
Fisher, Andrew
Fisher, Gerald P.
Fisher, John R.
Fisher, Thomas J.
Fishman, Lucy
Fitzgerald, Ryan
Fitzpatrick, Thomas
Fitzsimons, Richard
Fiumefreddo, Sal
Flagg, Darlene E.
Flagg, Wilson F.
Flannery, Christina D.
Flecha, Eileen
Fletcher, Andre
Flickinger, Carl
Flocco, Matthew M.
Florio, John J.
Flounders, Joseph W.
Flyzik, Carol
Fodor, David. L.W.
Fodor, Michael N.
Fogel, Steven Mark
Foley, Thomas
Folger, Jane
Fontana, Dave
Foo, Chih Min
Forde, Godwin
Foreman, Donald
Forsythe, Christopher H.
Foster, Claudia Martinez
Foster, Noel J.
Fosteris, Ana
Foti, Robert Joseph
Fox, Jeffrey L.
Fox, Virginia
Francis, Lucille
Frank, Gary J.
Frank, Morty
Frank, Peter Christopher
Fraser, Colleen
Fraser, Richard K.
Frawley, Kevin Joseph
Frazier, Clyde Jr.
Fredericks, Andrew A.
Freeman, Tamitha
Freiman, Brett Owen
Freund, Peter L.
Fried, Arlene
Friedlander, Alan W.
Friedman, Andrew
Friedman, Paul
Froehner, Gregg
Frost, Lisa
Fry, Peter C.
Fumando, Clement
Furman, Steven
Fyfe, Karleton
Gabler, Fredric Neal
Gabriel, Richard P.
Gabrielle, Richard
Gadiel, James
Gaff, Pamela
Gailliard, Ervin
Galante, Deanna L.
Galante, Grace
Galicia, Germn C.
Gallagher, Anthony
Gallagher, Daniel
Gallagher, John Patrick
Galletti, Lourdes
Gallo, Cono
Gallucci, Vincent
Galvin, Thomas
Gambale, Giovanna
Gambino, Thomas Jr.
Gamboa, Giann
Gamboa, Ronald
Gamboa-Brandhorst, D.
Ganci, Peter J.
Gann, Claude Michael
Garbarini, Charles
Garcia, Andrew
Garcia, Cesar
Garcia, David
Garcia, Juan
Garcia, Marlyn Del Carmen
Gardner, Christopher
Gardner, Douglas B.
Gardner, Harvey J. III
Gardner, Jeffrey
Gardner, Thomas A.
Gardner, William
Garfi, Frank
Gargano, Rocco Nino
Gartenberg, James M.
Garvey, Matthew
Gary, Bruce
Gatton, Boyd
Gavagan, Donald R.
Gay, Peter
Gazzini, Terrence
Geidel, Gary P.
Geier, Paul
Geis, Julie
Gelinas, Peter
Geller, Steven P.
Genco, Peter V.
Genovese, Steven Gregory
Gentul, Alayne
George, Linda
Geraghty, Edward F.
Geraty, Suzanne
Gerhardt, Ralph
Gerlich, Robert J.
Germain, Dennis
Gertsberg, Marina
Getzendanner, Susan M.
Getzfred, Lawrence D.
Geyer, James G.
Ghee, Cortez
Giaccone, Joseph
Giammona, Vincent F.
Gibbon, Debra Lynn Fischer
Giberson, Jim
Gibson, Brenda C.
Gibson, Craig
Gies, Ronnie
Gill, Paul
Gillette, Evan H.
Gilligan, Ronald
Gillis, Rodney C.
Gilly, Laura
Ginley, John F.
Giordano, Donna Marie
Giordano, Jeffrey
Giordano, John
Giorgetti, Steven A.
Giovinazzo, Martin
Girolamo, Kum-Kum
Gitto, Salvatore
Giugliano, Cynthia
Gjonbalaj, Mon
Gladstone, Dianne
Glascoe, Keith
Glasser, Thomas
Glazer, Edmund
Glenn, Harry
Glick, Barry
Glick, Jeremy
Glick, Steven
Gnazzo, John
Godshalk, William R.
Gogliormella, Michael
Goldberg, Brian
Goldflam, Jeffrey
Goldstein, Michelle
Goldstein, Monica
Goldstein, Steven
Golinski, Ronald F.
Golkin, Andrew H.
Gomes, Dennis
Gomez, Manuel Jr.
Gomez, Wilder Alfredo
Gonzalez, Jenine
Gonzalez, Mauricio
Gonzalez, Rosa Julia
Goodchild, Lynn Catherine
Gooding, Calvin
Goodrich, Peter Morgan
Goody, Harry III
Gopu, Kiran
Gorayeb, Catherine C.
Gordenstein, Lisa Fenn
Gorki, Sebastian
Gorman, Kieran Joseph
Gorman, Thomas E.
Gould, Kristin
Gould, Michael E.
Gowell, Douglas Alan
Goya, Yugi
Grabowski, Jon
Grady, Christopher M.
Graf, Edwin J. III
Graifman, David M.
Granados, Gilbert
Grandcolas, Lauren
Grant, Winston Arthur
Gray, Christopher S.
Gray, James Michael
Grayling, Linda Mair
Grazioso, John
Grazioso, Timothy
Green, Andrew Curry
Green, Derrick Arthur
Green, Wade B.
Green, Wanda A.
Greenberg, Elaine Myra
Greene, Donald F.
Greene, Gayle
Greenleaf, James
Greenstein, Eileen Marsha
Gregory, Denise
Gregory, Donald H.
Gregory, Florence M.
Grehan, Pedro
Griffin, John
Griffin, Tawanna
Griffith, Joan D.
Grifka, Warren
Grijalvo, Ramon
Grillo, Joseph
Grimner, David
Grogan, Francis E.
Gronlund, Linda
Grouzalis, Ken G.
Grzelak, Joseph
Grzymalski, Matthew J.
Gschaar, Robert J.
Gu, Michael Liming
Guadagno, Richard
Guadalupe, Jose A.
Guan, Cindy Yan Zhu
Guja, Geoffrey E.
Gullickson, Joseph P.
Guman, Babita
Gurian, Douglas B.
Gutierrez, Victor Paz
Guza, Philip
Guzzardo, Barbara
Gyulavary, Peter
Haag, Gary
Haberman, Andrea
Habib, Barbara
Haentzler, Philip
Hafiz, Nezam A.
Hagerty, Karen Elizabeth
Hagis, Steven M. Jr.
Hague, Mary Lou
Halderman, David
Hale, Maile Rachel
Hale-McKinzy, Diane
Hall, Richard B.
Hall, Stanley R.
Hall, Vaswald
Halligan, Robert
Halloran, Vincent
Halmon, Carolyn B.
Halvorson, James Douglas
Hamdani, Mohammed S.
Hamilton, Robert
Hammond, Carl Max
Han, Frederic K.
Hanley, Christopher J.
Hanley, Sean S.
Hanna, Valerie J.
Hannafin, Thomas
Hannaford, Kevin J.
Hannan, Michael
Hannon, Dana
Hanson, Christine
Hanson, Peter Burton
Hanson, Sue Kim
Haramis, Vassilios G.
Haran, James A.
Hardy, Jeffrey P.
Hargrave, Timothy J.
Harlin, Daniel Edward
Haros, Frances
Harrell, Harvey L.
Harrell, Stephen Gary
Harrington-Hughes, M.
Harris, Aisha
Harris, Stewart D.
Hart, John Patrick
Hartono, Eric
Hartz, John C.
Harvey, Emeric
Harvey, Sara Manley
Haskell, Thomas
Haskell, Timothy
Hasson, Joseph J. III
Hatton, Leonard W. Jr.
Hatton, Terence S.
Haub, Michael H.
Haviland, Timothy A.
Havlish, Donald G. Jr.
Hayatsu, Nobuhiro
Hayden, James E.
Hayes, Philip T.
Hayes, Robert
Haynes, W. Ward
Hazelcorn, Scott
Healey, Michael K.
Heber, Roberta Bernstein
Heeran, Charles F. X.
Heffernan, John
Heidenberger, Michele M.
Hein, Sheila M.S.
Heller, H. Joseph
Heltibridle, JoAnn
Hemschoot, Mark F.
Henderson, Ronnie Lee
Hennessy, Edward R. Jr.
Henrique, Michelle
Henry, Joseph Patrick
Henry, William L. Jr.
Hepburn, Robert A.
Herencia, Mary
Herkness, Lindsay C. III
Hermer, Harvey
Hernandez, Claribel
Hernandez, Noberto
Hernandez, Raul
Herold, Gary
Hersch, Jeffrey A.
Hetzel, Thomas
Hickey, Brian
Hidalgo-Tejada, Ysidro
Higgins, Timothy
Higley, Robert D. W. II
Hill, Todd Russell
Hinds, Clara
Hinds, Neil O.
Hindy, Mark David
Ho, Heather
Hobbs, Tara Y.
Hobbs, Thomas A.
Hobin, James
Hobson, Robert Wayne
Hodges, Dajuan
Hoerner, Ronald
Hoey, Patrick Aloysius
Hofer, John A.
Hoffman, Marcia
Hoffman, Stephen
Hoffmann, Frederick
Hoffmann, Michele
Hofmiller, Judith
Hogan, Wallace C. Jr.
Hohlweck, Thomas W. Jr.
Hohmann, Jonathan R.
Holland, Cora Hidaglo
Holland, Joseph
Holley, Jimmie I.
Holmes, Elizabeth
Holohan, Tom P.
Homer, LeRoy
Hoorn, Bradley Van
Hopper, James P.
Hord, Montgomery
Horn, Michael J.
Horning, Matthew
Horohoe, Robert L. Jr.
Horrocks, Michael R.
Horwitz, Aaron
Houston, Charles Joseph
Houston, Uhuru Gonja
Houtz, Angela M.
Howard, George
Howell, Brady Kay
Howell, Michael C.
Howell, Steven L.
Howley, Jennifer L.
Hromada, Millie
Hrycak, Marian
Huczko, Stephen Jr.
Hughes, Bobby
Hughes, Kris Robert
Hughes, Paul R.
Hughes, Thomas F. Jr.
Hughes, Timothy R.
Huie, Susan
Hulse, Lamar Demetrius
Hunt, William
Hunt-Casey, Kathleen
Hunter, Joe
Hurt, Peggie M.
Hussa, Robert
Hyland, Stephen N. Jr.
Hymel, Robert J.
Hynes, Thomas E.
Hynes, Walter
Ianelli, Joseph
Ibis, Zuhtu
Ielpi, Jonathan L.
Iken, Michael
Ilkanayev, Daniel
Ill, Fred Jr.
Infante, Anthony
Inghilterra, Louis Steven
Ingrassia, Christopher
Innella, Paul
Irby, Stephanie
Irgang, Doug Jason
Isaac, Todd
Isbrandtsen, Erik
Iskandar, Waleed J.
Iskenderian, Aram
Iskyan, John F.
Ito, Kazushige
Ivory, Lacey B.
Jablonski, Virginia M.
Jack, Bryan C.
Jackman, Brooke
Jacobs, Aaron
Jacobs, Ariel Louis
Jacobs, Jason
Jacobs, Michael G.
Jacobson, Steven
Jacoby, Steven D.
Jaggernauth, Ricknauth
Jagoda, Jake
Jain, Yudh V.
Jakubiak, Maria
Jalbert, Robert
James, Ernest
James, Gricelda E.
Jarret, Amy N.
Jawara, Muhammadou
Jeffers, Paul
Jenkins, John C.
Jenkins, Joseph Jr.
Jensen, Alan Keith
Jerath, Prem Nath
Jeudy, Farah
Jian, Hweidar
Jimenez, Eliezer Jr.
Jimenez, Luis Jr.
John, Charles Gregory
John, Nicholas
Johnson, Dennis M.
Johnson, Lashawana
Johnson, Scott
Johnston, William R.
Jones, Allison Horstmann
Jones, Brian Leander
Jones, Charles Edward
Jones, Donald T. II
Jones, Donald W.
Jones, Judith L.
Jones, Linda Joyce
Jones, Mary S.
Jordan, Andrew B.
Jordan, Robert T.
Joseph, Karl
Joseph, Stephen
Josiah, Jane
Jovic, Anthony
Juarbe, Angel
Juday, Karen Hawley
Judge, Ann C.
Judge, Mychal
Jurgens, Paul
Jurgens, Thomas E.
Kadaba, Shashi Kiran
Kamardinova, Gavkharoy
Kandell, Shari
Kane, Howard Lee
Kane, Jennifer L.
Kane, Vincent
Kang, Joon Koo
Kanter, Sheldon R.
Kaplan, Deborah
Kaplan, Robin
Kappelmann, Alvin Jr.
Karczewski, Charles Henry
Karnes, William A.
Karpiloff, Douglas G.
Kasper, Charles L.
Kates, Andrew
Katsimatides, John
Kaulfers, Robert M.
Kauth, Don J. Jr.
Kawauchi, Hideya
Keane, Edward
Keane, Richard M.
Kearney-Griffin, Lisa
Kearns, Donna B.
Keasler, Karol Ann
Keating, Barbara
Keating, Paul H.
Keene, L. Russell III
Kegler, Brenda
Keller, Chandler R.
Keller, Joseph
Kellerman, Peter R.
Kellett, Joe
Kelley, Frederick H. Jr.
Kelly, James J.
Kelly, Joseph
Kelly, Maurice Patrick
Kelly, Richard John Jr.
Kelly, Thomas Michael
Kelly, Thomas R.
Kelly, Thomas W.
Kelly, Timothy C.
Kelly, William H. Jr.
Kennedy, Robert C.
Kennedy, Thomas J.
Keohane, John
Kershaw, Ralph F.
Kerwin, Ronald T.
Kestenbaum, Howard
Ketcham, Douglas D.
Ketler, Ruth E.
Khalif, Boris
Khan, Sarah
Khan, Taimour
Khandelwal, Rajesh
Kiefer, Michael Vernon
Kim, Andy J.
Kim, Lawrence
Kimelman, Mary Jo
Kincaid, Karen Ann
King, Amy
King, Andrew M.
King, Lucille T.
King, Robert Jr.
King-Johnson, Lisa
Kinney, Brian
Kirby, Chris Michael
Kirschbaum, Barry
Kirwin, Glenn
Klares, Richard J.
Klein, Peter A.
Kleinberg, Alan David
Klitzman, Karen Joyce
Kloepfer, Ronny
Kniazev, Evgueni
Knox, Andrew
Knox, Thomas Patrick
Koborie, Rebecca
Kobus, Deborah
Koecheler, Gary
Koestner, Frank
Kohart, Ryan
Kolpak, Vanessa
Kolpakova, Irina
Kondratenko, Suzanne
Kon, Abdoulaye
Koo, Bon-Seok
Kopiczko, Dorota
Kopytko, Scott
Kostic, Bojan
Kousoulis, Danielle
Kovalcin, David
Krukowski, William E.
Ksido, Lyudmila
Kuge, Toshiya
Kumar, Shekhar
Kumpel, Kenneth
Kuo, Frederick Jr.
Kuras, Patricia
Kuveikis, Thomas
Kyte, Angela
La Vache, Maria
LaBorie, Kathryn L.
Lachhman, Amarnauth
LaCorte, Andrew
Ladkat, Ganesh
Ladley, James
LaFalce, Joseph A.
LaFond-Menichino, J.
LaForge, David J.
LaForte, Michael P.
Lafuente, Juan
Laieta, Vincent A.
Lake, William
Lalama, Franco
Lam, Chow Kwan
Lamana, Michael S.
LaMantia, Stephen
Lamonsoff, Amy Hope
Lane, Robert T.
Lang, Brendan
Lang, Rosanne
Langer, Vanessa
Langley, Mary Lou
Langone, Peter
Langone, Thomas
Lanza, Michele B.
Lapin, Ruth Sheila
LaPlante, Carol
Lariby, Ingeborg
Larkey, Robin
Larocque, Judy
Larrabee, Christopher
Larsen, Scott A.
Larson, John Adam
Lasden, N. Janis
Lasko, Gary E.
Lassman, Nicholas
Laszczynski, Paul
LaTouche, Jeffrey
Laurencin, Charles A.
Lauria, Stephen
Lavelle, Denis
LaVerde, Jeannine M.
Laverty, Anna
Lawn, Steven
Lawrence, Robert
Lawson, Nathaniel
Laychak, David W.
Layeni-Yee, Olabisi Shadie
Lazar, Eugen
Leahy, James P.
Leavey, Joseph
Leavy, Neil
LeBlanc, Robert
Lebor, Leon
Lederman, Alan
Ledesma, Elena
Leduc, Alexis
Lee, Daniel John
Lee, David S.
Lee, Dong Chul
Lee, Gary H.
Lee, Hyun Joon
Lee, Juanita
Lee, Kathryn Blair
Lee, Linda C.
Lee, Lorraine
Lee, Richard Yun Choon
Lee, Stuart
Lee, Yang Der
Lefkowitz, Stephen P.
Legro, Adriana
Lehman, Edward
Lehrfeld, Eric
Leistman, David R.
Lemagne, David
Lenihan, Joseph A.
Lennon, John Jr.
Lenoir, John Robinson
Lepore, Michael
Lesperance, Charles
LeVeen, Jeff
Levi, John Dennis
Levin, Alisha
Levin, Neil D.
Levine, Robert M.
Levinhar, Shai
Lewin, Daniel M.
Lewis, Adam
Lewis, Jennifer
Lewis, Kenneth E.
Lewis, Margaret S.
Liang, Ye Wei
Liangthanasarn, Orasri
Libretti, Daniel F.
Licciardi, Ralph
Lichtschein, Edward
Lightbourn-Allen, S. L.
Lillianthal, Steven
Lillo, Carlos
Lilore, Craig
Lim, Arnold
Lin, Darya
Lin, Wei Rong
Linehan, Thomas V. Jr.
Linnane, Robert T.
Linton, Alan Jr.
Lipari, Diane
Lira, Kenneth
Lisi, Lorraine
Lisson, Paul
Litto, Vincent
Liu, Ming-Hao
Liz, Nancy
Lizcano, Harold
Lizzul, Martin
Llanes, George
Logler, Elizabeth C.
LoGuidice, Catherine L.
Lohez, Jrme R.
Lomax, Michael W.
Long, Stephen V.
Longing, Laura Maria
Lopes, Salvatore P.
Lopez, Daniel
Lopez, George
Lopez, Maclovio Jr.
Lopez, Manuel
Lostrangio, Joseph
Louie, Chet Dek
Louis, Stuart S.
Lovero, Joseph
Low, Sara Elizabeth
Lowe, Michael W.
Lozier, Garry
Lucania, Charles
Luckett, Edward H. II
Ludvigsen, Mark
Lugano, Sean T.
Lugo, Daniel
Lukas, Marie
Lum, William Jr.
Lunden, Michael P.
Lunder, Christopher
Luparello, Anthony
Lutnick, Gary
Luzzicone, Linda
Lygin, Alexander
Lyles, CeeCee
Lynch, Farrell P.
Lynch, James Francis
Lynch, Louise A.
Lynch, Michael
Lynch, Michael
Lynch, Michael F.
Lynch, Richard Jr.
Lynch, Robert H.
Lynch, Sean
Lynch, Sean P.
Lynch, Terence M.
Lyons, Michael J.
Lyons, Monica
Lyons, Nehamon IV
Lyons, Patrick
Mace, Robert
MacFarlane, Marianne
Maciejewski, Jan
MacKay, Susan
MacRae, Catherine F.
Madden, Richard B.
Maddison, Simon
Maerz, Noell
Maffeo, Jennieann
Maffeo, Joseph
Magazine, Jay
Magee, Charles
Maggitti, Joseph V.
Magnuson, Ron
Maher, Daniel L.
Mahon, Thomas
Mahoney, William J. II
Maio, Joseph D.
Malahi, Abdu A.
Maldonado, Debbie
Maldonado, Myrna
Maler, Alfred Russell
Malone, Gregory J.
Maloney, Joseph E.
Maloney, Teddy III
Maloy, Gene Edward
Maltby, Christian
Mancini, Frank
Mangano, Joseph
Mannetta, Debbie
Manning, Marion
Manning, Terence
Maounis, James
Marchand, Alfred Gilles
Marchbanks, Joseph Jr.
Marchese-Giglio, Laura
Marcin, Hilda
Mardikian, Peter E.
Mardovich, Edward Joseph
Margiotta, Chuck
Marino, Kenny
Marino, Lester
Marlo, Kevin D.
Marrero, Jose J.
Marshall, John Daniel
Marshall, Shelley A.
Martello, James
Marti, Michael A.
Martin, Karen
Martin, Peter C.
Martin, Teresa M.
Martin, William J. Jr.
Martineau, Brian
Martinez, Betsy
Martinez, Edward J.
Martinez, Jose Angel Jr.
Martinez, Robert
Martinez, Waleska
Martnez-Caldern, Lizie
Martini, Paul
Mascali, Joseph A.
Mascarenhas, Bernard
Masi, Stephen F.
Mason-Acker, Ada L.
Massa, Nick
Massari, Patricia A.
Massaroli, Michael
Mastrandrea, Philip W. Jr.
Mastrocinque, Rudolph
Mathai, Joseph
Mathers, Charles
Mathesen, William A.
Matricciano, Marcello
Mattic, Margaret
Mattson, Dean E.
Mattson, Robert D.
Matuza, Walter
Maude, Timothy J.
Mauro, Charles A. Jr.
Mauro, Charles J.
Mauro, Dorothy
Mauro, Nancy
Maxwell, Robert J.
May, Renee A.
May, Tyrone
Maynard, Keithroy
Mayo, Robert J.
Mazza, Kathy
Mazzotta, Jennifer
Mbaya, Kaaria
McAlary, James J. Jr.
McAleese, Brian
McAneney, Patricia
McArthur, Colin Richard
McAvoy, John
McBrayer, Kenneth M.
McCabe, Brendan
McCabe, Michael J.
McCann, Thomas J.
McCarthy, Justin J.
McCarthy, Kevin M.
McCarthy, Michael
McCarthy, Robert
McCaskill, Stanley
McCloskey, Katie Marie
McCloud-Gray, Tara
McCourt, Juliana
McCourt, Ruth
McCrann, Charles Austin
McDay, Tonyell
McDermott, Matthew
McDonald, Joseph
McDonnell, Brian
McDonnell, Michael
McDowell, John F. Jr.
McEneaney, Eamon
McErlean, John T. Jr.
McGinley, Daniel F.
McGinly, Mark Ryan
McGinn, William E.
McGinnis, Thomas H.
McGinty, Michael G.
McGovern, Ann
McGovern, Scott M.
McGovern, William
McGowan, Stacey S.
McGuinn, Francis
McGuinness, Tom F. Jr.
McGuire, Patrick
McHale, Thomas
McHeffey, Keith D.
McHugh, Ann M.
McHugh, Denis III
McHugh, Dennis P.
McHugh, Michael Jr.
McIlvaine, Robert G.
McIntyre, Donald J.
McKenna, Stephanie M.
McKenzie, Molly L.
McKeon, Barry J.
McKinnedy, Evelyn C.
McKinney, Darryl L.
McLaughlin, George P. Jr.
McLaughlin, Robert C. Jr.
McMahon, Gavin
McMahon, Robert
McNally, Edmund
McNeal, Daniel W.
McNeil, Walter Arthur
Rambousek, Lucas
Ramirez, Maria Isabel
Ramos, Harry
Ramsaroop, Vishnoo
Ramsaur, Deborah A.
Ramzey, Lorenzo
Rancke, A. Todd
Rand, Adam
Randall, Jonathan C.
Ranganath, Shreyas
Ransom, Anne Rose
Rapoport, Faina
Rasmussen, Rhonda Sue
Rasmussen, Robert Arthur
Rasool, Amenia
Rasweiler, R. Mark
Ratchford, Marsha D.
Rathkey, David A.J.
Raub, William
Rauzi, Gerard
Razuvaev, Alexey
Reda, Gregory
Reed, Michele
Regan, Donald
Regan, Robert
Regan, Thomas M.
Regenhard, Christian
Reich, Howard
Reidy, Gregg
Reilly, James B.
Reilly, Kevin Owen
Reilly, Timothy E.
Reina, Joseph Jr.
Reinig, Thomas
Reisman, Frank
Reiss, Joshua
Renda, Karen
Rescorla, Richard C.
Resta, John
Reszke, Martha M.
Retik, David E.
Reuben, Todd H.
Reyes, Eduvigis
Reynolds, Bruce
Rhodes, John F.
Riccardelli, Francis S.
Riccoboni, Ann Marie
Rice, David
Rice, Kenneth F. III
Richard, Cecelia E.
Richard, Vernon
Richards, Claude
Richards, Gregory
Richards, Michael
Richards, Venesha
Riches, Jimmy
Richman, Alan
Rigo, John
Rimmele, Frederick III
Riso, Rose
Rivas, Moises
Rivelli, Joseph Jr.
Rivera, Carmen A.
Rivera, Isaias
Rivera, Juan William
Rivera, Linda
Rivers, David
Riverso, Joseph R.
Rizza, Paul V.
Rizzo, John Frank
Roach, Stephen L.
Roberto, Joseph
Roberts, Leo A.
Roberts, Michael E.
Roberts, Michael E.
Robertson, Donald W. Jr.
Robinson, Catherina
Robinson, Jeffrey
Robotham, Michell Lee J.
Robson, Donald Arthur
Rocha, Antonio
Rocha, Raymond J.
Rockefeller, Laura
Rodak, John
Rodrigues, Antonio
Rodriguez, Anthony
Rodriguez, Carmen M.
Rodriguez, Gregory E.
Rodriguez, Richard
Rodriguez-Vargas, David
Rogan, Matt
Rogr, Jean
Rogers, Karlie Barbara
Rohner, Scott W.
Roma, Keith
Romagnolo, Joe
Romero, Efrain Franco
Romero, Elvin
Romito, James A.
Rooney, Sean
Ropiteau, Eric T.
Rosario, Aida
Rosen, Mark H.
Rosenbaum, Brooke
Rosenbaum, Sheryl
Rosenberg, Lloyd
Rosenberg, Mark L.
Rosenblum, Andrew I.
Rosenblum, Joshua M.
Rosenthal, Josh
Rosenthal, Richard D.
Rosenzweig, Philip M.
Ross, Richard Barry
Rossetti, Daniel
Rossinow, Norman
Rossomando, Nicholas
Rothberg, Michael
Rothenberg, Donna M.
Rothenberg, Mark
Roux, James M.
Rowe, Nicholas
Rowenhorst, Edward V.
Rowlett, Judy
Roy, Timothy Alan Sr.
Ruback, Paul
Ruben, Ronald J.
Rubino, Joanne
Ruddle, David M.
Ruggiere, Bart J.
Ruggiero, Susan
Ruhalter, Adam
Ruiz, Gilbert Sr.
Ruiz-Diaz, Obdulio
Russell, Robert E.
Russell, Stephen P.
Russin, Steven H.
Russo, Michael
Russo, Wayne Alan
Ruth, William R.
Ryan, John J. Jr.
Ryan, Jonathan S.
Ryan, Kristy Irvine
Ryan, Matthew
Ryook, Christina S.
Saada, Thierry
Sabbag, Jason Elazar
Sabella, Thomas
Saber, Scott
Sabin, Charles E. Sr.
Sacerdote, Joseph
Sachs, Jessica
Sadocha, Frank John
Safi, Jude
Safronoff, Brock J.
Saiya, Edward
Salamone, John P.
Salamone, Marjorie C.
Salas, Juan G.
Salcedo, Esmerlin
Salerno, John S. Jr.
Salie, Rahma
Salinardi, Richard
Saloman, Wayne J.
Salomon, Nolbert
Salter, Cathy P.
Salvaterra, Frank
Salvio, Paul
Salvo, Sam
Sam-Dinnoo, Rena
Samuel, James K. Jr.
San Phillip, Michael
Sanay-Penafiel, Hugo
Sanchez, Alva Jeffries
Sanchez, Jacquelyn
Sanchez, Jesus
Sand, Eric
Sanders, Stacy
Sandler, Herman S.
Sands, James Jr.
SanPio Resta, Sylvia
Santiago, Ayleen
Santiago, Kirsten R.
Santillan, Maria Theresa
Santo, Susan Gayle
Santora, Christopher
Santore, John A.
Santoro, Mario
Santos, Roy
Saracini, Victor J.
Sarkar, Kalyan K.
Sarker, Chapelle Renee
Sarle, Paul F.
Sattaluri, Deepika K.
Saucedo, Gregory
Sauer, Susan
Savas, Anthony
Savinkin, Vladimir
Sbarbaro, John
Scales, David M.
Scandole, Robert
Scarpitta, Michelle
Scauso, Dennis
Schardt, John Albert
Scharf, John G.
Scheffold, Fred
Scheinberg, Angela Susan
Schertzer, Scott
Schielke, Sean
Schlag, Steven Francis
Schlegel, Robert A.
Schlissel, Jon
Schneider, Ian
Schoales, Thomas G.
Schott, Frank
Schrang, Gerard P.
Schreier, Jeffrey
Schroeder, John T.
Schuler, Susan L.
Schunk, Edward W.
Schurmeier, Mark E.
Schwartz, Clarin Siegel
Schwartz, John
Schwartz, Mark
Scibetta, Adriane
Scorca, Ralph
Scott, Janice M.
Scott, Randolph
Scudder, Christopher J.
Scullin, Arthur Warren
Seaman, Michael
Seeliger, Margaret
Segarra, Carlos
Sekzer, Jason
Sellitto, Matthew
Selves, Michael L.
Selwyn, Howard
Senko, Larry J.
Sereno, Arturo Angelo
Serrano, Frankie
Serva, Marian H.
Sesinova, Alena
Sessa, Adele
Sewnarine, Sita
Seymour, Karen Lynn
Sezna, Davis G. Jr.
Sgroi, Thomas Joseph
Shah, Jayesh
Shahid, Khalid
Shajahan, Mohammed
Shamay, Gary
Shanower, Dan F.
Shastri, Neil
Shatzoff, Kathryn Anne
Shaw, Barbara A.
Shaw, Jeffrey
Shay, Robert J. Jr.
Shearer, Kathleen
Shearer, Michael
Sheehan, Linda
Shefi, Hagay
Sherman, Antoinette M.
Sherry, John Anthony
Shiratori, Atsushi
Shubert, Thomas Joseph
Shum, See Wong
Shwartzstein, Allan
Sigmund, Johanna
Sikorsky, Gregory R.
Siller, Steve
Silver, David
Silverstein, Craig
Simmons, Bruce
Simmons, Diane M.
Simmons, Donald D.
Simmons, George W.
Simon, Arthur
Simon, Kenneth A.
Simon, Michael J.
Simon, Paul Joseph
Simone, Marianne
Simowitz, Barry
Simpkin, Jane Louise
Simpson, Jeff L.
Sincock, Cheryle D.
Singh, Khamladai
Singh, Roshan
Sinton, Thomas E. III
Siracuse, Peter
Siskopoulos, Muriel
Sisolak, Joseph
Skala, John
Skidmore, Francis J. Jr.
Skinner, Toyena
Skrzypek, Paul Albert
Slattery, Christopher
Slavin, Vincent
Sliwak, Robert
Sloan, Paul K.
Smagala, Stanley Jr.
Small, Wendy L.
Smallwood, Gregg H.
Smith, Catherine
Smith, Danny
Smith, Gary F.
Smith, George
Smith, Heather
Smith, Jeffrey Randall
Smith, Karl
Smith, Kevin Joseph
Smith, Leon Jr.
Smith, Moira Ann
Smith, Sandra Fajardo
Snell, Rochelle M.
Snyder, Christine
Snyder, Dianne Bullis
Snyder, Leonard J.
Sohan, Astrid
Solanki, Sushil
Solares, Ruben
Solomon, Naomi
Song, Danny
Sopper, Mari-Rae
Sorresse, Michael
Soto, Fabian
Soulas, Timothy P.
Spagnoletti, Gregory
Spampinato, Donald F. Jr.
Spataro, John
Spear, Robert W. Jr.
Speisman, Robert
Spence, Maynard S. Jr.
Spencer, George E. III
Spencer, Robert Andrew
Sperando, Mary Rubina
Spinelli, Frank J.
Spitz, William E.
Spor, Joseph P. Jr.
Sprockamp, Klaus
Srinuan, Saranya
St. Rose, Fitzroy
Stabile, Michael
Stack, Lawrence T.
Stackpole, Timothy
Stadelberger, Richard James
Stahlman, Eric A.
Stajk, Gregory
Stan, Alexandru L.
Stan, Corina
Stanley, Mary
Stark, Jeffrey
Statkevicus, Derek J.
Statz, Patricia J.
Staub, Craig
Steckman, William
Steen, Eric
Steiner, William R.
Steinman, Alex
Stephens, Edna L.
Stewart, Michael James
Stewart, Richard
Stoller, Sandy M.
Stone, Douglas
Stone, Lonny
Storey, Jimmy N.
Stout, Timothy C.
Strada, Thomas S.
Straine, James
Straub, Edward W.
Strauch, George J.
Strauss, Edward
Strauss, Steven
Strickland, Larry L.
Strobert, Steven
Stuart, Walwyn
Suarez, Benjamin
Suarez, David
Suarez, Ramon
Sugra, William Christopher
Suhr, Daniel
Sullins, David Marc
Sullivan, Christopher
Sullivan, Patrick
Sullivan, Thomas G.
Sumaya, Larry
Suozzo, James Joseph
Supinski, Colleen
Sutcliffe, Robert
Sutter, Seline
Sutton, Claudia Suzette
Swearson, Kristine
Sweeney, Brian David
Sweeney, Brian E.
Sweeney, Madeline Amy
Swenson, Kenneth
Swift, Thomas F.
Sword, Derek
Szocik, Kevin T.
Sztejnberg, Gina
Szurkowski, Norbert
Taback, Harry
Tabeek, JoAnn
Taddei, Norma C.
Taddonio, Michael
Takahashi, Keiichiro
Takahashi, Keiji
Talbot, Phyllis
Talhami, Robert R.
Talignani, John
Tallon, Sean Patrick
Talty, Paul
Tam, Maurita
Tamares, Rachel
Tamayo, Hector
Tamuccio, Michael A.
Tankard, Rhondelle C.
Tanner, Michael
Taormina, Dennis G. Jr.
Tarantino, Kenneth J.
Tarasiewicz, Allan
Tarrou, Michael
Tartaro, Ronald
Taylor, Donnie
Taylor, Hilda E.
Taylor, Kip P.
Taylor, Leonard E.
Taylor, Lorisa
Taylor, Michael M.
Taylor, Sandra C.
Teague, Sandra D.
Teepe, Karl W.
Tegtmeier, Paul
Tembe, Yesh M.
Tempesta, Anthony
Temple, Dorothy
Tengelin, David
Terrenzi, Brian
Terry, Lisa Marie
Thackurdeen, Goumatie
Thatte, Harshad Sham
Theodoridis, Michael
Theurkauf, Thomas Jr.
Thomas O'Keefe, Lesley
Thompson, Brian T.
Thompson, Clive
Thompson, Glenn
Thompson, Nigel Bruce
Thompson, Perry Anthony
Thompson, William Harry
Thorpe, Eric
Thorpe, Nichola A.
Thurman, Tamara C.
Tieri, Sal Jr.
Tierney, John Patrick
Tieste, William R.
Tietjen, Ken
Tighe, Stephen Edward
Timmes, Scott
Tinley, Michael E.
Tino, Jennifer
Tipaldi, Robert
Tipping, John II
Tirado, Hector Jr.
Titolo, Michelle L.
Titus, Alicia
Todisco, Richard
Tolbert, Otis V.
Tomasevic, Vladimir
Tompsett, Stephen
Tong, Thomas
Torres, Doris S.
Torres, Luis Eduardo
Toyen, Amy E.
Traina, Christopher M.
Trant, Dan
Traor, Abdoul Karim
Travers, Glenn
Travers, Walter P.
Traylor-Bass, Felicia
Trentini, James A.
Trentini, Mary B.
Trerotola, Lisa L.
Trerra, Karamo
Trinidad, Michael A.
Trombino, Joseph
Trost, Gregory
Troy, Willie Q.
Tselepis, William Jr.
Tsoy, Zhanetta
Tucker, Michael P.
Tull-Francis, Pauline
Tumulty, Lance
Turner, Simon J.
Tuzio, Donald Joseph
Twomey, Robert
Tzemis, Jennifer Lynn
Ueltzhoeffer, John
Ugolyn, Tyler
Uliano, Michael A.
Uman, Jonathan
Umarkar, Anil
Upton, Allen V.
Urban, Diane
Vaccacio, John Damien
Vadas, Bradley H.
Valcarcel, William
Valdes-Rodriguez, M.
Vale, Felix
Vale, Ivan
Valentin, Benito
Valentin, Santos Jr.
Valvo, Carlton F. II
Vamsikrishna, Pendyala
Van Acker, Erica
Van Auken, Kenneth
Van Hine, Richard Bruce
Van Laere, Daniel
Vanacore, Edward R.
Vandevander, Jon
Varacchi, Frederick
Varadhan, Gopal
Vargas, David
Vasel, Scott C.
Vasquez, Azael Ismael
Vauk, Ronald J.
Vazquez, Arcangel
Vega, Peter A.
Velamuri, Sankara
Velazquez, Jorge
Veling, Lawrence
Vera, David
Vialonga, Christopher
Vianna, Matthew
Vicario, Robert
Victoria, Celeste
Vidal, Joanna
Vigiano, John
Vigiano, Joseph
Vignola, Frank J. Jr.
Villanueva, Sergio
Vincelli, Chantal
Vincent, Melissa
Virgilio, Francine
Virgilio, Lawrence J.
Visciano, Joseph
Vitale, Joshua
Vola, Maria Percoco
Vosges, Lynette
Voskerijian, Garo
Vukosa, Alfred
Wachtler, Gregory
Wagner, Karen J.
Wahlstrom, Mary Alice
Wainio, Honor
Waisman, Gabriela S.
Wakeford, Wendy
Walcott, Courtney
Wald, Victor
Waldie, Kenneth
Walker, Benjamin J.
Wall, Glen J.
Wallace, Mitchel
Wallace, Peter G.
Wallace, Robert
Wallace, Roy
Wallendorf, Jeanmarie
Wallens, Matthew Blake
Waller, Meta L.
Wallice, John Jr.
Walsh, Barbara
Walsh, James
Walz, Jeffrey
Wang, Weibin
Warchola, Michael
Ward, Stephen
Ward, Timothy Ray
Waring, James
Warner, Brian
Washington, Derrick C.
Waters, Charlie
Waters, James T. Jr.
Waters, Patrick
Watson, Kenneth T.
Waye, Michael H, Weaver, Todd C.
Weaver, Walter E.
Webb, Nathaniel
Webster, Dinah
Weems, William M.
Weil, Joanne
Weinberg, Michael T.
Weinberg, Steven
Weingard, Scott
Weiser, Simon V.
Weiss, David Martin
Wells, Chin Sun Pak
Wells, Vincentl
Welsh, Deborah A.
Welty, Timothy Matthew
Wemmers, Christian
Wen, Vanessa
Wenckus, John Joseph
Wengerchuk, Oleh
West, Peter M.
Whalen, Meredith Lynn
Whelan, Eugene
White, Adam
White, Edward James III
White, James Patrick
White, John
White, Ken
White, Leonard Anthony
White, Malissa
White, Maudlyn A.
White, Sandra L.
White, Wayne
Whitford, Mark
Whittington, Leslie A.
Wholey, Michael T.
Wieman, Mary Lenz
Wiener, Jeffrey
Wik, William
Wildman, Alison M.
Wilkinson, Glenn
Willcher, Ernest M.
Willett, John Charles
Williams, Brian P.
Williams, Candace Lee
Williams, Crossley Jr.
Williams, David
Williams, Deborah Lynn
Williams, Dwayne
Williams, Kevin M.
Williams, Louie Anthony
Williamson, John P.
Wilson, Donna
Wilson, William E.
Winton, David H.
Winuk, Glenn
Wise, Thomas Francis
Wisniewski, Alan L.
Wisniewski, Frank T.
Wiswall, David
Wiswe, Sigrid
Wittenstein, Michael R.
Wodenshek, Christopher W.
Wohlforth, Martin
Wolf, Katharine
Wong, Jennifer Y.
Wong, Jenny Low
Wong, Steve
Wong, Yin Ping
Wong, Yuk-Ping
Woodall, Brent J.
Woods, James
Woods, Marvin Roger
Woods, Patrick
Wooley, David T.
Works, John B.
Wortley, Martin Michael
Wotton, Rodney J.
Wren, William
Wright, John W. Jr.
Wright, Neil R.
Wright, Sandra
Yambem, Jupiter
Yamnicky, John D. Sr.
Yanamadala, Suresh
Yancey, Vicki
Yang, Shuyin
Yarnell, Matthew
Yaskulka, Myrna
Yokum, Kevin W.
York, Kevin P.
York, Raymond R.
Youmans, Suzanne
Young, Barrington Jr.
Young, Edmond G. Jr.
Young, Jacqueline
Young, Lisa L.
Yuen, Elkin
Zaccoli, Joseph
Zakhary, Adel
Zaltsman, Arkady
Zampieri, Robert A.
Zangrilli, Mark
Zarba, Christopher R.
Zaslow, Ira
Zelman, Kenneth Albert
Zelmanowitz, Abe
Zeng, Zhe
Zeplin, Marc
Zhao, Justin
Zheng, Yuguang
Zinzi, Michael Jr.
Zion, Charles A.
Zipper, Julie
Zisa, Salvatore
Zois, Paul
Zucker, Andrew
Zukelman, Igor

These are the victims for whom The Times could not obtain photographs. Among them are 67 people still listed as missing by the New York medical examiners office. Other sources of names include interviews with families and friends of more than 2,200 victims; The Associated Press; and the Department of Defense. Names and figures are based on data reported as of Monday.
 Acevedo Rescand, Jesus
 Anai, Kazuhiro
 Aryee, Yaphet J.
 Asante, Patrick
 Barrett-Arjune, Renee
 Bauer, W. David
 Behr, Maria
 Bengochea, Maria
 Berardi, Dominick J.
 Bonsignore, Genieve
 Booth, Mary Jane
 Bothe, Klaus
 Brown, Ethel
 Calcagno, Philip V.
 Carey, Stephen
 Carney, Mark Stephen
 Casillas, Margarito
 Castillo, Arcelia
 Castro, Jose Raymond
 Chavez, Gregorio Manuel
 Collison, Joseph
 Colon, Soledi
 Cooper, Julian T.
 Cox, Andr
 Cranford, Eric A.
 Crotty, Kevin R.
 Cruikshank, Robert Lane
 Cummings, Joyce
 D'Antonio, Mary
 Danso, Nana Kwuku
 Dennis, Kevin
 Depena, Jose Nicholas
 Dhanani, Sulemanali Kassamali
 Diaz, Rafael Arturo
 Dillard, Eddie A.
 Donovan, William H.
 Droz, Charles A. III
 Duarte, Mirna A.
 Dunne, Christopher Joseph
 Eckna, Paul Robert
 Eggert, Carole
 Espinal, Jose
 Ferguson, George
 Fernndez, Jos M. Contreras
 Fernandez, Julio
 Finnegan, Michael
 Fisher, Bennett L.
 Foster, Sandra N.
 Frederick, Lillian Inez
 Furmato, Paul
 Garba, Osseni
 Gelling, Howard G. Jr.
 Gilbert, Andrew Clive
 Gilbert, Timothy Paul
 Gilbey, Paul S.
 Gilles, Mark Y.
 Gomez, Enrique
 Gomez, Jose
 Gordon, Kerene
 Granitto, Elvira
 Gray, Ian J.
 Gregg, Elizabeth
 Guevara Gonzalez, Joel
 Hamilton, Felicia
 Hardacre, Gerald F.
 Hawkins, Anthony
 Hemenway, Ronald J.
 Hennessey, Brian
 Henwood, John
 Hirai, Katsuyuki
 Holland, John
 Homer, Herbert W.
 Humber, John Nicholas Jr.
 Hussain, Abid
 Ilowitz, Abraham Nethanel
 Ishikawa, Taizo
 Ivantsov, Aleksandr Valeryerich
 James, Priscilla
 Jardim, Mark Steven
 Jean-Pierre, Francois
 Jean-Pierre, Maxima
 Jimnez Molina, Fernando
 Jones, Arthur Joseph
 Jones, Christopher D.
 Joseph, Albert Gunnia
 Joseph, Guylene
Joseph, Ingeborg
 Kabeya, Kacinga
 Kennedy, Yvonne E.
 Khan, Norma Cruz
 Khemrat, Oliva
 Khoo, Sei-Lai
 Kikuchihara, Satoshi
 Kimmig, Heinrich
 Kinoshita, Takashi
 Kren, John J.
 Kushitani, Nauka
 Kwarkye, Victor
 Kwok, Raymond
 LaFrance, Alan Charles
 Lai, Neil K.
 Lampley, Nickola
 Larry, Hamidou S.
 Ledee, Kenneth Charles
Lee, Myung Woo
 Leon, Jorge Luis
 Leonard, Matthew G.
 Levine, Robert
 Lindo, Nickie L.
 Liriano, Francisco
 Lopez, Luis Manuel
 Lozowsky, John Peter
 Ludwig, Lee Charles
 Lutz, William
 Lynch, James T. Jr.
 Magee, Brian
 Makimoto, Takashi
 Mariani, Louis
 Marino, Vita
 Martnez Pastrana, Victor Antonio
 Mazzella, Edward Jr.
 McNish, Jaselliny
 McNulty, Christine Sheila
 Medwig, Deborah Louise
 Mejia, Manuel Emilio
 Merino, Yamel
 Merrick, Deborah
 Michelstein, Martin Paul
 Miller, Craig James
 Miller, Robert Jr.
 Minata, Diakite
 Molina, Kleber Rolando
 Montgomery, Jeffrey
 Montoulieu, Peter
Montoya, Carlos Alberto
 Morales, Luis
 Moran, John Christopher
 Morell, George
 Moreno, Arturo Alva
 Munoz, Frank
 Murach, Robert M.
 Nakamura, Takuya
 Naseem, Mehmood
 Nath, Narender
 Nedd, Jerome O.
 Ngalula, Kapinga
 Nimbley, Paul
 Notaro, Daniela
 Ogawa, Takashi
 Ogletree, Albert
 Onda, Toshihiro
 Oni, Frank
 Ormiston, Virginia Anne
 Ose, Masaru
 Ostrowski, James R.
 Ottenwalder, Isidro D.
 Ou, Michael Chung
 Ovalles, Jesus
 Pabon, Israel Jr.
 Padilla-Chavarria, Rene
 Palumbo, Alan N.
 Paris, George
 Park, Gye Hyong
 Perry, Emelda H.
 Philips, Sneha Ann
 Phillips, Gerard
 Pigis, Theodoros
 Pratt, Antonio
 Quishpe-Cuaman, Carlos
 Raines, Lisa J.
 Reese, Judith Ann
 Reo, John
 Revilla Mier, Luis
 Riccio, Rudolph
 Rice, Eileen M.
 Rodriguez, Marsha
 Romero Orozco, Juan
 Rosario, Angela
 Rosenbaum, Linda
 Ryan, Edward
 Ryjova, Tatiana
 Sadaranghgani, Neeraha
 Sadeque, Mohammad Ali
 Salas, Hernando R.
 Samaniego, Carlos Alberto
 Sammartino, John P.
 Sanchez, Erick
 Santos Anaya, Jorge Octavio
 Santos, Rafael Humberto
 Schmidt, Karen Helene
 Scott, Sheila
 Segarra, Anthony
 Shanahan, Earl Richard
 Shea, Daniel
 Shea, Joseph
 Shulman, Mark
 Signer, Dianne T.
 Simjee, Nasima Hameed
 Singh, Kulwant
 Smith, James Gregory
 Smith, Joyce Patricia
 Smith, Keisha
 Smith, Rosemary A.
 Smithwick, Bonnie
 Sparacio, Thomas
 Spicer, Tina
 Starita, Anthony
 Stergiopoulos, Andrew
 Stern, Andrew
 Steuerle, Norma Lang
 Stevens, Martha
 Suarez, Xavier
 Sugiyama, Yoichi
 Swaine, John
 Tanaka, Kenichiro
 Taylor, Darryl Anthony
 Temple, Stanley L.
 Tester, Shell
 Thakur, Sumati
 Tiesi, Mary Ellen
 Tirado, David
 Tobin, John J.
 Tung, Ching Ping
 Vaidea, Renuta
 Vanvelzer, Barrett
 Vanvelzer, Edward
 Vanvelzer, Paul Herman
 Vasquez, Santos
 Ventura, Anthony Mark
 Vilardo, Joseph Barry
 Wang, Ching
 Weinstein, Steven George
 Weiss, David Thomas
 West, Whitfield
 Whiteside, Leanne Marie
 Williams, David L.
 Williams, Louis Calvin III
 Woodwell, Richard H.
 Yemele, William
 York, Edward P.
 Young, Donald M.
 Zambrana, Edwin J. Jr.
 Ziminski, Ivelin
 Zuccala, Joseph J.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 19, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Four photographs in the special "Nation Challenged" section on Sept. 11 with a listing of victims of the terrorist attacks were published in error. The one labeled David Seima Aoyama showed a woman whose identity is still unknown. The picture labeled William Cashman showed another man with the same name. The one labeled Jonathan Connors was a duplicate of the picture of another victim, Kevin Connors. The picture labeled Thomas H. McGinnis was a duplicate of the picture of Glenn Thompson. Correct pictures appear here.

Photos: Aoyama, David Seima; Cashman, William; Connors, Jonathan; McGinnis, Thomas H.

GRAPHIC: Photos (pgs. G41-G47) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); HIJACKING (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); AIRLINES (77%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (88%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); SHANKSVILLE (PA)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



307 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1701 words

HEADLINE: GROUND ZERO: CHARITY; 
A Flood of Money, Then a Deluge of Scrutiny for Those Handing It Out

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
Never has so much money been raised with so little effort. The roughly $2.7 billion raised for charity in the months after Sept. 11 set a record for philanthropy.
 Within just 24 hours of the attacks, the American Red Cross raised more than $1 million, and ultimately almost 300 charities were created to address the disaster in some way. Many who gave had never given before. 
 But for all the good it has brought, the philanthropic response to Sept. 11 has perhaps forever changed the nature and expectations of charity, accelerating trends that were already developing and setting precedents that will most likely bring discord. 
"Sept. 11 produced the most overwhelming outpouring of sympathy, empathy, anger, anxiety, but most of all, generosity, that we have ever seen," said Vartan Gregorian, president of the Carnegie Corporation and informal adviser to big-league philanthropists like Walter H. Annenberg, Bill Gates and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York. "I wish that unprecedented outpouring of philanthropy had met a similar outpouring of gratitude instead of creating the acrimony that it has. Money brings out the worst in everyone."
The added attention has brought added pressure. "This was philanthropy in a fish bowl," said Victoria B. Bjorklund, a lawyer who sits on the board of the Robin Hood Relief Fund and who specializes in tax-exempt groups. "Never have the press, donors and regulators given such scrutiny to charity."
Several principles that have long served as the bedrock of American charity -- the notion that it should benefit the needy, that it should be distributed equitably, that it should not aid illegal activity -- were either scrapped or set aside in the rush. 
National tax law governing the collection and distribution of philanthropy was rewritten, expanding the limits of who could be helped and loosening regulations on who was raising the money. Power to effectively decide who would get the charitable money shifted in great degree from the charities to donors.
And, perhaps most important, the intense scrutiny devoted to charity after the attacks, and the array of embarrassing reports that resulted, began forcing tougher standards of accountability on volunteer boards and the executives they oversee.
"People are going to be much more chary about giving," said William Josephson, the assistant attorney general who runs the charities bureau in the New York State attorney general's office. "The combination of the economic downturn and donor disappointment with how the Red Cross and others handled their money in this disaster will force charities to work hard to restore public confidence."
Among some experts in the world of philanthropy and charity, however, the competing view is that while Sept. 11 was a momentous philanthropic event, its long-term impact could well be less than many expect, for good or bad. "I think we'll get past it," said Dr. Eugene R. Tempel, executive director of Indiana University's Center on Philanthropy. "Except for the fact that so many people responded electronically, I don't think we're going to point to that day and say, 'This forever changed philanthropy and charity in this country.' "
The American Red Cross might disagree. Perhaps no issue that cropped up after Sept. 11 had more effect than the organization's decision shortly after the attacks to set aside more than $200 million of the money raised for a new terrorism response program.
Donors, victims and regulators protested angrily. Even though the Red Cross quickly bowed to pressure, pledging to devote every cent given because of Sept. 11, $988 million so far, to the victims of the attacks and overhauling its system for handling donations, it is still struggling to recover. Surveys by the Brookings Institution show that confidence in the Red Cross continues to fall.
The results of demands that every last cent be spent on victims -- and quickly, regardless of what experienced charities thought prudent -- have led to jarring consequences. Charity is likely to make millionaires of some of the victims' families, while perhaps more far-reaching needs spawned by the attacks, like mental health counseling and job training, may face financial constraints. Philanthropic dollars flowed in equal amounts to families of victims who had sterling life insurance policies and benefits plans and to those whose loved ones worked off the books.
While charity is not always about the needy, as in the case of museums and arts groups, many people have now questioned the wisdom of disbursing money without better regulation of what people receive.
"My biggest concern is not so much with the administration of the money, but that so much money was being donated and spent so quickly that I wonder if we really, in the end, made the most of our charitable giving," said Jim Gabbe, whose family gave about $10,000 to Sept. 11 causes.
The Internal Revenue Service, which oversees tax-exempt organizations, has been praised for moving quickly to make the distribution of charitable money more efficient. It temporarily suspended requirements that nonprofits determine need before handing out money, eased restrictions on corporate assistance, and quickly granted tax-exempt status to almost 300 groups.
But those good intentions are proving troublesome, charity leaders say, although generally not publicly. "Now we find ourselves having to make the monthly lease payments on a Mercedes-Benz 600 for one family, but unable to help the family that owns a 10-year-old, fully-paid-for Ford that's still running thanks to string and duct tape," one charity executive grumbled last spring.
Of the 293 charities the I.R.S. granted preliminary tax-exempt status, only a quarter responded to repeated attempts by the Non-Profit Times, a trade paper for nonprofit managers, to get their financial information. The lack of response has suggested to some experts that the creation of bogus or seat-of-the-pants outfits might have been widespread.
Many supposed Sept. 11 charities refused to respond to queries, the paper reported, even though the insistence on greater accountability by nonprofit organizations was rising even before the disaster. "The demand for accountability has always been there, but it got much stronger after Sept. 11," said Rick Cohen, president of the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy.
In general, Mr. Cohen's group and other watchdog agencies commend the efforts of the large Sept. 11 charities, noting that they were dealing not only with the stewardship of a staggering amount of money but also with trying to develop a response to a disaster that was unlike any other.
Pier 94 in Manhattan, where a smorgasbord of social service agencies set up tables and offered a variety of assistance, like cash and legal assistance as well as pets for victims to cuddle, is likely to become a model for disaster response. And some charities' Web sites, like those for the Robin Hood Relief Fund and the September 11 Fund, have provided a new model of accountability.
But the nonprofit world has failed to capitalize on its successes and has allowed its problems and failures to define it, according to many experts and officials. Sixty percent of the people responding to a survey by the Brookings Institution in December said they were following stories about the Red Cross and United Way "very" or "somewhat" closely. Only 34 percent said the same of the Enron scandal, and 33 percent of the death of George Harrison.
"There was a moment that really should have been a moment the nonprofit sector seized to make itself visible, to explain itself, but instead it got hammered and lost a critical opportunity to gain greater public support," said Paul C. Light, director of the Center for Public Service at Brookings, an expert on nonprofits.
For instance, nonprofit leaders are wringing their hands that they did not use Sept. 11 to explain to the public that the administration of charity has a price. Money to cover overhead expenses is the hardest to raise, yet many Sept. 11 charities rushed to assure donors that not one cent of contributions would be used for expenses. Foundations like Ford, Mellon and Carnegie generally picked them up, but the experience may cause donors to expect such largesse routinely of these foundations or others and then be disappointed.
The Independent Sector, a coalition of more than 700 nonprofit organizations, recently published a report called "Keeping the Trust," which contained the results of a July survey on the attitudes of more than 1,000 adults toward charitable organizations. Charity executives almost universally point to that survey and its finding that 64 percent of those interviewed said charities were "honest and ethical in their use of funds." From the survey, Independent Sector concluded that Sept. 11 has had no lasting effect on the public view of charities.
But researchers say that survey allowed too few different responses to accurately capture discontent with charities.
Brookings did its own surveys, and using the same questions as the Independent Sector but with an expanded, and more generally accepted, set of possible answers, it got different results. In its May 2002 survey, the percentage of respondents saying they had a lot of confidence in charities fell to 18 percent from 25 percent in December, when the same questions were asked. The percentage saying they had no confidence in charities rose to 19 percent from 8 percent.
"The charitable sector did not get the surge in confidence that everyone else -- police officers, firefighters, politicians, corporations, everyone -- got last fall," said Mr. Light. "And in fact, for federated organizations like the Red Cross and the United Way, they took a really big hit."
Sara Melendez, president and chief executive of the Independent Sector, said it was too early to provide definitive answers to the questions that Sept. 11 raised for charities, and she cautioned that some of them might prove unanswerable. "There is nothing black and white or right and wrong about many of the issues Sept. 11 posed," she said. "In many cases, it's a matter of choosing between values and degrees of good. We could sure use Solomon right now." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); TRENDS (75%); TERRORISM (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); LAWYERS (67%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) TERRORISM; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE WAVE ENERGY LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (58%)

TICKER: CWE (ASX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (56%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%) STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



308 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: The Strains Are Showing in Air Travel 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
The grace period for air travel has ended.
 Gone are the days of good will after the Sept. 11 attacks, when passengers, airlines and airports were willing to put up with all kinds of intrusive and time-consuming security measures. Gone, too, are the months when carriers desperately wooed frightened travelers by catering to their needs and when well-intentioned federal officials optimistically laid out new safety plans. 
 Now, airlines and airports are vigorously lobbying the government to scale back or modify many of the new safeguards. Passengers are clamoring for more consistent and less exasperating security procedures. And airlines are cutting back on passenger services and creating ticket restrictions they would not have dared put in place before last fall. 
Hartsfield Atlanta International, the world's busiest airport, is grappling with many of the industry's issues a full year after the terrorists struck, transforming air travel more than any aspect of daily life. The airport serves as a hub for Delta Air Lines, the nation's third-largest carrier, and AirTran Airways, a fast-growing low-fare carrier.
Hartsfield also became a symbol last November for the potentially nightmarish future of air travel, when the entire airport was shut for four hours because a passenger ran down an up-escalator to retrieve a camera bag.
No single industry was hit harder by the attacks than the airlines, which have lost about $10 billion in the last year. Business travelers are shunning expensive tickets, and only low-cost carriers like AirTran are making money again. Delta lost $1.3 billion in the last three quarters, while AirTran lost $12.1 million. In the most recent quarter, Delta lost $10.80 per thousand available seat miles, while AirTran made $3.40.
Besides resorting to drastic cost-cutting efforts to stay aloft, the airlines -- along with airports like Hartsfield -- are in a heated dispute with the 10-month-old Transportation Security Administration over what security measures should be trimmed because they are driving away passengers. Still, many people blame the airlines' hiring of cheap security contractors for the lax procedures before Sept. 11, and some experts say that several streamlining ideas by the carriers, like hastily creating a "trusted traveler" program to speed passengers and employees through checkpoints, could be costly and cumbersome.
The airlines are openly resentful of security measures that they say have scared away customers, especially on short-haul flights.
"The T.S.A. has the best intentions in the world," said Frederick W. Reid, Delta's president. "But unless you keep the law enforcement focus and add customer service and efficiency to it, you will kill aviation."
Delta has been one of the most outspoken airlines about scrapping certain security procedures, like searching carry-on bags at the boarding gate. The chief executive, Leo F. Mullin, made several trips to Washington over the summer to talk with federal officials about overhauling parts of the system. He is pushing for the government to drop, among other things, a security tax of $2.50 a flight leg that was added to tickets in February.
In addition, the airlines have told the government that they will not pay $750 million that federal officials had requested of them for next year's security budget. The industry actually came up with that figure last winter when Congress asked it for an estimate of certain security costs, but the airlines have since said they will pay only $300 million.
The companies have also banded together to support the idea of a "trusted traveler" card. Adm. James M. Loy, head of the federal security agency, said yesterday at a Senate hearing that he backed the concept. But such a program should be put in place slowly, some security experts say, and it could be costly for the taxpayer. Moreover, any watering down of current procedures -- including removing random checks -- could have dire consequences.
"I think the industry is being shortsighted if in fact that is their view," said Jeff Schlanger, chief operating officer of security services at Kroll Associates, an international risk assessment company. "A decrease of security in airports during preboarding might inevitably lead to additional situations."
Many experts agree that security is better now than a year ago but still has a long way to go before being truly effective. Mr. Schlanger recommended that guards be taught how to ask more probing questions of passengers and to watch for suspicious behavior.
George Novak, an airline safety consultant and program director at the Aviation Institute at George Washington University, said bag searches at the gate should be kept for now because there is a chance a bag could be switched or tampered with after the security checkpoint. But truly efficient measures will come only as technology slowly improves, allowing the government to use facial recognition, iris scans and rapid database searches to check passengers, he said.
Throughout the summer, embarrassing incidents revealed that people were still able to smuggle weapons past security guards, sometimes at airports where federal workers had already replaced contractors. On Aug. 25, a woman with a loaded .357-caliber handgun in her carry-on bag walked past private screeners in Atlanta and boarded a plane. The gun was found by guards in Philadelphia, where the woman was trying to catch a connecting flight.
Nearly 66 million passengers came through Hartsfield from September 2001 to July, a figure down more than 10 percent from the period the previous year. The airport is set up so almost all fliers go through a single security checkpoint with multiple screening gates. Lines in the weeks after last fall's attacks stretched hundreds of feet, with waits sometimes an hour or more.
Following advice from consultants, the airport created a single serpentine line that winds back on itself more than a dozen times, and the number of screening gates at the main checkpoint will be expanded to 20 from 18. Ben DeCosta, general manager of the airport, said waiting times were down to 10 minutes in slack periods, but waits of up to 20 minutes still occur at very busy times.
Travelers in Atlanta one recent afternoon had widely varying opinions on the new state of security.
"It's appropriate, definitely appropriate," said Joseph Rubano, a sales representative from New Jersey. "I'll take any hassle."
Caroline Britt, a retired research librarian from Oklahoma, said: "It seems I always get picked to take my shoes off. It's always the old grandmas."
John Kylen, a computer network manager for the Kansas Air National Guard, said, "I'd be better off with a Wal-Mart greeter."
The Transportation Security Administration has put in place 13,000 federal passenger screeners at 82 airports and wants to replace the work force at 347 more by Nov. 19. Hartsfield is expected to be under a full federal force this fall.
Mr. DeCosta and other airport managers criticize the federal agency's plan to install by the end of the year 1,240 minivan-size bomb detection machines for baggage screening and 5,000 smaller explosive-trace-detection devices, mostly in airport terminals. The installations will be costly in the long run and disrupt passenger flow, they say.
At Hartsfield, Mr. DeCosta said he had presented the agency with an alternative plan to put 26 of the larger machines on the lower level and in a parking garage to scan checked bags, rather than in any of the terminals. That would take 18 to 21 months, well past the date Congress specified, Mr. DeCosta said. He and 132 other airport directors sent a letter to the Senate last month asking it to push back the deadline.
The airports also want Congress to pay for any construction costs related to security. They are asking, too, that the government lift a rule that prevents unchecked cars from parking within 300 feet of a terminal. Hartsfield has managed to wrangle back two-thirds of the 3,100 parking spaces that were closed last fall, but it has lost $10 million to $12 million in parking revenue because of the rule, Mr. DeCosta said.
As for the policy of shutting the entire airport or entire terminals for a security breach, Mr. DeCosta said the federal agency's Hartsfield supervisor had agreed not to take such steps unless airport and airline officials were consulted first.
"We are constantly looking at many of our policies," said David Steigman, a spokesman for the Transportation Security Administration, "and the reason is we're trying to provide the best balance possible between world-class security and world-class customer service."
Intensified security has changed travel patterns in a way that has benefited airport concessionaires past the checkpoint but hurt those before it. Scared of being delayed at the checkpoint, passengers are waiting until they get past security to eat or shop. Mr. DeCosta said he might ask the city for rent relief for the beleaguered businesses.
"People tend to panic when they see the lines," said Lamont McKinnon, an assistant manager at the Museum Company, a gift shop.
The airlines are wrestling with their own steep decline in business. At Delta, revenue from May to July was 15 percent below what it was during the corresponding period of last year, and passenger volume is down 5 percent this year. Delta has deferred $3.7 billion in capital spending, including deliveries of new planes from Boeing. It took voluntary leaves or retirements from about 11,300 workers and is still in the process of laying off 1,400 pilots.
Desperate to make money again, many full-service carriers are imposing extra fees and restrictions that many travelers find horrendous and that would have been unthinkable in the period immediately after last year's attacks. Delta is charging $40 or more for checked bags beyond the second one, and $20 for a paper ticket. It announced last Thursday that it would not give credit to travelers with nonrefundable tickets who missed their flights and would charge those passengers an extra $100 to fly standby on most flights.
Those rules follow policies recently adopted by Delta's biggest rivals.
"The airlines are going down the wrong path," said Kevin P. Mitchell, president of the Business Travel Coalition. "They're taking so much away it's going to hurt them."
But whatever happens in the months ahead, the last year has already pounded an attitude of resignation into many travelers. "I laugh at people who are concerned when they get stopped by security," said Jim Price, a vice president for sales at JVC who was waiting for a flight to Phoenix. "Why get upset about what I don't have control over?"

CORRECTION-DATE: September 12, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Picture credits were reversed in Business Day yesterday with an article about the condition of the airline industry. The photograph of passengers waiting to pass through a security checkpoint at Hartsfield Airport in Atlanta was by Erik. S. Lesser for The New York Times. The one of a flight attendant being checked in Chicago, was by Tim Boyle/Getty Images.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Passengers waited to pass through security, above, at Hartsfield Airport in Atlanta. Below, a Transportation Security Agency employee checked a flight attendant at O'Hare Airport in Chicago. (Tim Boyle/Getty Images); (Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Federal airport security workers at a security screening station at Denver International Airport yesterday. Airlines are pressing for relaxation of some of the security restrictions instituted since Sept. 11, 2001. (Associated Press)(pg. C6) Chart: "Wrong Direction"The airline industry is used to losing money in a recession, but the major carriers have never suffered as much as now. But no-frills carriers, including AirTran Airways, have remained profitable through the ups and downs of the economic cycle. Graph tracks domestic operating income, (profits and losses) for both full-service carriers and low-fare airlines (Source: Back Aviation Solutions)(pg. C1) Chart: "Shrink to Fit"The airline industry cut capacity after Sept. 11 in an effort to cope with a sharp drop in travelers. Traffic has begun to pick up in recent months, but the industry is holding back on flights in hopes of restoring profitability. Graphs track available seat miles and airline passengers from 2001-2002 (through May) (Source: Bureau of Transportation Statistics)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); AIRPORTS (93%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); AIR FARES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); HIJACKING (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRPORTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; HARTSFIELD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (ATLANTA); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (61%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); HARTSFIELD ATLANTA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (59%) ;DELTA AIR LINES; TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (61%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



309 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5967 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE DOCTORS; 
Mental Health: The Profession Tests Its Limits

BYLINE:  By ERICA GOODE and EMILY EAKIN 

 BODY:
New Yorkers were hardest hit by the terror of Sept. 11. But they also lived in a city rich in the resources to deal with its psychological impact.
 There were more psychotherapists and mental health agencies per square mile than anywhere else in the country. Internationally known trauma experts taught at local universities. City officials, schooled by the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center and the crash of Flight 800, were able to mobilize quickly and think creatively in a time of enormous turmoil. 
 Even so, city and state officials found themselves operating in near chaos, struggling to conjure, on the spot, a system mobile and flexible enough to reach out to a traumatized community and adequate to the needs that were sure to appear. 
"The sheer scale of the event dwarfed most of our disaster mental health plans," said Chip Felton, an associate commissioner at the New York State Office of Mental Health.
The emotional force of the attacks was so strong that many officials suspected that even people used to coping on their own might seek professional help. Trauma experts warned that people with severe post-traumatic stress disorder might not come forward for months or years. 
Ultimately, the officials found themselves orchestrating what was probably the nation's largest -- and least stigmatized -- offering of free mental health treatment ever. 
But in the midst of the crisis, the city's abundance of mental health professionals turned out to be a mixed blessing. There was no shortage of help, but few practitioners were trained in disaster response. The trauma treatments with the most evidence behind them were also the least available. City officials and agencies like the Red Cross had little control over therapists who wandered into firehouses, made their way to ground zero or stopped people on the street to offer counseling. 
The limits of experts' knowledge about trauma quickly became apparent. Much had been learned from the study of natural disasters like floods and earthquakes and individual acts of violence like rape or physical assault. But basic questions remained, and it was unclear how much of what was known could be applied in this case.
Many researchers say they are learning things from the terrorist attacks that are forcing them to revise their understanding of trauma. Some argue that a valuable research opportunity was squandered.
For all its horrors, Sept. 11 offered an unparalleled chance to learn why some people are resilient while others are not, and which treatments are effective for whom. But no mechanism was in place to allow researchers to collect the relevant data in the first hours and days after a disaster.
"We didn't learn what we would have needed to learn so that we would be better informed next time," said Dr. Rachel Yehuda, a professor of psychiatry at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the director of the post-traumatic stress disorders program at Bronx Veterans Affairs. 
A year later, New York is more ready than it once was for a terrorist attack. But disaster experts say the same cannot be said for the rest of the nation.
"We really were not prepared, our systems were not prepared, for something of this magnitude," said Dr. Brian Flynn, who was the lead mental health adviser for the federal Department of Health and Human Services during the crisis. "If another attack happened tomorrow," he said, "we would probably not be much better prepared."

First Response
Scattershot Approach To an Ill-Defined Need
In the 48 hours after the attacks on the World Trade Center, the phones at Lifenet, the 24-hour referral hot line run by the Mental Health Association of New York, were unusually quiet.
A delivery man called after escaping from the towers and driving his truck over human body parts. Another man screamed over and over, "My sister is missing, my sister is missing." 
Dr. John Draper, the director of Lifenet, knew the deluge would come later, perhaps much later.
"Just wait," he remembers saying. 
The hot line would need more workers and more phone lines. Also, Lifenet, which normally referred individual callers to mental health organizations, would need to be transformed into a much more comprehensive resource.
Soon, companies, schools and senior centers were calling for help. Mental health professionals were calling to volunteer their services.
"We wanted to be able to get practitioners out to family assistance centers, to offices and schools, to stadiums where they were having memorial events," Dr. Draper said. Dr. Draper got on the phone with city and state crisis intervention experts, and with the representatives of major charities, planning how they would coordinate services and what role the charities might play. 
Over the next months, the hot line, its toll-free number advertised on subway placards and in public service announcements, would become a barometer of a city's distress, registering, call by call, the emotional impact of the terrorist attacks.
At the Police Academy on East 20th Street, where Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and his staff set up a makeshift command post on the night of Sept. 11, Dr. Neal Cohen, the city's health commissioner, was also setting things in motion.
"We knew we had the potential for a public mental health crisis," Dr. Cohen said.
Very quickly, the city had established a support center at the Armory for the relatives of those missing or killed. (It later moved to Pier 94.) Officials consulted trauma experts from around the country and began planning to train an army of volunteer therapists in disaster assistance.
Dr. Cohen directed his staff to mine research reports for everything they could find on the psychological impact of the bombing in Oklahoma City "so that we had some sense of what the range of post-traumatic stress disorder symptomatology might be."
But in the weeks that followed, it was clear to experts that the treatments for post-traumatic stress with the best track records were also the least available. Researchers from four universities formed a consortium to train therapists in one method, a form of cognitive behavioral therapy that challenges distorted thinking and gradually desensitizes people to their memories and fears.
Meanwhile, mental health officials scrambled to document New York's mental health needs with the figures they would need to obtain federal aid. Their estimates won commitments for two grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, totaling $154.7 million, which financed Project Liberty, the program created to provide free crisis counseling. The program began operation in early October, with Lifenet the number to call.
The state teams estimated that 3.1 million residents of New York City and the surrounding counties would experience "substantial emotional distress" and that 520,000 would develop post-traumatic stress disorder, or P.T.S.D, a condition diagnosed when symptoms like nightmares, flashbacks, startle responses and avoidance of people or places persist for at least a month.
Those estimates were lower than estimates made in the weeks after the terrorist attacks, but they turned out to be surprisingly accurate.
Yet as many trauma experts had also predicted, in the early days of the crisis, psychiatric emergency rooms and clinics remained largely unused, and volunteers found themselves with little to do.
"The first people to start showing up were those with prior psychiatric conditions," said Dr. Elliot Jurist, a staff psychologist at New York Presbyterian Hospital who volunteered on the evening of Sept. 11 at a crisis service set up by the hospital. "People with serious psychiatric disorders who had been doing O.K. started to experience symptoms."
Many volunteer therapists were already working through established agencies like the Red Cross, and this assistance was invaluable, city officials and Red Cross representatives said.
Other clinicians struck out on their own. They called companies, offering to help employees talk about their feelings. In some cases, they made their way past the barricades at ground zero and approached rescue workers.
Firehouses, their doors open to the public, were visited by a stream of well-meaning counselors. But they were often unfamiliar with the Fire Department's unique culture, staff members of the department's counseling service unit said. In at least two cases, the staff members said, doctors prescribed psychiatric medication on the spot to firefighters they had met only minutes before. (The Fire Department itself recruited 45 clinicians from the community, mostly psychologists and social workers, to work with the firehouses. But these practitioners were briefed on fire service culture and introduced to captains and lieutenants at the houses before beginning their work.)
Joan Westreich, a clinical social worker in private practice in Manhattan, signed up with the Red Cross and worked the phone lines at a command center but wanted to do more.
"I was doing counseling assistance in the elevator of my building, where there were people afraid to go into the subway," Ms. Westreich said.
Experts said that such efforts undoubtedly helped comfort some distraught people. But in some cases, counseling was pushed rather than offered. And there was no good way for the public to tell what would be helpful and what would not.
In a paper presented at the American Psychological Association's annual meeting in August, Dr. Lawrence Beutler of the Pacific Graduate School of Psychology in Palo Alto, Calif., cited Sept. 11 as an example of why scientists needed to find out much more about which therapies are effective and for whom.
"Everybody is convinced that their approach works," Dr. Beutler said.

Coping and Not
A Resilient Majority, But Some Still Suffer
Surveys over the last year suggest that in the aftermath of Sept. 11, resilience was the rule, not the exception. Despite violence and uncertainty, the vast majority of people found ways to cope and to go on with their lives.
Many Americans suffered distress, even extreme distress, but for most this was a normal reaction to extremely traumatic events and subsided in a few weeks or months.
"It is important to understand the distinction between emotional distress and emotional disorder," said Dr. Thomas Frieden, New York City's new commissioner of health. "Virtually everyone has varying degrees of emotional distress; emotional disorder really implies an interference with functioning." 
In a telephone survey conducted in January and February, Dr. Sandro Galea and his colleagues at the New York Academy of Medicine found that 40 to 45 percent of New Yorkers reported having at least one symptom of post-traumatic stress, a significant drop from the 57.8 percent having at least one symptom in a survey carried out five to eight weeks after the attack.
Dr. Roxane Cohen Silver, a psychologist at the University of California at Irvine, found in a survey appearing today in The Journal of the American Medical Association that 17 percent of Americans outside of New York City reported experiencing some post-traumatic stress symptoms two months after the attacks. Six months later, the figure had fallen to 5.8 percent.
"From a public health perspective, the major thing about 9/11 was not about P.T.S.D. but about what are the normal reactions to a horrific mass casualty," said Dr. Matthew J. Friedman, director of the National Center for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, part of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
But the same surveys that testified to Americans' recuperative powers also showed that a substantial minority of people did not bounce back. For some, the impact of the attacks has been disabling, often exacerbated by other stresses, including the loss of jobs or displacement from homes.
New York registered higher rates of illness than the rest of the country: 11.2 percent suffered from "probable P.T.S.D." two months after the attacks, according to a survey led by Dr. William E. Schlenger of the Research Triangle Institute in North Carolina, compared with 4 percent of Americans outside of New York.
But the highest rates of post-traumatic stress disorder -- 20 percent in one survey -- were found among people most directly affected by the attacks: those who lived near the trade center, who had friends or relatives killed or who had lost jobs or possessions as a result of the attacks.
The calls Lifenet has received over the last year reflect both the wide public distress of early months and the intense private suffering that for some people continues.
The phones ring constantly now, each call bringing another plea for help.
A mother is worried about her 7-year-old son, who still dreams that planes are hitting his house. A woman cannot stop picturing the debris that killed her brother. A firefighter is ashamed to let his wife know that he is still so distraught. He calls from a hideout in the basement, on his cellphone.
In the fall, Lifenet's phone logs -- the hot line is anonymous -- recorded frantic searches for missing relatives, fears about anthrax, anxiety about future terrorist attacks and a wide variety of stress symptoms. By winter, callers were beginning to report more lingering problems: depression, phobias, an inability to mourn normally or a loss of interest in daily events.
In recent months, the calls have increased in volume and intensity. Before Sept. 11, Lifenet received an average of 3,000 calls a month; in August, the hot line received more than 9,000 calls, nearly two-thirds related to the terrorist attacks. The approach of the anniversary and a new public service campaign have drawn even more callers.
Many recent callers say they have never before sought counseling, never even considered it. "I thought I'd be over this by now" is a frequent refrain.
Their stories are often so hair-raising that the phone workers -- all mental health professionals -- sometimes have to put callers on hold while they regain their own composure.
"I've never heard this kind of suffering in my life," said Adele Maddry, a social worker who has worked at Lifenet since December.
Joey Truitt called Lifenet in early November.
On Sept. 11 he stood on his third-floor balcony in Union City, N.J., and watched a ball of fire engulf the south tower of the World Trade Center. Through binoculars, he saw people jumping from the towers and witnessed the buildings' collapse.
The next day, his employer told Mr. Truitt he no longer had a job.
For the next six weeks, he did not leave his apartment.
He draped a black sheet over the picture window in his bedroom and did not answer the phone. He went out only to buy cigarettes and cat food, wearing a black sweatshirt, the hood pulled down over his eyes.
He had nightmares. In one, he was standing in the ruins near Deutsche Bank, looking out across a landscape of paper and metal and twisted debris. In another, he was calling out, "Does anyone need any help?"
He developed hives. He had vivid flashbacks of what he had seen. He started at every noise. He talked to no one.
"I was so sure that nobody saw what I saw and nobody could feel what I felt," recalled Mr. Truitt, who had worked as a corporate travel agent in 1 Liberty Plaza, across the street from the trade center, but was late to work the day of the attacks. His withdrawal from life was so complete that some of his friends thought he had died in the towers.
Lifenet referred Mr. Truitt to a mental health clinic on the Lower East Side. But when he saw a counselor there, he said, she had no idea what to do for him. Dr. Draper, Lifenet's director, said it took some agencies a month or so "to get up to speed."
In the next months, Mr. Truitt went out only when he had to. Then, in March, he watched a documentary about the terrorist attacks on CBS.
Somehow, he said, seeing the events unfold on television made him feel better, not so alone. Last fall, experts warned that the constant rebroadcasting of the planes' hitting the towers was in itself retraumatizing. 
He joined a support group, got a job and signed up for a free treatment program for post-traumatic stress disorder at Columbia University.
One year after the attacks, he still has nightmares and flashbacks. But he is getting better. The events of that day, he said, "will be written on my soul after I die."

The Front Lines
Treating Firefighters And Police Officers
Malachy Corrigan, the director of the Fire Department of New York's counseling service unit, knew that when the funerals finally stopped and the search for remains came to an end, firefighters would be in danger.
Exhausted and grieving, they would be at risk for post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and other emotional ills.
In the last year, with the help of federal and private financing, the department has quadrupled its counseling staff to 42 counselors and 13 support workers, Mr. Corrigan said.
The unit also has 30 peer counselors, firefighters with special training, and has provided firefighters and their families with a variety of ways to get help, including paying for treatment by clinicians in private practice outside the department.
Since Sept. 11, the counseling unit has seen 2,800 department employees or their families, Mr. Corrigan said, while in a typical year, the unit sees 600. The department has about 15,500 employees.
Sleep disturbances have been ubiquitous, Mr. Corrigan said. "Virtually everybody in the Fire Department has had that symptom at some point this year."
Flashbacks -- the uninvited return of thoughts, smells, sounds and images from that day -- have also been common.
The Fire Department is keeping track but will not yet say how many firefighters are suffering post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and other illnesses. But Mr. Corrigan said he was surprised that the number of firefighters suffering from P.T.S.D. was "relatively small."
He estimates that 20 to 25 firefighters have been hospitalized for psychiatric difficulties since Sept. 11, compared with an average of 12 hospitalizations a year before the terrorist attacks.
Two firefighters have committed suicide in the last year, he said, and "in a typical year, we don't even have one."
The New York Police Department, which, unlike the Fire Department, instituted mandatory mental health education sessions last fall for employees who had been at ground zero, sustained fewer casualties on Sept. 11.
The Police Department has had no increase in the number of officers recommended for a change in duty status on the basis of psychological evaluation or in the number of suicides or psychiatric hospitalizations, said Dr. Arthur Knour, the director of the department's psychological evaluation unit.
"To the best of our knowledge, there have been no World Trade Center-related suicides," Dr. Knour said.
But Dr. Frederic I. Kass, the medical director of psychiatry at New York Presbyterian Hospital, who has been working with the police, said the number of calls to an anonymous referral hot line set up last fall have increased over the months, with more than 100 calls registered in August.
Still, he said, that number is tiny in a department of 40,000 uniformed officers and 15,000 other employees.
"What has impressed me is their strength and resilience," Dr. Kass said. 
Studies suggest that police officers, firefighters, morgue workers and others trained to encounter death and violence may be less vulnerable than people without such training. 
Yet the "tough it out" ethos common in such lines of work can also encourage denial.
A police officer who called Lifenet recently said that everyone around her was acting as if nothing had happened.
"She said, 'We're cops, we don't talk,' " said Ms. Maddry, who took the call.

The Delayed Response
Severest Cases Are Slow to Show
After the Oklahoma City bombing, it took two to three years for some survivors with serious emotional difficulties to seek treatment, said Nancy B. Anthony, the executive director of the Oklahoma City Community Foundation, which underwrote the cost of psychiatric care for survivors and their families.
"I don't think people necessarily realized that they needed assistance until they got to a nonfunctional point," Ms. Anthony said.
The tendency for people to wait until their marriages are falling apart, their jobs are in peril or they simply cannot get dressed in the morning is one reason the worst cases of post-traumatic stress from the Sept. 11 attacks are just beginning to show up and will continue to show up over the next decade, experts say.
"Everything we know about post-traumatic stress disorder suggests that it takes a long time for the serious cases to make an appearance," said Dr. Yehuda of Bronx Veterans Affairs. 
Those cases, Dr. Yehuda and others said, will not be resolved with a few sessions of crisis counseling.
Yet the federal government's disaster planning is focused almost entirely on short-term relief. The emergency money that FEMA provides to states, for example, normally cannot be used for anything except crisis counseling.
In an era of managed care, few health insurance policies cover long-term mental health treatment. And few people can afford to pay for such care out of their pockets.
Aware of these problems, two large charities, the September 11th Fund and the Red Cross, announced last month that they would reimburse anyone directly affected by Sept. 11 for the cost of longer-term therapy. Other, smaller foundations have also given out grants for more extended treatment. In August, FEMA gave New York state officials permission to use the relief money provided by the agency to pay for more extended treatment.
Yet even with such resources available and widely publicized, it is still a challenge for mental health officials to get the services to the people who most need them.
Lifenet's calls have increased greatly, but they represent a fraction of those people that surveys suggest are still having serious problems. Therapists in private practice report little increase in their patient loads. The New York Academy of Medicine researchers found only a very slight bump in the number of New Yorkers who reported having seen a mental health professional -- from 16.9 percent before the attacks to 19.4 percent five to eight weeks afterward. People with post-traumatic stress disorder or depression were more likely to have increased their use of mental health services, the survey found.
"But the increase was not clinically significant," said Dr. Joseph A. Boscarino, a senior scientist at the academy. "We expected higher use rates."
Some family members of those who died say they have joined support groups or found therapists on their own.
Jennifer Jacobs, whose husband, Jason, died in the World Trade Center, said she was aware of the free counseling offered by Project Liberty and the Red Cross, as well as by her husband's company. But she preferred, she said, to find "my own person."
"You've really got to find someone who knows what they're dealing with," Ms. Jacobs said.
For some people, the stigma attached to psychiatric treatment may still stand as a barrier, despite the widespread acknowledgment that the events of Sept. 11 carried enormous emotional power. Others say they have received all the help they need from family members and friends. Still others, said Dr. Draper, say they are just not ready.

The Great Unknown
Looking for Answers, And Right Questions
Faced with a traumatic event of mammoth proportions, government officials and the public at large turned to experts for guidance. Their knowledge, gained from studies of natural disasters, acts of terrorism and other forms of violence, proved enormously helpful.
But there were some questions researchers could not answer.
They could not say for certain how many people would suffer long-lasting problems or what those problems would be.
They could not predict precisely who would fall ill, although they could name some factors -- proximity, a history of trauma, a feeling of unreality during the event -- that seemed to make people more vulnerable.
Nor could the experts agree on which treatments were effective, though they could identify the techniques -- cognitive behavioral therapies and antidepressants -- that had the most empirical backing. Many other treatments had simply not been tested.
"There's zero data on what kind of treatments work specifically for victims of terrorism, in the context of living with ongoing threat," said Dr. Randall Marshall, a psychiatrist at Columbia and the director of trauma studies and services at the New York State Psychiatric Institute.
In other areas, there was not only a lack of consensus but active debate, like that over a popular type of debriefing. Some experts argued that the practice, which involved a single session of group therapy, was ineffective and could even slow recovery for some people. Others defended the debriefing method.
Last week, researchers in the Netherlands added to the debate, publishing an analysis of existing studies. They found that while people who underwent the debriefing session often said they found it helpful, there was no evidence that it prevented the development of post-traumatic stress disorder.
The only way to resolve such disputes is to do more studies, experts say. Sept. 11, with all its horrors, offered an enormous research opportunity, and some experts say the work now being done will advance knowledge substantially.
"Frankly, I think we will have more definitive data about the impact of this disaster than has ever been the case," Mr. Felton of the state mental health office said.
Studies conducted in the last year have already revised some assumptions, challenging, for example, the way most investigators have defined exposure to a traumatic event.
"Being directly affected is in some senses in the eye of the beholder," said Dr. Schlenger of the Research Triangle Institute. "If you lived across from the World Trade Center, you were obviously directly affected. What's less obvious is that if you were sitting in Des Moines and your granddaughter just started working in the World Trade Center, that's a pretty direct exposure." 
A survey by Dr. Schlenger and his colleagues, published in August, also raised questions about television's effects.
The researchers found that even for people with no direct connection to the attacks, the symptoms of post-traumatic stress increased with the number of television hours the participants reported watching each day. 
But Dr. Schlenger said this relationship held regardless of how gruesome the coverage was, suggesting that people who were already upset watched television as a way to cope. 
Dr. Schlenger's survey is only one of hundreds of research projects begun after the terrorist attacks.
But some researchers contend that far more could have been learned if data had been gathered immediately.
Neither Project Liberty nor the Red Cross systematically collects information from clients about their prior histories of trauma, the extent of their support systems, the nature and severity of what they experienced or what other stresses -- like financial problems or unemployment -- they face. Project Liberty and the Red Cross do not as a matter of course even record the names of people who receive crisis counseling.
But Dr. Yehuda said being able to track people over time would help researchers understand more about what makes some people resilient and others vulnerable to severe emotional difficulties.
Other experts said it requires so much time and paperwork to obtain research grants that moving quickly is nearly impossible.
Dr. Galea and his colleagues at the New York Academy of Medicine, for example, plunged ahead with their survey purely on faith; the financing was not yet in in place.
But collecting data from the victims of disasters is also contentious.
After the Oklahoma City bombing, for example, all research was required to go through the University of Oklahoma, to avoid duplication or the harassment of survivors.
Mr. Felton said New York officials had considered a similar policy but decided it would not be practical in such a large city, with so many research institutions.
FEMA, for its part, has been adamant about not evaluating the effectiveness of the crisis counseling it pays for, Dr. Flynn said.
He added: "There's always this tension between services and research. There's always the fear that you're more interested in studying people than in helping them."
Still, Dr. Flynn and others said, studying people is the only way to make sure that the right people get the right treatments at the right time.
"People in society have to get very upset that we don't know," Dr. Yehuda said. "And they have to understand that research is the vehicle that will allow us to know."
Violence inflicted by human beings exacts a greater psychic toll than the impersonal cruelty of nature, studies show.
Terrorists mine this power instinctively, their acts a means to the end of spreading fear and panic, the first step toward a fragmenting of society.
Because of this, disaster experts argue, mental health -- both in the broadest sense of comforting anxious citizens and in its narrower definition of treating psychiatric casualties -- must play a central role in the government's planning.
In New York, the crisis ultimately produced an emergency mental health system more prepared and flexible than before. The challenge, Mr. Felton said, is to keep that system in place.
"What I would like to see in the future is that the structures and mechanisms we had to put into place from scratch persist as part of a disaster model," he said.
New York is ahead of the curve. Most other states have not even begun to catch up.

Testing Approaches to Therapy
I felt very strongly that it was important not to just decide that a particular treatment is good but rather systematically test whether certain treatments might be more effective than others.
We decided to test exposure therapy -- in which the survivors confront his or her feelings about the event and relive it in therapy -- against traditional kinds of counseling that people might get. 
We offered both supportive counseling and exposure therapy, and we randomized people into one of these treatment options for four weeks. After four weeks, if they weren't better, we offered people who got supportive counseling the opportunity to get the other therapy. And we collected information about their symptom improvement and their stress hormones.
We don't have the results of our study yet, but our impression is that people will do better with any therapy. It's just that certain kinds of treatment may accelerate the rate of recovery or allow people to get better with fewer sessions.
A few months from now, I think we'll have some definitive information.
There is sometimes a negative attitude toward research in the aftermath of a disaster, a feeling that it may be exploitative at a time like this.
My own view, though, is that it is far more exploitative to act without evidence that the interventions are therapeutic.

Mental Health Burden Is Found
We did our first study one to two months after Sept. 11, our second one four to five months after Sept. 11 and our third one six to nine months after Sept. 11.
We found there was a substantial mental health burden on New Yorkers. We found that 55 percent of people had at least one significant symptom of P.T.S.D. post-traumatic stress disorder . Women had a higher prevalence than men, although not much higher. Latinos tended to have a higher prevalence. People in Staten Island and Brooklyn tended to have a higher prevalence as well. People who were directly affected, as expected, also had a higher prevalence.
The second thing that we found, though, is that New Yorkers have been incredibly resilient. In our follow-up studies, we're finding that the prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder and depression has gone down quite a bit, even though there remain a lot of symptoms, which suggests that people are getting better and in a relatively short period of time. . . . There's been tremendous healing.

A Change in Play for Children
I see kids that are 2 and sometimes even younger. Those that were capable of doing any kind of pretend play would build block towers and knock them down with airplanes. Or build whole cities with the blocks and then have airplanes crashing into the buildings and the towers. Or they would play with houses, like a Fisher-Price dollhouse, and would have bad guys come attack the houses, the kind of play that hadn't been in their play until this happened.
Then there was this issue of repetition. The fact that the television sets were going nonstop for the first few days made the children feel like the terrorist events were happening over and over and over again. They would see the towers burning and then the planes crashing and then the towers burning and the planes crashing and hear the hysteria in the voice of the reporters and the hysteria on the street. This made the children feel like there were repeated assaults on them. 
Both the children and the parents became more afraid of their own aggression. The children would play out these scenarios of being little monsters and terrorists. They were playing both the good guy and the bad guy, and in some cases more gleefully identified with the aggressor. Which is a very common way children deal with trauma. They master their angry and negative feelings by identifying with the bad guy. That makes them feel powerful and in control.
With most of the children, the feelings waned about four to six months after 9/11. But they kept popping back up intermittently when there would be another scare -- like the anthrax scare. People were fearful about what they were eating or drinking. In some ways it was conflated with other things. One patient's family became terrified of mad cow disease as if that were a near and present danger. People who feel out of control will focus on something that they can control. I think that was universal. People would pick one thing that they'd try to get control over -- like stopping to eat meat, or stocking up on Cipro.

2 Pillars Are Crucial to Helping Children Adjust
The community I've been concerned about and working with is the West Side of downtown: Tribeca and Battery Park City. I have two sons, ages 9 and 6, who were attending P.S. 234. On the morning of Sept. 11, I had just dropped them off and was returning home when I heard the crash and looked up and saw the debris flying. Many of the children in the school as well as other schools downtown really saw everything, including people falling or jumping out of the buildings. 
The research shows that family and community support are the most important factors in preventing long-term mental health problems and P.T.S.D. after a massive, traumatic event like this. One of the first things we did in the school was have all the mental health professionals who were also parents set up a family support network so that people could drop in any time to talk about different problems they were facing. 
This was at a time when almost all the focus from the school board was on screening children for P.T.S.D. and on offering counseling to the kids who'd been identified as having a problem. Which we know from other situations is not the best way to approach this problem because it's very difficult to identify which kids are having the most problems. Just because they're speaking about it or showing some behavioral difficulties doesn't mean they're eventually going to have problems. The best way to help all kids is to support the adults who are taking care of the kids.
We also created community recovery forums, a collaboration among parents' associations at the different schools. One goal was to affirm the competency of the parents and teachers and make them feel that it's not only experts with some trauma specialization who know how to help these kids. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joey Truitt on his apartment balcony in Union City, N.J., a year after he watched the attack on the World Trade Center from there. (Jennifer Brommer for The New York Times); RACHEL YEHUDA -- Psychologist and director of the division of traumatic stress studies at Mount Sinai School of Medicine. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); DR. SANDRO GALEA -- Medical epidemiologist at the New York Academy of Medicine, and a principal author of the academy's post-Sept. 11 studies. (Lara Solt for The New York Times)(pg. A16); DR. SUSAN P. SHERKOW -- Psychoanalyst and psychiatrist, and co-director of the Pacella Parent Child Center of the New York Psychoanalytic Society (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); JACK SAUL -- Psychologist and director of the International Trauma Studies Program at New York University. (Lara Solt for The New York Times)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (91%); PSYCHOLOGY (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CITIES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BOMBINGS (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (73%); AIRLINES (71%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (71%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; STRESS (HUMAN); MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS 

PERSON: FELTON, CHIP; GOODE, ERICA; EAKIN, EMILY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



310 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 77 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Thailand:Bank Leaves Rate Unchanged 

BYLINE:  By Wayne Arnold (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Expectations that the United States will attack Iraq, combined with the sluggish American economy, pose a risk to Thailand's otherwise healthy economy, Thailand's central bank said. 
The central bank said it was leaving its benchmark interest rate unchanged, at 2 percent, but would watch for events that could affect the price of oil or demand for Thai exports. Thailand's economy is still expected to grow as much as 4 percent this year. Wayne Arnold (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (86%); TRENDS (86%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (94%); IRAQ (92%); ASIA (90%) THAILAND

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



311 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
JACK IN THE BOX SAYS FOURTH-QUARTER PROFIT WILL FALL

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Jack in the Box Inc. said its fourth-quarter profit would fall because rival hamburger chains were luring away customers with lower prices. 
Profit will be about 34 cents a share in the quarter, which ends this month, compared with a prior estimate of 67 cents, Jack in the Box said. The company, which is based in San Diego, earned 52 cents in the year-earlier period. Sales at restaurants open at least a year are expected to fall 3 percent in the quarter, compared with a 3.8 percent increase in the year-earlier period. Sales were hurt after a slowdown in consumer spending prompted competitors like Wendy's International and McDonald's to promote low-price menus, investors said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (88%); SAME STORE SALES (88%); RETAIL SALES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%) RESTAURANTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SALES 

COMPANY: JACK IN THE BOX INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: JACK IN THE BOX INC; WENDY'S INTERNATIONAL INC; MCDONALD'S CORP 

TICKER: JACK (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (96%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (96%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



312 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Company Is Weighing a Stake in the Amex 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
The company that owns the Hong Kong stock exchanges is negotiating to buy a stake in the American Stock Exchange and perhaps even take control of it, an effort that may raise political issues about China's financial influence.
 Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd. has been in discussions with the American Stock Exchange in New York with the goal of creating a system that would allow the same shares to be traded 24 hours worldwide, investment bankers close to the talks said today. 
 The exchanges have discussed the possibility of setting up a joint venture or having Hong Kong Exchanges buy a small stake in the American Stock Exchange, but the management of Hong Kong Exchanges has expressed an interest in acquiring a controlling stake. "The greater the degree of control, the better" for establishing 24-hour trading, one investment banker said. 
But Hong Kong Exchanges is still reviewing internally the size of the stake it wants and the price it might be willing to pay, the banker added.
Hong Kong Exchanges has also been in talks with other exchanges, notably the London Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade, but the negotiations have focused lately on the American Stock Exchange, a second investment banker said. Credit Suisse First Boston is representing the American Stock Exchange while J. P. Morgan Chase is advising Hong Kong Exchanges, bankers said.
The attempt to buy a big stake in the American Stock Exchange comes as Hong Kong Exchanges faces criticism at home over its attempt to develop a delisting policy for the cheapest stocks. Page W1. 
With $675 million in reserves and the ability to borrow more, Hong Kong Exchanges has the financial wherewithal to take a big stake in the American Stock Exchange, but the political reception for such a deal is unclear, bankers said.
Michael Wessel, a member of the U.S.-China Security Review Commission, predicted that any transaction involving Hong Kong ownership of a stake in the American Stock Exchange would prompt close political and regulatory scrutiny. The commission was created by Congress nearly two years ago to monitor bilateral relations but has no regulatory authority. Many of its 12 members are critics of China, being either pro-labor Democrats, like Mr. Wessel, or conservative Republicans.
Mr. Wessel said that it would not matter much to China's critics in the United States that Hong Kong and its stock exchanges have some autonomy, a legacy of the territory's history as a British colony until 1997. "It still raises concern that the foot's in the door," he said.
Whether objections by China's critics could derail a deal, as opposed to making it politically contentious, is less clear. The Bush administration has been actively wooing China lately, trying to persuade Beijing not to object to possible American military action against Iraq.
The South China Morning Post reported today that Hong Kong Exchanges was seeking a stake in the American Stock Exchange, though it did not mention that Hong Kong Exchanges might seek control of the American exchange. The paper also said that Singapore Exchange Ltd. was interested in a stake in the American Stock Exchange, too. Singapore Exchange officials were not available for comment tonight.
A spokesman for Hong Kong Exchanges said that talk of a deal with another exchange "is only market speculation; we always look at investment opportunities that will strengthen our group."
In Washington, a spokeswoman for NASD, which owns the American Stock Exchange, had no immediate comment on the reports.
NASD, the parent of the Nasdaq market, has announced plans to become only a self-regulatory organization, and has been seeking a buyer for the Amex. It has disposed of much of its stake in Nasdaq.
The Amex has never been a strong competitor to the New York Stock Exchange in trading stocks but has long had a solid position in options and in recent years has become the leader in the trading of exchange-traded funds, a growing business.
Hong Kong Exchanges has been looking for a way to invest its large cash reserves that would allow it to diversify away from its traditional reliance on fairly basic trading of stocks for cash. Although the company administers the trading of futures, options and exchange-traded index funds, it lacks the more sophisticated computer systems and trading mechanisms offered by the likes of the American Stock Exchange.
Hong Kong Exchanges reached an agreement in May with the London Stock Exchange to begin trading each other's most active stocks next year. It has been in talks with the New York Stock Exchange on some form of coordinated trading as well.
The talks with the American Stock Exchange are by no means complete, but a deal is possible by the end of this year, investment bankers said.
In retaining J. P. Morgan Chase, Hong Kong Exchanges has chosen an investment bank with considerable influence here. The bank's chairman for Asian and Pacific operations until last year was Antony Leung, who is now Hong Kong's third-ranking government official as its financial secretary, with responsibility for economic and financial policy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Any deal involving China in the purchase of the American Stock Exchange is expected to come under close regulatory scrutiny. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (96%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEREGULATION (87%); DELISTINGS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); BONDS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: HONG KONG EXCHANGES & CLEARING LTD (72%); CME GROUP INC (68%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (95%) HONG KONG EXCHANGE AND CLEARING LTD; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE; US-CHINA SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION 

TICKER: 0388 (HKSE) (72%); CME (NASDAQ) (68%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (72%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%)

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; WESSEL, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAQ (79%) HONG KONG; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



313 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: THE BATTLEFRONT; 
Pakistan Joins U.S. Cause, Cautiously

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE 

DATELINE: LAHORE, Pakistan 

 BODY:
FROM a shabby ground-floor office where power shortages leave him in darkness every 30 minutes, 82-year-old Nawabzada Nasrullah Khan and his tiny political party here have battled the generals and land barons who have ruled Pakistan with varying degrees of autocracy and corruption since the country's inception 53 years ago.
 As violence and Islamic militancy have spread, he has lost and lost again. "This unfortunate country" is how Mr. Khan referred to his homeland in a recent interview. 
 Nearly a year ago, he and other Pakistanis watched anxiously as Gen. Pervez Musharraf, the country's military ruler, took an enormous gamble. In the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks, the general withdrew Pakistan's long-running support for the Taliban and backed an American assault on Afghanistan, inviting the wrath of thousands of Islamic militants and hard-line elements within the country's military and intelligence services.
The gamble by the general has paid off in the West, where he is hailed as the courageous face of moderate Islam.
At home, however, his popularity has eroded -- though not because of his stance against militancy.
Conversations with dozens of Pakistanis, from slum dwellers to members of the country's elite, suggest that the vast majority still believe General Musharraf made the right decision last year. The threat of overwhelming American military force, they said, gave him no other choice.
"To save Pakistanis, he did the right thing," said Khaled Khan Afridi, who owns a cellular phone store in Peshawar.
But those interviewed expressed a deep frustration about how little has changed in Pakistan, an unstable, army-dominated state still struggling to decide whether it should be secular, Islamic or something in between.
Recent moves by General Musharraf -- holding a flawed referendum that extended his rule, unilaterally amending the Constitution and barring the country's two former prime ministers from parliamentary elections in October -- have fueled fears that he is just another army strongman. For more than half its history, Pakistan has been ruled by military dictators.
That history "usually does repeat itself in Pakistan," Mr. Khan said ruefully. "It's repeating itself again and again." 
Some of the general's unilateral changes, like guaranteeing seats for women and minorities in the new Parliament, are widely viewed as progressive. And his crackdown on militants continues to enjoy strong popular support here, though an effort to reform the Islamic schools known as madrasas has stalled in recent months.
In the interviews, a majority of Pakistanis said that they wanted their country to be a modern, democratic Muslim state, not a closed society governed by mullahs. "I don't like Islamists," said Abdul Qayyum, a 35-year-old quarry worker in Karachi. "They beat people for shaving their beards."
But such support for General Musharraf's crackdown does not necessarily translate into support for the United States. America has not kept its promises, Pakistanis said. Some of Pakistan's foreign debt has been written off, they concede, but tariffs on the country's textiles imported into the United States remain in place.
Pakistanis cited the United States' support for Israel and a possible attack on Iraq as proof that Americans are waging war against Muslims who defy them, not terrorism. "Musharraf has done good, but the American policy is wrong," said Ramzan Katchi, a 30-year-old unemployed man in Karachi.
Some Pakistanis described the devastation of Sept. 11 as America's reaping what it sowed. A senior police official complained that Pakistan's militancy is the product of the American drive in the 1980's to recruit Muslim guerrillas to force Soviet troops out of Afghanistan.
"They came here, they trained these monsters and used them against the Communists and they ran away," the official said. "Now these monsters are so big that we don't know what to do with them."
Eliminating militant groups is proving difficult. Attacks on Western targets have killed 39 people and injured hundreds over the last year. Senior Pakistani officials dismiss the attacks as the last gasps of groups that are fractured, isolated and on the run. But Western officials caution that members of Al Qaeda, with the help of Pakistani militants, appear to have shifted some of their operations from tribal areas along the Afghan border to Karachi, with the help of Pakistani militants.
"Everything is mixed now," said a European law enforcement official who spoke on condition of anonymity. "The groups are all mixed now on the ground."
Most of those interviewed freely lashed out at what they saw as their country's own failings. A decade of civilian rule in the 1990's was generally regarded as incompetent and corrupt. The country's generals and landed elite, they said, refused to share resources with the 50 percent of the population that is illiterate and impoverished.
Bi Bi Sheikh, a 50-year-old fortune teller in Karachi, told a story from her experience with government that she said illustrated how reform can be stymied. In 1996, a new school for girls was built in her fetid slum. But teachers would refuse to come because of the stench rising from open sewers.
Government officials promised to build a sewage treatment plant, but the funds, according to Ms. Sheikh, were stolen. Last summer, Ms. Sheikh won a seat on one of the new municipal councils General Musharraf created to rein in tyrannical provincial governments and to involve women in politics.
Ms. Sheikh said that she had not received any money from the government this year, and that the school and the sewage plant remain in shambles. "There is no use being elected," she lamented. "I'm not making any difference."
But she said she still supported General Musharraf. He is honest, she said, and he has built new roads and cracked down on militants responsible for many of the 4,000 religious and political killings in Karachi over the last five years.
"It's good to ban the religious groups," she said. "It will restore law and order."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nawabzada Nasrullah Khan sees little changing in Pakistan. (Piers Benatar/Panos Picture) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TALIBAN (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POWER FAILURES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); HIJACKING (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); REFERENDUMS (67%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (64%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%) MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) PAKISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



314 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Some Earnings Optimism Cited as Rally Has a 3rd Day

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, giving benchmark indexes their first three-day winning streak in a month, on optimism an economic recovery will bolster companies' earnings.
 A government warning about the possibility of new terrorist strikes on the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks failed to discourage investors. 
 United Technologies led the Dow up after the company, which makes Pratt & Whitney jet engines, said it would meet its 2002 earnings target. Wal-Mart Stores lifted retailers after an industry report showed sales rose in the week ended Saturday. 
"Companies seem to be showing positive profit growth," Michelle Clayman, who manages $1.3 billion as chief investment officer at New Amsterdam Partners, said yesterday. "But tomorrow is hanging over the market. If we get by tomorrow without any horrible events, people will feel better."
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 6.62, or 0.7 percent, to 909.58. The Dow rose 83.23, or 1 percent, to 8602.61. The Nasdaq composite index added 15.49, or 1.2 percent, to 1,320.09.
United States exchanges will delay the opening of trading today until after a memorial service at the World Trade Center site.
United Technologies climbed $2.08 to $61.21, bringing its advance in the last three days to 7.6 percent. The chief executive, George David, said the company could meet its projected earnings of $4.40 a share for 2002.
Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, climbed $1.50 to $54.78. Target, which plans to almost double the number of its discount stores in the next eight years, added 57 cents, to $35.57. Procter & Gamble rose 65 cents, to $91.50.
Semiconductor shares also advanced. Novellus Systems added $1.22, to $24.88; Intel rose 39 cents, to $16.47; and Advanced Micro Devices, the world's second-biggest maker of personal computer processors, gained 30 cents, to $8.27.
Financial shares were the biggest drag on the S.& P. 500 after Astoria Financial said home refinancing, now at the lowest rates in 30 years, is biting into profits. Fannie Mae, the biggest buyer of mortgages, and Washington Mutual, the biggest mortgage lender, had the largest losses in the S.& P. 500. Astoria Financial plunged $3.90, or 12 percent, to $29.05. Fannie Mae lost $1.57 to $75.15, while Washington Mutual shed $1.45 to $36.90. Bank of America, the third-biggest United States bank, dropped 72 cents to $68.53.
Genentech Inc. lost $3.11, or 9.7 percent, to $28.89. The company, a leader in biotechnology, said its drug Avastin was not effective in a study to treat patients with metastatic breast cancer. --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
 (By Reuters) -- Treasury prices lurched higher yesterday, snapping a two-session losing streak after the government raised its threat assessment about the possibility of terror attacks. That attracted investors to bids, as a safe haven. 
"There's not much going on with economic data and stocks are actually up, so you have to assume it's a safe-haven play," said Kevin Flanagan, fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley, adding that volumes were thin and trends exaggerated.
The price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 15/32, to 103 1/32, as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.0 percent from 4.06 on Monday.
The yield on the 30-year note, rose 16/32, to 108 8/32, as the yield rose to 4.84 percent from 4.87.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and five-day cash-management bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.869
High Rate: 1.680
Coupon Yield: 1.710
Low Rate: 1.650
Median Rate: 1.670
Total applied for: $50,338,615
Accepted: $20,850,126
Noncompetitive: $27,921

The 4-week bills mature Oct. 10, 2002.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.976
Investment rate: 1.695
High rate: 1.670
Low rate: 1.63%
Median rate: 1.67%
Total applied for: $31,985,000
Accepted: $9,000,100
Noncompetitive: -0-

The 5-day cash management bills mature Sept. 16, 2002.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING (66%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (65%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); SEMICONDUCTORS (63%); CANCER (62%); BREAST CANCER (61%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE 

COMPANY: GENENTECH INC (80%); WAL-MART STORES INC (73%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (64%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); PRATT & WHITNEY (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (53%); INTEL CORP (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (52%); ASTORIA FINANCIAL CORP (52%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (73%); UTX (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (53%); AMD (FRA) (53%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); AF (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (73%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (64%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE DAVID (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



315 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1856 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: PERSPECTIVES/Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; 
'We Owe It to Those That We Lost to Expand Our Quest'

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from an interview with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.

Q. How did your feelings change after Sept. 11, which, of course, was supposed to be the primary? Did any part of you not want to be mayor?

A. No, I never had that feeling. I think I knew it would be more complex. There is a dimension of the job that is just more difficult, in terms of dealing with a budgetary shortfall. There was an element to the job that was going to be new: that's going to funerals, working on the memorial -- things that are directly related to 9/11 -- working on the design for what you build there. But you know, the fundamental job isn't that different. You always had a lack of housing, you always had transportation problems, you always had people that are desperately in need of social services. And the magnitude of New York City is such that 9/11 makes some of those problems worse. . . . But I still come back to the basic problems of this city aren't any different, and we owe it to those who died to fix those problems. I've tried to call 400 families of firefighters, police officers and court officers who died, and maybe I have 40 left to go . . . and almost all of the families say, I want a better life for my children . . .

Q. Is there anything that is not getting the time and attention it would have received because it has been overshadowed by 9/11? . . .

A. I think you still would have had a problem. Lower Manhattan was losing the financial sector. We didn't have enough housing. A lot of the problems of this city are caused by the national economic slowdown . . . So 9/11 puts a bump on it, 9/11 moves it to other industries, particularly tourism or any that depend on flying.
In the end, 9/11 probably economically hurt the poor more than anybody else, because Wall Street was contracting and laying off anyway. But when tourism got hurt -- tourism is an industry that gives jobs to those at the beginning of the economic ladder, the people that work in the hotels, the people who work in the restaurants, people that drive the buses, those people starting up the economic ladder. And they live all throughout the city and the region; they weren't living downtown.

Q. How does 9/11 characterize your mayoralty? Are you the rebuilding mayor?

A. . . . In terms of rebuilding, an awful lot of buildings that we build here won't be done in seven years from now. Just think about the length of time it takes. We still haven't really agreed on, conceptually, what should be here. That is what I want to focus on over the couple of months. I had no objection to the six plans that the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation put out, but I thought they were all variations on one conceptual ideal. Just office space. I would consider just residential; I'd consider mixed. . . . You have to consider rebuilding the two towers. I think that's impractical. Could not happen. You could never finance the thing. Nobody would move into it. But you want to go and say, what are the needs of this city and what are the different ideas? Which of the different ideas fit the needs?
. . . and I think the same mistake is being made with the memorial. Everybody wants to talk about the size of the memorial and the location of the memorial. But I don't know why we are sure what the memorial will be. For example, it could be a park. I think that's what most people envision. . . . There may be 10 other things that people will come up with as an idea for a memorial, a lot of which I wouldn't agree with. But this is the hard part of getting people to take the time, to sit back and open their minds and list all possibilities . . .
And a lot of people don't ever want to ask questions where the possibility of the answer coming back being something they don't want to hear exists. I think you have to do that; I think we owe it to those that we lost to expand our quest at a conceptual level for all different kinds of memorials and then sit back. Because it may very well be that a year from now people say, "Oh yes, of course, I would want an X, Y, Z."

Q. Who are you referring to when you say "people" don't want to sit back and reflect?

A.. . . I think there's this pressure: we've got to build right away. But if you look at the history of great memorials, all the great ones have taken time. The perspective of being away from something lets you look at the forest. If you are in the middle of it, you can only see trees. That's true in a lot of things we do. Nobody wants to build faster than I -- we need the tax revenue. I want to be the building mayor, whatever you want to call it. But I just think that it's a mistake to rush through it. . . . I don't have any preconceived notion of what the memorial should be. I don't have any preconceived notions about how big it should be. I do have a preconceived notion that whatever we do on that site and around that site has to work together, and that this city has to do two things: memorialize, but also build for the future. I don't see how you could leave all 16 acres for a memorial. It's not fair to those left behind. They're going to need jobs, they're going to need schools, they're going to need restaurants and stores . . .

Q. What for you has been the darkest moment since Sept. 11?

A. The most difficult thing was calling the three families of the employees that I had. . . . I still get choked up when I do eulogies at funerals. You know they're for people I've never met. So it isn't that I'm choked up for the person. I guess I'm choked up for the concept. Because you know, I look at those left behind and that's where my sympathies are. And I've said, when I talk to the families of the firefighters and police officers that I call, you know, I can pray for your son or husband or brother or whatever, but I can't really do anything other than that. What I can do is try to lead this city forward for those left behind. And most of the families, that is what they want. You know these families' groups that you interview; they don't represent most of these families. Most of the families, you know, you talk to them -- kids, the kids are screaming in the background or throwing something -- and the wife, you know typically, it was a man who died, the wife says, you know, "Look, my husband's gone but he would not want me mourning all the time."
I think the Jews do it right. They have a headstone unveiling a year after the funeral, and that's sort of the time that you sort of stop the mourning process and start going forward. And that's one of the reasons I've sort of stalled on laying out a grand vision, if you will, for what New York City needs in a more comprehensive way than just the site. Because I don't think you can focus on it while we're in the middle of a grieving period. And the 9/11 ceremonies -- what I'm trying to do is that in the morning, we will look back, remember who they were and why they died. And in the evening come out of it looking forward and say, O.K., we're going to go forward.

Q. The world will be watching us on Sept. 11. What elements of the ceremony were most important to you?

A. No political speeches. The families said that a lot, but I think independently I couldn't agree more. No Hollywood. The danger here is that it becomes a spectacular. We don't want that. The idea for the governors, Pataki and McGreevey; Giuliani; and myself -- to none of the four of us to make speeches -- was mine . . . I can't imagine if you read the Gettysburg Address why it isn't appropriate. And it says something, but in a nonpolitical way. The Declaration of Independence -- you know everybody's flying an American flag -- what's wrong with a little patriotism? These people died because the freedoms that we so value were what the terrorists found so threatening. Roosevelt's Four Freedoms in the evening -- so you're going forward, what could be more appropriate? And Giuliani starting to read the list of names? You know, he's not an elected official now, but he was there and he carried the city and I think it's very appropriate to have him read the names. . . . I tried to pull the city together. Because people came from all five boroughs . . . Reading the names and having the families walk down the ramp -- this is the morning -- is about the deceased. Who they were, why they died, how we're going to remember them. The evening, you light a flame, you say thank you to the whole world. You've got delegations from all the countries that are either coming to the General Assembly or who lost citizens here. And lighting a flame and talking about the future. And the music at the gatherings in all five boroughs -- I wanted to use local cultural institutions at each of the five boroughs. They're all basically doing the same program, which starts out with serious, more formal music and ends up more looking forward -- light, there's a new world, another world you have to go on.
My job in the end is to balance that -- the memorializing with getting people to look ahead. And most people who live in New York City want that. I am sure there are some family members that say, "No, no, I lost my loved one and I don't ever want anybody to look ahead." But that's not what most people want, and that's not what I am here to do.

Q. How did you pick the three readings?

A. . . . We looked at a whole bunch and then, yes, I did pick them. And I called Pataki and invited him to participate and told him what he'd be reading and I called McGreevey and told him what he'd be reading. I picked the Four Freedoms myself. And they're all short. Pataki's speech will be two minutes, two and a half. If Abraham Lincoln can do it in two and half, he can do it in two and a half. The excerpts from the Declaration of Independence, that McGreevey is going to read. And the Four Freedoms excerpts that I am going to read are about 50 seconds, less than a minute. You have to balance the responsibilities that government officials have to be there, and participate, and show empathy and leadership, with what's appropriate. I have no second thoughts about that.

Q. Can you give me any example that shows you that the city is pulling through and looking to the future?

A. Yeah, I think this morning as much as anything. I went to an elementary school up in Harlem. Principal was out there, and the teachers and the parents and the kids. I had the chancellor, I had the new district superintendent. . . . Everything was looking forward. Not one person was looking back. These are parents. They want an education for their kids that they know their kids have not been getting. And kids this age, they don't know the suffering, they don't know the pain, they don't know the loss. . . . For them, the whole world is the future. . . . People do believe that the best day in New York's life -- and I think the best day in their lives -- is tomorrow. . . . Most people are optimists, particularly in New York. . . .

Perspectives
This interview is the ninth of a series in which national and world figures reflect on the terrorist attacks and their effect on a year of public life and policy. The articles and interviews are online:
nytimes.com/perspectives

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series; Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); HIJACKING (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); RESTAURANTS (60%) TERRORISM; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SURVEYS AND SERIES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



316 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Senate Rejects Bush Call And Approves Farm Aid 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
The Senate rejected administration pleas to halt deficit spending and voted overwhelmingly today to give $6 billion in emergency drought relief aid to American farmers and ranchers.
 The bipartisan vote of 79 to 16 reflects concern for farmers who are victims of a costly drought and political calculations over what may lead to victory in several tight elections in the Midwest. 
 Leading the floor debate in favor of aid were Democratic senators who are facing serious challenges: Paul Wellstone of Minnesota, Tim Johnson of South Dakota, Jean Carnahan of Missouri and Tom Harkin of Iowa.
Senators Wayne Allard of Colorado and Tim Hutchinson of Arkansas, both Republicans and equally worried about retaining their seats, broke with their party to demonstrate their concern for ranchers and farmers in their states. 
While there is no disagreement that thousands of rural families are facing hardships because of the drought, the White House has refused to support any new money for the farmers. Instead, the administration asked Congress to take disaster relief money out of the new $180 billion farm bill that was signed into law this spring.
"The farm bill should break the bad fiscal habit of needing to pass emergency agriculture spending bills including drought, flood, or other supplemental payments that make it difficult for Congress to live within its budget," Ann M. Veneman, the secretary of agriculture, wrote in a letter to Senate leaders.
Senator Tom Daschle, the South Dakota Democrat who is majority leader and who wrote the relief measure, said the drought was costing farmers in his state $5 million a day. Mr. Daschle said the administration's request that Congress draw drought relief monies from the farm bill was wrong.
"Suggesting that natural disaster aid come from the farm bill is like taking money from one pocket and putting it in the other," he said. "That's not disaster relief; it's a shell game."
Other lawmakers questioned why drought victims should be treated differently than victims of hurricanes, earthquakes or floods.
"We've always done this when any part of the country has suffered from a natural disaster," Senator Johnson said. "We need to deal with drought as past Republican and Democratic administrations have."
The measure faces strong resistance in the House of Representatives and from the White House. Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, said today that the drought aid was a political measure to help re-elect Senator Johnson. 
Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said today that "the president will continue to work with Congress to see what the most appropriate way is to bring this help to the people who need it."
Mr. Fleischer noted that the "farm bill does have plenty of funding in it to handle many different issues."
Still, drought relief is so politically popular that Senator Phil Gramm, the Texas Republican who is retiring, was one of the few senators to speak against the measure on the floor today. "Deficits don't come from heaven," Mr. Gramm said. "Today we are in the process of adding $6 billion to the deficit."
Unlike the farm bill, which was strongly criticized during Congressional debates for giving the majority of subsidy money to the nation's biggest farmers, the disaster relief passed by the Senate today is to go to all farmers and ranchers who have suffered from the drought.
This has brought endorsement from all farm groups, regardless of their positions on the recent farm bill.
Farmers who suffer at least 35 percent loss of their crops and ranchers who lose at least 35 percent of their pasture are to be eligible.
The drought, the result of five years of scant rainfall, has dried fields and forests alike, creating wildfires in national parks as well as poor crops in the nation's interior. For farmers, it also follows more than three years of record low prices for their crops because of overproduction.
"This drought couldn't have come at a worse time," said Keith Dittrich, president of the American Corn Growers Association. "Farmers have suffered through some of the worst economic conditions due to low market prices."
The harvest is so bad that the prices for commodity crops have risen, which in turn has led to an unexpected drop in the costs of the new farm bill.
With the higher prices for basic commodities, the government will save $5 billion in lower payments to farmers under the new farm bill, according to a new estimate from the Congressional Budget Office.
That news prompted Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, to argue that the drought aid would not raise the federal deficit.
"Those farmers who are blessed with a good crop are getting higher prices and less government payments," Mr. Conrad said. "But for others who are suffering in the horrible drought -- farmer's wives coming into the food banks and ranchers trading their meat for canned goods and perishables -- that aid is desperately needed." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WEATHER (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%) AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; LIVESTOCK; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DROUGHT; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (89%); TIM JOHNSON (89%); TOM HARKIN (79%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); WAYNE ALLARD (58%) DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



317 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE INNER CIRCLE; 
On the Job and at Home, Influential Hawks' 30-Year Friendship Evolves

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
At a dinner this spring for former President Gerald R. Ford, Vice President Dick Cheney so artfully skewered his old boss, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, that the crowd got an instant glimpse into one of the closest and most important relationships in the nation's capital.
 "So much has changed since I started out as an assistant to Don Rumsfeld," Mr. Cheney said, deadpan. "Today I look at Don and see the secretary of defense. He looks at me and sees -- well, an assistant to Don Rumsfeld." 
 The crowd roared at a joke that summed up the three-decade friendship between the two superpowers of the Bush administration, who first worked closely together in 1969 in the Nixon administration, when Mr. Rumsfeld was director of the Office of Economic Opportunity and Mr. Cheney was his 28-year-old aide. 
But what few people even in the capital understand is that each man also has a powerful deputy -- Paul D. Wolfowitz for Mr. Rumsfeld and I. Lewis Libby for Mr. Cheney, who have known each other for 30 years in a parallel association and friendship that makes them closer to each other than to Mr. Bush, or to Mr. Cheney and Mr. Rumsfeld.
These relationships, according to people who know all four men, are essential to understanding their current status as the most influential hawks in an already hawkish administration.
The events of Sept. 11 have made their bond even stronger, administration officials say, and their stands on crucial issues -- from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty to the International Criminal Court to the Middle East to Iraq -- have often won out over the more cautious, more multilateralist camp led by as formidable a figure as Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. The terrorist attacks made their arguments even more powerful with Mr. Bush, several senior administration officials said.
"They're very certain of their views," said Kenneth Adelman, a former Reagan administration official who knows all four men. "They're not the kind of agonizing, Hamlet-like figures."
Though the four have weaved in and out of government over seven administrations, this is the first time they have assembled under the same president. Their supporters say that their coming together is a fortuitous development in an administration that has made the campaign against terrorism its priority. But detractors describe the four as dangerous and arrogant interventionists.
The men have "a pervasive philosophy of 'We have to do what we think is right,' " a Republican ally of Secretary Powell said. " 'And when it comes out, the rest of the world will know it's right, too.' "
In a recent interview, Mr. Rumsfeld acknowledged how important his longtime relationship with Mr. Cheney and others in the administration was to doing his job.
"It helps enormously," he said. "If you're dealing with people who you know how they think and how they move and what they do and what they worry about and what they think is important, and you don't have to begin at the beginning every time you meet with them, it's a big help."
Mr. Cheney and Mr. Rumsfeld, as well as their deputies, declined to be interviewed for this article.
Together, the group has pushed forward a muscular American foreign policy toward Iraq with pre-emption as its central thrust, and arguing that in a dangerous, post-cold-war world the United States must reserve the right to strike first.
The men say they believe that if the United States does not shape the world order, it will spin out of control. As a group, they supported the "evil empire" beliefs of Ronald Reagan more than the internationalism of the first President Bush.
Of the four, Mr. Cheney is closest to Mr. Bush, and operates as the president's No. 1 foreign policy adviser. But Mr. Rumsfeld counseled Mr. Bush on national security issues during the 2000 campaign, especially the need for missile defenses to thwart threats from countries like North Korea and Iraq. Mr. Wolfowitz was also a top national security adviser during the campaign.
The core of the quartet is the relationship between Mr. Cheney and Mr. Rumsfeld, who have three times found themselves in the same supervisor-subordinate role. Mr. Rumsfeld was not only Mr. Cheney's boss at the Office at Economic Opportunity, but also as director of the Cost of Living Council later in the Nixon administration. Mr. Rumsfeld was Mr. Cheney's boss again as White House chief of staff during the Ford administration.
Eventually, the two shared some of the same titles: congressman, White House chief of staff (Mr. Cheney took Mr. Rumsfeld's place under Mr. Ford) and secretary of defense.
Over the years, Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Cheney became close friends. Mr. Rumsfeld and his wife, Joyce, were guests at the 35th wedding anniversary celebration in Wyoming that Mr. Cheney and his wife, Lynne, had in the summer of 1999, and are frequent guests in each other's homes.
Mr. Wolfowitz and Mr. Libby have a similar close friendship that began in 1973, when Mr. Libby was a student in Mr. Wolfowitz's political science class at Yale. Mr. Libby then worked for Mr. Wolfowitz in the Reagan administration, beginning when Mr. Wolfowitz ran the State Department's policy planning office.
Mr. Libby worked again for Mr. Wolfowitz at the Pentagon in the first Bush administration, when Mr. Wolfowitz was under secretary for policy and Mr. Libby was his deputy.
The four men do not see one another socially as a formal group, colleagues say, but they are frequently together at meetings, arguing points of view. Still, they are not a single policy bloc, and play different roles in relation to one another.
Mr. Rumsfeld is the chief executive, the man who likes to be in charge and bark out orders. "Rumsfeld is a kind of typical lightweight wrestler," a senior administration official said. "His management style is always to be in your face, raising questions, playing for the advantage and to take someone down."
Mr. Wolfowitz is the strategic thinker with a strong moral streak who provides Mr. Rumsfeld with his intellectual underpinnings. "Paul is the big brain who's thinking about strategies, policies and geostrategic implications," said Vin Weber, a former Republican congressman from Minnesota who knows Mr. Cheney, Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Wolfowitz.
Mr. Cheney is the politician and synthesizer who relishes the process and worries about how to get from one place to another in the maze of Washington. "This is a vice president who's a prime minister, a senior counselor, a chief of staff, whatever he wants to be," said Senator Chuck Hagel, a Nebraska Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee.
Mr. Libby, a lawyer known by his nickname, Scooter, is Mr. Cheney's chief of staff and national security adviser. Once a speechwriter for Secretary of State George P. Shultz, Mr. Libby is adept at articulating and carrying out the vice president's ideas and troubleshooting for his boss. "Scooter always brings a trained lawyer's eye," said a senior administration official.
The four men met in ways both ordinary and unusual.
As a young graduate student on a fellowship in 1968, Mr. Cheney had a 30-minute job interview with Mr. Rumsfeld, then a Republican congressman from Illinois. The interview went badly, and Mr. Cheney went to work for another lawmaker. A long memorandum he later wrote on how to set up the White House Office of Economic Opportunity caught Mr. Rumsfeld's eye, and he hired Mr. Cheney as the new agency's Congressional liaison.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "Intersecting Careers of Four Bush Advisers"Two of the most influential and hawkish members of the Bush administration, Vice President Dick Cheney and Donald H. Rumsfeld, the secretary of defense, and their deputies have connections that span seven presidencies. I. LEWIS LIBBY, 52 Richard M. Nixon -- 1969-1974 Student of Mr. Wolfowitzs at Yale University Ronald Reagan -- 1981-1989 State Dept., director of special projects, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs Partner, Dickstein, Shapiro & Morin George Bush -- 1989-1993 Defense Dept. positions, ending as deputy under secretary for policy Bill Clinton -- 1993-2001 Managing partner, Dechert, Price & Rhoads law firm, Washington Legal adviser, Cox Committee on China George W. Bush -- 2001- Chief of staff to Vice President Cheney PAUL D. WOLFOWITZ, 58 Richard M. Nixon -- 1969-1974 Asistant professor of political science, Yale University Gerald R. Ford -- 1974-1977 Deputy asst. director, Arms Control and Disarmament Agency Jimmy Carter -- 1977-1981 Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Ronald Reagan -- 1981-1989 State Dept., director, policy and planning; asst. secretary for East Asian and Pacific affairs. U.S. ambassador to Indonesia George Bush -- 1989-1993 Defense Dept., under secretary for policy Bill Clinton -- 1993-2001 Dean and professor of international relations at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University George W. Bush -- 2001- Deputy secretary of defense DICK CHENEY, 62 Richard M. Nixon -- 1969-1974 Asst. to director, Office of Economic Opportunity; White House staff assistant; Asst. director, Cost of Living Council V.P., Bradley-Woods Gerald R. Ford -- 1974-1977 Dep. Asst. to the President; White House Chief of Staff Jimmy Carter -- 1977-1981 U.S. representative from Wyoming George Bush -- 1989-1993 Secretary of defense Bill Clinton -- 1993-2001 Senior fellow, American Enterprise Institute Chairman and C.E.O. of Halliburton Company George W. Bush -- 2001- Vice president DONALD H. RUMSFELD, 70 Richard M. Nixon -- 1969-1974 Director, Office of Economic Opportunity; Counselor to President Nixon; director, Cost of Living Council NATO ambassador Gerald R. Ford -- 1974-1977 Chief of staff; Secretary of Defense Jimmy Carter -- 1977-1981 President and chief executive officer of G.D. Searle & Company Ronald Reagan -- 1981-1989 Reagan adviser Senior adviser, William Blair & Co. George Bush -- 1989-1993 Positions in private business including chairmanships of General Instrument Bill Clinton -- 1993-2001 Corp. and Gilead Sciences Inc. Chairman, Commission to Assess the Ballistic Missile Threat Chairman, commission on space and military George W. Bush -- 2001- Secretary of defense (Sources: Congressional Quarterly; Department of Defense)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (86%); LEGAL SERVICES (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); WAR ON TERROR (74%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (73%); HIJACKING (69%); BONDS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (69%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (62%); COUNTERTERRORISM (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (96%); DICK CHENEY (95%); RONALD REAGAN (93%); RICHARD NIXON (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); JIMMY CARTER (88%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; SCHMITT, ERIC; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D (DEPUTY SEC); LIBBY, I LEWIS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDONESIA (79%) ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



318 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE ARAB WORLD; 
Anger at U.S. Said to Be at New High

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
Anger at the United States, embedded in the belief that the Bush administration lends unstinting support to Israel at the expense of the Palestinians, is at an unparalleled high across the Arab world, according to analysts and diplomats in the region. 
 The resolve of President Bush to use force against Iraq, they say, compounds the antagonism, which is expressed with particularly unvarnished dismay in Egypt and neighboring Jordan, Washington's crucial Arab allies. 
 More than in previous bouts of anti-Americanism in the region, the anger permeates all strata of society, especially among the educated, and is tinged, people acknowledge, with disillusionment at their own long-entrenched American-backed leadership.
Frustration at the failure of the Arab governments to forge a common front against the administration and its close relationship with the government of Ariel Sharon in Israel seeps through many conversations. 
"There is a sense by many ordinary people and politicians that the moves against Iraq are an effort to redraw the map for the strategic interests of the United States and Israel," said Rami G. Khouri, an American-educated Jordanian journalist and a senior analyst with the International Crisis Group, a research group with offices in Washington. 
Mr. Khouri, like many others, said the Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, was deeply unpopular in the region.
"Everyone I know wants Saddam Hussein removed," he said. "Nobody I know wants the Americans to do it -- because we believe they are the last people in the world who will work on the behalf of Arab interests."
But this deep antagonism toward the United States is mixed, Mr. Khouri and others said, with an affinity for the American way of life that feeds the disillusionment with the Bush administration.
"Arabs are much closer to Americans than to Europeans," Mr. Khouri said. "Arabs love American culture, the rocket to the moon, technology, fast cars. They love going to America. Now they feel like jilted lovers."
The authoritarian leadership in Egypt, the monarchy in Jordan and other governments across the region would probably survive the street protests that are likely to occur if there is a war against Iraq, most of those interviewed said. 
The protests may be used to allow populations to vent their frustrations. Analysts said governments in the region were nervous about the unpredictable consequences of a war, and the almost certain heavy economic costs, particularly in Jordan, where cheap Iraqi oil keeps the country going.
Mustafa B. Hamarneh, the director of the Center for Strategic Studies at the University of Jordan, said it was likely that governments would ban lengthy demonstrations so as not to risk confrontations between their armies and the people -- and also to avoid antagonizing the United States.
"The regimes will tighten the screws on political expression to keep their own skins," he said. "If the American flag is burnt every night on the Cairo streets, do you think Congress is going to give them money?" Egypt is one of the largest recipients of American foreign assistance.
Opinion makers, businessmen and officials voiced what they emphasized was their bewilderment at what they saw as the broken promise of the Bush administration. Instead of reaching out to the Arab world, as they had hoped, they said Mr. Bush had assumed an unquestioning tolerance of the actions of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel against the Palestinians. 
They talked bitterly of the United States behaving like an 18th-century imperial power with policies based on racism and gunpowder. The main difference between the United States today and the marauding forces of Genghis Khan was that Washington was able to project its power all over the globe, said one person who was interviewed who insisted on anonymity.
There was little confidence in the Bush administration's promise to bring democracy to the Arab world in the wake of a defeat of Mr. Hussein. The administration's terminology "regime change" was revealing in itself, several people said. It meant, they said, that Washington could easily target other governments in the Arab world for similar treatment.
"All this talk of democracy in the Middle East is baloney," Mr. Hamarneh said. "The United States wants to do this against Iraq to spite Arabs and in spite of Arabs."
Most of those interviewed said that rather than ushering in democracy, an attack on Iraq would bring disintegration and chaos.
"There is a sense that the United States is going to make a mess of the region," said Abdel Monem Said Aly, the director of the prestigious Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo.
Mr. Aly listed what he called four major flaws in the Bush agenda: unequivocal support for Mr. Sharon, which he said was the driving force behind Washington's desire to topple Mr. Hussein; dealing with Iraq militarily "without preparation"; misguided policies on dealing with terrorists; and the negative "general rhetoric" from Washington about Muslims and Arabs. 
By threatening to act unilaterally against Iraq, the United States would lose its remaining credibility among one billion Muslims and 300 million Arabs, Mr. Aly said.
"You need at least the support of those who are pro the United States," he said. "If you lose all those, there is no way you can guarantee the security of the United States." 
There was widespread skepticism about the Bush administration's contention that the Iraqi leader was close to developing nuclear weapons.
From his office overlooking the Nile, Dr. Hossam Badrawi, an American-trained physician and the scion of one of Egypt's wealthiest families, said it was close to impossible to believe that Mr. Hussein possessed such devastating weapons. Dr. Hossam, whose two children attend college in the United States, called Mr. Hussein a "monster."
But, speaking in a suite decorated with American paraphernalia, including a photograph of himself with an American ambassador to Egypt, he said, "If the argument was so strong, the leadership of the rest of the world would agree." 
Expressing a general mood of gloom about the outlook for the American-backed Arab governments, Sari Nasir, an American-trained professor of sociology at the University of Jordan, said: "They will become a targets of their own people."
"People have asked them to take a stand against the United States for its support of Israel and they haven't," he said. "People in the Arab world are much more educated than before and they resent their regimes." This resentment would strengthen the hand of such extremist organizations as Hezbollah and Hamas, he said.
Across all the conversations in the past several days, people were assiduous in differentiating between the Bush administration and the American people.
There was strong exception to the question posed in the United States in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks: "Why do they hate us?"
Several people said they objected to the anonymous and derogatory tone of "they." The word "hate" was inappropriate because the feelings were more of disappointment and disillusionment, emotions that could be eased with a change in policies, they said. And "us" was misleading. The disdain was reserved for Mr. Bush, not Americans, they said.
But Mr. Khouri said the feeling of being scorned ran so deep that it would be tough to reverse. "People have given up because they don't believe the United States will change its policy," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); IRAQ WAR (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRISIS GROUP (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) PERLEZ, JANE; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); JORDAN (94%); ISRAEL (94%); EGYPT (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



319 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Bush Finds a Friend in Carpenters' Union President 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
In a movement whose anthem is "Solidarity Forever," Douglas J. McCarron, president of the carpenters' union, defiantly marches to a different drummer, so much so that some union leaders worry that he has marched into the enemy's camp. 
 Not only has Mr. McCarron caused the biggest split in labor in 30 years by pulling the carpenters out of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., but he has emerged as President Bush's best friend in a union movement that often derides Mr. Bush as the worst president for workers in decades. 
Last Monday, for the second Labor Day in a row, Mr. McCarron played host to Mr. Bush, this time at a carpenters' picnic outside Pittsburgh, where he showered praise on the president, delighting White House strategists who are eager to woo union members. 
He has flown twice on Air Force One with Mr. Bush, he was the only union president to speak at Mr. Bush's economic conference, and in June, Mr. Bush, who rarely speaks at union conventions, appeared at the carpenters' convention.
In labor circles, some fear that Mr. McCarron has become an unwitting accomplice in a White House's strategy to divide the largely Democratic labor movement and entice union members into the Republican fold. Some union leaders question how Mr. McCarron can ally himself with Mr. Bush after the president helped repeal new workplace safety rules and barred federal construction projects from giving preference to unionized workers. They say he has let the White House use him as a blue-collar show horse to attract workers' votes, without receiving much in return. 
"We're anxious to see any concrete results that the carpenters' relationship with President Bush might bring," said Edward Sullivan, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Building and Construction Trades Department. "If it benefits the carpenters, that will be good."
Richard Hurd, a labor relations professor at Cornell, expressed doubt. 
"The White House is trying to project an image of being friendlier to the unionized worker than it truly is, and McCarron certainly helps that," Professor Hurd said. "The question you would ask is, 'Is it worth it to the carpenters?' I don't know of any evidence yet that it is."
But Mr. McCarron insists that his friendship with Mr. Bush is paying off. He said some Bush policies are benefiting carpenters, like a legislative change that boosts pensions for construction workers. He said carpenters would benefit from other Bush proposals, like oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and easing air pollution rules to speed renovations of power plants.
"I think we've got a better chance working with this administration than dissing it all the time," said Mr. McCarron, whose union, the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners, with 538,000 members, is one of the biggest in the building trades. "His views are not similar to my views on a lot of issues, but on a lot of issues he understands the needs of working families."
Mr. McCarron said that when he flew on Air Force One on Labor Day, he told the president about the concerns of working people. He said that thanks to the carpenters' relationship with Mr. Bush, the president's selections to the National Labor Relations Board were friendlier to unions than they might have been.
"I am completely convinced in the integrity of George Bush," he said. 
Republican strategists say Mr. McCarron played a pivotal role in making the White House rethink its one-time view that labor was a hostile monolith. Mr. McCarron helped persuade Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's political adviser, that while some unions would implacably oppose Mr. Bush, other unions could work with him to their mutual benefit. 
"There are a number of areas where the president's policies are consistent with the interests of members of the carpenters, the teamsters and some other unions," said Ken Mehlman, the White House political director. "When there's a nexus between the policy interests, it's natural that you'll work together in advancing those policy interests."
Republican strategists say that if Mr. Bush could win slightly more of the union vote in 2004 -- just 27 percent of union voters backed him in 2000 -- he could easily win swing states, including Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, that he narrowly lost.
Mr. McCarron asserts that his union is taking a bipartisan approach, noting that the carpenters have contributed $1.2 million to Democratic senators to help the Democrats keep control of the Senate. 
"Whether the guy has a D after his name or an R, if he cherishes the values of working people, I'm going to work with him," he said. 
He said it would be dangerous if Republicans took control of the Senate because that would make it harder to block antilabor legislation. "Trent Lott and Don Nickels scare the living bejesus out of my members," he said, referring to the Republican Senate leader and to a Republican senator from Oklahoma. 
Rich Bond, a former Republican National Committee chairman and a consultant to the carpenters, said, "Doug McCarron is one of the few individuals who can gain the mutual trust of George Bush and Teddy Kennedy."
Senator Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, praised Mr. McCarron's efforts for carpenters. 
"I consider him to be a friend," Mr. Kennedy said, but then he questioned Mr. McCarron's ties to Mr. Bush. "He feels he gets face time with the president, is able to talk about these issues. We'll see whether he is about to get anything out of it."
By no means is politics the only area where Mr. McCarron has shaken things up. He has cut headquarters staff to 26 from 250. He demolished the union's majestic headquarters near Capitol Hill and erected a 10-story building, where the union uses half of one floor and rents out the rest for $20 million a year.
He has hired 700 full-time organizers, he said, to make the union grow after years of decline. He said the carpenters left the A.F.L.-C.I.O. because he disliked its large bureaucracy and the $4 million in dues the carpenters paid each year. 
"He has done more to change his union than anybody in the labor movement," said John Wilhelm, the president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union. "I don't quarrel with many of his criticisms of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., but I don't think leaving was helpful."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas J. McCarron (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); POLITICS (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (70%); US LABOR DAY (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); WILDLIFE (69%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ORGANIZED LABOR; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS & JOINERS OF AMERICA (59%); AFL-CIO (57%) UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (58%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; MCCARRON, DOUGLAS J; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



320 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2030 words

HEADLINE: TIMELINE; 
Sept. 11 ... And a Year of War, Anxiety and Questions

 BODY:
8:46 a.m. North tower hit.
9:02 a.m. South tower hit.
9:38 a.m. Pentagon hit.
9:59 a.m. South tower collapses.
10:10 a.m. Crash in Shanksville, Pa.
10:28 a.m. North tower collapses.
 SEPTEMBER

NEW YORK CITY: With airports, tunnels and bridges closed and Lower Manhattan inaccessible, jetfighters circle and National Guardsmen patrol the streets. Trading resumes on Wall Street after six days. Efforts at ground zero turn from rescue to recovery.

ANTHRAX: Letters containing anthrax arrive at the offices of NBC and The New York Post; five people are infected between them. Two workers at American Media, in Boca Raton, Fla., are hospitalized after inhaling anthrax.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: Congress backs the use of armed force. President George W. Bush taps Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania as the director of the new Office of Homeland Security.

THE CASE: Mr. Bush names Osama bin Laden as the chief suspect and declares he's wanted dead or alive. The President also orders the freeze of all domestic assets of 278 groups with ties to terror organizations.

OCTOBER

NEW YORK CITY: The Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel and some Lower Manhattan streets reopen. Mayor Rudolph W. Guiliani returns $10 million, a donation from a Saudi prince who criticizes American policy on Israel.

THE WAR ABROAD: American aircraft and U.S. and British cruise missiles attack Taliban and Qaeda defenses in Afghanistan. American ground forces join the campaign.

ANTHRAX: An American Media worker dies of anthrax. Later in the month two postal workers die in Washington, their deaths linked to anthrax infection. A Bronx woman's death is linked to inhalation anthrax.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: Mr. Ridge is sworn in as the first director of homeland security. President Bush urges Congress to pass a tax cut and spending package worth $75 billion to jump start the faltering economy. Mr. Bush signs a new antiterror bill.

THE CASE: U.S. intelligence outlines a cryptic message intercepted prior to Sept. 11 in which a Qaeda member said Mr. bin Laden was planning a Hiroshima. The number of people detained since the Sept. 11 attacks rises to over 1,000.

NOVEMBER

NEW YORK CITY: Estimates of the death toll at the World Trade Center, once as high as 6,500, are revised to fewer than 4,000. New York City police officials announce intentions to make all 55,000 employees attend mental health screenings for stress related to Sept.11.

THE WAR ABROAD: American soldiers rescue eight Western aid workers from the Taliban. A C.I.A. agent is killed during a prison uprising in Mazar-i-Sharif. Discovered among the prisoners is John Walker Lindh, an American who joined Taliban forces.

ANTHRAX: A Connecticut woman becomes the fifth person to die of anthrax. As a precaution, Americans run for Cipro, an antibiotic that fights the germ.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: The government considers trying terror suspects in military tribunals instead of U.S. courts. Mr. Ridge requests billions for homeland security. Attorney General John Ashcroft offers incentives, including citizenship, to immigrants to provide evidence on terrorists.

THE CASE: A Pakistani newspaper publishes an interview with Mr. bin Laden in which he says he has nuclear weapons. U.S. prosecutors announce the arrest a suspect in the millennium bombing plot at Los Angeles International Airport.

DECEMBER

NEW YORK CITY: Congress approves $8.2 billion in aid for New York City, short of the $20 billion figure that had been discussed. A viewing platform opens at ground zero. Thousands visit.

THE WAR ABROAD: Coalition forces take Kandahar and Kabul. Muhammed Atef, a top associate of Osama bin Laden is reported killed. An interim government replaces the Taliban in Afghanistan. U.S. forces engage in ground fighting against a fierce group of Taliban fighters in Tora Bora.

ANTHRAX: The anthrax found in the American Media offices is similar to that in the letters sent to Sen. Tom Daschle and Sen. Patrick J. Leahy, officials say.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: Airline passengers contend with long lines as the government bolsters airport security for the holiday season. The Senate Judiciary Committee holds hearings to see whether the terror investigation is violating individuals rights.

THE CASE: Amid rumors of his death, Mr. bin Laden appears in a tape accusing the West of a campaign against Islam. Passengers aboard an American Airlines flight from Paris to Miami subdue Richard C. Reid after he attempts to light a bomb in his shoes.

JANUARY

NEW YORK CITY: Groups representing various interests weigh in on the proposed memorial at the World Trade Center site, but little dialog occurs between them.

THE WAR ABROAD: U.S. forces suffer their first casualties in the 3-month-old war. U.S. military police move 20 of the 400 detainees in Afghanistan to the U.S. Navy base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, labeling them 'enemy combatants.'

ANTHRAX: A Senate office building is reopened following an intense search for anthrax. A nationwide investigation turns up many clues, but no solid leads that point to the culprit.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: The Department of Health and Human Services will distribute $1 billion to the states to bolster bioterrorism defenses. In his State of the Union address, President Bush labels Iran, Iraq and North Korea an "axis of evil."

THE CASE: Zacarias Moussaoui refuses to plead in the criminal indictment against him. Daniel Pearl, a Wall Street Journal reporter, is abducted by Islamic militants in Pakistan.

FEBRUARY

NEW YORK CITY: Charities set filing deadlines for cash grants for all but those who lost a relative in the Sept. 11 attacks. Instead, the organizations plan to provide more training and counseling to help those who have suffered economic hardships.

THE WAR ABROAD: U.S. officials are concerned about whether the new Afghan military, police and legal system can be established before powerful warlords can re-establish their authority over parts of the country they once controlled.

ANTHRAX: The F.B.I. has narrowed down possible suspects to a short list of 18-20 people with the means, opportunity and possible motive to send the anthrax letters last fall.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: The C.I.A. director, George J. Tenet, tells Congress that Al Qaeda remains capable of another largescale attack.

THE CASE: A video surfaces in Pakistan showing Daniel Pearl being killed. U.S. officials are quietly obtaining DNA samples from family members of Mr. bin Laden to determine if he is one of three men killed by soldiers in February.

MARCH

NEW YORK CITY: A report in the New England Journal of Medicine says tens of thousands of Manhattan residents need psychiatric treatment following Sept. 11. Light beams, representing the twin towers, burn at night throughout the month as a temporary memorial.

THE WAR ABROAD: A U.S.-led mission, Operation Anaconda, assaults targets in the Shahi- Kot vally in Afghanistan.

ANTHRAX: A doctor in Florida who treated one of the Sept. 11 hijackers for a skin lesion last summer, told investigators that he now believes the patient suffered from anthrax contact.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: Under heavy scrutiny for letting Sept. 11 hijackers into the United Statesand for granting two of them visas after they were killed in the attacksthe Immigration and Naturalization Service replaces four senior officials.

THE CASE: Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge announces a new color-coded system to inform the public of the scope of terror threats. C.I.A. and F.B.I. agents storms houses in Pakistan, arresting 30 men, including Abu Zubaydah, a lieutenant to Mr. bin Laden.

APRIL
NEW YORK CITY: A prominent New York doctor says people in Lower Manhattan face a risk of disease from airborne asbestos from the towers. A memorial wall is proposed for the site when it is rebuilt.

THE WAR ABROAD: Operations in the Shah-i-Kot region continue. Later in the month, coalition forces scour the mountainous eastern region for Qaeda and Taliban forces.

ANTHRAX: Investigators of the anthrax attacks the previous fall find that the spores grew progressively more potent with each letter sent. Suspicion increases that the microbes used in the attacks may be from the same laboratory in Maryland.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: The Bush administration is developing a potential approach for toppling President Saddam Hussain, of Iraq.

THE CASE: After Mr. Moussaoui dismisses his court-appointed lawyers because they are not Muslim, they request that he undergo a psychiatric evaluation. The U.S. Justice Department learns that Yaser Esam Hamdi, a prisoner at Guantanamo Bay, is a U.S. citizen.

MAY

NEW YORK CITY: The recovery effort at ground zero is completed. In 8 1/2 months, 1.8 million tons of debris were moved to the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island.

THE WAR ABROAD: A car explodes next to a bus in Karachi, Pakistan, killing 15 including the car's driver, and injuring at least 20 others. Al Qaeda is suspected in the attack.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: The director of the F.B.I., Robert S. Mueller III, acknowledges that the attacks might have been preventable if officials in his agency had responded differently to all the information that was available.

THE CASE: Reports surface that President Bush was warned in August that operatives of Mr. bin Laden might try to hijack planes. An F.B.I. agent sends a letter to Mr. Mueller asking why her warnings about Mr. Moussaoui went ignored by F.B.I. headquarters before Sept. 11.

JUNE

NEW YORK CITY: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council agree on a budget they say will close the $5 billion deficit incurred as an economic aftershock of Sept. 11. Ground zero remains popular among tourists.

THE WAR ABROAD: A bomb explodes outside the U.S. Consulate in Karachi, Pakistan killing 11. Pakistani officials suspect regrouped Islamic militant organizations, which were splintered during a government crackdown, carried out the attack.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: The House and Senate, eager to assure the public that they are giving the military top priority, agree to raise defense spending. A Congressional committee questions intelligence officials about missed warnings of Sept. 11.

THE CASE: Authorities detain Jose Padilla, an American citizen, based on evidence that he was part of a Qaeda plot to obtain materials for a dirty bomb and detonate it in the United States.

JULY

NEW YORK CITY: Nearly a year after the Sept. 11 attacks a multibillion dollar federal fund to aid victims families makes its first payout.

THE WAR ABROAD: John Walker Lindh agrees to a plea bargain. He gets a 20-year sentence. Field workers with Global Exchange, an American organization, say 812 Afghan civilians have been killed by American bombs.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: President Bush gets the homeland security department he wanted, but not the nonpartisan support he was seeking.

THE CASE: Mr. Moussaoui acknowledges in court that he is a part of Al Qaeda.

CNN/Getty Images
Reuters

AUGUST

NEW YORK CITY: Design plans for a new complex at the World Trade Center site are rejected and officials issue a request for new designs.

THE WAR ABROAD: An American soldier is injured by sniper fire in Afghanistan, prompting military spokesman to say, The war is not over.

ANTHRAX: The F.B.I. investigates Steven J. Hatfill, a germ weapons expert, for any possible connection to the anthrax attacks. Mr. Hatfill denies any involvement.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: The national debate: Should United States invade Iraq?

THE CASE: German investigators say they have evidence of a link between Al Qaeda and Mohammed Atta, the suspected ringleader of the Sept. 11 attacks.

SEPTEMBER

NEW YORK CITY: The attack on the trade center will cost New York City $83 billion to $95 billion, according to the city comptroller. The number of people dead and missing at the World Trade Center is revised to 2,801, not including the hijackers.

THE WAR ABROAD: A year after the attacks, Mr. bin Laden's fate remains unknown, and military officials debate whether to remove Special Operations forces.

DOMESTIC DEFENSE: White House officials say the president will soon decide whether to initiate war with Iraq. Congress promises to hold hearings on Iraq.

THE CASE: Dutch authorities charge eight men with helping to recruit, house and finance Qaeda members. In Pakistan, tribal leaders protecting Qaeda suspects engage in a standoff with soldiers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Afghanistan, Canadian soldiers return to Bagram Air Base on a Chinook helicopter after completing a mission in the Shah-i-Kot region. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); Lights shine over ground zero six months after the attacks. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. G29); Firefighters and emergency workers make their way through debris at the World Trade Center, where low buildings were destroyed as the towers collapsed. (Agence France-Presse); The reporter Daniel Pearl is abducted and killed in Pakistan. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. G28); (Associated Press); (Brett Taylor/The New York Times); (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); (James Hill for The New York Times); (Associated Press); (Associated Press); (Ruby Washington/The New York Times); (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); (Associated Press); (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); (Reuters); (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ANTHRAX (89%); BACTERIA (89%); TALIBAN (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); HIJACKING (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); ANTIBIOTICS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); AIRLINES (71%); TAX LAW (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); MENTAL HEALTH (60%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); MAZAR-E SHARIF, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



321 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1924 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE WHITE HOUSE; 
Threat of Terrorism Is Shaping the Focus Of Bush Presidency

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
Only 48 hours after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, George W. Bush first defined the role that the campaign against terrorism would play in his untried presidency. "The nation must understand," Mr. Bush said somberly, speaking to reporters on a sparkling morning in the Oval Office, "this is now the focus of my administration."
 In the year since then, Mr. Bush has seen how difficult that focus has been to sustain. The economy, the corporate scandals and the violence in the Middle East have blown him off course, and are certain to again. But the terrorist threat has remained his priority. 
 Today, as the White House put the nation on a heightened state of alert, Mr. Bush declared, "Today and tomorrow we'll be reliving a horrible reminder of what is possible in the 21st century -- that is, no country is immune from attack." 
That reality has shaped his presidency.
Now Mr. Bush seems determined to transform Sept. 11 into a milestone on the road to war with Iraq, and to use last year's attack by Osama bin Laden and the continued threat from Al Qaeda to justify this year's pursuit of Saddam Hussein. Clearly, the two are not yet linked in the minds of many Americans and most of America's allies. Before today's threat, polls showed Americans largely out of sync with the president, more worried about a jobless recovery than terrorism. But over the past year, the linkage in the president's mind between Mr. bin Laden and Mr. Hussein has grown tighter -- and given birth to a new policy of pre-emption that encapsulates Mr. Bush's view that the United States must strike before it is struck again.
Iraq may be the first test of that approach, and of his ability to persuade the world that inaction will invite greater disasters. The president's most hawkish advisers in fact urged him to move against Mr. Hussein in the first days after the Sept. 11 attacks, even absent any evidence that he was involved.
While Mr. Bush demurred at the time, White House advisers now assert that targeting Mr. Hussein was first set as a goal last fall, to be pursued as soon as the Taliban and Al Qaeda were routed from Afghanistan. They portray the president's Sept. 20 speech to Congress, when Mr. Bush outlined his administration's doctrine against terrorism, as a first step against Mr. Hussein. The next came in Mr. Bush's State of Union address in January that named Iraq as the leader of an "axis of evil," along with Iran and North Korea.
"There is a logical extension of what the president talked about on Sept. 20 a year ago, and in his State of the Union address, to the discussions that are taking place today," said Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff.
Condoleezza Rice, the president's national security adviser, acknowledges that the president's aggressive approach departs sharply from the "humble foreign policy" Mr. Bush talked about so often during his presidential campaign. But Ms. Rice says there is no other choice.
"It's a wartime presidency," she said in an interview, using a phrase that Mr. Bush's aides now often toss around casually, even though it seems jarring to many Americans who see the country in a struggle with terrorists, but not a global all-out war.
Others close to Mr. Bush say that his fears of another Sept. 11 are driving him so hard that they have crowded out other priorities.
"He's not focused on the prescription drug bill and the farm bill, he's thinking about this," said Roland Betts, one of Mr. Bush's closest friends.
Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, said the president has told his staff that although he wants a "robust" domestic agenda, "I am not going to be able to spend as much time on it" and that the staff will have to step in and do what he cannot.
Mr. Betts added that Mr. Bush's urgency about Iraq was fueled by intelligence information and not the November midterm elections or any father-son psychodrama, a popular theory in Washington, over the first President Bush's decision not to march to Baghdad and oust Mr. Hussein during the Persian Gulf War.
"He's not making this up," Mr. Betts said. "This whole thing about finishing what his father left off is nonsense. He worries that these people will acquire and detonate some sort of weapon on our soil."
But unlike a year ago, when the nation and the world were with Mr. Bush as he struck back at the Taliban and Al Qaeda in Afghanistan, this time the president must do a lot of convincing. On Thursday he will make his case to the United Nations. He is confronting enormous skepticism, not only from Arabs and Europeans who warn of disaster ahead, but also from stalwart Republicans who fear he is diverting attention from a greater threat -- a resurgent Al Qaeda. 
Without question, he is taking the biggest risk so far in his presidency.

A Daily Report on Threats
A key to Mr. Bush's state of mind is to know that every morning, in Washington, Camp David or on the road, he begins his working day with the "threat assessment," a compilation of what United States intelligence services and law enforcement agencies pick up about potential terrorist activity. Mr. Bush, who asked for the summary in the first days after Sept. 11, is the first president to be presented daily with such an extensive, detailed catalog of the susceptibilities of the United States to terrorist attack. His advisers say it has both sharpened and sobered him.
"The first reaction is, I'm glad I know about it," Ms. Rice said, adding that "on the other hand, it reminds you every morning of the vulnerability."
The assessment, which runs 5 to 25 pages, includes a summarizing chart, or what White House advisers call a matrix. It lists the nature of each threat, the potential target, the method by which the United States gathered the intelligence, any corroborating information, and who has been notified, as Mr. Card put it, "to mitigate the concern." 
In the Oval Office, Mr. Bush usually reads through the threat assessment when he arrives between 6:45 and 7 a.m., then reviews it at the start of his first briefing of the day, from the Central Intelligence Agency, around 8. That briefing includes the president, Vice President Dick Cheney, Mr. Card, Ms. Rice and George Tenet, the director of central intelligence. Mr. Tenet also brings along a specialist, or briefer, to present the information.
"The briefer might say, 'I want to call your attention to number three, we take this seriously, or 'We've had some information from another source that sounds similar, so we're going to see if they marry up,' " Mr. Card said.
The assessment is reviewed a second time at the start of Mr. Bush's next briefing, with the F.B.I. director, Robert S. Mueller III. That briefing, sometimes also attended by Mr. Tenet, is intended to focus on threats inside the United States, but also to force the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. to view the information as a whole -- exactly what they did not do in the months leading up to Sept. 11.
White House advisers say much of what the president sees is finely grained detail, like the intelligence that led to today's decision to move to code orange for the first time, as well as broader warnings that are hard to assess.
Some experienced intelligence experts say they fear that the president is being given too much information -- some of it unreliable, they say, some included because, in the words of one White House official, "when the next attack happens, no one wants to be the one who left out the critical warning sign."

Strategy Is Pre-Emption
Mr. Bush's aides are circumspect when asked about the psychological impact of this daily barrage of threats. But from those pages has emerged a new national security strategy -- one based on pre-emption, and driven by Mr. Bush's often-expressed view that his presidency will be judged in large part by how well he neutralizes threats before they reach American shores again.
The result is a tremendous shift in America's approach to dealing with enemies and allies -- a strike-first philosophy that is still a work in progress. 
"You can call it pre-emption, or preventative defense, or any other phrase you might read about in 'Foreign Affairs,' " said one member of Mr. Bush's foreign policy team, who has often sat with the president in the Situation Room as he considers his options.
"But it's old-fashioned self-protection -- and it comes from the president's gut," the adviser added. "The example he refers to from time to time is the Cuban Missile Crisis. In his mind, it's got that urgency."
Ms. Rice, a former Stanford professor, insists that Mr. Bush is not creating an intellectual construct that will let the United States strike anywhere, anytime, without the sanction of the United Nations. But she insists that Sept. 11 reinforced the need for what she calls an "organizing principle" for how he would deal with the world, a way to adjust to an era in which, "for less than the cost of a tank, terrorists wreaked unbelievable damage and havoc on the United States."
"The end of the cold war and Sept. 11 are kind of bookends," she said. "You have a long transition in there, when people talked about, well, maybe it would be ethnic conflict that was the big threat, or the Army was just going to be for humanitarian purposes and peacekeeping."
Mr. Bush is now convinced, she said, that "terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, and the potential link between them, are the key threats."
This is not the kind of approach one might have expected listening to Mr. Bush in the 2000 campaign, a campaign in which terrorism and Saddam Hussein were scarcely discussed. Two years ago Mr. Bush himself was talking about an America that stuck to its knitting, that stayed out of what he dismissively called "nation building," and offered no lectures or ultimatums.
"I'm not so sure the role of the United States is to go around the world and say, 'This is the way it's got to be,' " Mr. Bush said in his second debate against Al Gore.
He clearly had amended that view even before Sept. 11. His early announcement that the Kyoto protocol on global warming was "dead" and then his withdrawal from the 1972 ABM treaty demonstrated a willingness to toss aside international accords if they got in his way. Then, stung by charges that he was a unilateralist, he tried to soften his tone, if not his belief. 
Then came Sept. 11. "I think as a result of 9/11 particularly he sees the value of coalitions and friends," Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said in an interview earlier this summer. "He saw the value of having people on his side."
But that attention to alliances seems episodic at best, and undercut by regular warnings that he "reserves the right" to act against Iraq alone. Some of Mr. Bush's Republican allies fear that in the past year the president's worldview has become an intensely dark one, that he focuses far more energy on striking out than building up, on routing despots rather than rebuilding schools.
This has led to a resurgence of the cowboy images of Mr. Bush that were so prevalent before Sept. 11, and cemented in the eyes of many allies when he declined to attend the conference on sustainable development in South Africa this month.
"What we are fighting," said one senior State Department official whose sympathies in the administration's battles lie clearly with Secretary Powell, "is a view that he is willing to go to the U.N. to talk about whacking Saddam, but not about whether we should be driving so many SUV's, or the rest of the world's agenda. And while that view is overdrawn, it isn't entirely wrong." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); HIJACKING (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); SCANDALS (56%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUMILLER, ELISABETH; SANGER, DAVID E; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); RICE, CONDOLEEZZA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAQ; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



322 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
 Company in Hong Kong May Buy Stake in the Amex
The company that owns the Hong Kong stock exchanges is negotiating to buy a stake in the American Stock Exchange and perhaps even take control of it, an effort that may raise political issues about China's financial influence. Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing has been in discussions with the American Stock Exchange in New York with the goal of creating a system that would allow the same shares to be traded 24 hours worldwide, investment bankers close to the talks said. Page C3.

A government-appointed panel of inquiry in Hong Kong concluded that some officials had made errors in connection with the issuance of a trading proposal that set off a steep decline among penny stocks there, angering many investors. World Business, Section W.

An Art Deco Victim of Sept. 11
The former Federal Office Building at 90 Church Street in Manhattan, an imposing one-million-square-foot Art Deco structure, was renovated in the late 1990's by Boston Properties, which holds the master lease. Until Sept. 11, it housed 3,000 employees of the United States Postal Service, the New York City Housing Authority and the Legal Aid Society. Today, permeated by contaminants from the collapse of the World Trade Center, it is empty and sealed off. There is no telling when it will reopen. Commercial Real Estate. C4.

Tyco to Appoint Financial Officer
Tyco International plans to announce today that it has selected David J. FitzPatrick, the chief financial officer of United Technologies, as its new chief financial officer. C11.

Yahoo Shifts Its Ad-Sales Strategy
Yahoo, one of the three big Internet portals, recently held a lavish party for 40 people from Manhattan advertising agencies. Such events have long been a staple of more traditional media like magazines and TV networks, but they are new to Yahoo, and the change is indicative of the tough online advertising market and Yahoo's response to it. Advertising. C3.

Europe Compiles Retaliatory Tariffs
The European Commission has compiled a list of hundreds of American products, from cereals and soybeans to clothing and steel, on which it may impose retaliatory tariffs if the United States refuses to eliminate a tax break for American exporters. C3.

Airline May Ask to Extend Deadline
United Airlines said it could ask the federal government for an extension of a mid-September deadline to revise its application for a federal loan guarantee. C6.

Stocks Rise for a Third Day
Stocks rose, giving benchmark indexes their first three-day winning streak in a month on optimism an economic recovery will lift companies' earnings. C7.

Profit Falls 11% at H.J. Heinz
The H. J. Heinz Company said its quarterly profit fell 11 percent because of higher marketing costs and expenses related to the spinoff of its tuna and pet-food businesses. Net income declined to $177.8 million, or 50 cents a share, from $200.5 million, or 57 cents, in the period a year earlier. The chief executive, William Johnson, is jettisoning the slower-growing businesses by turning them over to shareholders and to Del Monte Food in a transaction valued at $2.9 billion. C3.

Gallo to Buy Louis Martini Winery
E.& J. Gallo, the world's largest wine producer, has agreed to acquire the Louis M. Martini Winery of St. Helena, Calif., one of the oldest premium wineries in the Napa Valley. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. C6.

Nokia Lowers Sales Goal Again
Nokia, the world's biggest maker of cellular phones, said it had reduced its goal for sales for the fifth time this year. But the company also said its profits in the third quarter would come in at the top end of its forecast range. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,602.61 up 82.23Nasdaq composite -- 1,320.09 up 15.4910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.00% down 0.06The euro -- $0.9750 down 0.0041The dollar -- 119.88 yen up 1.12 Graph tracks share prices of H.J. Heinz for the week

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (79%); COMPANY STRATEGY (79%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); SALES PLAN (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (69%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (69%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (67%); INCOME TAX (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); SEARCH ENGINES (63%); AIRLINES (60%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (58%); POSTAL SERVICE (52%); LEGAL AID (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (84%); H J HEINZ CO (80%); HONG KONG EXCHANGES & CLEARING LTD (58%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (54%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (55%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (80%); 0388 (HKSE) (58%); TYC (NYSE) (54%); UTX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (80%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (80%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (80%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (80%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (54%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (96%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 



323 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: A Welcome Home For Fall Antiques Shows 

BYLINE:  By MARIANNE ROHRLICH 

 BODY:
A YEAR after the fall antiques shows were moved out of the Seventh Regiment Armory to make room for the National Guard, a new show season will begin there this month with two fairs. A third show will make its debut at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
 "We're delighted to be coming back," said Anna Haughton, a director of the International Art and Design Fair, opening later this month at the armory. "I feel optimistic, because when you create an event, there's energy and electricity." 
 A noticeable trend at the shows will be an abundance of Swedish furniture from the late 18th century to the 1990's. "There is an increased awareness here of Swedish decorative arts," said Derek Ostergaard, a design historian who specializes in Scandinavian decorative arts. "And because French, English and Italian furniture priced itself out of many consumers' pocketbooks, in the end it's education and economics." 
The first show at the armory, on Park Avenue and 67th Street, will be the Wendy New York Armory Antiques Show, opening Wednesday. "I started buying old Swedish clocks a few years ago," said Paulette Peden, an exhibitor whose shop, Dawn Hill Antiques, is in New Preston, Conn. "But it is the whitewashed and pale pastel painted wood furniture that I think mixes with other styles so well in the city as well as in country houses." Ninety-five dealers will be at the fair, which runs through Sept. 22. Admission is $10; information, (914) 698-3526. 
On Sept. 19, a luncheon at the armory will benefit the Committee for Hispanic Children and Families. The New York decorator Mario Buatta will speak. Tickets are $50; information, (212) 206-1090.
"The Fall Fair: International Fine and Decorative Arts," also opening on Wednesday, will have 75 dealers at the Javits Center exhibiting furniture and decorative objects. They will be among settings by Mario Nievera, a landscape designer, who will recreate areas from Central Park. A Wednesday evening preview will benefit the Central Park Conservancy, with tickets at $100, or $150 a couple; (212) 953-1558. Tickets for the show, which runs through Sept. 23, are $15; (800) 423-7469.
Complimentary car service, from any Manhattan location, can be arranged through the dealers, or taxi reimbursement of up to $20 (bring a receipt) is available. Shuttles from the fair will go to the Penn Station taxi stand on Seventh Avenue.
The second armory show, the International Art and Design Fair, opens Sept. 27. A party the night before will benefit the Museum of Modern Art's architecture and design department. Tickets are $200 to $1,000; information, (212) 708-9680.
Fifty dealers will show 20th-century works, including French pieces from the 1940's and 50's, and Asian ceramics. And for viewing only, historic glass will be on loan from the museums at Orrefors and Kosta in Sweden. The show runs through Oct. 2. Admission is $15; (212) 642-8572.

GRAPHIC: Photo: VINTAGE GLASS -- A 1928 etched crystal vase from Orrefors will be at the International Art and Design Fair. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTS (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (76%); HISTORY (74%); CHILDREN (72%); FAMILY (72%) ANTIQUES; WENDY'S ANTIQUES SHOW; INTERNATIONAL ART AND DESIGN FAIR; FALL FAIR: INTERNATIONAL FINE AND DECORATIVE ARTS; SEVENTH REGIMENT ARMORY (NYC); JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: ROHRLICH, MARIANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



324 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: TEH NEW EAST VILLAGE; 
. . . To the Rise of Techno-Decor

BYLINE:  By CATHY LANG HO 

 BODY:
ON a warm evening last month, a young international crowd dressed in T-shirts, tank tops and cargo pants gathered in a storefront at 21 Avenue B, just below Third Street. In the artificial glow of Japanese cartoons on flat screens and blue-tinted fluorescent lights, they drank cold green tea and Kirin beer. 
 It was a cool hunter's version of a Tupperware party. 
 By the end of the evening, more than a dozen new products had made their New York debut, including the ScribblePDA, a key-chain accessory that recharges cellphones, and the HSS System, a gleaming metal speaker that can project sound like a ventriloquist into whatever cranny it faces. These directional speakers, made possible by the conversion of sound to ultrasonic signals, free users from moving (or blasting) their equipment to hear music in a different room. 
For the digital fast set, it was a perfect night out. "These events are like a magnet, or a catalyst, for an intricate network of people in New York," said Masamichi Udagawa, an industrial designer and a principal in Antenna Design, which created the MetroCard vending machines. The party was held at TKNY, a store and lounge that acts as a clubhouse for a circle of young expatriates, most from Tokyo, working in design and computer technology. From this cross-pollination has come a fledgling style known as "compact/impact" which emphasizes small, efficient furnishings and design with a whimsical edge. 
In addition to its products, TKNY imports the Japanese sense of technology as fashion. "Japanese are eager to try and consume new things," said Takehiko Nagakura, associate professor at the M.I.T. School of Architecture and Planning. "Even if they don't have apparent purpose or ultimately don't work or last, in Japan, they might at least have a fashion moment." For the compact/impact crowd, technology is not hardware and software so much as an attitude and lifestyle -- a techno-chic version of Andy Warhol's Pop. Think of it as the technology geek's obsession with gadgetry crossed with a post-dot-com-crash emphasis on the practical and playful
"We are fans of things that help you live better," said Joakim Hannerz, an owner of TKNY and an architect who helped design the store's flexible display cases. "It's about an appreciation for design concepts that are compact yet have a large impact on how we think and live." 
Mr. Hannerz grew up in Stockholm surrounded by examples of the Scandinavian tradition of efficient minimalism. But TKNY's small-is-beautiful sentiment comes mostly from Japan, where space is precious and technology prized. 
"There are a lot of similarities between life in Tokyo and New York," said Kiho Shin, a technology consultant, who owns TKNY with his wife, Yoshimi Matsuo, a design critic, and Mr. Hannerz. "We always wondered why so many of the products we have in Japan aren't available here."
Workaday Japanese appliances that TKNY may try to make available here include tiny air-conditioners and vacuum cleaners that are practically silent.
TKNY started two years ago as a Web site where early adopters in Tokyo and New York could swap ideas about the latest trends and tools in technology and design. 
"Since cities are so strange and dense and anonymous, you are driven to surround yourself with things that have personality," said Mr. Udagawa's partner, Sigi Moeslinger. "Things become like pets." 
When a storefront previously used for storage became available on the block where Ms. Matsuo and Mr. Shin live, they drew $250,000 from their savings and created a place where people can touch and see innovative products up close.
TKNY opened in May with the first in a series of product exhibitions chosen by a rotating panel of graphic designers, computer programmers and Web masters selected from the owners' circle of friends in New York and Tokyo. Their choices are added to the store's inventory. 
And customers have responded: the most popular items include the Honda Step Compo, a folding electrically powered bicycle, and the Bitman, a combination alarm clock, personal message board and toy, chosen by Leo Farnekes, an owner of Remote Lounge, at 327 Bowery, the most teched-out bar in Manhattan. 
It was devised for people who are reinventing the tribal rites of the pickup bar, preferring to find one another by telephone, wall-to-wall surveillance cameras and more than 100 monitors.
Ms. Matsuo herself selected the pillowlike Stereotype light, designed by Toshihiko Sakai, a contemporary take on traditional Japanese lamps, with candy-colored heat-resistant plastic instead of paper. 
At TKNY, customers gaze at product information on slim monitors affixed to the display cases; additional monitors introduce future products: one device by VKB Inc., an Israeli company, projects a bright red image of a keyboard onto any flat surface and translates finger movements into text, and the much-anticipated Segway Human Transporter, a two-wheeled scooter designed by Dean Kamen can travel at up to 12 miles an hour. 
The partners also use the space to test their own designs, including NetMeetStreet, a thin sheet of fiber-optic plastic that turns their storefront window into a constantly changing electronic billboard of Web addresses and other cryptic bulletins. 
They discourage customers from calling their venture a store. They prefer "ideas laboratory," "showcase for urban lifestyle technology" or "aesthetic collective." 
In their effort to expand beyond conventional retail, they display animation and film and occasionally act as a talent clearinghouse for advertising concerns looking for animators, illustrators, graphic designers and filmmakers.
Next month TKNY will begin serving Onigiri rice snacks, sake, beer and vitamin drinks on adjustable tables of honeycombed plastic suspended from columns. Their ambition is to make TKNY a gathering place where New York's design-minded techno-culture can eat, shop and surf the Web. "We wanted a place that's inviting and inclusive," Mr. Hannerz said. "It's the same way technology should be."
Mr. Shin and Ms. Matsuo's one-bedroom apartment four doors from the store is a lesson in compact/impact. Tiny Bose speakers attached to the wall are nearly invisible, and the couple watch movies from a projector hooked to a DVD player. "TV's are so bulky," Mr. Shin said, "and projections don't take any space."
Though small, their space is efficiently arranged. It doubles as the couple's office, which they managed to set up in less than two days with storage units from Ikea. Their bed is elevated on a platform with storage underneath. Technicolor fabrics on the windows and bed seem fitting in a space where computer monitors constantly hum.
In his Chinatown loft, Mr. Hannerz economizes on space by suspending his television from a wall, putting furniture on wheels and partitioning space with movable panels that he made himself with off-the-shelf plastic panels and threaded rods. A removable platform provides low seating for parties and dinners. He has lightened the mood with quirky touches like curtains of cellular packaging material. "Because New Yorkers are all nomads and nobody has any idea of how long they're staying," he said, "no one wants big stuff or a lot of stuff.
"Everything needs its place. We only want stuff that's compact/impact."

GRAPHIC: Photos: PATHFINDERS -- From left, Yoshimi Matsuo, Kiho Shin and Joakim Hannerz with a motorized bicycle by Honda, among the products for sale at their store, TKNY, inset. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; inset, Joakim Hannerz)(pg. F1); WHERE GEEKS MEET -- At TKNY, display boxes and flat screens that promote products, above; Kiho Shin and Yoshimi Matsuo with an Ikea unit at home, left; at the Remote Lounge, below, Leo Farnekes and a console with phone and closed-circuit TV. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (Roger Davies for The New York Times, above and center right); RECHARGING -- TKNY serves as an informal salon, left. Below, the Chinatown loft of one owner, Joakim Hannerz, with futons, fiberglass room dividers and a table made with particle board and plastic storage bins. (Christopher Smith for The New York Times; inset, Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%) DESIGN; JAPANESE-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: TKNY (NYC STORE) 

PERSON: HO, CATHY LANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (50%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (88%); SWEDEN (70%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



325 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Campaigns are scaled back as sales of special new malt beverages show an early peak.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
A NEW category of alcoholic beverages is starting to show signs it is a fad rather than a trend, jeopardizing the advertising spending windfall expected by Madison Avenue. 
 Sales in the category -- comprising malt beverages that are 5 percent alcohol and are known variously as malternatives, flavored malts, alcopops or clear malts -- peaked this summer, analysts say. And two of the recent entrants have already scaled back their national advertising budgets. 
 The malt beverages were once sold only under stand-alone brand names like Zima and Mike's Hard Lemonade. But the introduction of Smirnoff Ice by the liquor marketer that owns Smirnoff vodka, Diageo, set off a stampede by others to incorporate the brand names of distilled spirits in malternatives. 
In the last year and a half, Smirnoff Ice was joined by half a dozen drinkalikes bearing names like Bacardi Silver, Captain Morgan Gold, Sauza Diablo, Skyy Blue and Stolichnaya Citrona. Another, Jack Daniel's Original Hard Cola, began its national advertising campaign only last week.
The piling on is typical in American marketing, particularly in fields with little or no sales growth like beer and distilled spirits. Advertising agencies had welcomed the newcomers because it was estimated that brewers and distillers would spend as much as $350 million this year to generate brand awareness and stimulate trial of the malternatives.
Indeed, as the new entrants poured in, ad spending by beer makers in major media rose 11.5 percent in the first half of 2002, compared with the first half of 2001. By contrast, ad spending by all marketers in major media in the first half fell 0.2 percent from the corresponding period last year, according to CMR, a division of Taylor Nelson Sofres.
In the first six months of 2002, Anheuser-Busch spent $25.6 million to advertise Bacardi Silver, which it sells with Bacardi. Diageo spent $9.4 million on Captain Morgan Gold and $26 million on Smirnoff Ice. The Miller Brewing Company division of SABMiller spent $24.4 million on Skyy Blue, sold with the Skyy Spirits division of Campari, along with Sauza Diablo and Stolichnaya Citrona, which are sold with Allied Domecq.
But the indications are that a shakeout is already taking place.
In a report issued Monday, William Pecoriello, the beverage analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York, estimated that sales of malternatives "peaked in July" at just a little more than 3.5 percent of total beer industry volume. He bluntly described many of the new products as "nonstarters," citing by name Captain Morgan Gold, which he called "a huge disappointment"; Sauzo Diablo; and Stolichnaya Citrona.
Executives of Anheuser-Busch, whose Bacardi Silver is neck-and-neck in the category with Miller's Skyy Blue for second place behind Smirnoff Ice, agreed that the market might have topped out. 
Dave Peacock, vice president for high-end brands at Anheuser-Busch in St. Louis, pointed out that "everything else that came out since" Smirnoff Ice, Bacardi Silver and Skyy Blue "hasn't performed really well."
But Anheuser-Busch remains committed to the category. "Even if it's peaked, we feel there's opportunity to grow our share," Mr. Peacock said, adding that the company is pleased with its product's performance. "There will be national advertising this fall for Bacardi Silver and national television next year." The agency for Bacardi Silver is Momentum in St. Louis, part of the McCann-Erickson World Group division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Two other flavored malts, Sauza Diablo and Stolichnaya Citrona, will, however, end their national campaigns, for the time being .
"Before we return to national advertising, we're focusing on retail initiatives and trade promotion," said Molly Reilly, a spokeswoman for Miller in Milwaukee.
"We're looking on gaining distribution," she added, "blocking and tackling to get more space at retail" for the two brands. The Sauza Diablo ads had been created by dRush in New York, a joint venture of the Deutsch division of Interpublic and the music impresario Russell Simmons; drush announced last week that it was closing. The agency for Stolichnaya Citrona is the Chicago office of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group.
As for labeling the products flops as Mr. Pecoriello did, Ms. Reilly said: "It's very early days to count on the success of brands that were launched just this summer. What we do know is that Stolichnaya Citrona and Sauza Diablo showed great promise in consumer taste tests."
Ads for the Jack Daniel's malternative, which Miller sells with the Brown-Forman Corporation, will continue as scheduled. They are being created by the St. Louis office of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners division of Havas, which also creates campaigns for the Jack Daniel's liquor brand.
Miller is planning additional commercials, print ads and outdoor advertising for Skyy Blue, Ms. Reilly said, which "is doing tremendously." The agency for Skyy Blue is Lambesis in Carlsbad, Calif., which is also the agency for Skyy vodka.
Gary Galanis, a spokesman for Diageo North America in Stamford, Conn., said the company planned no advertising changes for Smirnoff Ice, which set the malternative market in motion. As for the castigation of how Captain Morgan Gold is faring, Mr. Galanis said: "I think a lot of people looked at the launch of Captain Morgan Gold as if it would be exactly like the launch of Smirnoff Ice, which was a phenomenal launch. People may have had similar expectations, and maybe we did as well."
The agency for Smirnoff Ice is the New York office of J. Walter Thompson, part of the WPP Group, and the agency for Captain Morgan Gold is Grey Worldwide in New York, part of the Grey Global Group.
One reason companies like Diageo like the category is because it affords entry into the malt beverage market with liquor brand names like Captain Morgan and Smirnoff. Rules for advertising beer and other malt beverages are not as strict as those for distilled spirits; for instance, national broadcast TV networks will accept commercials for malternatives but not for liquor.
States like Kentucky and Tennessee, under their regulation of alcoholic beverages, are considering whether alcopops ought to be classified along with distilled spirits. Such a move would place limits on where they could be sold as well as how they could be advertised.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The category of malt beverages includes brands like Mike's Hard Lemonade, Jack Daniel's Original Hard Cola and Skyy Blue. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); BRANDING (90%); TRENDS (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); DISTILLERIES (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); AWARENESS MARKETING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); BREWERIES (71%); BRAND EQUITY (70%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ADVERTISING; SALES 

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (85%); MILLER BREWING CO (84%); ALLIED DOMECQ PLC (63%); DIAGEO PLC (57%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (53%); SKYY SPIRITS LLC (52%); SABMILLER PLC (52%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (57%); DGE (LSE) (57%); DEO (NYSE) (57%); SOSAB (JSE) (52%); SAB (LSE) (52%); MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (85%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (85%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (84%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (63%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (63%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (63%); SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (63%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (63%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



326 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: China Toughens Obstacles to Internet Searches 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
Some Chinese Internet users seeking the popular search engine Google today instead are now instantly routed to GlobePage, which calls itself the "premier Asian search engine." 
 Others typed in the letters www.google.com and were seamlessly linked to www.online.sh.cn, or Shanghai Hotline. "One of China's best Internet content providers" reads a banner on its opening page. It is run by China Telecom, the dominant fixed-line phone and Internet company. 
 The diversions are an intensification of an effort to block access to Google that began last week, and they appear to represent an unusually strong campaign to funnel Chinese Internet traffic into sites the government deems friendly and safe.
Analysts described the reroutings as an attempt to trick Chinese users by replacing the United States-based search engine with Beijing-backed services that offer carefully filtered content -- the equivalent of ordering a Grand Cru and getting grape juice.
"This is the furthest they've ever gone to try to create a dumbed-down Web," said Duncan Clark of B.D.A. China, a telecommunications consultancy. "They determined to provide only a Web that's fit to see."
Since China first began regulating Internet access in the mid-1990's, officials have oscillated between embracing the new medium as a way to invigorate China's economy and viewing it as a dangerous forum for subversion that could undermine the authoritarian government.
Many experts argue that China has so far succeeded in taming the Internet. Some 46 million Chinese now have access to the Web, and it has become an integral part of business and academic life. But the authorities have used a variety of high-tech methods to make it difficult for government opponents to use the Web or spread their message widely.
The new controls on Google and another American Internet search engine, AltaVista, at least temporarily reverse a trend toward looser restrictions that took hold during the past year, when China unblocked access to some major media sites, including those run by The New York Times and CNN. Those sites remained available to Chinese users today, though some people reported that China's Internet monitors now selectively deny access to news content on those sites.
Authorities have applied particularly heavy pressure on the media before a leadership transition scheduled to take place in November. Jiang Zemin, China's president and Communist Party Secretary, is expected to hand over at least some of his duties to a new generation of party officials.
While China's media watchdogs always scrutinize content on the Internet as well as on television and in newspapers, officials often increase censorship during times of political stress.
Google, based in Mountain View, Calif., is immensely popular in China because it provides nearly instantaneous links to millions of Chinese Web addresses and documents. Google offers Chinese users a special page that makes it possible to search for Web content in Chinese characters. But unlike rival search engines like Yahoo, Google does not have a subsidiary based in China and does not filter content for local users to comply with Beijing's rules.
While the authorities have blocked access to popular Web sites in the past, some local users expressed outrage today as Internet censors began automatically rerouting them to other search engines that Chinese officials like better. Some of them described the redirecting as an expropriation of Google's Internet address and a violation of the company's intellectual property, with one correspondent speculating that the behavior could cause "a big international lawsuit."
"Changing a Web address is clearly a serious violation of China's own laws," a correspondent using the name Fantast wrote on an Internet bulletin board. "This kind of behavior, if it continues, will turn into a disaster for the country."
Another user, with the online identity Emos, added, "I would like the government to give some reasons why it is doing this."
Users who tried to access Google were redirected to sites that have registered with the Chinese government and follow strict censorship procedures. Many of them have reported record traffic in recent days. They include Tianwang, a search engine run by Beijing University; Baidu.com, financed by American investors; and Yahoo.
The contrast between the favored sites and Google can be stark. A search for information related to Jiang Zemin on Google turned up 154,000 references. The first one listed was a link to a Web site bitterly critical of the Chinese president run by Falun Gong, a religious sect the Chinese government has sought to suppress.
An identical search on Yahoo produced just six references. The first one is the "Life Story of President Jiang Zemin" written by the People's Daily, the voice of the Chinese Communist Party.
Chinese officials have not publicly explained the blocking of Google or Altavista, and people contacted at China Telecom's Internet arm said they had no idea why their users were being shepherded to sites they did not choose to visit.
Beijing Legal Times, a government-controlled newspaper, reported that China Telecommunications Administration and Public Security Bureau shut down Google because it contained "harmful content."
The report also claimed that Google provided services for American intelligence agencies, though it offered no evidence. It said that when the name of "a certain, unnamed state leader" was fed into the search function, one of the first sites to pop up was "an insulting game directed at him."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some 46 million Chinese now have access to the World Wide Web, including this bus passenger in Shanghai. The Chinese government is intensifying its efforts to funnel traffic onto sites it considers friendly and safe. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); SEARCH ENGINES (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); POLITICS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (86%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); TRENDS (74%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (74%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (73%); INTERNET CONTENT PROVIDERS (73%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (61%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); CHINA TELECOM CORP LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GOOGLE (INTERNET SEARCH ENGINE) 

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); K3ED (SGX) (57%); CHA (NYSE) (57%); 0728 (HKSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%)

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%) EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



327 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Shrinking Oil Inventory Puts Pressure on OPEC, Agency Says 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
The International Energy Agency, an adviser to 26 nations on oil policy, said today that crude oil inventories were "uncomfortably low," indicating that OPEC needed to increase production to prevent a jump in prices.
 Crude oil inventories in July fell below the level from a year earlier, while oil demand in the fourth quarter will rise 60 percent from last year's level, the agency said. OPEC meets next Thursday to discuss whether to raise output for the first time in two years. 
 Oil prices have risen 50 percent this year in New York, topping $30 a barrel yesterday, in part as speculation grew about an attack on Iraq that would disrupt supply. Kuwait, Venezuela and Iran are among members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries that object to pumping more oil for now.
"OPEC needs to raise production to keep the market comfortably supplied," said Steve Turner, an analyst at Commerzbank Securities, who expects an increase in quotas of one million barrels a day. "Stocks are not high at the moment."
The agency maintained its forecast for oil demand to rise by 1.1 million barrels a day in 2002, more than five times the pace expected this year, citing signs of a recovery in fuel use. That would be in line with growth seen in the 1990's.
In July, demand in France grew about 3.5 percent, rebounding from five months of decline, and consumption in Korea, the fourth-largest oil importer, jumped 5.6 percent, reversing two months of contraction, the agency said.
"If there's not more crude in the market, stocks will continue to decline and there will be upward pressure on prices," said Klaus Rehaag, editor of the agency's monthly oil market report.
In the fourth quarter, when oil demand peaks because of the Northern Hemisphere winter, the agency expects consumption to rise by 1.6 million barrels a day from the previous three months.
The agency, which was set up in 1974 to represent the interests of industrialized countries after the Arab oil embargo of 1973, compared the present trend in oil inventories to that of 1999, when a decline caused crude prices to surge to more than $30 a barrel the next year.
"Producers debate whether or not to increase quotas," the report said. "The important issue is to recognize that crude stocks are uncomfortably low."
Crude inventories in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries in July dropped by 25 million barrels, to 895 million, leaving them 7 million barrels lower than a year ago, the agency said.
OPEC reduced production quotas to the lowest in 11 years starting Jan. 1 to support prices.
World oil production fell last month, in part because of a drop in output from Iraq, which is not bound by OPEC quotas because the United Nations controls its exports.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since March 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); FUTURES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); TRENDS (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MINING OUTPUT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); COMMERZBANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (93%) INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); CZB (LSE) (56%); CBK (FRA) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



328 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
The value of different football strategies on fourth down, analyzed from a mathematical point of view.

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel; Virginia Postrel is the author of "The Future and Its Enemies" and is writing a book on the increasing importance of aesthetics in the economy and society. E-mail: vpostrel@dynamist.com.

 BODY:
FOOTBALL season has begun, and in stadiums, sports bars and living rooms across the land fans are asking the same question: "It's fourth down and what does the Bellman equation say?"
 Or at least one fan is asking. 
 That's the title of a recent working paper by David Romer, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley, for the National Bureau of Economic Research. (The paper is available, for $5, at www.nber.org/papers/w9024 .)
The paper uses the mathematical technique of dynamic programming -- the Bellman equation, named for Richard Bellman, a mathematician who died in 1984, is a central tool of the technique -- to analyze the value of different football strategies on fourth down. Given its field position, should a team punt, kick a field goal or go for the first down?
Consider a team that is just 2 yards away from a touchdown. Listening to a game on the radio, Professor Romer heard the commentators say the team should obviously take the easy 3 points from a field goal. "It wasn't obvious to me that it was the right decision," he said.
First he thought about the odds. If the team has a better than three-in-seven chance of scoring a touchdown -- and the all but certain extra point -- going for the touchdown has a higher expected value than kicking.
For an average National Football League team, the probability of a touchdown from 2 yards out is about 40 percent, making an attempt worth 2.8 points, or less than a field goal.
But there's more to the question than the probability of a score. "If you go for the touchdown and you don't get it, you've lost the 3 points but you've gotten something back in return," Professor Romer notes. "You've left the other team in this terrible field position," a daunting 98 yards from its goal.
A field goal, by contrast, leads to a kickoff, which on average in the N.F.L. gets the receiving team to the 27-yard line, a much better position. "Thus we need to know how much better it is to leave the opponent with the ball on its 2-yard line than on its 27," he writes.
That's where dynamic programming comes in.
The technique is a way to calculate the value of actions that have effects far into the future. Economists use it to look at things like a household's choice between saving and spending: how much you save rather than consume this year affects what you have to spend and save next year, and what you do then affects the following year, and so on into the future.
For football, points are at stake instead of money, but the mathematical principles are the same.
Using data from about 700 regular-season N.F.L. games, Professor Romer estimated the value in expected future points of getting a first down at each yard line on the field. To keep the analysis relatively simple, he looked just at the first quarter.
By these calculations, the value of a first-and-10 on a team's own 1-yard line, a terrible position 99 yards from a touchdown, is minus 1.6 points. Moving up the field, the value rapidly increases, hitting zero at the 15-yard line. From there on, each gain of 18 yards is worth about a point in the final score.
The bottom line: Teams tend to overestimate the value of field position, compared with keeping the ball, on their end of the field and underestimate it, compared with the value of a field goal, on the other team's end. When those estimates are corrected, the risks of going for it look a lot lower.
"The analysis implies that teams should be quite aggressive," Professor Romer writes. "A team facing fourth-and-goal is better off on average trying for a touchdown as long as it is within 5 yards of the end zone. At midfield, being within 5 yards of a first down makes going for it on average desirable. Even on its 10-yard line -- 90 yards from a score -- a team within 3 yards of a first down is better off on average going for it."
But, he said, "teams almost always kick on fourth down early in the game."
This result presents a puzzle for economists. Since football is highly competitive and the rewards for winning are great, teams should be doing what is optimal to win.
"We believe, we teach our students repeatedly, we base our models on the assumption that there are very strong pressures for firms to maximize, for firms to do the best thing," Professor Romer said. "We don't think they know calculus or dynamic programming. We think intelligence, ability in other dimensions, intuition, trial and error, imitation are going to lead, in a competitive marketplace," to the best strategies.
One possibility is that teams are not trying to win above all. "The costs of losing as a result of a failed gamble could be greater than the costs of losing from playing it safe," Professor Romer writes.
Or coaches may not realize they could do better by taking more chances. After all, away from the economists' blackboards, real companies constantly discover new and better ways to operate, some of which are made possible by better data and computing power.
Recently, for instance, retailers have begun using mathematical models to figure out when to put clothes on sale, something that used to be done by intuition and rules of thumb. Profits have increased substantially in some cases.
Football could be similar. If so, Professor Romer's paper could begin to change fourth-down strategies. But he'll have to overcome professional skepticism.
"If a football coach called me and said, 'I have a new way to deal with the Social Security problem,' " he said, "my first reaction would be not, 'Oh boy, someone solved this difficult problem.' My first reaction would be, 'They're not qualified to talk about this. Who are they to think that they've solved this?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Quarterback Jason Fife of the Oregon Ducks crosses the goal line for a touchdown against the Mississippi State Bulldogs. Could a mathematical technique called dynamic programming help? (Otto Greule Jr./Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATHEMATICS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) FOOTBALL 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); MISSISSIPPI STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%) UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA; BELLMAN, RICHARD; ROMER, DAVID (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



329 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Restrained End To Volatile Year In Stock Markets

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
A subdued trading session produced only small moves in the stock market yesterday as a quiet day of remembrance ended an extraordinarily volatile year on Wall Street that reflected increased uncertainty in the wake of the terrorist attacks.
 The Dow Jones industrial average, up for much of the abbreviated session, slipped in the final hour and ended down 21.44 points, or 0.2 percent, to 8,581.17, leaving it off 10.7 percent since the World Trade Center and Pentagon were attacked. Other averages have suffered more, making 2002 appear likely to be the third consecutive losing year, something that last happened early in World War II. 
 No calendar year since 1974 has produced as much stock market volatility as the last 12 months, reflecting the uncertainty and worry that have gripped investors. 
The attacks seemed at the time to have changed everything, as many said. But much of the recent volatility appears to reflect not so much concern about the possibility of new terrorist attacks as the more traditional worries of an economic recovery that is weak and uneven and uncertainty over how deep the wounds will be from the extraordinary overinvestment during the bubble in technology stocks.
Yesterday, the Federal Reserve Board released its so-called beige book report, which periodically reviews economic activity across the country. "The growth of economic activity has slowed in recent weeks, with a good deal of variation across sectors," it said. It noted weakness in high-technology manufacturing but better demand in the auto and steel industries.
The biggest controversy in trading yesterday concerned when it began. The New York Stock Exchange delayed trading until noon because the memorial ceremonies took longer than some had expected. But Nasdaq opened as scheduled at 11 a.m., angering some traders. Nasdaq said its technology prevented it from delaying the opening any longer.
When the Big Board did open, prices rose immediately but soon settled back, and the day ended as one of the quietest of the year. Few companies had decided to make announcements yesterday, and that also helped to hold down volatility. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended the day down 0.13 point, to 909.45, while the Nasdaq composite index was off 4.64 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,315.45.
Nonetheless, during the year since the terrorist attacks, the S.& P. 500 has moved at least 1 percent on 45 percent of the trading days, while the Dow has hit that mark 46 percent of the time. The last calendar year with comparable volatility was 1974, when the economy was in a severe recession and the stock market was in a deep bear market, brought on in part by soaring oil prices and fears that the United States was losing its competitive edge.
By that measure, the Nasdaq's volatility has declined a bit from the extraordinary level of recent years, with moves of at least 1 percent in 64 percent of its sessions, down from a record 75 percent in 2000. But over the last year, 38 percent of Nasdaq sessions have produced moves of at least 2 percent, and that is higher than any previous calendar year, topping the 37 percent in 2000.
In the 12 months after last year's attack, the American economy has performed better than many expected. But financial markets have been damaged by events that were well beyond the control of the terrorists who set out to strike at the heart of American capitalism -- not the least of which was the damage to confidence brought on by the scandals that began with Enron, which was viewed as a successful and prestigious 12 months ago.
A recession that had already begun -- but was not yet recognized by most Americans -- was intensified by the immediate reaction to Sept. 11. Corporations that were already worried about economic conditions responded with layoffs and cuts in capital spending plans.
But notwithstanding the sharp falls in share prices after markets reopened on Sept. 17, Americans refused to panic. "The biggest surprise was the consumer," said William C. Dudley, an economist at Goldman, Sachs. "There were huge job losses, but that did not lead to any deterioration in the consumer spending trend."
If anything, the attacks of Sept. 11 may have shortened the recession that was already under way. Government policy suddenly became stimulative, as the Federal Reserve reduced interest rates repeatedly and as Congress and the White House began to spend money without worrying about issues like Social Security "lockboxes" that had dominated debate before the attacks.
By the end of December, the stock market had rebounded sharply and was higher than it had been before the attacks, and the recession was also over, although that fact has yet to be officially certified.
But the subsequent recovery has been weak and uneven. Housing has continued to be strong, and stocks of home builders are among the best around, with one index of such stocks up 42 percent over the last year. Lower mortgage rates have helped a lot, and the ability of homeowners to refinance their mortgages has provided money for continued spending.
But strong auto sales have been bought with zero percent financing and other incentives, which has not helped either the stocks or the profits of the automakers. And United States Steel is off 20 percent over the last year, even though import restrictions imposed by the Bush administration have driven up prices.
One market trend that began in the spring of 2000 has continued. Investors who craved growth before the bubble began to burst now seem more interested in solid value plays. Howard J. Silverblatt of Standard & Poor's reports that from Sept. 10, 2001, through Monday, the 349 stocks in the S.& P. 500 that pay dividends declined an average of 4.3 percent. But the others, which do not pay dividends, were down 23.5 percent. Over all, through yesterday, the index is off 16.8 percent.
That fact has begun to influence corporate managements. Despite cloudy profit pictures in many industries, the number of companies announcing dividend increases this summer was significantly higher than it was a year ago.
Perhaps the greatest financial damage has come to telecommunications and technology stocks. Within the Dow industrials, the worst performer for the last year was SBC Communications, down 40.5 percent, despite a rise of 97 cents, to $25.85, yesterday. Yesterday's gain reflected optimism on the value of its stake in a French mobile telephone company.
Still, SBC has greatly outperformed many telecommunications companies, particularly those that bet on building fiber optic capacity in expectation of a surge of Internet-related business. The Nasdaq telecommunications index, which includes many such companies, and which included WorldCom for most of its collapse, is off 54 percent over the last year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As former Mayor Rudolph W. Guilani took part in a televised memorial observance nearby, employees at the New York Stock Exchange prepared for work yesterday. The start of Big Board trading was delayed until the names of attack victims were read. (Associated Press) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C6) Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields"Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly. Graph tracks 15 and 30-year mortgage loans since May. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)(pg. C6) Chart: "A Year of Recovery, and Declines"In the year since the terror attacks, major market indexes have plunged both in the United States and abroad. MAJOR MARKETS ABROAD, INDOLLAR TERMS, SINCE SEPT. 10, 2001 Japan: Nikkei 225 - 7.27Britain: FTSE 100 -10.81Germany: Dax -16.58 FOR MOST OF THE DOW, A DOWN YEARFor the most part, the last 12 months have been hard on the30 stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average. STOCKS THAT ARE UPProcter & GamblePRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: $73.63YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: $91.88PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +24.8 3MPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 102.20YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 123.90PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +21.2 Wal-MartPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 46.23YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 54.20PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +17.2 DuPontPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 38.39YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 41.11PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +7.1 Coca-ColaPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 49.95YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 51.10PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +2.3 STOCKS THAT ARE DOWNJohnson & JohnsonPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 55.62YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 55.48PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.3 Philip MorrisPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 48.15YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 47.91PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.5 American ExpressPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 35.01YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 34.79PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.6 International PaperPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 37.84YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 36.90PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -2.5 United TechnologiesPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 66.20YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 62.32PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -5.9 General MotorsPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 51.58YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 47.09PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -8.7 CaterpillarPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 48.10YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 42.95PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -10.7 BoeingPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 43.46YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 37.08PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -14.7 MicrosoftPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 57.58YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 48.58PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -15.6 Exxon MobilPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 41.24YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 34.60PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -16.1 Home DepotPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 40.55YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 33.23PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -18.1 Hewlett-PackardPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 17.89YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 14.36PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -19.7 Honeywell InternationalPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 35.70YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 28.52PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -20.1 I.B.M.PRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 96.47YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 74.20PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -23.1 CitigroupPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 39.59YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 30.14PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -23.9 MerckPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 66.10YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 49.57PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -25.0 McDonald'sPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 28.92YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 21.34PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -26.2 General ElectricPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 39.35YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 29.00PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -26.3 AT&TPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 17.65YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 12.68PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -28.2 AlcoaPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 33.80YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 23.87PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -29.4 Walt DisneyPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 23.58YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 16.18PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -31.4 Eastman KodakPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 43.23YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 28.86PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -33.2 IntelPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 26.07YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 16.62PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -36.2 J.P. Morgan ChasePRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 37.26YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 22.98PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -38.3 SBC CommunicationsPRICE ON SEPT. 10, 2001: 43.43YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 25.85PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -40.5 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (64%); WORLD WAR II (55%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



330 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Are Bracing For an Ad Blitz 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
In a sign of how a third-party candidate, especially a rich one, can roil the political waters, Tom Golisano, the presumed winner of the Independence Party primary and a persistent annoyance to Gov. George E. Pataki, plans a fresh barrage of television advertisements within a couple of days.
 Advisers to Mr. Golisano, who is pressing ahead even without a final vote tally, declined to describe the content of the advertisements yesterday, but in the primary and his past two campaigns for governor, Mr. Golisano, a billionaire businessman from Rochester, has harshly criticized Mr. Pataki's perceived shortcomings. 
 Mr. Pataki, the Republican incumbent who is widely considered to be the front-runner in the race over Mr. Golisano and the Democratic nominee, H. Carl McCall, may begin broadcasting his own ads as soon as tomorrow, his aides said. Mr. McCall's advisers declined to comment on that aspect of their strategy.
The talk of media campaigns reflected the behind-the-scenes strategizing going on yesterday, even as the three candidates suspended campaigning in deference to the Sept. 11 anniversary.
The day after a primary is usually filled with blatant politicking, as winning candidates barnstorm the state and hold victory rallies. Not this year.
The anniversary is also believed to have tempered voter interest. Turnout was 11.5 percent of registered voters, the lowest for a governor's race primary in the past three decades, said Lee Daghlian, a spokesman for the State Board of Elections.
Mr. Pataki and Mr. McCall, the state comptroller, spent much of the day after the primaries at commemorations and memorial services. Mr. Golisano also stayed off the campaign trail, meeting with advisers and telephoning his supporters.
Unofficial results showed Mr. Golisano leading Mr. Pataki 52 to 48 percent in the Independence primary, potentially delivering Mr. Pataki his first loss ever in an election. The difference, as of late yesterday, was 900 votes.
Although Mr. Golisano's aides were confident that the results would stick, and Mr. Pataki's aides all but conceded, the results will not be official until an uncertain number of absentee ballots are counted, probably by the end of next week.
Besides his Republican ballot line, Mr. Pataki also sought the Independence nomination to knock Mr. Golisano, an adversary with a lot of money for ads, out of the race.
Mr. Pataki, according to unofficial results, handily beat Mr. Golisano on the Conservative ballot line; Mr. Golisano was competing as a write-in candidate, a long-shot strategy.
Few political analysts give Mr. Golisano much chance to overtake Mr. Pataki and Mr. McCall, but he can make Mr. Pataki's bid for a third term tougher by tarnishing his image with negative commercials and delivering an antitax message that could draw away Republican voters.
Roger Stone, Mr. Golisano's campaign strategist, said yesterday that Mr. Golisano had already spent slightly less than $30 million on his campaign, and was willing to spend even more than the $75 million -- paid out of his own personal fortune -- that he had pledged to spend. 
But Mr. Stone insisted that Mr. Golisano was not just a spoiler.
"We think this can be developed into a viable three-way race," he said. "Tom Golisano is not in the race to help another candidate or hurt another candidate."
Mr. Stone said that while Mr. Golisano would hammer Mr. Pataki for what he considered his failure to pull upstate New York out of the economic doldrums, he would also broaden his message.
Mr. Golisano, Mr. Stone said, is expected to address "the corrupting influence of special-interest money" in Albany, the lack of ethics in state government and even Mr. McCall's record as state comptroller.
Some of this may sound similar to the platform of Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democratic candidate who quit the race a week before the primary; a number of his former aides at the Department of Housing and Urban Development work for Mr. Golisano.
But Mr. Golisano's supporters contend that Mr. Cuomo, who worked several years as an adviser to his father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, was not a credible messenger.
"Tom comes in as a legitimate outsider," said Gordon Black, Mr. Golisano's campaign manager in 1994 and now an independent pollster. "He can posture himself as an honest broker."
Even if Mr. Golisano does not see himself as a spoiler, Mr. McCall does. His aides say privately that they expect Mr. Golisano's advertisements to take pressure off Mr. McCall to broadcast negative commercials about Mr. Pataki -- a two-way advantage to Mr. McCall, who two weeks ago had just $2.5 million left to spend on his own ads.
The main focus for Mr. McCall, who plans to resume campaigning today, remains Mr. Pataki, who the McCall campaign believes is vulnerable on the upstate economy and education. Over and over, Mr. McCall has assailed the governor for appealing a lawsuit that could have forced the state to spend more money on urban school districts.
Mr. McCall, in an interview Tuesday, also suggested he was worried that Mr. Pataki's aggressive courting of Hispanic voters may be paying off. Although his advisers declined to say when Mr. McCall would begin broadcasting commercials again, he said that at some point the ads would include prominent Hispanics such as Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, and Representatives Nydia M. Velazquez and Jose E. Serrano.
Meanwhile, the primary results revealed another political twist, created by election board officials in New York City. Unlike in the rest of the state, Working Families candidates were not on the ballot in voting machines in the city; the City Board of Elections said there simply was not room for the line. As a result, every Working Families voter in the five boroughs had to cast a paper ballot, none of which will be counted until tomorrow.
Dan Cantor, executive director of the party, an ally of the Democrats, did not seem fazed.
"We will have a unified statewide ticket with the Democrats, guaranteed," Mr. Cantor said. He said it might be possible to exploit quirks in the election laws that would allow for the removal of candidates from the ballot. This would help ensure that Mr. McCall could run with his chosen running mate, Dennis Mehiel, and that Alan Hevesi would be his party's comptroller candidate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BALLOTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HIJACKING (79%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (71%); TERRORISM (67%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); TERRORISM; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: GOLISANO, B THOMAS; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



331 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1836 words

HEADLINE: VIGILANCE AND MEMORY: FINANCIAL SERVICES; 
The Industry Hardest Hit Pauses for Rituals of Remembrance Big and Small

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
Business took a back seat to heartache yesterday as a subdued Wall Street found public and private ways to observe the anniversary of events that tore into the heart of the nation's financial community a year ago.
 "I was really hesitant about coming in," said Rob Verderese, a stock trader at the Knight Trading Group who had watched the attacks on the World Trade Center from his trading desk in a high-rise building on the New Jersey side of the Hudson River. "But when I got here, I realized we needed everybody to come in -- to remember exactly what happened, to be where we were when it happened." 
 Financial services companies suffered dreadful casualties in the terrorist attacks that killed more than 2,800 people in Lower Manhattan, and most people who came to work on Wall Street yesterday counted many friends and former colleagues among those whose names were read during the morning's public memorial service at ground zero.
But the rituals of remembrance in the financial district stretched beyond those somber televised events, ranging from formal ceremonies at the hardest-hit firms to quiet but equally heartfelt gatherings on street corners or in nearby apartments. 
The most prominent ceremony for those who work on Wall Street was at the New York Stock Exchange, which was shuttered for days after Sept. 11. The Big Board delayed its trading yesterday until almost an hour after the close of the official memorial service. After two minutes of silence and the singing of the national anthem, a host of dignitaries stood on the balcony over the exchange floor. At 12:01 p.m., Gov. George E. Pataki wove his hands together with those of Rudolph W. Giuliani and Michael R. Bloomberg, the former and the current mayor of New York, to jointly ring the bell that opened the abbreviated and emotional trading day.
"Now we go to work," said a floor broker who had brought a friend to the exchange for the opening.
Theodore P. Weisberg, the president of Seaport Securities and an exchange member, echoed, "The country has to get back to business."
Another trader, Peter V. Mancuso of the Performance Specialist Group, called yesterday "a catalyst day" for the markets. "Let's get through today and start to deal with the rest of our lives tomorrow," he said as he went to work.
Getting through the day was not easy, Big Board traders said. "A lot of people thought they were fine," said Richard Rosenblatt, one broker on the exchange floor. "But being immersed in the memory -- and there was no way to avoid it -- there were some guys who were pretty beaten up. I could see people who were in trouble."
Most large Wall Street firms, at least those that had not been in harm's way during the attacks, opened the day with a moment of silence. "Virtually everybody here had friends and acquaintances that perished that day," said Thomas M. Joyce, president of the Knight Trading Group, which set up a conference call with its offices around the globe to conduct a moment of quiet. "We were aware of the thoughts that were going through people's heads."
But at companies that had been harder hit by the disaster, more elaborate observances marked the day. For example, Cantor Fitzgerald, the bond trading firm that sustained the largest losses of any Wall Street company, was closed for business entirely so that its employees could attend a private service yesterday afternoon in Central Park.
Merrill Lynch, which has only recently returned to its damaged headquarters across the street from the World Trade Center, conducted a service attended by 200 people and broadcast to all the firm's offices around the world. At the ceremony, David H. Komansky, the chairman and chief executive, and E. Stanley O'Neal, the president and chief operating officer, spoke briefly to praise the resolve that Merrill's employees showed after the firm was driven out of the building and into makeshift space in Manhattan and Jersey City.
The low-key service ended with a Merrill employee, Maryann Montenegro, singing the Mariah Carey song, "Hero," accompanied on piano by Robert Calabrese, a co-worker.
A panoramic view of Lower Manhattan transfixed employees during a midday moment of silence at Marsh & McLennan, which lost nearly 300 workers in the attacks. "People spent the moment staring into that space," said Sam Anaokar, an analyst with Marsh & McLennan's Mercer Consulting Group. "Just looking out there and realizing the landscape has changed -- it definitely hit home."
Afterwards the company provided all employees with brown-bag lunches in its new Midtown office, and Mr. Anaokar ate at his desk with co-workers while swapping Sept. 11 stories, often for the first time. "It's a bit surprising that it takes an anniversary to bring up these issues," Mr. Anaokar said. "Still, it's good that a year out, we're able to come back and look."
Sandler O'Neill & Partners, the investment banking boutique that lost 66 of its 171 employees in the collapse of the south tower, held a private service for employees at its new Midtown offices. At 8:46 a.m., employees gathered on the new trading floor for a moment of silence, followed by a half-hour memorial service led by Fred D. Price, the firm's chief operating officer, and Jimmy Dunne, its senior managing partner. 
After the service, work at the firm resumed, but it was hardly a normal day. "Employees have maximum flexibility today," said Steve Frankel, a Sandler spokesman. "A lot of people are working today. Some are not there."
That flexibility seemed to be the order of the day all across Wall Street, from the stock market's somewhat ragged opening -- the Nasdaq market bruised some traders' feelings by opening before the public service had ended -- to the bond market's truncated trading day, which closed at 2 p.m. so that traders could attend their own memorials or be with their families.
"The decision today was not whether to come to work so you could be at your desk," said Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson Associates, who escaped from his small firm's offices in the World Trade Center after the terrorists struck. "The decision was whether you would watch the memorial services with your colleagues at work or at home with your family."
At midday, the bond trading desk outside his office was so quiet that it was "open in name only," he said.
The same sense of detachment could be found among big institutional investors. While some money managers said they felt compelled to keep an eye on the markets, most were relieved that trading was so uneventful.
"People don't want to focus on work, but they don't want to focus on 9/11 either," said Neil J. Weisman, general partner of Chilmark 21st Century Capital, a New York hedge fund.
Mr. Weisman, who still has painfully fresh memories of his last conversation with a friend at Cantor Fitzgerald five minutes before the first plane hit the towers, said he did not buy any stocks all day. "I'm watching things," he added, "but I don't feel like focusing on the market a lot."
His thoughts were echoed by David Millison, chief investment officer at Trimaran Advisors, which invests in high-yield bonds and other debt instruments. "We might as well be home today," he said.
Some people, taking advantage of the leeway their employers offered, did stay home. Cynthia Schwartz, a vice president in the technology department of Goldman Sachs, spent the morning with her husband, listening to church bells and sipping coffee in a park in Ridgewood, N.J.
"I needed to be home," said Mrs. Schwartz, who had arrived at a subway station under the World Trade Center just as the attacks began. "I was so desperate to get home that day." 
The trading desk at Credit Suisse First Boston reluctantly came to life at 11 a.m. when the Nasdaq market began trading while the memorial ceremony continued. But there were few orders to execute. An hour later, when the New York Stock Exchange observed its period of silence before the noon opening, about 25 traders around the room stood at their desks. Some glanced at the TV screens, others bowed their heads and closed their eyes. One young man with a goatee wiped away tears.
Then, after the familiar opening bell rang, John O'Donoghue, a managing director, called out, "Let's go, guys." A few minutes later, with the Dow Jones average up more than 60 points, Mr. O'Donoghue pronounced the delayed opening to have been "quiet but very strong."
Amid such desultory trading, some on Wall Street argued quietly that the markets ought to have simply never opened yesterday. But other said they felt that it was important to demonstrate the resilience of the financial system, which had taken such a heavy blow in the attacks. "They aren't going to slow me down today," said Michael Mayo, a banking industry analyst at Prudential Financial.
The same sentiment was expressed by Maryellen Farrelly, a sales trader with Knight Trading, who showed up today wearing a shirt that a colleague described as "basically an American flag with buttons."
Not all the ceremonies of the day were elaborately planned. About three dozen people gathered at 7:30 a.m. for a quiet breakfast of bagels and muffins at the downtown Fifth Avenue loft of Lorraine Henricks, a psychiatrist who has counseled many traumatized Wall Street traders over the past year.
Since July, Dr. Henricks said, she has seen rising levels of distress among her clients. So she decided to open her home for private reflection. "We just talked quietly and, at about 8:45 a.m., we formed a circle and held hands," she said.
At the same moment, dozens of people stood on the plaza of 140 Broadway, southeast of where the World Trade Center once stood. There were a few tourists, but most in the crowd were clearly Wall Street workers: men in pressed khaki trousers wearing brightly colored badges that identified them as traders, young women in skirts and mules, older women in jackets and stockings, men in suits and ties. Silently, the crowd faced west toward the complex of flag-draped skyscrapers on the edge of the pit.
An occasional gust of wind brought some muffled sounds from the official ceremonies. But mostly the crowd simply stood and stared almost straight up, at the patch of blue where the towers used to be.
If some of the rituals of the anniversary were public and majestic and some were private and improvised, one was simply mysterious. Somehow, the final 30 seconds of trading on Tuesday left a key market barometer, a widely traded futures contract linked to the Standard & Poor's 500 index, priced at exactly 911.00 -- the figure that remained on traders' computer screens around the world throughout yesterday's memorial service.
A spokesman for the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, where the financial contract is traded, insisted that the figure was driven by independent trading and "is not something that could have been engineered that way."
But many traders who noted the number when they got to their desks thought otherwise. "I think it's a neat memorial," one said. "I just wish I knew how they did it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A member of a special unit of the New York Police Department guards a corner of Wall Street. (Richard Perry/The New York Times); Close to ground zero, Wall Street was the setting yesterday for many recollections of the events of a year ago, above. Below, a pause for two minutes of silence before the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange. (Richard Perry/The New York Times); (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); BONDS (78%); TERRORISM (76%); HIJACKING (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: KCG (PAR) (57%); KCG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (66%); RUDY GIULIANI (53%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) HENRIQUES, DIANA B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



332 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: VIGILANCE AND MEMORY: MEXICO; 
Family Mourns a Breadwinner And a Dream That Perished

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: SAN PABLO ANICANO, Mexico, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
Today, in a simple Mass, the family of Leobardo Lopez laid their hopes, but not his body, to rest.
 Promising to make enough money to send his four children to college, Mr. Lopez, a peasant farmer, abandoned his cornfields 10 years ago; first for Los Angeles and then New York, where he got a job as a breakfast cook at Windows on the World. But his dreams were extinguished by the terrorist strike last Sept. 11. 
 Perhaps because of the distance between this horse-cart town and New York, or because of the magnitude of Mr. Lopez's fate, people here had not been able to make peace with his death until today.
For months, the family had put off a funeral, hoping that somehow Mr. Lopez, 42, had escaped death, or that his remains would be found and identified for burial.
Rather than erecting a tombstone over an empty grave, the family carried a cross from the church to their home and hung it over an altar erected in Mr. Lopez's honor. Near the center, there is a photo of Mr. Lopez, standing in his apartment in the Bronx. The altar is covered in red and white flowers. Eleven votive candles are lit day and night. On the wall behind the altar hangs a large American flag.
"It is hard, very hard," wept Mr. Lopez's sister, Janet Lopez Pascual, 29.
Friends remembered Mr. Lopez as a father who never failed to send care packages at the start of each school year. On Saturday nights, they said, he would play the saxophone.
In describing his job, Mr. Lopez used to joke that he had made it to the "bottom of the top of the world."
He comes from even humbler origins.
Nestled in the hills at the southern edge of the state of Puebla, this is a town of some 5,000 people who lived behind the curve of modernization until about a quarter of a century ago, when young men in search of a better life began moving to the United States.
Hundreds of thousands of undocumented men and women from Puebla work across the northeastern United States, the majority of them in New York. They have unleashed a cross-border flow of money and ideas that has speeded up the pace of progress back home.
These days, in San Pablo Anicano, men on bicycles still go door-to-door selling milk by the bottle and officials said telephones are a luxury. But in the county seat, about five miles away, pizza by the slice is as popular as tacos. The theater closed down after families began getting VCR's. Three new Internet cafes are open until midnight.
Immigrants send some $800 million a year back to Puebla, mostly to help their families eat and build houses. But their dollars have also helped build baseball stadiums, hospitals, bridges and churches. 
The trauma of the attacks on the World Trade Center was felt here. said Alfonso Correa Lopez, mayor of Acatlan de Osorio. In addition to Mr. Lopez, at least 16 Mexicans were killed in the attacks, the majority from Puebla.
Remittances plunged, Mr. Correa said, because recession forced many immigrants out of work.
Fear that the United States was vulnerable to more terrorist attacks halted the exodus north. But only temporarily. In recent months, Mr. Correa said, young men and women have begun leaving again by the busload.
His assistant, Jorge Leal, summed it up. "Need is stronger than fear," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Manuela Lopez arranges a crucifix in the church in San Pablo Anicano, Mexico, after a funeral Mass for her brother, Leobardo Lopez. (Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); TERRORISM (76%); HIJACKING (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); RELIGION (67%); BASEBALL (64%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); COUNTIES (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: WINDOWS ON THE WORLD (NYC RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: THOMPSON, GINGER; LOPEZ, LEOBARDO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MEXICO; SAN PABLO ANICANO (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



333 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: VIGILANCE AND MEMORY; 
For Annan, U.N. Offers 'Broad, Sustained and Global Response'

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a speech prepared by Secretary General Kofi Annan for delivery to the General Assembly on Thursday: 
We cannot begin today without reflecting on yesterday's anniversary -- on the criminal challenge so brutally thrown in our faces on Sept. 11, 2001.
 The terrorist attacks of that day were not an isolated event. They were an extreme example of a global scourge, which requires a broad, sustained and global response. 
 Broad, because terrorism can be defeated only if all nations unite against it. 
Sustained, because the battle against terrorism will not be won easily, or overnight. It requires patience and persistence.
And global, because terrorism is a widespread and complex phenomenon, with many deep roots and exacerbating factors.
Mr. President, I believe that such a response can only succeed if we make full use of multilateral institutions. . . . I also believe that every government that is committed to the rule of law at home must be committed also to the rule of law abroad. All states have a clear interest, as well as a clear responsibility, to uphold international law and maintain international order.
Our founding fathers, the statesmen of 1945, had learnt that lesson from the bitter experience of two world wars and a great Depression. They recognized that international security is not a zero-sum game. Peace, security and freedom are not finite commodities -- like land, oil or gold -- which one state can acquire at another's expense. On the contrary, the more peace, security and freedom any one state has, the more its neighbors are likely to have.
And they recognized that by agreeing to exercise sovereignty together, they could gain a hold over problems that would defeat any one of them acting separately.
If those lessons were clear in 1945, should they not be much more so today, in the age of globalization? . . . 
Individual states may defend themselves, by striking back at terrorist groups and the countries that harbor or support them. But only concerted vigilance and cooperation among all states, with constant, systematic exchange of information, offers any real hope of denying terrorists their opportunities.
On all these matters, for any one state -- large or small -- choosing to follow or reject the multilateral path must not be a simple matter of political convenience. It has consequences far beyond the immediate context. . . .
Any state, if attacked, retains the inherent right of self defense under Article 51 of the Charter. But beyond that, when states decide to use force to deal with broader threats to international peace and security, there is no substitute for the unique legitimacy provided by the United Nations. 
Member states attach fundamental importance to such legitimacy and to the international rule of law. They have shown -- notably in the action to liberate Kuwait 12 years ago -- that they are willing to take actions under the authority of the Security Council, which they would not be willing to take without it. 
The existence of an effective international security system depends on the Council's authority -- and therefore the Council having the political will to act, even in the most difficult cases, when agreement seems elusive at the outset. The primary criterion for putting an issue on the Council's agenda should not be the receptiveness of the parties, but the existence of a grave threat to world peace. 
Mr. President, let me now turn to four current threats to world peace, where true leadership and effective action are badly needed. 
First, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Many of us have recently been struggling to reconcile Israel's legitimate security concerns with Palestinian humanitarian needs. 
But these limited objectives cannot be achieved in isolation from the wider political context. We must return to the search for a just and comprehensive solution, which alone can bring security and prosperity to both peoples, and indeed to the whole region. 
The ultimate shape of a Middle East peace settlement is well known. It was defined long ago in Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338, and its Israeli-Palestinian components were spelt out even more clearly in Resolution 1397: land for peace; an end to terror and to occupation; two states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side within secure and recognized borders. 
Both parties accept this vision. But we can reach it only if we move rapidly and in parallel on all fronts. The so-called "sequential" approach has failed. . . .
As we agreed at the Quartet meeting in Washington last May, an international peace conference is needed without delay, to set out a roadmap of parallel steps: steps to strengthen Israel's security, steps to strengthen Palestinian economic and political institutions and steps to settle the details of the final peace agreement. Meanwhile, humanitarian steps to relieve Palestinian suffering must be intensified. The need is urgent. 
Second, the leadership of Iraq continues to defy mandatory resolutions adopted by the Security Council under Chapter VII of the Charter. 
I have engaged Iraq in an in-depth discussion on a range of issues, including the need for arms inspectors to return, in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. 
Efforts to obtain Iraq's compliance with the Council's resolutions must continue. I appeal to all who have influence with Iraq's leaders to impress on them the vital importance of accepting the weapons inspections. This is the indispensable first step towards assuring the world that all Iraq's weapons of mass destruction have indeed been eliminated and -- let me stress -- towards the suspension and eventual ending of the sanctions that are causing so many hardships for the Iraqi people. 
I urge Iraq to comply with its obligations -- for the sake of its own people, and for the sake of world order. If Iraq's defiance continues, the Security Council must face its responsibilities. 
Third, permit me to press all of you, as leaders of the international community, to maintain your commitment to Afghanistan. 
I know I speak for all in welcoming President Karzai to this Assembly, and congratulating him on his escape from last week's vicious assassination attempt -- a graphic reminder of how hard it is to uproot the remnants of terrorism in any country where it has taken root. It was the international community's shameful neglect of Afghanistan in the 1990's that allowed that country to slide into chaos, providing a fertile breeding ground for Al Qaeda. 
Today, Afghanistan urgently needs help in two areas. The government must be helped to extend its authority throughout the country. Without this, all else will fail. And donors must follow through on their commitments to help with rehabilitation, reconstruction and development. Otherwise the Afghan people will lose hope -- and desperation, we know, breeds violence.
Fourth, and finally, in South Asia the world has recently come closer than for many years past to a direct conflict between two nuclear-weapon-capable countries. The situation may now have calmed a little, but it remains perilous. The underlying causes must be addressed. . . . 
Excellencies, let me conclude by reminding you of your pledge two years ago, at the Millennium Summit, "to make the United Nations a more effective instrument" in the service of the world's peoples. . . . Let us all recognize, from now on -- in each of our capitals, in every nation, large and small -- that the global interest is our national interest.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Security was extremely tight yesterday at the United Nations, where members of the Security Council paused for a moment of silence in memory of those killed last Sept. 11. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%) TERRORISM; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PALESTINIANS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PAKISTAN; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); GLOBAL RESPONSE (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); KASHMIR (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); ISRAEL; IRAQ; INDIA; PAKISTAN; KASHMIR AND JAMMU

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



334 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: VIGILANCE AND MEMORY: THE TRAVELERS; 
A Year Later, Air Passengers Are Few, but Determined

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
Some said they were nervous. A few said they were scared. But many passengers today boarded their flights with a clenched jaw and determination, as if daring a suicide hijacker to try again.
 On the anniversary of terrorist acts that turned four gleaming jetliners into lethal weapons, tens of thousands of airline passengers across the country set aside any misgivings about flying on such a somber occasion and buckled in. 
 "You can't forget today, what it is and what it means," said Becky Koch of Tucson, who was flying on Southwest Airlines from here to Las Vegas. "But flying today makes a statement to terrorists, that they can't take away our freedom of feeling safe."
Ed Minishak, a businessman from Tyngsboro, Mass., arrived at Logan Airport in Boston for an America West flight to Phoenix with the same attitude. "I don't think you can change your whole way of life when someone tries to disrupt it," Mr. Minishak said. "You can't run and hide. For us to hide, I think that's an insult. I'm making my own small statement today by flying."
For all the concerns and bravado, air travel through the day was measurably lighter than usual, a circumstance not just influenced by events of a year ago but also by a sluggish economy and travel patterns that show Wednesdays are some of the least traveled days of the week.
In general, check-ins were quick. Lines at security points were short. Waiting areas were quiet. "It's actually been like this for two weeks," said an America West ticket agent at Phoenix Sky Harbor Airport. A spokeswoman at Hartsfield International in Atlanta, the country's busiest airport, serving almost 230,000 travelers a day, said passenger traffic was down by more than half.
Last Sept. 11, domestic airlines had scheduled 30,516 flights for the day, compared with 28,177 last Wednesday, a decrease of 7 percent, according to OAG Worldwide, a flight information company. In anticipation of fewer travelers today, the airlines cut back even more, to 24,930 scheduled flights -- a level 18 percent below that a year ago and 11 percent below last Wednesday's.
With the exception of three incidents that federal authorities said did not appear especially alarming, the day unfolded routinely, said Laura Brown, a spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration.
Early in the day, a Russian-built Antonov-124, the largest cargo plane in the world, "miscommunicated" with air traffic control entering American air space from Canada and was diverted to Westover, Mass., government officials said. Leased by the Defense Department for its size, the plane was carrying American personnel and equipment to El Paso from overseas and remained on the ground for about two and a half hours before leaving around midday.
A Northwest Airlines Airbus 320, flying to Las Vegas from Memphis with 94 passengers and a crew of five, was diverted to Fort Smith, Ark., after three men locked themselves in a lavatory. No injuries were reported, and after the plane landed federal agents escorted four men off to question them about their "unusual behavior" on board, a statement from the airline said.
Justice Department officials in Washington said they did not believe any of the men were engaged in terrorist acts although they confirmed witness accounts that the men appeared to be of Middle Eastern descent. The officials declined to explain what the men had been doing on the plane.
Meanwhile, the other passengers were delayed in Arkansas for six hours before taking off again for Las Vegas.
In a third incident, an American Airlines Fokker 100, a small jet, flying to Nashville from Houston with 50 passengers, returned to Houston after a flight attendant told the pilot she saw a passenger with a small folding knife, said a Department of Transportation official, who added that agents on the ground searched the passenger and found no knife.
An airline spokesman said later the object in question was a comb. 
These incidents aside, many people said today that they could not imagine a better day to travel, given all the attention to the anniversary of the terrorist attacks, the higher terror alert status initiated by the federal government on Tuesday and the increased number of police and security at most airports.
"It's probably the safest day of the year," said Josh Burnside, a buyer for power plants who was flying home to Philadelphia from Phoenix. "But I feel that if anything happened, it wouldn't go far with the mood passengers are in now. If something happened, they're not going to sit around and wait."
At nearly every point of travel, passengers were reminded by sight, sound or experience that it was an uncommon day. At the America West ticket counter here, agents displayed a small replica of the World Trade Center towers. At Denver International Airport, red and white carnations adorned ticket check-in counters and baggage claim carousels.
At Reagan National Airport near Washington, as well as at other airports, all activity ceased for one minute at 8:46 a.m., the time the first of the hijacked planes hit in New York. Heads bowed. Corridors fell silent. At Logan Airport, the silence was broken only by weeping.
For some passengers, the moment of silence came in flight. Audrey Rodriguez, a junior at the University of Texas, was traveling on American to Los Angeles from Austin, Tex. At 7:46 a.m., central time, the plane was moving into position for takeoff, she said, and the pilot asked the several dozen passengers to observe a moment of silence.
"He also said we'll help keep you safe and sound," Ms. Rodriguez said. "It made me feel a lot better to hear him say that."
Another American Airlines pilot had similar words for his passengers en route from New York to Los Angeles. One of them, Nina Hinson Rassmussen, a former opera singer, said the pilot told passengers, "Please try to find a moment to reflect on what has happened and on the people who were killed and hold good thoughts for the country."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A visitor to the McNamara Terminal walked past an empty Northwest Airlines ticketing area yesterday at Detroit Metropolitan Airport. (Associated Press); At Logan Airport in Boston, Jim Schroeder, above, an American Airlines pilot, affixed a memorial pin to his lapel, and Capt. Martha Catalano of the State Police paused during duty in Terminal C. More police officers were present despite a substantial drop in passengers. (Photographs by C. J. Gunther for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HIJACKING (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TICKET AGENCIES (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING; AIRPORTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) 

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (90%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (51%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (51%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%)

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



335 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Merrill Lynch and Enron Face Inquiry on Energy Deal
Federal investigators are looking into an energy deal between Enron and Merrill Lynch to determine whether it was a sham transaction intended to help Enron increase its year-end profit, people who have been interviewed said.
 Investigators from the F.B.I. and the Securities and Exchange Commission recently questioned several former Enron executives about the deal, which was completed at the end of 1999 and resulted in a $60 million profit for Enron. The investigators have also contacted officials at Merrill Lynch. Page C2. 

Hershey Trust Appeals Injunction
Lawyers for the charitable trust that controls Hershey Foods argued in a Pennsylvania court that a temporary injunction preventing the trust from selling the company should be overturned, contending that the injunction prevents the trustees from carrying out their obligation. The appeal came less than a week after the judge decided to temporarily block the sale after the state attorney general argued that it would cause "irreparable harm" to the company's hometown. C2.

Spam Recipients Point Fingers
Tens of thousands of readers of e-mail newsletters have recently been inundated with unsolicited overtures from pornography Web sites and get-rich-quick schemes, the newsletter publishers say, and they are blaming the company that manages and distributes the newsletters for them. C4.

Subdued Wall St. Marks Sept. 11
Business took a backseat to heartache as a subdued Wall Street found public and private ways to mark the anniversary of events that tore into the heart of the nation's financial community a year ago. B16.

The Nasdaq stock market opened an hour before the New York Stock Exchange while the names of the Sept. 11 victims were still being read aloud at ground zero. C6.

Fed Says Economy Has Slowed
The economy slowed in the last six weeks, limited by sluggish factory production and little or no gains in employment, the Federal Reserve said in its latest regional economic report card, known as the beige book. C4.

MobilCom's Future Is Precarious
The future of MobilCom, the second-largest long-distance carrier in Germany, hung in the balance as the French cabinet met late into the evening to devise a rescue plan for France Telecom. France Telecom holds a controlling stake of 28 percent of MobilCom. A collapse of MobilCom would end a singular success story in postwar Germany. Founded in 1991 by a former car rental executive, Gerhard Schmid, left, who modeled it after WorldCom in the United States, MobilCom made money in a newly deregulated phone market by leasing long-distance lines at bulk discounts and reselling service at a discount to Deutsche Telekom prices. World Business, Section W.

Malt Beverages Show Early Peak
A new category of alcoholic drinks -- malt beverages that are 5 percent alcohol and known by names like malternatives -- is starting to show signs it is a fad, jeopardizing the advertising spending windfall expected by Madison Avenue. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C3.

Oil Reserves Reported to Be Low
The International Energy Agency, an adviser to 26 nations on oil policy, said crude oil inventories were "uncomfortably low," indicating that OPEC needed to increase production to prevent a jump in prices. Oil prices have risen 50 percent this year in New York. C5.

It's 4th and Inches. Don't Kick.
An economist at the University of California at Berkeley has used the mathematical technique of dynamic programming to determine when football teams should kick a field goal and when they should go for the touchdown. The technique is a way to calculate the value of actions that have effects far into the future. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,581.17 down 21.44Nasdaq composite -- 1,315.45 down 4.6410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.06% up 0.06The euro -- $0.9752 up 0.0002The dollar -- 120.40 yen up 0.52 Graph tracks Hershey share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); INJUNCTIONS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESELLERS (85%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (83%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (83%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); PORNOGRAPHY (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (62%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); FRANCE TELECOM SA (83%); HERSHEY CO (57%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (83%); FTE (NYSE) (83%); FTE (BIT) (83%); HSY (NYSE) (57%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (54%); VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%); DTE (FRA) (50%); DTE (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



336 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Love, Divorce and the Hague Treaty; 
New Jersey Custody Case Is Really an International Dispute

BYLINE:  By RICHARD LEZIN JONES 

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J., Sept. 11 

 BODY:
Between them, there seemed to be love enough for two weddings. First, Gulnara Karimova and Mansur Maqsudi were married in their native Uzbekistan. Then it was off to New York for another ceremony.
 After their union more than a decade ago, their lives -- both in the United States and in Uzbekistan -- were filled with children and country clubs, PlayStation and Pokemon. And when Mr. Maqsudi wanted to open a new Coca-Cola bottling plant in Uzbekistan, well, it didn't hurt that his father-in-law was Islam A. Karimov, the nation's president. 
 Didn't hurt, that is, until Mr. Maqsudi filed for divorce. 
Since then, he has testified at court hearings over the last two months, his wife has fled to Uzbekistan with their two children, one of his family's businesses in his homeland has been lost and another is in limbo, and three of his relatives have been sentenced to jail terms as long as 10 years for what the Uzbek authorities say was corporate corruption.
Now, Mr. Maqsudi, who had settled with his family in nearby Mendham, has asked a New Jersey Superior Court judge here to assume jurisdiction in the case so that he can pursue a custody claim for their children. In Uzbekistan, he says, he would not get a fair hearing because of the influence of his wife and father-in-law. A ruling is expected on Thursday.
The case has unfolded in court here as a drama that mixes Eastern-bloc intrigue with the melodrama of a daytime soap opera, the intricacies of the Hague conventions governing international law and a bitterness that transcends even the normal rancor of custody disputes. The backdrop is just as complicated: the collision between democratic strivings, capitalistic ambitions and lingering authoritarianism in a former Soviet republic.
Neither Mr. Maqsudi, 35, who is an American citizen, nor Ms. Karimova-Maqsudi, 30, who has a green card, would agree to be interviewed. But according to court testimony, Mr. Maqsudi said that after one fight too many, he told his wife in July 2001 that he wanted a divorce, and she left for Uzbekistan the next day with their children, Islam, 9, and Iman, 4. 
Mr. Maqsudi testified that on Aug. 1, his parents notified him from Uzbekistan that she was demanding that $5.5 million be deposited in her Swiss bank account, and that she be given half the proceeds from the sale of their Mendham home and full ownership of their home in the Uzbek capital, Tashkent. If those demands were met, he testified, she had offered to work out a joint custody arrangement for the children.
What would she do if they were not met? In court papers, Mr. Maqsudi cited the end of a largely apologetic note that Ms. Karimova-Maqsudi left for him before she returned to Uzbekistan. "There's an interesting movie," she wrote, listing the day, channel and time. "I hope you'll get a chance to see it again."
The film? "The War of the Roses," the 1989 film about a contentious divorce that culminates with the couple's death.
To Mr. Maqsudi, the threat was obvious. "Destroy the Maqsudi family, destroy the Maqsudi businesses," he testified, "and she did that."
Mr. Maqsudi went ahead and filed for divorce, anyway, last October.
But what he characterized as ransom, her lawyer described as nothing more than the kind of monetary settlement and financial distribution that couples commonly discuss in divorce proceedings.
"I think what he's trying to do is utilize the economic aspects of this case and turn it into a ransom demand, which is something we categorically deny," said the lawyer, John P. Paone Jr. "It's just that he controls all the assets and any final settlement would likely include a payment."
Mr. Paone also said that any wounds suffered by Mr. Maqsudi's two businesses in Uzbekistan were largely self-inflicted. Mr. Paone said that the businesses -- Coca-Cola Bottling Uzbekistan and the ROZ Trading Group Ltd., a related company -- were the subject of legitimate investigations by the Uzbek authorities. Late last year, the Maqsudi family lost control of the Coca-Cola plant, the government ordered liquidation of the other business, and two cousins and an uncle of Mr. Maqsudi's were convicted on tax-violation and money-conversion charges. 
Mr. Paone said Mr. Maqsudi was using the custody issue as a way to pressure President Karimov's administration into allowing him to reopen his businesses.
Although Mr. Maqsudi contends that his wife took their children illegally when she returned to Uzbekistan in July 2001, Mr. Paone said that she had merely gone home on a previously planned trip.
"He's trying to portray that as abduction," he said. "In my view, she went back to Uzbekistan with her children. He chose not to come."
Mr. Maqsudi has not returned to Uzbekistan, his wife has not returned to this country, and the couple cannot agree on a neutral meeting site.
The legal issues at play are not subject to Hague conventions governing international civil law because Uzbekistan is not one of the 61 nations that have signed the Hague treaty. Even if Judge Deanne M. Wilson rules that her court has jurisdiction in the case, Mr. Maqsudi's victory may be an empty one because the court may later decide to grant custody to his wife, anyway. 
Still, he has appealed to the New Jersey court because he feels his chances of receiving equal treatment under Uzbekistan's law are slim -- especially in the turbulent political atmosphere since the Sept. 11 attacks.
Uzbekistan, a nation of 25 million that borders Afghanistan, has become a valuable ally of the United States in its war on terrorism. The authoritarian regime of President Karimov has frequently drawn the ire of human rights groups; one of them, Humans Rights Watch, says that over the last several years more than 7,000 Muslims have been arrested by the government.
"I don't think that President Karimov would like to admit it, but I think that in a case with such a high profile, the courts would try to ensure a favorable outcome for his daughter," said John S. Schoeberlein, director of the Program on Central Asia and the Caucasus at Harvard University.
Mr. Maqsudi's lawyer, Edward J. O'Donnell, said that 19 members of Congress had written letters to the Uzbek government on his client's behalf, seeking information on the charges against Mr. Maqsudi's relatives and seeking help in arranging a meeting between Mr. Maqsudi and his children. Mr. O'Donnell said that after months of negotiations, State Department officials were allowed to see the children in Uzbekistan last spring, but that Mr. Maqsudi had not seen them for more than a year.
Professor Schoeberlein said that Uzbekistan's recent moves toward democratization had often butted up against its despotic past. And, he suggested, Mr. Maqsudi may be trying to beat a system of which he was once part.
"It's widely held that the government acted in retaliation against him after the divorce," Professor Schoeberlein said. "But the other side of the story is that he may not have been able to do business there without his connection to the president. In a sense, then, he gained by the same mechanism with which he lost."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mansur Maqsudi, with Iman, center, and Islam in 1999, has asked a New Jersey court to assume jurisdiction in a custody case. His wife took the children with her to Uzbekistan last year, leaving a largely apologetic note, left, which Mr. Maqsudi cited in court papers.; President Islam A. Karimov of Uzbekistan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); SENTENCING (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (71%); RELIGION (70%); JURISDICTION (69%); JUDGES (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%) CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO CONSOLIDATED (57%)

TICKER: COKE (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

PERSON: MAQSUDI, MANSUR; JONES, RICHARD LEZIN; MAQSUDI, KARIMOVA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TASHKENT, UZBEKISTAN (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); UZBEKISTAN (94%) UZBEKISTAN; NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



337 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Treasuries Dip as Fear of Attack Eases 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Treasury prices fell yesterday as the fear of terrorist assaults surrounding the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks eased.
 "Nothing's happened so far, and people are taking comfort in that," said James Cusser, who has been selling Treasuries for the $1.4 billion he oversees at Waddell & Reed Investment Management in Overland Park, Kan. 
 Some investors also moved money out of government debt on expectations a pickup in economic growth might make Treasuries less attractive than stocks in coming months, analysts said.
The price of the 10-year note fell 15/32 , to 10218/32 . The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 4.06 percent from 4 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year bond, fell 23/32 , to 10717/32 , as the yield rose to 4.88 percent from 4.84.
Bonds pared losses as the Standard & Poor's 500 index erased a 1.6 percent gain to close the day little changed. The Federal Reserve said in its l Beige Book report that the economy had slowed since late July, helping Treasuries pare their decline. The Fed said manufacturing was "sluggish" and there have been little or no gains in employment.
Still, many investors say they are more confident about the recovery after a government report last week showed the jobless rate unexpectedly declined in August. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); DEBT NOTES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: WADDELL & REED INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



338 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: MAKING BOOKS; 
Black Magazine Tries Book Club

BYLINE:  By Martin Arnold 

 BODY:
Everyone seems to be getting into the book-club act, and it's probably a good thing, too, since perhaps the only upbeat note in a rather flat sales season this spring and summer for book publishing has been the apparent success of the post-Oprah clubs, even if the clubs don't quite fill the void she left. 
 Since Oprah Winfrey bowed out in April, we've had book clubs popping up from USA Today, the "Today" show, "Good Morning America" and "Live With Regis and Kelly," all to the good for sales and, therefore, for authors. 
 Perhaps the most interesting new club is on the way. Essence, the pre-eminent magazine for black women, is announcing in its October issue that it will join the crush with its own book club, and will offer its first four selections. The monthly magazine has a circulation of 1.1 million and claims a readership of 7 million, numbers that are impressive although not as abundant as television's volume. 
But what the Essence Book Club will bring to book publishing is a population obviously accustomed to reading. Moreover, Essence has a reputation for credibility among its readers that apparently transfers into sales of products it advises. So why not books? Particularly since the Essence club is starting up at a time when mainstream book publishers are increasingly quarrying for books by and about blacks in the realization that there is a growing black middle class whose members are hungry for reading relevant to them.
All Essence's selections will be books about the African-American experience, and selections will be displayed in the magazine quarterly. Unlike in the other clubs, the "members" -- the magazine's readers -- will help make the selections. Like the television book clubs, the Essence club will only recommend titles to buy; it won't distribute them. There are other African-American book clubs that do distribute, the largest being the Black Expressions Book Club, which was started in 1999 with the expectation of 5,000 initial members. About 15,000 joined. In just over a year, the club grew to 150,000 members, and it now has 250,000, said its editor, Carol M. Mackey.
The figures certainly indicate that a great many African-Americans are hungry for reading material about them. Black Expressions offers books at large discounts (usually 30 percent, but sometimes 50 percent) that are recommended in the 17 catalogs (plus two extra for rapacious buyers) that it sends members annually. One joins by purchasing three books for $1 each and committing to buy four more in two years. 
Obviously, the only cost for the Essence club is the price of the magazine. Essence brings to its club a long tradition of involvement with books. Each issue has a book section that includes the Essence best-seller list, which is compiled from sales in 60 black bookstores and which in turn is prominently displayed in such stores.
Patrik Henry Bass, the magazine's book editor, said, "The moment Oprah retired her book club, we decided to go ahead with ours, but we wanted to let the dust settle a bit." He added: "We're going to encourage the 60 stores to stock our book club selections. Our readers trust us. We believe we've set the standard for coverage of black authors and books about African-American culture."
The first books to be recommended, in the October issue, will be black classics chosen by Mr. Bass and his colleagues. They are Ralph Ellison's "Invisible Man" (Vintage), first published in 1952; "Brown Girl, Brownstones" by Paule Marshall (Feminist Press), 1959; "Daddy Was a Number Runner" by Louise Meriwether (Feminist Press), 1970; and Gloria Naylor's "Mama Day" (Vintage Contemporaries), 1988. Readers will then have 30 days to vote -- via e-mail or even postcard -- on which of the four they want to discuss in the magazine's online chat line at www.essence.com.
Subsequently, readers will be asked to submit nominations for the club's selections, which will then be determined by a combination of members' submissions and a group of the magazine's editors. Then readers will again vote on which selection they want to read and discuss in the chat room. The magazine will conduct a Web site chat for members with the author if living, or a guest author if the writer is deceased. (For the next quarter the club will ask readers to nominate biographies for the list.)
Whatever else, this will be a fascinating experiment in a sort of participatory democracy involving a magazine's editors and readers. Mr. Bass said, "It's the perfect relationship between a publication providing service to its readers and the readers giving us back their input."
Will this sell books? Well, it can't hurt. Crystal Bobb-Semple, owner of Brownstone Books, a black bookstore in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, said, "A lot of my customers come in with the Essence best-seller list in hand, and a lot come in after 'Good Morning America' and the 'Today' show, so this will absolutely help." She added that even though Essence is a women's magazine, men come in with the Essence list and buy nonfiction on it.
Informed of the new club, Emma Rodgers, owner of the Black Images Book Bazaar in Dallas, said: "We'll add an Essence section to our book club displays. This will help drive traffic into the store. People come in now with the magazine asking for books on its best-seller list or books they read about in the magazine."
"Bookstores are being challenged now because the economy is down -- the city's only children's bookstore closed recently," she said, noting that her store was holding an E. Lynn Harris book signing yesterday. "We pay a lot of bills after E. Lynn leaves." She said she thought this new book club would also help pay some bills.
Probably the most exciting thing in book publishing in recent years has been the emergence of African-Americans as a powerful force. Book clubs are rightly part of that. That book clubs in general are good for the business of making books is undisputed. They are helpful to laboring authors and are often great for sales. But implicit in the idea of a book club is the need for mass validation. So one wonders what the clubs' presence will do for that occasional, lonely book of high literary merit. Not much.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrik Henry Bass, book editor of Essence, which plans a book club. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); BOOK CLUBS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BLACKS 

ORGANIZATION: ESSENCE (MAGAZINE) 

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (73%); REGIS PHILBIN (55%) BASS, PATRIK HENRY; ARNOLD, MARTIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



339 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan's Faltering Reconstruction 

BYLINE:  By James Dobbins; James Dobbins, director of RAND's Center for International Security and Defense Policy, was special envoy for Afghanistan in the Bush administration and special envoy for Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia and Kosovo in the Clinton administration.

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif. 

 BODY:
Despite the ouster of the Taliban from power last November, the hard struggle to bring stability to Afghanistan continues, as shown by the car bombing in Kabul last week that killed 30 people and the assassination attempt against President Hamid Karzai in Kandahar the same day.
 In recent weeks, the Bush administration has publicly warned that reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan are lagging because not enough money is being delivered for that effort. The administration has called on European nations to provide more funds to help Afghanistan recover from war.
 At the same time, aid organizations and European officials have indicated that reconstruction is lagging because there's not enough security, and they have urged the United States to do more to provide it. The attacks in Kabul and Kandahar are evidence that Afghan reconstruction is faltering for lack of both security and money. 
Security in Afghanistan has been better than most people would have expected when Mr. Karzai took office last December. Last spring, the Afghans were able to hold hundreds of local assemblies throughout the country, and then to gather more than 1,000 delegates to a general assembly, a loya jirga, in order to elect a new government. Nearly all the political assemblies occurred peacefully and to a large extent democratically. This was a minor miracle.
But security remains tenuous. Terrorist incidents like those that occurred last week have been increasing. Power in Afghanistan is held by local military commanders, who have differing degrees of loyalty to the central government and whose ability to control subordinates is often limited.
American forces have provided personal security for Mr. Karzai and have also used their influence to tamp down large-scale conflict among the regional warlords. But small-scale violence remains prevalent enough to inhibit the resumption of normal economic activity, and such activity is central to Afghanistan's future. Humanitarian aid workers often risk their lives to help those in need, but the rebuilding of a society cannot depend on rescue workers. Reconstruction depends on the ability of engineers, bankers, shopkeepers, truck drivers and itinerant merchants to circulate freely throughout the country, not just in Kabul.
In a country as poor as Afghanistan, reconstruction also requires international investors, experts and technicians to travel into the countryside where the work of building schools, roads, waterworks and power plants has to be done. But these people are unlikely to want to travel to places where armed escorts are necessary. Although America and its allies are helping build an Afghan national army and police force that can one day provide the security needed for economic growth, the growth won't take place for years.
Last December, an international military peacekeeping force was deployed to Kabul, under British command, which has been largely successful. The Bush administration has recently dropped its opposition to expanding this force to other major regional centers. But the administration will need to become an active proponent of this expansion if it is to occur. In particular, other nations that may contribute troops will need assurances that they will receive American logistic and intelligence support.
Security measures must also be coupled with the delivery of more aid throughout the country. So far, American and European pledges of aid to Afghanistan remain modest by comparison with other recent efforts in post-conflict nation-building.
Kosovo, for example, has a population of about 2 million, while Afghanistan has a population of 23 million. But Kosovo received several times more American and European assistance per capita to recover from 13 weeks of conflict than Afghanistan has received to rebuild from 20 years of civil war. In Afghanistan, the United States has taken the lead in providing emergency food aid, but American funding for reconstruction has been quite limited. Since the installation of the Karzai government, for instance, the White House has asked Congress for only $250 million in additional aid dedicated to economic reconstruction.
That $250 million works out to a little more than $10 per Afghan -- much less than what the previous administration sought and received in terms of per capita aid for the immediate post-conflict needs in Haiti, Bosnia and Kosovo. Even when European and Japanese aid pledges for this year are added, and assuming this money is immediately made available, the assistance currently offered to Afghanistan is not commensurate with the need or the scale of similar efforts.
The recent increase in violence should cause neither the Afghans nor the international community to lose heart. Unlike Yugoslavia, which fell apart of its own internal ethnic conflicts, Afghanistan was largely pulled apart by its neighbors. Even today, Afghans accept the need to live together within a multiethnic, multilingual nation.
Late last year, as the Taliban regime was driven from power, the United States successfully persuaded Russia, Pakistan, Iran and India -- nations that have played meddlesome roles in Afghanistan's history -- that a moderate and modernizing Afghanistan could make them all winners. All of these governments contributed to the installation of the Karzai regime. As long as they continue to support it, there is every reason to hope for continued consolidation of the new Afghan government's authority and legitimacy.
Afghanistan has already made tremendous progress over the past 10 months. Without substantially enhanced economic support and an expanded international security presence, however, these gains could easily be lost. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); ARMIES (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); POLICE FORCES (70%); TRUCK DRIVERS (70%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); ENGINEERING (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); RETAILERS (61%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (60%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (78%) DOBBINS, JAMES F 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



340 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: VIGILANCE AND MEMORY: RIVAL FACTIONS; 
3 Groups Already Squabbling Over Oil-Flush North Iraq Should Hussein Be Toppled

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
While the Bush administration has yet to decide whether to attack Iraq, rival ethnic groups in the north of that country are already squabbling over the spoils of any future war. 
 Their focus is Kirkuk, a city with vast reserves of high-quality oil so close to the surface that in one area natural gas escaping from the ground has been on fire since antiquity. Iraq's Arabs control the city, but both ethnic Kurds and the Turkmen minority claim it as their own and all three groups want power over it and its oil if Saddam Hussein falls. 
 "We will have control of this city; that is what we are fighting for," said Mustafa Ziya, the Ankara representative of the Iraqi Turkmen Front, a coalition of 26 Turkmen groups vying for representation in a post-Hussein Iraqi government. They have the backing of Turkey, which has yet to voice support for American military action against Iraq but wants a finger in the Iraqi pie should the Bush administration make a successful move. 
Yet, the Kurdish Democratic Party, the more powerful of two Kurdish groups that control northern Iraq, is determined to make Kirkuk the political capital and economic heart of a Kurdish federal state in a future Iraq. It has already drafted an Iraqi constitution outlining such a state with Kirkuk as its most important city. 
"Kirkuk is a Kurdish city," said Safeen Dizayee, the K.D.P.'s representative in Ankara. "Even the Ottoman archives show that." 
The brewing battle suggests that any fighting inside Iraq will not end with Mr. Hussein's ouster and that the United States may be drawn into mediating Iraqi factional disputes or risk unleashing a blood bath if it succeeds in unseating the current government. 
The dispute also puts the Bush administration between rival groups on whom it would have to depend in any war. The United States is likely to use Turkish air bases to attack Iraq and is expected to ask for support from the northern Iraqi Kurds, whose forces number in the tens of thousands. 
The Kirkuk dispute flared last week when the K.D.P.'s leader, Massoud Barzani, was quoted in a German newspaper as saying that he would "never allow Turks to take over even a millimeter of our soil," and that if Turkey invaded northern Iraq, his fighters would turn the territory into a "graveyard for Turkish soldiers." 
Those comments, which Mr. Barzani has since said were "distorted" by the press, prompted the deputy speaker of the Turkish Parliament on Friday to suggest that Ankara declare an autonomous region in northern Iraq for the Turkmen minority, a Turkic people with historical ties to Turkey and who are Iraq's third-largest ethnic group. That region would include oil-rich Kirkuk. 
Already, Turkey has threatened to intervene in northern Iraq if the Kurds there declare an independent state or attack the Turkmen minority in any battle for Kirkuk that might follow possible American action. Turkey has soldiers in northern Iraq, although the deputy governor in charge of the only land crossing between Turkey and Iraq has denied reports that the country had moved another 1,000 troops across the border in recent days. 
Kirkuk lies at the southwestern edge of the Kurds' traditional homeland and was peopled by Turkmen groups during the Ottoman empire. The city was still under Ottoman control at the end of World War I, when the British seized it for its oil and later incorporated it into Iraq. The Kurds have long argued that it is their territory and want the economic power that it would give a Kurdish federal state. 
The Kurds occupied Kirkuk after the 1991 Persian Gulf war, only to be routed by Iraqi troops a few days later in what became a devastating mass exodus of Kurds from the region until the United States and Britain gave them protection by creating a "no-flight zone" north of the 36th parallel. That zone does not cover Kirkuk, however, which has remained in Mr. Hussein's hands and is a principal source of his income today under the United Nations' food-for-oil program. The program allows the export of a limited amount of crude oil from Kirkuk and Iraq's other major oil-producing region, in the country's south. 
In an attempt to change the ethnic makeup of the Kirkuk area, Mr. Hussein has settled Arabs in the city and pressured the Kurdish and Turkmen groups alike to change their legal ethnic identity to Arab or lose their right to own property or even to live in Kirkuk. The Arab majority will certainly try to retain control of the region if Mr. Hussein is removed. 
Turkey, which produces little oil of its own, has its own economic interests at stake. A long line of Turkish tanker trucks cross the border daily on their way to Kirkuk to fill up with Iraqi oil, a technically illegal trade outside the United Nations oil-for-food program that is tolerated by the United States and its allies because of the damage the Turkish economy has suffered from the economic sanctions against Iraq. 
Turkey also opposes Kurdish control of Kirkuk because that would strengthen Kurdish autonomy and, they say, encourage the estimated 20 million ethnic Kurds in Turkey to also demand autonomy. Turkey has fought a 15-year war with Kurdish separatists in the southeastern part of its country and many Turks remain convinced that the fast-growing Kurdish minority harbors a desire for a Kurdish state within Turkey or even an independent Kurdistan. 
"A federal state in northern Iraq will be the first step on the way to an independent Kurdish state," said Umit Ozdag, chairman of the conservative Turkish policy institute, Asam. "And it will be impossible to establish a federal state divided on ethnic lines without blood." 
Sevket Bulent Yahnici, an official with M.H.P., one of the parties in Turkey's governing coalition, put it more bluntly: "If the Kurds declare a separate state in northern Iraq, we will be forced to invade."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tankers waited to cross from Turkey into northern Iraq yesterday to fill up with oil. While technically illegal, the oil sales are tolerated because sanctions against Iraq have damaged Turkey's economy. (Staton Winter/Getty Images, for The New York Times) Map of Iraq highlighting Kirkuk: Kirkuk's oil would give power to whoever controls the city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); POLITICS (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; KURDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TURKEY; FOOD; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) IRAQI TURKMEN FRONT; UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) SMITH, CRAIG S; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (94%) IRAQ (99%); TURKEY (96%); UNITED STATES (96%) IRAQ; KIRKUK (IRAQ); TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



341 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Germany's Cautious Candidates 

 BODY:
Germany's lackluster election campaign continues Europe's recent trend of blurring the difference between the major parties of the center-left and the center-right. Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, the Social Democratic incumbent, and Edmund Stoiber, his Christian Democratic challenger, have hewed as closely as possible to the uncontroversial center ground. Neither has offered any bold proposals for reviving Germany's sluggish economy, the No. 1 concern of most Germans, nor has there been much heated debate on other issues. 
 That's too bad. Germany needs to inject new life into its rigid labor markets, accelerate the economic transformation of the formerly Communist east and chart a more dynamic foreign policy course, especially in leading the European Union away from damaging agricultural subsidies. Its two major parties also need to reinforce their appeal, especially to the unemployed and discontented, or risk the rise of the kind of xenophobic populism that has taken root in neighboring countries. 
 In the years after 1945, Germany pioneered a distinctive form of capitalism built around broad social welfare programs and nationwide pay formulas. This emphasis on social security and consensus smoothed the way for establishing the first genuine democracy in German history. The costs of this system did not noticeably impair economic performance, with Germany taking its place as the world's third-largest economic power. 
Over the last decade, however, serious problems have emerged. As Germany's once prosperous industrial Ruhr became a rust belt, along with much of eastern Germany, generous unemployment benefits discouraged workers from relocating for new jobs. Nationwide wage settlements that applied even to small non-unionized businesses hurt competitiveness and innovation. In addition, Germany has had to bear the enormous costs of reunification, subsidizing French farmers through the European Union's common agricultural policy and, more recently, trans-Atlantic recession. 
Both candidates have shied away from radical labor market reform, although Mr. Stoiber has been more willing than his union-backed opponent to challenge nationwide pay scales. Mr. Schroder, for his part, has been more forthright about criticizing agricultural subsidies than Mr. Stoiber, whose party traditionally courts farmers. Mr. Schroder has scored points with voters by sharply criticizing Washington's war talk on Iraq while Mr. Stoiber has expressed more nuanced reservations.
Whoever wins on Sept. 22 -- and the race is currently considered too close to call -- German policies sadly appear headed toward stagnation. That's not what elections are supposed to be for. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (88%); AGRICULTURE (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%) EDITORIALS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (89%) SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); STOIBER, EDMUND 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



342 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Fed Reports a Recent Slowing of the Economy 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
The economy slowed in the last six weeks, limited by sluggish factory production and little or no gains in employment, the Federal Reserve said today.
 While increases in auto and home sales supported the recovery, manufacturers are less optimistic than they were earlier this year and companies are not adding workers, the Fed said in its latest regional economic report card, known as the beige book. 
 The report "mirrors a lot of the themes we have seen in the economic news lately that growth is uneven," said James Glassman, a senior economist at J. P. Morgan Securities in New York. 
The regional economic report card suggests that the central bank may keep its target for overnight lending between banks at a 41-year low until growth accelerates. The Fed's policy-setting Open Market Committee meets Sept. 24 to decide whether to change the benchmark interest rate from 1.75 percent.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, testifies on the economy Thursday before the House Budget Committee. Two Fed policy makers -- Michael H. Moskow, president of the Chicago Federal Reserve Bank, and Cathy Minehan, president of the Boston Federal Reserve Bank -- in separate speeches Monday said the recovery would be bumpy.
"Most of the Fed people have suggested they are going to be pretty patient, and I assume Mr. Greenspan's comments tomorrow will be the same," Mr. Glassman said.
The beige book was compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis using information gathered after the third week in July and before Sept. 3. The report -- a collection of anecdotes reported to the regional Fed banks from local businesses -- gives central bankers an idea of economic developments beyond what statistics show.
The report found little change in labor markets since late July.
The Fed's comments run counter to Labor Department statistics showing that the unemployment rate fell to a five-month low of 5.7 percent in August from 5.9 percent in July.
While the strength of auto sales and housing supported the recovery, factories are not expanding production and companies are not adding workers, the bank said. "Over all, wages were reported to be flat, with virtually no reports of upward pressure on wages," the Fed said.
Prices for goods and services have remained unchanged, the Fed said. Still, there is increasing concern about the rising cost of health insurance, "which is leading some businesses to have higher labor costs," the report said.
Demand for residential mortgages and new-home construction was strong, while commercial real estate activity in many Fed districts remained soft, the Fed said.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Amid Sluggish Growth, Housing Remains a Bright Spot"A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve Board's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. Minneapolis -- Very little growth was reported. Commercial construction and manufacturing slowed. Chicago -- Slow and uneven expansion was reported. A strong housing market offset sluggish consumer spending. Cleveland -- Home building remained strong, and automakers reported positive conditions. Retail sales faltered during the back-to-school season. Boston -- The economy was moving sideways, with sluggish retail sales and no revenue improvement for manufacturers. New York -- The economy was still sluggish, with the exception of strong growth in housing. Hiring remains lethargic. Philadelphia -- The recovery appeared to slow in August. Retail sales were down from a month earlier. Home sales remained strong. Richmond, Va. -- Manufacturing activity was flat, shipments edged lower. Crops were hurt by prolonged hot and dry weather. Atlanta -- The economy showed modest improvement, led by auto sales and back-to-school purchases. Housing remained strong. St. Louis -- The recovery continued at a slow pace. Factories reported little hiring. Retail and auto sales were higher than a year earlier. Kansas City, Mo. -- Consumer spending and manufacturing both cooled, but home construction remained solid. Dallas -- Many businesses expressed concern that the economy was fragile and that war with Iraq or more terrorist activity could cause it to suffer. San Francisco -- The economy registered moderate growth. Businesses noted solid consumer demand for autos and other big-ticket items. (Source: Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); STATISTICS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (68%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (66%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



343 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: The Wisdom of Imagining The Worst-Case Scenario 

BYLINE:  By Milton Viorst; Milton Viorst is author of the forthcoming "What Shall I Do With This People: Jews and the Fractious Politics of Judaism."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Like most Americans, I've reflected this week on the personal impact of the tragedy of Sept. 11, recalling most vividly the trauma of emptiness I felt in the pit of my stomach as I watched the towers of the World Trade Center vanish from my television screen. The feeling still periodically recurs. In a flash, the inconceivable had become real, the horror of the unbelievable had become part of my and every American's existence.
 During the cold war, the futurists who studied world conflict had devised a clever name for such an event: the "worst-case scenario." Implied in this phrase, however, was the sense that the event was unlikely to happen. Government and policy professionals hypothesized less severe outcomes, dismissing the doomsayers. But on Sept. 11 we all learned that even disasters can be of an unexpected magnitude. Forthrightness now demands that we gird not for some tepid end to our conflicts but for catastrophes hitherto unimaginable. 
 In preparing for a war against Iraq, President Bush urges us to overlook that lesson. Categorizing Saddam Hussein as "evil," he warns that the Iraqis have nuclear, chemical and biological weapons with which to attack us. Mr. Bush's concern is justified, though some responsible statesmen at home and abroad believe he overstates the danger. But in suggesting that our forces will dispose of Saddam Hussein in a war that is quick and painless, like the Persian Gulf war or the war in Afghanistan, the president is clearly choosing not to consider the worst-case scenario at all.
Mr. Bush asserts a new doctrine for America, the right of preemptive attack, to keep Saddam Hussein from using his weapons. Preemption, Mr. Bush tells us, is what the proposed war is all about. But the doctrine does not take Saddam Hussein's own efforts at pre-emption into account; it assumes that he will wait around for America to attack at its convenience.
Surely Saddam Hussein will not repeat the strategic mistake he made after swallowing Kuwait in 1990 when, in choosing not to invade Saudi Arabia, he allowed half a million allied troops to assemble over several months time for invasion. Saudi Arabia is hardly less vulnerable now. By moving into Saudi Arabia, Saddam Hussein would shift the battlefield far to the south, imposing on American forces a much heavier burden than just the capture of Baghdad. We should also recall that in the last war Saddam Hussein blew up almost all of Kuwait's oil wells; in the next he could blow up Saudi Arabian wells, with significant repercussions for the international economy.
That's one scenario. Another is that Saddam Hussein, prior to an American attack, goes after Israel with the chemical or biological weapons that Mr. Bush says Iraq possesses. Israel, if it survives, will retaliate, perhaps even with nuclear weapons. Such retaliation might indeed bring about the "regime change" Mr. Bush seeks, but it would not end the story.
Just over the horizon lies Pakistan, a Muslim country armed with nuclear weapons and permeated by extremists. Pervez Musharraf, its president, has joined America's war on terrorism but he is unlikely to survive politically should there be a nuclear attack by an American ally on Iraq's Muslims. Islamists, overthrowing him, would take control of Pakistan's nuclear arsenal; lacking the ability to launch missiles that would reach Israel, they would turn on India, their more proximate enemy. A nuclear attack would set off global chaos.
Before Sept. 11, I probably would not have written the above lines. I have covered the Middle East conflict as a journalist for several decades, but I would have considered such scenarios fantasy, if not madness. Now they seem to me at least plausible.
The responsibility of America's leadership is to prevent the plausible from becoming reality. The cold war is a useful precedent. Saddam Hussein's power, and perhaps his evil too, pale next to that of Stalin. Yet even when we had clear military superiority over Stalin we chose not to attack him.
All our presidents, Republican and Democratic alike, accepted the principle of avoiding a war that might wreck the planet. Mr. Bush is the first to question this principle, and his resolve is bolstered by Vice President Dick Cheney and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, both of whom close their eyes to the potential ramifications of a war with Iraq.
 I raq, as a highly centralized tyranny dedicated to its own preservation, is not that different from the old Soviet Union, and it is no coincidence that the same deterrence that restrained the Kremlin has kept Iraq in line for a decade. The Soviet Union's ultimate fall with barely a whimper vindicated America's patience, and in time Saddam Hussein too will vanish. Is not Sept. 11 a compelling reminder that the steadfast vigilance exercised by our leaders for a half-century of cold war is wiser than rushing toward a worst-case outcome?

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Design Machine)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); COLD WAR (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DESERT STORM (75%); TERRORISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) VIORST, MILTON; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002 



344 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 2; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Tragedy Kindles Dance of Hope 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER DUNNING 

 BODY:
Eric Underwood was waiting for a dress rehearsal to begin at Purchase College in Westchester County on Sept. 11, 2001, when he heard about the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. He and other members of the Dance Theater of Harlem were preparing for a performance in the Evening Stars series in World Trade Plaza. The troupe piled into the company bus, which got as far as the Macombs Dam Bridge. No vehicle was allowed to enter Manhattan, so the dancers got out of the bus and continued on foot. "All these ballerinas and guys walking across the bridge to Manhattan," Mr. Underwood recalled. He made it home and began trying to reach his parents in Washington.
 Tai Jimenez, who will perform with the Harlem troupe tomorrow afternoon in this year's Evening Stars series in Battery Park in a ballet inspired by that day, heard the news as she drove into Manhattan from Queens for a business appointment. Traffic had come to a stop, as ambulances, police cars and fire trucks sped by. Eventually Ms. Jimenez was able to head south to be with a group of friends she calls her "Brooklyn hang." Together they went on to Fort Greene Park and joined others looking toward Lower Manhattan in an eerie quiet. 
 Arthur Mitchell, director of Dance Theater, was leaving his Manhattan apartment to drive to the company's headquarters, when the building superintendent cried out to him that someone had crashed a plane into the towers. Mr. Mitchell continued uptown, arriving to find that the little office television had gone dead. One phone line was functioning. "So everything was being represented to us by telephone," Mr. Mitchell said. "It brought me back to the 40's, when there was no television, and people huddled by the radio."
Liz Thompson, who directs the Evening Stars series, had just finished an early-morning business breakfast at Windows on the World. She left the elevator at the ground floor, still discussing the subject at hand, and "two sentences later" the first plane hit. She somehow made her way to a basement-level exit, forced not to panic by the hysteria of a pregnant security guard she encountered on the way. Outside, Ms. Thompson looked up and saw fire and falling glass and then the second plane crashing into the south tower. On her way uptown she met a friend who took her home with her. 
Michael Smuin was in his study at home in San Francisco reading through a Schubert score for a new ballet for his company, Smuin Ballets/SF, when an associate called and told him to turn on the television. He did, then left for a rehearsal. Mr. Smuin said he had told his dancers that they could go home if they liked, but that they would feel better if they worked. And they did. 
Out of those varied experiences has come Mr. Smuin's new "Stabat Mater," a dance about loss, memory and hope. The Latin title alludes to the sorrow of Mary as she watched her son dying on the cross. The ballet is set to the first section of Dvorak's Stabat Mater, which was created during a time when three of his children died. 
Mr. Smuin had long loved the music, he said, and he found himself playing it over and over in the days following the attack. Could he shift gears, he asked Carol Buck, the patron who had commissioned the Schubert ballet, and set the piece to Dvorak? Ms. Buck agreed. But the piece would not come. Then suddenly, the day before he was to begin rehearsals, he found the ballet's central image in the televised funeral of a New York fireman. 
"It was so symmetrical," Mr. Smuin recalled. "They had the casket in the center, and there was a couple at each corner. The men were standing behind their women. The widow and her children were at the top of the casket. And at one point this woman, downstage right as it were, lifted her head and fainted smack backwards, and the guy caught her at the last moment, before she hit the ground. And that was it. From then on I just sort of stepped back and kept out of the way because the damned ballet practically choreographed itself. I just let the music dictate what it was." All that he was sure of, he said, was that the ballet could not be danced in toe shoes. The piece needed to be earthy, not aerial. 
Mr. Mitchell had heard about "the 9/11 ballet" as people called it to Mr. Smuin's dismay. He watched a videotape of Mr. Smuin's company performing the piece last spring and knew he had to have it for Dance Theater and for the Evening Stars performance, which takes place a year to the day after the company was to dance in the series. Mr. Smuin, who has worked with the Harlem troupe on several projects, gave the dance to the company as a gift. And like all the Evening Stars roster, Dance Theater is performing free.
Mr. Mitchell recalled thinking, "Oh, yes," as he watched his dancers rehearsing "Stabat Mater." "It's the kind of piece that I would love to do in a cathedral with an orchestra and chorus," he said. "But it's so real, because it looks like people. Not a ballet-ballet." 
"Stabat Mater" is also not a "ballet-ballet" to Ms. Jimenez and Mr. Underwood, who play a woman and the ghost of someone she has loved. "The difference for me is that I don't feel like I'm giving a performance," Mr. Underwood said. "It's an interactive thing, because of the circumstances. I'm just a part of what is taking place."
Ms. Jimenez said she felt a particularly strong emotional connection to the piece. "I think people will be watching with a different kind of investment," she said, adding that she always made up a story for herself when she danced a role. In "Stabat Mater" Ms. Jimenez finds herself thinking of all that has been left unresolved with the beloved that she has lost. "This is the part where I feel I'm going to lose it," Ms. Jimenez said ruefully of tomorrow's performance. "Even when he comes back, I feel that her grief is so great that she wants to go with him, but she can't." 
There are four other couples in the ballet. "To me they symbolize members of the community coming together and, in my own personal story, my 'Brooklyn hang,' " Ms. Jimenez said. "There is one moment when the woman is sitting on the floor, and they're dancing around her. I look at them. That's Qasim. That's my friend Vipal. And Shahzad. And Petre. And Jyoti. And Swati and Michael and Laurie.
"We were all together on Sept. 11. And I also think of the community of dancers, who I love very much because they're my family, too. I think if one of us was gone, how we'd all come together." 
Mr. Underwood sees his immediate family in the dancers with whom he is to share the stage. He said he remembered "talking with my mother on Sept. 11, having her be so panicked that maybe I wasn't here."
Dancing the returning spirit in "Stabat Mater" is "like I'm looking in on the what-if," he said. "I dance for my family, and tell them that it's O.K. I tell them that I'm still here. Although I'm not here physically, I'm still here, with them." 
He also thinks of those lost on Sept. 11. "I feel like I could just go in and have some kind of out-of-body experience, for all those people that were missing," Mr. Underwood said. "Dance for them, and their families, as if I were that person missing." 
By February Ms. Thompson was back to planning this year's Evening Stars series and finding a location. "I thought it was really important, not only for me but as an expression of the resiliency of our city," she said. At first she operated on blind hope, given the difficulty of raising money in the city's post-Sept. 11 economy. But support began to flow in. 
"One of the first things I said," Ms. Thompson recalled, "was that performances of wonderful music and dance would be an 'alive' memorial." 

One Year Later
Dance Theater of Harlem will perform in the free Evening Stars festival of music and dance in Battery Park tomorrow at 4 p.m. in a program that includes Michael Smuin's "Stabat Mater," Geoffrey Holder's "Dougla" and "South African Suite," a ballet choreographed by Arthur Mitchell, Augustus van Heerden and Laveen Naidu.
Also performing in the series, at 7 p.m., are the Garth Fagan Dance Company (tonight), Parsons Dance Company (Tuesday), Trisha Brown Dance Company (Wednesday), the Kronos Quartet with Tony MacMahon on accordion (Thursday) and the Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company (next Friday.)
All performances are at Battery Park. Information: (212) 219-9401, Ext. 300, or www.lmcc.net.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of Dance Theater of Harlem rehearsing "Stabat Mater," which will be performed tomorrow. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. E1); Eric Underwood and Tai Jimenez of the Dance Theater of Harlem rehearse "Stabat Mater." (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); DANCERS (90%); BALLET (90%); TERRORISM (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); HIJACKING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (69%); AIRLINES (64%); THEATER (58%) DANCING; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER; SMUIN, MICHAEL; MITCHELL, ARTHUR; JIMENEZ, TAI; UNDERWOOD, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



345 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: AT THE MOVIES 

BYLINE:  By Dave Kehr 

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
Finding Magic Close to Home
 The Australian director Phillip Noyce has two very-well-received films here at the Toronto International Film Festival, both made outside of the Hollywood studio system that has been his home base for the last decade ("Patriot Games," "Clear and Present Danger") and both dealing with the moral quandaries of colonialism. 
 "Rabbit-Proof Fence" is based on the true story of three Aboriginal girls who, in 1931, escaped from a government re-education camp and walked back to their families 1,500 miles away. "The Quiet American" is an adaptation of the Graham Greene novel about a British journalist (Michael Caine) and his uneasy friendship with an idealistic O.S.S. agent (Brendan Fraser) in the Vietnam of the early 1950's.
"I grew up in Australia at a time, in the 1950's and 60's, when there was no Australian cinema," Mr. Noyce recalled, his 6-foot-4 frame folded into a rickety hotel room chair. "We were a colony of two masters, Britain historically and America economically and militarily." 
"But Hollywood is the most efficient colonizer the world has ever known," he said. "It controls both hearts and minds. It's convinced Eskimos sitting in their igloos that its version of experience is more valid to them than their own daily lives."
After Mr. Noyce made the successful thriller "Dead Calm" in 1989, he was invited to Hollywood. "I felt like the kid in the candy store," he said. "I settled down at Paramount and made 5 films in 10 years. I became a studio director, and I lived that dream in all its madness and all its glory. But after a while, I began to feel I was out of touch with Australia, and yet I clearly was not an American." When "The Sum of All Fears," which was to be the third of Mr. Noyce's adaptations of Tom Clancy thrillers starring Harrison Ford, fell apart because of Mr. Ford's reluctance to commit to the script, Mr. Noyce had had enough. "I had become a waiter," he said, "waiting on a star." 
Mr. Noyce remembered a story, "Rabbit-Proof Fence," that had intrigued him. "There I was," he said, "working on manipulating this overblown Hollywood product, trying to make the central character strong, give him more empathy for the audience, make his triumph at the end greater -- all the things I realized every morning were already there in this little story of three little children."
So Mr. Noyce returned to Australia to make "Rabbit-Proof Fence," and then went to Vietnam to film "The Quiet American," a longtime project of his that, after being rejected by Paramount, had finally come together as an independent production. (A version starring Michael Redgrave, was brought to the screen by Joseph L. Mankiewicz in 1957.)
"After we completed our rough cut and started screening it last year, we found that after 9/11 some of the aspects of the movie were a little bit hard for audiences to handle," Mr. Noyce said, referring to the terrorist incident that occurs at the film's climax. "We began to wonder if the film had arrived at the wrong moment in time. We're here in Toronto screening the film, putting our finger up and testing the wind to see if the wound is still as raw as it was. It was made about events in the early 50's, but suddenly some of the themes Graham Greene was investigating, his portrait of a young American political evangelist, have perhaps even more relevance today than they had then. In the short term, it's produced a certain nervousness. But maybe in the long term it means that, instead of the film being about ancient history, its about modern history."

Quagmire City
Terry Gilliam, the visionary director of "Brazil" and "The Fisher King," found himself in Toronto not as a filmmaker but as a film's subject. "Lost in La Mancha," directed by Keith Fulton and Louis Pepe, tells of Mr. Gilliam's stubborn, but ultimately futile attempt to film an adaptation of "Don Quixote" starring Johnny Depp and the French actor Jean Rochefort.
The film veers from black comedy to absurdist tragedy, with Mr. Gilliam as an unfailingly good-humored Job, to whom everything that can go wrong does go wrong. The project finally shut down after storms destroyed a set, Mr. Rochefort became ill and the insurance company seized the props and costumes. But for Mr. Gilliam, "The Man Who Killed Don Quixote," as his film was titled, is not over yet.
"We're negotiating right now with the insurance company at long last, talking real numbers," Mr. Gilliam reported. "They want it off their hands. I was told that they were also heavily into insuring the World Trade Center. So it's been a learning experience for them."
"But the props have all been sold and dispersed," he added. "So we'll just have to go back to prop shop and build them all over again. We were making a lot of stuff that was just beautiful, and now it's gone."
Mr. Gilliam dismissed the idea that the lost material could be recreated through digital effects. "Digital is fantastic, but it's got to be used very carefully," he said. "Otherwise, you end up with the last 'Star Wars' -- the first film I've seen that's all background and no foreground. None of it feels real or magical."
But Johnny Depp remains committed to the project, and Mr. Gilliam hopes he may be shooting again as early as October -- weather and windmills permitting.

George Loves Alfred
"Children of the Century," Diane Kurys's French feature about the famously tumultuous love affair between George Sand (played by Juliette Binoche) and Alfred de Musset (Benoit Magimel), had its North American premiere here two years ago. It is opening today in Manhattan (review, Page 16) in a new cut prepared by Ms. Kurys.
"I cut quite a few things at the start, and tightened things up," Ms. Kurys said by phone from her home in Paris, "so now it concentrates more completely on their love story and less on who they were before they met. I also shortened the ending, but the American distributor wanted me to keep the original. I like this version better than the French one. It gets more quickly to the essentials."
"They were quite exceptional people," Ms. Kurys said of her characters, "and I thought they deserved at least one film, which they haven't had up until now. There have been attempts to film George Sand's love affair with Chopin, but nothing about her romance with Alfred de Musset. But with Musset she was much younger and more passionate." 
Ms. Kurys drew much of the material of the film from her characters' books. "When two writers fall in love," she said, "they start to write. Their love nourished their work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Terry Gilliam, on location in Spain while making "Lost in La Mancha." (IFC Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); WRITERS (76%); FAMILY (75%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: HARRISON FORD (58%) NOYCE, PHILLIP; GILLIAM, TERRY; KURY, DIANE; KEHR, DAVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%) ONTARIO, CANADA (88%) AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (88%); SPAIN (72%)

TITLE: RABBIT-PROOF FENCE (MOVIE); LOST IN LA MANCHA (MOVIE); CHILDREN OF THE CENTURY (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



346 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 5; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Family Tensions and Joy, Played but Not Spoken

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
At least by today's accelerated standards, the video artist Alix Pearlstein has taken her time maturing. Having exhibited in New York since 1988, she began as a sculptor, took up video in 1992, and has seven solo shows to her credit. But her work, while coherent, distinctive and entertaining, has usually left me waiting for more, and better. The centerpiece of her solo No. 8, Ms. Pearlstein's first show at Artemis Greenberg Van Doren Gallery, delivers just that: more, and better.
 "Episode," a 10-minute video installation using two wall projections, focuses on some of the basic tensions and joys of family life. Ms. Pearlstein's most ambitious and accomplished work to date, it treats human interaction with a resonance, subtlety and emotional depth that previously didn't seem a part of her game plan. Its opposing projections, filling the short walls of a longish gallery, activate real space, and the viewer within it, with post-minimalist flair. 
 Although the installation makes good on many elements that have long been part of Ms. Pearlstein's approach, it was never clear that she was even headed in the general direction of "Episode." Since turning from sculpture to video, this artist has brought something of a miniaturist's perfectionism to the early-1970's home-alone, me-and-my-Camcorder tradition associated with video pioneers like William Wegman, Bruce Nauman and Joan Jonas.
Working in front of seamless white paper that adds crisp outlines and a commercial-art note, Ms. Pearlstein extended this tradition with a distinctive combination of finish and casualness. She was aided by an innate understanding of video's implicit quirks, protocols, intimacy and illusionistic possibilities.
Ms. Pearlstein either starred in those videos -- maintaining her poise whether mimicking an Ingres odalisque or wearing a bunny suit -- or directed friends, performance artists and professional actors with the firm discreetness of a puppeteer. When her props exceeded what she had around the house or could make, she turned to magazines, cutting out pictures of street signs, dogs and even people, and working them into the tape, adding an endearing suggestion of collage.
The results were often wry greeting-card moments of emotional connection between people, torqued by visual puns, word-play pantomime, art references and perfectly timed sound effects. They had a familial sweetness and an urbane sense of economy, but they were often not quite funny enough -- more "Sesame Street" than New Yorker cartoon.
Until recently, all this suggested a very smart creative director, alert to the latest art tics, playing around in a magazine's photo studio on a Saturday. Or perhaps a hyper-organized gardener cultivating a small plot of land -- bonsai video.
In the last two years, it seems, something began to change. Ms. Pearlstein's people started appearing naked, interacting with the collaged images of other naked people; her camera assumed a state of constant motion and inconstant focus, becoming a kind of participant in the action, as has happened in current sitcoms. Her recent videos, even shorter than usual, had a dreamlike wooziness, not exactly charged but inflected with sexual longing.
"Episode" taps into those feelings -- in diffused and complicated form -- as the basic undercurrent of family life, powering the interactions of an average family's requisite four members, all superbly played by adult actors who run around barefoot in their at-home clothes. David Mazzeo plays the father, Catherine Curtin the mother. Emily Unterweger plays the daughter. As the son, James Urbaniak, who has worked with Ms. Pearlstein before, adds a scrawniness and rubbery face worthy of George Booth.
"Episode" consists of many short episodes and interactions. It's like a little play about family life, only pantomimed, with the cast's actions and feelings intermittently amplified or exaggerated by sound effects. Loose-limbed, sometimes to the point of seeming like rag dolls, the family members rush about with an improvisational energy, careering off camera and back on, making contact, pulling back, showing tenderness or rage. Life moves fast, and so does the camera, following them, coming close, then moving away, often at similarly careering tilts and angles.
Walking into the gallery can feel like stepping into someone's dance piece or into one of Richard Bellingham's photographs of his dysfunctional family, here scrubbed clean and brought to life. The double images, which you can't see simultaneously, are disorienting and continue a long tradition of split-vision video art and sculpture, dating back at least to Richard Serra's early work.
The device is especially important in video right now because it is one way moving images can physically involve the viewer, and this involvement is the main characteristic that separates video from the movies, and galleries containing video artworks from movie theaters.
Ms. Pearlstein's version is especially acrobatic. Her actors tumble about continuously, pursued by the camera, which is in the expert hands of the artist and Amy Epstein. In particular, she makes the viewer an extension of the camera, which is already functioning like a nosy neighbor, a referee or an extra relative in the unfolding events.
One quibble is that the interactions are a little too predictable: the father's excessive attention to the daughter, the mother's attempt to keep up with her son's taste in music, the kids' fighting and teasing and sometimes violent outbursts, the parents' little dance of antagonism and attraction. But there are moments of real tension, as when the father circles the three others in a classic display of paternal fury and then juts his face into the camera's lens. And there are comedic interludes, as when the son mimics his father preening ever so slightly before the mirror.
Admittedly, this family is exceptionally average -- straight, white and given to gender stereotype -- but the relationships and constantly shifting balances of power are beyond familiar. They are in our bones; just fill in the appropriate names and faces.
Ms. Pearlstein is also operating with her usual economy and precision, simply asking us, as before, to watch what her characters are doing. What they are doing is communicating extremely complicated situations without uttering a word, although the sound effects, sharp as ever, help. It is impressive to watch them achieve this with so little apparent effort, just as it is meaningful to grasp the finer nuances of feeling that emerge with repeated viewing.
Once you figure out that the two projections are not quite identical, and that Ms. Pearlstein hasn't wasted a second, a gesture or a glance, you may find yourself turning your head back and forth in rapid tennis-match style, or rotating in space to make sure you're not missing any bit of them. While the action remains pretty much the same on both walls, the details of expression and gesture don't.
As in life itself, the feelings keep changing, amplifying and elaborating on one another, weaving the ever-present web that is, in the words of the British psychoanalyst D. W. Winnicott, where we start from.

"Alix Pearlstein: Episode" remains at the Artemis Greenberg Van Doren Gallery, 730 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 445-0444, through Oct. 5.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A detail from a video frame of Alix Pearlstein's 10-minute "Episode." (Alix Pearlstein/Artemis Greenberg Van Doren Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); FILM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); FAMILY (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (73%) ART; REVIEWS

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA; PEARLSTEIN, ALIX 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



347 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1963 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
In Alabama, Battling the Ghost Of a Golf Legend

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL ONEAL 

 BODY:
TUCKED around a corner -- near the bathroom of all places -- in the spacious, wood-beamed clubhouse of the Capitol Hill golf complex near Montgomery, Ala., hangs a large photograph of Robert Trent Jones Sr., America's pre-eminent golf-course architect, who died two years ago at 93.
 He's standing on the fairway of one of the signature holes along the Robert Trent Jones Golf Trail in Alabama. But if you didn't know better, you'd assume he had just emerged from a pub in the Scottish Highlands, far from the swampy heat of the American Deep South. His thick tweed jacket covers a rumpled cardigan. His compact frame leans heavily on a craggy blackthorn cane. Droopy eyes twinkle above a crooked half smile. The knot on his tie is slightly askew. 
In all, he looks like someone's kindly old uncle. So why was I gripped by a sudden urge to leap through the picture glass and throttle him? 
The answer lies somewhere between my eighth or ninth shot (who was counting at that point?) on that very same hole two days earlier. But before I go into that, let me say that I now understand why even the pros talk about Mr. Jones in the peculiar way they do. Legends from Ben Hogan to Jack Nicklaus have complained loudly about his designs. And after struggling mightily on Mr. Jones's menacing Spyglass Hill course in Pebble Beach, Calif., Lee Trevino once said: "They just ought to hang the man who designed this course. Ray Charles could have done better."
"Golfers complain a lot," Mr. Jones told Sports Illustrated in 1993 when asked about Mr. Trevino's remark. Count me among them. 
My golf buddy Brent Rumage and I -- high handicappers both -- went to Alabama looking for what is beginning to make the Robert Trent Jones Golf Trail, which includes Capitol Hill, famous: some of the best public golf you'll find anywhere in the world. Over a long -- very long -- weekend we visited four of the trail's eight multicourse golf complexes and played 126 of its 378 wrenching holes. 
We drove from Birmingham to Opelika to Montgomery to Mobile hoping to soak up some of the Old South along the way. That, unfortunately, proved to be elusive. While Southern charm and friendliness are abundant in Alabama, (so abundant it made a couple of New Yorkers a little nervous at first), suburban sprawl has much of the state in its clutches. The hotels offered in our golf package invariably dropped us in the middle of vast, neon-encrusted grids of Waffle Houses and Shoney's. They looked eerily the same from city to city and, for that matter, not much different than the strip malls outside of Cleveland or Pittsburgh. 
The golf courses, however, were exquisite and exquisitely difficult. I'd like to say we played them respectably, but I'd surely be lying. How can I put this delicately? After burning through all the golf balls we came with, we managed to lay waste to a bag of 48 used balls we bought out of desperation at the Wal-Mart in Auburn.
"These golf courses make you a better golfer," said Michael Barber, the assistant pro at the Grand National complex in Opelika. I'm still clinging to that.
Mr. Jones called the trail his last great masterpiece. He came out of retirement to design the courses in the early 1990's, commissioned by the quixotic, but powerful, Dr. David G. Bronner, the chief executive of the Retirement Systems of Alabama, the state's big public employees' pension fund.
Amid a storm of controversy, Dr. Bronner (as everybody calls him; he has a Ph.D. in higher education and administration) spent $145 million in public retirement funds to build 21 courses at eight sites stretching from the Appalachians in the north to the Gulf of Mexico in the south. His reasoning: "The stronger the Retirement Systems of Alabama can make Alabama, the stronger the retirement systems will be." 
If strengthening Alabama with public golf courses seems an odd tactic -- especially for a pension fund manager -- it's hard to find fault with the results so far. Having pulled in a profit of just $6 million last year, the golf courses themselves are only marginally profitable for the $25 billion retirement system. But they serve as the centerpiece of a roundly successful effort to bolster tourism and attract industry to Alabama over the last decade. They've even spawned state-financed imitators in Tennessee and Louisiana. Besides, Dr. Bronner said, they've done a "lot better than the stock market recently." 
They're also part of an increasingly conspicuous struggle to help the state live down its segregationist past. The painful trial of Bobby Frank Cherry, who was convicted last May in the 1963 bombing of a church in Birmingham, still stings in Alabama. But the first thing you see when heading for your bags in the Birmingham airport is a sign for the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute.
In Montgomery, where an Interstate named after Martin Luther King Jr. intersects with the Hank Williams "Lost Highway," the Rosa Parks Library and Museum opened with great fanfare in December 2000. Tourism related to the civil rights movement "has become part of the economy," said Jack E. Davis, a historian and civil rights specialist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham.
The golf trail addresses the race issue more pragmatically. Don't forget that only about a decade ago a national furor ignited when the Professional Golfers Association of America planned to hold the P.G.A. Championship at the all-white Shoal Creek Country Club near Birmingham. Protests by civil rights groups forced Shoal Creek to admit a black member and the P.G.A. to change how it chooses courses. These days at the trail's Oxmoor Valley complex across town, blacks and whites play golf alongside each other on courses that rival the best private country clubs. In the prime spring season, the most expensive round of golf on the trail is around $65 -- a pittance compared with greens fees that are more than double that at many comparable courses. In fact, the only thing exclusive about the golf trail is the tiny group of players who are consistently able to score par. 
That said, it occurred to me in my darker moments that opening up a Robert Trent Jones course to the public is really just equal-opportunity masochism. Unlike, say, a Tom Fazio course, or even one designed by Robert Trent Jones's son, Bobby Jones, these layouts are unforgiving in all respects. The elder Mr. Jones liked to challenge golfers to hit "heroic" shots, those that call for mastery, not chance. He often said that nobody remembers the easy courses. Consequently, his fairways are gorgeous but as narrow as a school hallway. His landings are precise and far away. His rough is long and as sticky as Velcro. His greens, as the younger Mr. Jones once quipped, are like "aircraft carriers on which to land the ball, surrounded by a sea of trouble." 
AND that gets me back to that photo of Mr. Jones Sr. hanging on the clubhouse wall. 
After flying into Birmingham our first night and savoring the delights of Jim 'N Nick's Bar-B-Q (pronounced Jimmynicks in Alabama), we began our tour at Oxmoor Valley southwest of town. "Hit 'em straight and hit 'em long, but don't hit too many of 'em," the starter drawled as we approached the first tee. We chuckled with him, blissfully ignorant of what lurked ahead. 
We played the Valley course in the morning and the Ridge course in the afternoon, and by the time we reached the 12th on the Ridge, I was tired but playing reasonably well. The 12th is one of Oxmoor's most beautiful holes and the setting for that photo of Mr. Jones. It's an impossibly long, up-and-down par 5 that demands a towering second shot over a creek followed by an equally powerful long iron to a pedestal green perched high on a cliff of exposed shale. Let's just say I managed none of that. 
Instead, I hit a short drive, dubbed my second shot and rolled my third into the creek, dropping for my first penalty. Pulling myself together, I uncorked a beauty to within a few feet of the hole -- only to find it buried in the deep, clinging 419 Bermuda rough that lay behind the green. Chopping at it with my wedge, I sent it whizzing dangerously past my partner and back down the cliff. This I followed with two unfortunate hacks against the shale and another shank into more of the 419. Walking to the cart, I tried to shake it all off, but the searing knowledge that my once-promising score lay in ruins had already begun to unhinge me. My next drive, naturally, plopped into the gorse and for a brief moment I was reduced to a sputtering, blathering idiot.
Episodes like this recurred more often than I would like to say as we traveled to courses near Montgomery, Opelika and Mobile the next few days. We tried to play two different courses a day and might have thought ourselves obsessive if not for the countless other pilgrims we encountered.
We did find some pleasant distractions, like a visit to Dr. King's old neighborhood in Montgomery, which looks not too different from the old newsreels), and a late-night saunter through Mobile's haunting old Dauphin Street district, where the heavy air, seedy bars and second-story balconies recall a mellower version of the French Quarter of New Orleans. But the weekend was really about golf and its uncanny ability to rouse our inner demons. 
Perhaps the game's greatest mystery is why this counts as fun. Well, I didn't tell you about the one or two birdies I managed to steal from Mr. Jones or those fleeting moments when the ball dropped safely on the emerald fairway and proudly reflected the slanting evening sun from a spot more than 200 yards in the distance. 
At those times -- rare as they were -- all was right with the world. I could even manage to laugh at the tale about Mr. Jones involving his remodeling of the Lower Course at the Baltusrol Golf Club in New Jersey. Members complained that Mr. Jones had made the par 3 fourth hole, which stretches over a pond, too difficult by lengthening it and creating a two-tier green. So the architect deigned to play it with two members and the club pro. Each player hit before Mr. Jones stepped to the members tee and nailed a four-iron to the green for a hole-in-one. "Gentlemen," he said, "the hole is eminently fair." 
Maybe so, but I'd still like a shot at him.

IF YOU GO
Across Alabama, 378 Wrenching Holes
THERE are eight golf complexes and 378 holes along the Robert Trent Jones Golf Trail. Difficulty varies widely by course, but most have a shorter, easier par 3 layout that is still interesting to play. High season (higher fees, but lower temperatures) comes in March, April and May. The fees listed don't include a cart, which is $15 a round. The trail books golf packages, hotels and tee times more than seven days in advance at (800) 949-4444 or at www.rtjgolf.com.

Hampton Cove
Huntsville, (256) 551-1818
54 HOLES: Two 18-hole courses, 18-hole par 3
FEES: $35-$45, $15 for par 3
TOP 18: Highlands

Silver Lakes
Anniston/Gadsden, (256) 892-3268
36 HOLES: Three 9-hole courses, 9-hole par 3
FEES: $35-$57, $7.70 for par 3
TOP 18: Heartbreaker/Backbreaker

Oxmoor Valley
Birmingham, (205) 942-1177
54 HOLES: Two 18-hole courses, 18-hole par 3
FEES: $35-$57, $15 for par 3
TOP 18: Ridge

Grand National
Auburn/Opelika, (334) 749-9042
54 HOLES: Two 18-hole courses, 18-hole par 3
FEES: $35-$57, $15 for par 3
TOP 18: Links

Capitol Hill
Prattville/Montgomery, (334) 285-1114
54 HOLES: Three 18-hole courses
FEES: $35-$65
TOP 18: The Judge

Cambrian Ridge
Greenville, (334) 382-9787
36 HOLES: Three 9-hole courses, 9-hole par 3
FEES: $35-$57, $7.70 for par 3
TOP 18: Sherling/Canyon

Highland Oaks
Dothan, (334) 712-2820
36 HOLES: Three 9-hole courses, 9-hole par 3
FEES: $35-$45, $7.70 for par 3
TOP 18: Highlands/Magnolia

Magnolia Grove
Mobile, (251) 645-0075
54 HOLES: Two 18-hole courses, 18-hole par 3
FEES: $35-$57, $15 for par 3
TOP 18: Falls

GRAPHIC: Photos: HISTORIC LINKS -- The Capitol Hill course in Prattville, Ala., is one of eight stops on the Robert Trent Jones Heritage Trail, the famed architect's final gift to golfers. Some who play the courses wish he hadn't been so generous. (Steve Uzzell)(pg. F1); LEGACY -- A portrait of Robert Trent Jones Sr. hangs in the clubhouse at Capitol Hill, above. David Bronner, left, persuaded the famed golf architect to come out of retirement to design the public courses that would make up Alabama's Robert Trent Jones Heritage Trail, below. (Jamie Martin for The New York Times); (Associated Press)(pg. F2) Map of Alabama highlighting golf complexes. (pg. F2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); ATHLETES (78%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (78%); TOUR PACKAGES (60%); SUBURBS (60%); RETAILERS (50%) GOLF; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: ONEAL, MICHAEL; JONES, ROBERT TRENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (93%); MOBILE, AL, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (65%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (58%) ALABAMA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (97%); SCOTLAND (79%) ALABAMA; HUNTSVILLE (ALA); MOBILE (ALA)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



348 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
A Long and Winding Road To the Perfect Clunker

BYLINE:  By SARA IVRY 

 BODY:
ONE day, one grand, one car. That was the challenge. Is it still possible, in 2002, to buy a car for $1,000?
 "You're dreaming," was the answer Tom Magliozzi, the co-host of "Car Talk" on National Public Radio, had to this question. "Everybody has a story about some old clunker that just runs and runs but looks like hell. This is mostly a fairy tale involving frogs and princes and ugly ducklings." 
 He wasn't finished. "You'll find cars that are maybe as old as 15 years," he wrote me in an e-mail message. "Is there a gem among them? Maybe. Can you find it? Maybe, if you want to make it your life's work." 
Bill Hower, the owner of Jim's Garage in Canaan, Conn., explained the economics. Back when the average new car cost $10,000, he said, picking up a $1,000 used car was "a real doable thing." But that was 10 years ago. "Now the average new car costs $20,000," Mr. Hower said. So $1,000 is a mere 5 percent of the original cost, not enough to buy much.
But I set out anyway, in a borrowed Volvo, on a road trip in rural New York and Connecticut (everything is cheaper in the country, right?) to look for a $1,000 car. The question was, "Can it be done?"
My first stop was McLean Ford-Mercury in Millerton, N.Y., near the Connecticut border, about 90 miles from Manhattan. A 1998 Mercury Sable, at $7,500, was among the cheapest cars on the lot. Its leather interior and sunroof were seductive, but the test drive was like trying on a pair of Prada shoes you know you'll never buy.
A salesman made a strong pitch for financing and monthly payments, but there was nothing here for $1,000.
Next was Amenia Motors in Amenia, N.Y. Chrysler PT Cruisers beckoned in front; the cheaper cars were parked in back. A 1990 Ford Escort, at $1,495, was at least close to the right price.
"George Bell brought it in on Friday, traded it in for a Neon," Dan Simmons, the sales manager, told me. "You know George Bell?"
I don't, but I tried out his old car, a four-door hatchback with a red interior. Going uphill, the car never ceased shuddering. On the way down, its brakes resisted doing their job. The air-conditioning was not working, making the snug car feel like the inside of a toaster oven.
Dealers may offer warranties on their newest used cars, a vital consideration. But since major parts tend to break down on older cars -- new brakes can cost $1,000, and transmission repairs, $4,000 -- there's not much margin left for a warranty on a $1,000 car. 
Mr. Hower had counseled that my best bet would be a car being sold by its owner, and my road trip was bearing this out.
I bought some local weekly papers and checked the classified ads. There was a 1988 Toyota for $1,200 -- still too much. A 1991 Nissan at $700 had to be a disaster, and my assignment allowed me $300 more.
A 1990 Subaru for $600 was even more unlikely, but I called the number in the ad anyway. The engine habitually shut off in middrive, the owner told me. This sounded like an honest admission, and disclosure is a big issue in the search for a cheap car.
On Route 44 just inside Connecticut, a man was hawking a 1984 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme by the side of the road. He insisted he would be happy to have a mechanic check it out as a condition of sale. The catch was that the mechanic would have to make an on-site visit, which meant it would be impossible to examine the tires and chassis properly.
I noticed some rust on the rear tire rim. Rust is a peril, Hank Schieb, a mechanic in Winsted, Conn., had told me. He had a list of things to check in a car search: leaks of any kind, the condition of the tires, obvious body work, rust underneath the car or on the frame, any unusual noises, and smoke from the tailpipe.
Deeper into Connecticut, a ramshackle garage in East Canaan offered a musty 1992 Dodge Spirit for $1,500. It had scratched paint, a plush crimson interior and 123,000 miles on the odometer. It shivered deeply when I started the engine.
After this experience, Alfas Unlimited, a shop that specializes in Alfa Romeos in Norfolk, Conn., was too inviting to pass by. Maybe somebody needed to get rid of an Alfa fast. Not so, but the cars were lovely to look at. A repairman told me that the blood-red 1964 Giulia Super sedan parked in front, with a mere 25,000 miles on it, had cost the owner $6,000 plus the price of a ticket to France, where he bought it.
At the Auto Center, a dealership on Main Street in Winsted, I found a 1986 Toyota Corolla for $2,000. It seemed like a good bet for someone whose budget was plumper. Aside from Victor (he wouldn't give his last name), a mechanic at Troy's Garage in Adams, Mass., who had urged me to consider the Chrysler K-car, everyone I consulted before setting out on my search had recommended Japanese cars, particularly Toyotas and Hondas, no matter their age. 
What about shopping on the Internet? Cars for $1,000 or less are posted on Web sites like carfax.com and autotrader.com, both of which allow for searches by make, price range and location. If you have the time and patience, this is an option. But buying a used car through the Internet is not like picking up a chipped Hummel figurine on eBay. You still have to go and look, meet the owner, drive the car and have a mechanic check it.
In the end, luck smiled on me back where I started, in Millerton. Lots of Volvos -- an appealing sight -- were basking on the lot at Basil's, an independent dealer. They all turned out to be well over $1,000, but in the waiting room at Basil's sat Jay Lichtman from nearby Wassaic, N.Y. He began to talk about the 1986 Buick Skylark with 98,000 miles that he planned to sell by the end of this year for $1,000, exactly what he paid for it last November.
The Skylark is a granny car, he told me. "Old people drive it." That means retirees and no daily commuting, always a plus for keeping a car pristine.
Mr. Lichtman and I drove 20 minutes to his house. The Skylark was green, with the original fabric headliner now stapled up to keep it from falling on passengers' heads.
The car started smoothly and glided down the driveway. The power steering was effortless, and moving the wheel seemed to require little more than the twitch of a finger. The brakes squeaked, but only slightly. The previous owner, Mr. Lichtman said, had changed the oil every 1,000 miles, and he had passed along the receipts to prove it.
It had been a full day, but there it was. Come December, when Mr. Lichtman is really ready to sell, someone is going to get a good deal on a $1,000 car.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (PJ Loughran) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; USED CARS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (58%)

PERSON: IVRY, SARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



349 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
On East Side, New Option for Elderly

BYLINE:  By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
When it is completed next month, Carnegie East House, a 19-story subsidized assisted-living residence on Second Avenue between 95th and 96th Streets, will represent a tale of perseverance in the face of bureaucratic roadblocks and rising costs.
 In 1987, Friedhilde Milburn, president of Health Advocates for Older People, sponsor of the project, began talking about putting up an assisted-living residence "where people could live out their last years with the support services they needed without having to be declared patients." 
 But planning and fund-raising did not begin in earnest until the mid-1990's and construction, by the Gotham Construction Company, until March 2001. The first tenants are expected in December. 
"Our mission is to let people age in place, and we intend to keep people unless they need high-tech or life-sustaining medical care or are so demented they disturb the peace of the house," Mrs. Milburn said. "If they are just old and feeble we will bring services in." 
"We experienced major delays because there is no easy funding stream for assisted living in New York State," she explained. "I had to marry tax-exempt bond financing from the New York State Housing Finance Agency with mortgage insurance from the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development." After three years, she said, she found the Housing Finance Agency moving so slowly on the mortgage that she switched the application for funds to the city's Housing Development Corporation.
The mortgage was $30 million and HUD required the Housing Development Fund Company, the sponsor's development arm, to come up with $4.5 million, which it raised by offering organizations, foundations, religious institutions and individual donors sponsorships of apartments. 
Mrs. Milburn also established an endowment for which $2 million of a projected $3.5 million has been raised. It will be used to subsidize tenants who run out of money. 
Because the mortgage came from tax-exempt city bonds, 20 percent of the building's 104 apartments are reserved for people with incomes below $39,000 a year. More than 300 applications have been submitted for the 12 subsidized studios, which will rent for $1,905 a month, and the one-bedroom apartments, for $2,041. Candidates will be chosen through a lottery. Mrs. Milburn said that the rent at Carnegie East House will include three meals a day, recreation and social work. 
The market-rate rents at Carnegie House East, which was designed by Perkins Eastman Architects, are set at $3,900 to $4,200 for studios, $4,900 to $5,100 for one bedrooms and $6,150 to $7,900 for two bedrooms. All apartments have kitchenettes and 55-square-foot bathrooms with walk-in showers. Sixteen of the 83 market-rate apartments have been rented. 
Communal amenities will include solariums, a spa with whirlpool bath and laundry rooms on each floor, a garden, patio and space for crafts, computers and movies and a dining room for private parties. 
Mrs. Milburn estimated that tenants paying the market rate would need annual incomes of $50,000 to $100,000. She said, "If you look at the demographics of the Upper East Side, I do think there are enough people who can afford market rate." 
She said she would have preferred to put up something smaller and to put it on the same block as James Lenox house, a Mitchell Lama building on East 73rd Street between Park and Lexington Avenues for people over 55, where she is executive director. (With the rent for a one-bedroom unit there at $935 a month, there is a wait of 6 to 10 years.) 
"But economies of scale don't really permit you do to 20 to 40 beds in Manhattan," she said, "and because of zoning you can't do large buildings on mid-blocks on the East Side." 
Calling the project "a vertical village," she said she believed it would succeed where others had faltered. "One reason assisted living has run into problems is because they are put up in tranquil settings," she said. "But people don't want cows and green. They want the vibrations of the city and to stay with the few friends and neighbors they have left." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A studio apartment, above, at Carnegie East House, an assisted-living building whose director is Friedhilde Milburn, left. Twenty percent of the building's 104 apartments will be reserved for people with incomes below $39,000 a year. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); AGING (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); BONDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (70%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (65%); CITIES (65%); RELIGION (50%) HOUSING; RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES AND ASSISTED LIVING; AGED 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%)

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE; MILBURN, FRIEDHILDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



350 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia's Forests Go Under the Ax for Flooring 

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: PEKANBARU, Indonesia 

 BODY:
On a verdant two-acre plot, where space has hastily been cleared for a few simple buildings, three heavy-duty band saws whine 24 hours a day, slicing huge logs into boards of varying lengths and widths. 
 Down the road another sawmill, with eight band saws and more than 200 workers, also cuts up logs 24 hours a day. The owners said they cannot keep up with the demand, a claim that's easily believed -- along a four-mile stretch of road, there are an estimated 50 sawmills. 
 After being cut into long planks, most of this wood is bought by traders in Malaysia and Singapore, and then, after being further cut, sanded, molded and grooved, sold around the world -- as flooring in China and Japan, office stationery in Europe and furniture in the United States.
Indonesia's timber industry is booming, good news for a country suffering widespread unemployment and mired in economic stagnation. There is a dark side, however: nearly all of these sawmills operate without a license, and overall, according to government figures, 80 percent of Indonesia's timber trade is illegal, which means that the trees are felled without a license or under a concession that had been secured with a bribe. 
The corruption is rampant. Senior government officials insist on payoffs, from companies and big-time traders, in exchange for concessions. Military commanders take a cut or even have their own operations. The local policeman demands a payment to allow the trucks, laden with illegally cut logs, on the way to illegal sawmills, to proceed along the road.
The upshot is that Indonesia's tropical forests, among the largest in the world, are rapidly disappearing. Vast tracts of once pristine forests have been reduced to barren and scarred wasteland. It is estimated that at least four million acres of forests -- an area roughly the size of Connecticut -- are being stripped of their trees every year, according to government statistics. It is estimated that the lowland natural forests here on the island of Sumatra, home to the endangered orangutan and the rare Sumatran tiger, will be gone within five years; those in Kalimantan, within 10.
"There are lots of reports telling the world about this," said Togu Manurung, professor of forestry at Bogor Agricultural University and director of Forest Watch Indonesia, a nongovernmental organization. "But it is still going on."
"Why?" he asked rhetorically. "Money, power and politics."
The world's consumers must also share some of the responsibility for the devastation, said Hapsoro, director of research at Telapak, an Indonesian environmental organization.
"It is a matter of fairness," Hapsoro said. "It's not fair for us in Indonesia if people in the United States are consuming a lot of wood products, paper and plywood from Indonesia."
The secretary general of Indonesia's Ministry of Forestry, Wahjudi Wardojo, said that stopping illegal logging is the agency's top priority. It will not be easy, though. Although they might look like parts of a thriving cottage industry, many of the sawmills are controlled by people who "have money and power," Mr. Wardojo said, and they can be highly profitable ventures.
At one unlicensed mill that deals in Kempas, a hardwood used in floors, the company buys logs for $90 a cubic meter, cuts them into boards, sands them on both sides, then sells the wood for $280 a cubic meter. As the owner described his operation, he sells his wares to traders in Singapore and Malaysia who market the wood products mostly in China and Taiwan.
In an effort to halt the environmental devastation Indonesia imposed a ban last year on the export of logs. It has had little impact. Once a log has been cut into planks, or simply had the bark shaved off with a chain saw, it is no longer consider a "log," and thus not subject to the ban.
Each day, 15 trucks loaded with logs pull into one of the small sawmills here. Many of the logs come from Tesso Nilo, a forest that environmentalists would like to see converted to an elephant refuges. The mill is unlicensed, as its owner readily admits. To get one, he said, he would have to pay a local official $3,000.
In June, the Malaysian government, embarrassed by news reports that it had become a transit point for Indonesia's illegal timber, banned the import of all logs from Indonesia. Once again, however, the law left a loophole big enough to ship tons of wood through -- the ban does not affect cut timber. 
"It is the same wood, coming in different shapes," said a man at the port in Kuala Linggi, Malaysia, as a forklift moved massive squared logs that had arrived from Indonesia.
With the wood trade in full swing, Ahmad Rashid, a 45-year old Indonesian who owns a couple of 24-foot wooden boats, is just as busy as he has always been. He said he hauls 60 tons of wood a month from Indonesia across the Strait of Malacca here to Port Klang, Malaysia.
Asked if the wood had been legally cut, Mr. Rashid just laughed. He said that initially he brought wood from his village in Indonesia, but that all the trees there had been cut. So now he buys from other villages.
In Indonesia, he pays $90 a ton for meranti, a medium-grade wood, which he sells to a broker in Malaysia for $160 a ton.
The broker, Ng Eng Hua, and his two sons, also traders, import about 2,000 tons of wood a month from Indonesia, Mr. Hua said, sitting in his small, dingy office, on the Aur River. They buy from more than 30 brokers in Indonesia, he said.
Asked if the wood he bought from Indonesia was legally cut or not, he said: "How would I know? They sell. I just buy."
He said that he in turn sells to a number of timber companies in Malaysia. One of them is Kian Huat Timber Trading Company, which is about six miles away.
On a recent day, forklifts were busy moving timber around the yard at Kian Huat. All of the wood comes from Indonesia, said Lim Been Feen, one of the owners. He does not know if it is legally or illegally cut. That is up to the broker he buys it from, he said.
Wood products are a major export for Malaysia, and the country is heavily dependent on logs from Indonesia. That's because a decade ago, in response to a strong campaign by the country's environmentalists, the Malaysian government enacted strict regulations on the cutting of its trees. Now, many of the country's forest areas are parks and reserves.
Many European buyers are saying that they will not buy wood products from Malaysia unless the seller can guarantee that the wood has been legally cut and in keeping with sound environmental practices, said Aimi Lee Abdullah, an officer with the Malaysian Timber Council, a government body that promotes Malaysia's wood exports.
But that is a near impossibility for the Malaysian buyers, she added.
"How do you tell if it is legal or not legal?" she asked. "If you ask the Indonesians to provide you with documents, they provide you with all the documents, you need." The documents, of course, are either forgeries or bought with bribes.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Illegal logging has turned large parts of Indonesia's rain forests into a scarred wasteland. (Raymond Bonner/The New York Times); (Togu Manurung) Map of Indonesia highlighting Pekanbaru: Tropical forests on the island of Sumatra have been denuded by illegal logging and sawmills. Satellite photos of one area southeast of Pekanbaru show how much of the lowland forests have been felled in only nine years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTRY & LOGGING (91%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); SAW MILLS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (87%); ILLEGAL LOGGING (77%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (77%); CORRUPTION (71%); STATISTICS (71%); BRIBERY (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (64%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); WILD CATS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); WILDERNESS (63%); ISLANDS & REEFS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (96%) INDONESIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); BORNEO (79%) INDONESIA; SUMATRA (INDONESIA)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



351 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Trade and Job Figures Cast an Economic Shadow 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
The deficit in the broadest measure of trade with foreign countries, the current account, grew sharply in the second quarter to a record level, the government said today.
 A separate report by the Labor Department said the number of Americans signing up for state unemployment benefits last week rose unexpectedly to the highest figure in more than four months. 
 In the trade report, the Commerce Department said the current account gap in the second quarter grew 15.6 percent, to $129.96 billion, up from $112.45 billion in the first quarter. The number far exceeded analysts' expectation: a $123.84 billion deficit. 
The overall deficit reflected a widening in the goods-and-services balance, to a record deficit of $110.61 billion. The deficit on investment income grew more than 562 percent, to a record $6.29 billion from $950 million the previous quarter.
Some analysts worry that the size of the deficit is unsustainable and is at risk of a sharp correction, perhaps setting off a fall in the dollar's values. But government officials, including Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, say the deficit is a sign of the economy's strength and its attractiveness to foreign investors.
In the unemployment report, the Labor Department said initial claims climbed 19,000, to a seasonally adjusted 426,000, for the week ended Sept. 7, the highest level since April 20, when claims hit 427,000.
The department said seasonal factors could account for volatility in the report. The four-week moving average, which irons out such fluctuations, rose to 409,500 last week, a number that also points to a lackluster employment picture. The number of workers remaining on state unemployment aid rose by 38,000, to 3.6 million, for the week ended Aug. 31, the latest figures available say.
The Labor Department also said today that import prices rose in August, lifted primarily by higher petroleum prices. Import prices rose by 0.3 percent last month, after gaining 0.4 percent in July, the department said. Excluding petroleum, import prices edged up 0.1 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); IMPORT PRICES (85%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



352 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Markets Stumble on Bad Economic News and Talk of War

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks slumped yesterday as investor sentiment crumbled under the weight of American saber-rattling on Iraq, a warning by the Federal Reserve chief on the ballooning government deficit and data showing a weak economy.
 Thrown into the fray were dour reports on the semiconductor equipment sector as well as on leading companies like McDonald's and Sun Microsystems, the network computing company. 
 "There is nothing for investors to sink their teeth into," said Uri Landesman, portfolio manager at Arlington Capital Management, adding, "Every rally in God knows how long has failed, and that is discouraging." 
"We won't rally until a few companies start telling us things are improving and orders are getting better," Mr. Landesman said. 
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 201.76 points, or 2.35 percent, to 8,379.41. The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slid 22.54 points, or 2.48 percent, to 886.91. The Nasdaq index fell 35.77 points, or 2.72 percent, to 1,279.68.
Wall Street was rocked yesterday by a sharp rise in the nation's current account deficit, which showed that the economy pulled in imports at a record pace in the second quarter. The government also said the number of Americans signing up for state unemployment benefits rose unexpectedly last week to the highest level in more than four months.
Stocks dropped at the start of trading in reaction to that double dose of data, which heightened concerns over the outlook for the economy. Later, the markets reacted to comments from President Bush and the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan. Mr. Bush told the United Nations General Assembly that military "action will be unavoidable" against Iraq unless the United Nations forces Iraq to disarm. In remarks before Congress, Mr. Greenspan said the economy was holding up, but he warned that a return to spending discipline was vital for economic health.
"If you are a potential buyer of stock," said Gary Wedbush, head of trading at Wedbush Morgan, a regional investment bank based in Los Angeles, "and you have two world leaders talking about issues that could stall economic growth, you are going to be a lot more cautious."
McDonald's fell $1.03, to $20.31, a drop of 4.83 percent, ranking it among the largest percentage losers on the Dow. Salomon Smith Barney cut its price target and third-quarter earnings estimate for McDonald's, saying it was not doing enough to address complaints about employee rudeness and slow service. McDonald's is scheduled to give a midquarter update next week; its stock has been at multiyear lows.
Shares in Sun Microsystems dropped 15 cents, or 4.5 percent, to $3.22, after Salomon Smith Barney said profits would be difficult in the short term. Such a low is like those last seen in late 1996, when the stock dropped to $3.19. 
Semiconductor makers and related companies led stocks' downward march after negative news. Lehman Brothers said chip-equipment shares were likely to remain under pressure as third-quarter results and fourth-quarter forecasts fall below expectations. One chip equipment maker, Applied Materials, fell 95 cents, to $12.74. The chip maker Intel lost 92 cents, dropping to $15.70.
A. G. Edwards downgraded the drug giant Johnson & Johnson, and its shares dropped 2.7 percent, or $1.51, to $53.97.
Shares in the tobacco company UST sank $3.54, or 10.6 percent, to $29.84, as the company cut its earnings forecast for the second half of the year, citing sluggish sales volume growth at its largest unit, U.S. Smokeless Tobacco.
In the bond market, Treasury prices rose after Mr. Bush warned that if the United Nations failed to enforce its resolutions on Iraq, the United States would force Iraq to comply.
The price of the 10-year note rose 24/32 , to 103 10/32 . The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 3.97 percent from 4.06 percent on Wednesday.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 1 point, to 108 17/32 , as the yield dropped to 4.82 percent from 4.88.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. Revenue bonds: 5.15%General obligation bonds: 4.77% Graph shows the average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds since May 2002. (Source: The Bond Buyer) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); DISARMAMENT (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); INTEREST RATES (59%); SEMICONDUCTORS (57%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); WEDBUSH MORGAN SECURITIES INC (52%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



353 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Cites Russian Firms in Arms Sales to Lands Tied to Terror 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
The Bush administration imposed penalties today on three Russian military contractors that sold weapons to countries that the State Department says support terrorism. 
 The companies, all government owned, are said to have sold conventional military equipment like missiles and rocket-fired grenades to Libya, Sudan and Syria, officials said. The penalties mean that the companies will not be able to do business with the United States government, sell their equipment here or buy certain equipment and services from American businesses. 
 The companies are the Tula Design Bureau of Instrument Building, which makes antiaircraft and antitank systems; the State Scientific Production Enterprise Bazalt, which makes bombs, grenades and other munitions; and Rostov Airframe Plant 168.
Although all three companies are state owned, no penalties are being imposed on the Russian government, a State Department official said. 
The sanctions are announced as the Bush administration is urging Russia to halt its sales of military equipment and advanced technology to countries that support terrorism, particularly Iran, Iraq and North Korea, the countries that President Bush has called "an axis of evil."
Russia maintains strong trade relations with all three, and Washington contends that Russian know-how and equipment may have helped them develop chemical, germ and nuclear weapons. 
The penalties involve less dangerous equipment sold to less threatening countries. The State Department said it had imposed the sanctions to send a message that despite good relations between Moscow and Washington, the administration is not always happy with Russian efforts to stop weapons proliferation to terrorists. 
"We have a new relationship here, and we're working with them," a State Department official said. "There is a sense that they are taking this seriously."
The director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control in Washington, Gary Milhollin, said the sanctions were virtually meaningless, because it is highly unlikely that the Russian companies conduct much, if any, business with the United States. Mr. Milhollin said the only way to crack down on such companies was to expand the punishment to include their subsidiaries or the Russian government itself. 
"These are pointless," he said. "We have to rethink our sanctions laws."
Mr. Milhollin said although the weapons that the Russian companies sold were not particularly powerful, any actions that helped arm terrorists or their state sponsors were potentially harmful to the United States.
Libya, Sudan and Syria are among the seven countries that the United States has designated as state sponsors of terrorism. The others are Cuba, Iran, Iraq and North Korea. 
Since the Sept. 11 attacks, Libya has curtailed its contacts with terrorist groups, the most recent State Department report on global terrorism said. Syria has not been implicated in terrorism acts since 1986. But it allows Hamas, the Palestinian militant group, to maintain offices in Damascus and Hezbollah to operate in the Syrian-controlled Bekaa in Lebanon, the report said. 
The report said Sudan had stepped up efforts to cooperate with the United States in fighting terrorism since Sept. 11. But the report said several international groups, including Al Qaeda and the Egyptian Islamic Jihad, continue to use Sudan as a safe haven. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HAMAS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ARMS SALES ABROAD; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); SYRIA; LIBYA; SUDAN; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



354 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Reports a 5% Jump In Enrollment for Fall Term 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Enrollment at the City University of New York jumped 5 percent this fall, the largest increase since 1978, pushing the total number of students to 207,181, the highest level since 1994.
 The number of new freshmen also jumped 5 percent, to 27,000, at CUNY's 11 senior colleges and its 6 community colleges, according to a preliminary report issued this week. 
 The total enrollment gains are the third increase in a row after five years of declines during a tumultuous period when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and CUNY's trustees excoriated the university for not having standards that were high enough. In fall 1999, CUNY's enrollment dropped below 195,000. 
CUNY administrators say that the higher enrollment is a clear result of their efforts to raise standards. In 1999, CUNY's board approved a hotly debated policy to bar students from bachelor's degree programs if they could not score high enough on English and math exams (including the Regents tests and the SAT exams) to demonstrate that they were ready for college-level work. 
"Students are coming because the university's reputation has developed so that people think the degree is valued again," Matthew Goldstein, CUNY's chancellor, said yesterday. "The university has accomplished two objectives -- increasing enrollment and increasing standards -- that are often seen as contradictory." 
He acknowledged, however, that the plunging stock market, weaker economy and terrorist attacks have also made many families focus on public universities closer to home, raising enrollments at many state universities. Tuition at CUNY's senior colleges is $3,200 a year for New York State residents.
Last year, CUNY's enrollment rose 1.4 percent and the number of new freshmen increased nearly 8 percent at the senior colleges, where CUNY began to impose more restrictive admissions standards beginning in 1999.
Dr. Goldstein said that the enrollment numbers disproved the warnings by critics of the more restrictive admissions policy, who had predicted sharp declines in enrollment.
But one former critic said it was hard to tell what the real impact of the changed admissions standards was, and who was being kept out of the senior colleges. "Relative to some of the other public universities with big policy changes, like Texas and California, CUNY has never really released the kinds of data necessary for making that kind of policy assessment," said David E. Lavin, a sociologist at CUNY and co-author with David Hyllegard of "Changing the Odds: Open Admissions and the Life Chances of the Disadvantaged."
Another factor that makes it hard to assess the impact of more restrictive admissions is that the university has undergone other significant changes in the same period.
In the mid-1990's, CUNY seemed to be at war with itself. Its board meetings were often chaotic, as trustees argued among themselves and students and faculty members loudly protested board policies. Sometimes students and professors were ejected from board meetings.
Since 1999, when Dr. Goldstein became chancellor, the university has run more smoothly, board meetings have become routine again, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has worked with the university rather than suggesting it should be closed. 
Dr. Goldstein also began much more vigorous recruiting and introduced an honors program with generous merit scholarships, which has drawn high-caliber students and highlighted the university's strengths.
As more students enroll, some campuses, like Baruch, have limited their undergraduate enrollments because they are already so crowded. 
Other campuses, like Borough of Manhattan Community College, scrambled to accommodate the new demand. B.M.C.C., on Chambers Street, saw enrollment jump 10 percent to 17,396, and has had to put students in classrooms at City College and at the St. John's campus in Lower Manhattan. Fiterman Hall, one of its two primary classroom buildings, next to 7 World Trade Center, was severely damaged in last year's terrorist attack and the college has not been able to use it since. 
Dr. Goldstein said he hoped to decide soon whether to rehabilitate the badly damaged building or erect a new one when he learns how much money CUNY will receive from insurance policies and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK -- CUNY Enrollment"Total enrollment in City University of New York schools: Graph shows figures of enrollment since 1996.(Source: City University of New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (79%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (79%); TUITION FEES (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); APPROVALS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) ARENSON, KAREN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



355 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Feast Hopes to Recover From Its Famine 

BYLINE:  By LYDIA POLGREEN 

 BODY:
At times during lunch hour yesterday, the line at John's Italian Sausage at Mulberry and Grand Streets snaked around the corner, at least two dozen people long. The stand's namesake, 94-year-old John Fasullo, stood at his usual spot, tending huge steel spears loaded with sausage and braciola sizzling over glowing coals.
 "It's great to be back," he said, breaking out into a huge grin. 
 The Feast of San Gennaro began yesterday in Little Italy, returning after an absence last year, when it was canceled in the wake of the attack on the World Trade Center, about a mile south of the neighborhood. The restaurateurs and other business owners who have struggled since the terrorist attack and the slowing of the economy are hoping the 10-day street festival helps them recover from a devastating year.
"We really need this," said Vinny Sabatino, proprietor of Vinny's Nut House. "Business has picked up, but we were completely dead from September to April."
When the festival was canceled last year, Mr. Sabatino was left with 200 pounds of torrone, white nougat with almonds imported from Italy. "I had to throw out so much stock it was crazy," he said. "We hope we can make up for it this year."
Even before the Sept. 11 attack, Little Italy's fortunes were waning. Hemmed in by a growing Chinatown and stylish neighborhoods to the north with little taste for the kitsch of red checkered table cloths and "Kiss me, I'm Italian" T-shirts, the neighborhood has become almost entirely dependent on tourists. The festival typically draws more than a million visitors each year, organizers said.
Even before the 2 p.m. opening of the festival, which honors the patron saint of Naples, people flooded Mulberry Street, snacking on cannoli, sausage and peppers, and scungilli. 
"We come every year on the first day," said Jeffrey Stromberg, between bites of a rib eye steak sandwich. He and his friend, Gary Shiffman, have been coming for five years. "We really missed it last year," Mr. Shiffman said.
Shortly after noon, lines formed at many stands, and traffic along Mulberry Street was heavy. But waiters at the dozens of restaurants lining the street struggled to lure diners to empty outdoor tables. "Buongiorno, how many for lunch?" was the cry, but it went largely unanswered.
Pellegrino Criscitelli, a festival organizer who owns two restaurants in the neighborhood, said the feast comes at a crucial time. "After 9/11, this neighborhood got hit pretty hard," he said. "Right now most places are still 35 to 40 percent down from the previous year."
Buddy Zeccardi, who owns Caffe Roma, a pastry shop at Mulberry and Broome Streets, said business was picking up, but slowly. "It's been quiet, but not as bad as right after Sept. 11," he said. "The festival brings people in, and I am hoping it will be a good year."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A cannoli-eating contest was held on the opening day of the Feast of San Gennaro in Little Italy yesterday. Organizers of the 10-day festival, which was canceled last year after the terrorist attack, hope it will drum up business in a neighborhood that is about a mile north of the trade center site. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); TERRORISM (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TRENDS (67%); RETAIL BAKERIES (60%) STREET FAIRS AND FESTIVALS; FEAST OF SAN GENNARO; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: POLGREEN, LYDIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



356 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Buoys Challenger For California Governor 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
A state judge today threw out a $78 million civil fraud judgment against the family investment firm of Bill Simon Jr., the Republican candidate for governor, injecting a spark of life into a campaign that had appeared to be faltering. 
 The judge, James C. Chalfant of Superior Court, set aside a jury decision against Mr. Simon's investment company, William E. Simon & Sons, and awarded the firm $125,000 to cover the costs of fighting the accusations. The jury's decision, made in late July, badly damaged Mr. Simon's campaign to unseat Gov. Gray Davis, who has cited the case in speeches and advertisements as evidence that Mr. Simon is unqualified to be governor. 
 "Today is a new beginning for our campaign," Mr. Simon proclaimed this morning at a news conference in Los Angeles. "I've said all along this jury verdict was fundamentally flawed and would be overturned, and that's exactly what happened."
Mr. Simon acknowledged that the judgment against him, arising from an investment in a pay telephone venture, had been a distraction to his campaign, drowning out his themes of tax cuts, improvements in education and investment in infrastructure. 
But even after today's ruling, Mr. Simon, the surprise winner of the Republican primary last winter, faces significant hurdles, including continuing questions about a tax shelter investment, his role in the failure of a family-owned savings and loan, his refusal to fully disclose his income taxes and continuing campaign fund-raising problems.
"He may think he's out of the woods, but there's a bunch of trees still in his path," said Garry South, Governor Davis's chief political strategist.
As of the last reporting period, Mr. Davis had $31.6 million in cash, compared with $5 million for Mr. Simon, although Mr. Davis has spent much of his money in the past two months running negative advertisements about his opponent. One of them cites the jury verdict in the pay phone case and concludes, "Simon: If his partners can't trust him, how can we trust him with the fifth largest economy in the world?"
Mr. Simon called on the Davis campaign today to withdraw the advertisement. But Mr. South said that its assertion that a jury found Mr. Simon's firm guilty of fraud remained true and that the advertisement would run for a few more days. The Davis campaign also announced that it was broadcasting a new advertisement raising questions about the failure of Western Federal Savings and Loan, which was owned by the Simon family.
Mr. South said the Davis campaign still had plenty of Mr. Simon's errors and "ethical lapses to talk about." He also questioned Judge Chalfant's objectivity, saying that he had been appointed by then-Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, and had contributed to several Republican candidates.
The ruling today involved a 1998 investment that Mr. Simon's family company made with another firm in Pacific Coin, a failed pay telephone venture in Los Angeles. At the time of their $26 million investment, Mr. Simon and his partners did not know that the owner of Pacific Coin, Paul Edward Hindelang Jr., was a convicted marijuana smuggler who had used drug profits to start the pay phone venture, according to court documents. 
When the investors learned of Mr. Hindelang's criminal past, they fired him. Soon after, the company collapsed, in part because cellphone use had become widespread. Mr. Hindelang sued Mr. Simon's company and the other investors, saying they had deceived him about their plan to add debt and eventually take Pacific Coin public.
A Superior Court jury agreed, and on July 30 awarded Mr. Hindelang $78 million in compensatory and punitive damages.
But Judge Chalfant said today that in fact it was Mr. Simon and his partners who had been the victims of fraud.
"The centerpiece of this decision," he wrote, "is the immutable fact, established by overwhelming evidence, that Hindelang defrauded" Mr. Simon's group by not disclosing his criminal past or his negotiations with federal authorities to forfeit some $50 million in illicit drug proceeds.
Geoffrey L. Thomas, Mr. Hindelang's lawyer, said that his client would probably appeal the judge's ruling but that they had not decided. "We want to consider all our options," he said.
The ruling heartened California Republican leaders, many of whom have expressed open despair about the state of Mr. Simon's campaign and his chances of toppling Mr. Davis. Although Mr. Davis is not terribly popular, even among members of his own party, Mr. Simon has made few inroads in a state that has 1.5 million more registered Democrats than Republicans. Both candidates are viewed negatively by 50 percent of the electorate, according to the nonpartisan Field Poll.
Recent voter surveys show Mr. Davis with a lead of 7 to 11 percentage points, but Mr. Simon's supporters argue that voters have not begun to focus on the race and that the margin will narrow as the Nov. 5 election approaches.
"This is a tremendous day for the party and for all of us who have been faithful in our belief in the justice system," said Thomas A. Fuentes, chairman of the Orange County Republican Party. "This is a monumental reversal, and I anticipate the first of many new upticks for the Simon campaign."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Simon Jr., the Republican candidate for governor of California. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); VERDICTS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); JUDGES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ETHICS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); BANK FAILURES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); SUITS AND LITIGATION; FINES (PENALTIES); DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; TAX EVASION; TAXATION; TAX-SHELTERED INVESTMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: ;SIMON, WILLIAM E, & SONS; PACIFIC COIN (CO) 

PERSON: SIMON, BILL JR; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); BRODER, JOHN M; CHALFANT, JAMES (JUDGE); HINDELANG, PAUL EDWARD JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



357 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Stocks and Bombs 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
"This stock-market situation -- what are the military options?" That was the caption of a New Yorker cartoon last month. But these days reality has a way of outrunning satire; way back in June the CNBC pundit Larry Kudlow published a column in The Washington Times with the headline "Taking Back the Market -- by Force." In it he argued for an invasion of Iraq to boost the Dow.
 Pretty amazing stuff, though not as amazing as a July column in The New York Post by John Podhoretz, whose headline read "October Surprise, Please," followed by the injunction "Go On, Mr. President: Wag the Dog." 
 In general it's a bad omen when advocates of a policy claim that it will solve problems unrelated to its original purpose. The shifting rationale for the Bush tax cut -- it's about giving back the surplus; no, it's a demand stimulus; no, it's a supply-side policy -- should have warned us that this was an obsession in search of a justification.
The shifting rationale for war with Iraq -- Saddam Hussein was behind Sept. 11 and the anthrax attacks; no, but he's on the verge of developing nuclear weapons; no, but he's a really evil man (which he is) -- has a similar feel. 
The idea that war would actually be good for the economy seems like just one more step in this progression. But one must admit that there are times when war has had positive economic effects. In particular, there's no question that World War II pulled the United States out of the Great Depression. And today's U.S. economy, while not in a depression, could certainly use some help; the latest evidence suggests a recovery so slow and uneven that it feels like a continuing recession. So is war the answer?
No: World War II is a very poor model for the economic effects of a new war in the Persian Gulf. On balance, such a war is much more likely to depress than to stimulate our struggling economy.
There is nothing magical about military spending -- it provides no more economic stimulus than the same amount spent on, say, cleaning up toxic waste sites.
The reason World War II accomplished what the New Deal could not was simply that war removed the usual inhibitions. Until Pearl Harbor Franklin Roosevelt didn't have the determination or the legislative clout to enact really large programs to stimulate the economy. But war made it not just possible but necessary for the government to spend on a previously inconceivable scale, restoring full employment for the first time since 1929.
By contrast, this time around Congress is eager to spend on domestic projects; if the administration wants to pump money into the economy, all it needs to do is drop its objections to things like drought aid for farmers and new communication gear for firefighters. In other words, if the economy needs a burst of federal spending, neither economics nor politics requires that this burst take the form of a war.
And in any case it's not clear how much stimulus war would provide. One assumes that the necessary munitions are already in stock, so there will be no surge in factory orders. There will be spending on peacekeeping -- won't there? -- but it will be spread over many years.
Meanwhile there is the potential economic downside, which may be summed up in one word: oil.
Iraq itself currently supplies so little oil to the world market that wartime disruption of its production would pose little problem. But neither the Arab-Israeli war of 1973 nor the Iranian revolution of 1979 directly affected oil production.
Instead, the indirect political repercussions of conflict were what caused oil prices to surge. This time around, Arab leaders have warned that an invasion of Iraq would open the "gates of hell." That doesn't sound good for the oil market.
It's worth remembering that each of the oil crises of the 1970's was followed by a severe recession -- and that the milder oil price spike before the gulf war was also followed by a recession. Could rising crude prices undermine our weak economic recovery, creating a double-dip recession? Yes.
None of this should deter us from invading Iraq if the administration makes a convincing case that we should do so for security reasons. But it's foolish and dangerous to minimize the potential economic consequences of war, let alone claim that it will be good for the economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); BUDGETS (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); TAX LAW (68%); ANTHRAX (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; WORLD WAR II (1939-45); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; ROOSEVELT, FRANKLIN DELANO (1882-1945) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (77%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



358 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: County Executives Request a Cap on Medicaid Contributions 

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Sept. 12 

 BODY:
Leaders from Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk Counties called today for a cap on county Medicaid contributions, warning that the combination of soaring health care costs, increased state-mandated programs and economic hard times would make it virtually impossible to balance future budgets.
 The federal government pays at least half of each state's Medicaid costs, and about 20 states require that counties contribute something toward the state's half. In New York, the county executives complained, counties pay a higher portion of Medicaid costs than in most other states. 
 "We cannot continue to hold the line in our communities if we keep on having increasing costs that are unrelated to anything that's under our control," Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said at today's news conference, where he appeared with Robert J. Gaffney and Andrew J. Spano, the Suffolk and Westchester County executives.
"Medicaid costs are totally beyond our control," Mr. Suozzi said. "They should be picked up by the state."
Mr. Suozzi, who is already struggling to dig Nassau out of a financial quagmire, said he expected the county's share of Medicaid costs to swell to $463 million in 2006, from $284 million this year. The county's current budget is $2.2 billion.
"You want us to pay what we're paying now?" Mr. Suozzi said. "Fine. But let's stop the increases."
In addition to the spending caps, the county executives suggested that state lawmakers could reduce the counties' Medicaid costs by agreeing to single-handedly shoulder the costs of any new programs they introduce.
Kevin C. Quinn, a spokesman for the New York State Division of Budget, said that in the past eight years, the state had kept Medicaid costs under control and contributed billions of dollars to programs that in other ways mitigate New Yorkers' property tax burdens.
"We have been successful over the past eight years in controlling Medicaid costs," Mr. Quinn said. "As we move forward, we are going to continue our efforts to assist county governments, but also keeping in mind that the state faces ongoing fiscal challenges as a result of 9/11 and the national economic downturn."
In New York, Mr. Quinn said, counties pay 25 percent of Medicaid patients' hospital costs and 10 percent of Medicaid patients' nursing home and home care costs. On average, New York counties pay 15.8 percent of their total Medicaid expenses, with the state paying 33.1 percent and the federal government paying 51.1 percent.
When the Medicaid program was created in the mid-1960's, states were given discretion over whether and how to share their portion of the burden with counties, said Mitchell Sahn, executive director of health and human services in Nassau County. New York has long demanded more from its counties than most other states, Mr. Sahn said.
The situation has worsened, the county executives said today, with the addition of state-mandated initiatives such as Family Health Plus, a subsidized health insurance program, and because of other financial problems, such as a drop-off in sales-tax revenue. The result, Mr. Spano said, is a sort of "perfect storm."
"We can no longer afford to do this," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (94%); COUNTIES (93%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); NURSING HOMES (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); HOSPITALS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); PROPERTY TAX (62%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GOOTMAN, ELISSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



359 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 82 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Australia: Australia: Job Growth Accelerates 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Australia's economy added three times the number of jobs as forecast in August, with builders and retailers hiring workers. 
The economy added 88,500 jobs last month, the Bureau of Statistics said. Almost all the extra jobs were full time. The unemployment rate remained at 6.2 percent as more people looked for work, confident they would find jobs in an economy growing three times the rate of growth in the United States. The August rise was the biggest monthly increase in jobs in 11 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); STATISTICS (87%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; HIRING AND PROMOTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



360 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: ART IN REVIEW; 
Michael Hurson -- 'Recent Works on Paper'

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
Paula Cooper Gallery
521 West 21st Street, Chelsea
Through Oct. 12
 Michael Hurson is doing his bit to extend the long, venerable tradition of the artist's copy into the 21st century. Snowbound while visiting a friend in Indiana last December, he came across a reproduction of "Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte," Georges Seurat's masterpiece of lime-kissed color, classical balance and recreational co-existence. He proceeded to make a drawing of it. When his host came home and told him that it had been done before, he made some more. 
 Seven of these cartoonish, oddly gripping tributes form the heart of Mr. Hurson's show of recent drawings and collages. They continue his habit of reanimating the familiar through drawing. For example, Mr. Hurson, who has long worn glasses, was first known in New York for sketchy, impish paintings of dancing eyeglasses, spectacles making spectacles of themselves, I guess. (The current show includes drawings of fishing lures that have the same anthropomorphic verve.)
His familiarity with "La Grand Jatte" dates from his years as a student in the early 1960's at the Art Institute of Chicago, where the painting dominates one of the biggest galleries. Mr. Hurson is unerringly loyal to Seurat's composition and its monumental recession of figures, shadow and light, all the way back to the bridge and the farthest sailboat in the upper left corner, beyond the mirrored surface of the Seine. But he disrupts the work's seamless unity and almost touchless dotting technique with his own anxious patchwork approach to drawing.
A result is a ruminative visual puddle jumping that restates Seurat's gliding, pneumatic figures as restrained cacophony: dark smudges, faint crosshatchings, grainy charcoal sideswipes and glossy daubs of light gray and white, thanks to white-out. Color is subdued and sometimes drained almost completely, as in the large drawing whose palette ranges from white to dark gray with touches of sanguine; it recasts the afternoon as a wintry one, more fitting to the shores of Lake Michigan than the Seine.
The effect of this translation is to confirm the fine bones of Seurat's design while slowing one's progress through it. It is a little bit as if Seurat had just told everyone in the picture to take five and they were slowly unbending from their poses, enabling us to become better acquainted as we pass by. ROBERTA SMITH

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of Michael Hurson's tributes to Seurat's "Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte," from his exhibition at Paula Cooper. (Paula Cooper Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (73%); LAKES (71%) ART; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: HURSON, MICHAEL; SMITH, ROBERTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) INDIANA, USA (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



361 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Raising Business District Assessments 

BYLINE:  By Terry Pristin (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
The City Council's Finance Committee voted yesterday to allow many of the city's business improvement districts to raise assessments on their members for the first time in several years. 
Known as BID's, the 44 districts are public-private partnerships to supplement city services and are financed by property owners. The committee authorized a total of $7.1 million in budget increases for all but one of the 20 BID's that asked for the increases. (The committee postponed action on the Brighton Beach BID's request because its members had not been given adequate notice.) The full Council is expected to approve the budgets, said David I. Weprin, the committee chairman. Terry Pristin (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (88%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



362 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
On the Outs With Almost Everything

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
"Igby Goes Down," a corrosively sarcastic comedy that lifts the lid off the gleaming casserole of post-yuppie American culture, establishes Kieran Culkin as the movies' Boy Brat of the Moment. Or should I say Alternative Boy Brat, since his character, 17-year-old Igby Slocumb, is in full rebellion against the values embodied by the typical Hollywood teenage sports hero.
 As Igby, a runaway from military school, thrashes up and down the East Coast with a side trip to Chicago, the actor, who will turn 20 at the end of this month, gyrates wildly between a smart-aleck know-it-all given to snidely witty asides and a lost little boy. Not a false note is sounded. The role of Igby is even richer than Tim Sullivan, the Catholic school rebel whom Mr. Culkin played in "The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys." Together they certify a new type: the smart, cheeky nerd who recklessly pushes limits without going bad. 
 "Igby Goes Down," which opens today in New York and Los Angeles, is the second film in recent months (after "Tadpole") to take its cue from "The Catcher in the Rye" by giving us a fresh-scrubbed, upscale teenage rebel with a brain to match his attitude. Igby may not be as charmingly exotic as Oscar Grubman, the 15-year-old protagonist of "Tadpole," an intellectually precocious, French-spouting preppy, romantically obsessed with his beautiful, much older stepmother, but he's just as intelligent.
Like Oscar, Igby is an earnest seeker of truth, beauty and the authentic. Both characters are also available for intergenerational sex with older women. Igby, however, is much more self-destructive, and the East Village bohemian milieu in which he flails for a good part of the film is far more treacherous than the comfy mid-Manhattan nest that coddles Oscar's fantasies.
What is it with "The Catcher in the Rye" these days? Is it just a coincidence that in a matter of months, the J. D. Salinger classic has rung two cinematic bells? (Three if you count "The Good Girl," in which Jennifer Aniston's character has an affair with a clinically depressed self-styled Holden Caulfield.) Nor should we forget the plaintively whimsical films of Wes Anderson, which flaunt a Salingeresque sense of their own rarefied sensibility.
Through Igby's eyes, the privileged world he was born into is as corrupt, hypocritical and stiflingly conformist as the one that Salinger's alter ego reacted against more than 50 years ago. There are differences, of course. The most conspicuous ingredients in the movie's social mix that weren't there in the 1940's are drugs. They're omnipresent in "Igby Goes Down," and although they're supposed to ease the characters' pain, all they do is leave them more confused and desperate.
"Igby Goes Down" is the remarkably assured directorial and screenwriting debut of Burr Steers, a Washington-born actor and stage director who made his most recent film appearance in Whit Stillman's "Last Days of Disco." Although "Igby" has its share of glitches and tonal inconsistencies, it packs an emotional wallop similar to that of another cultural golden oldie as beloved in its way as "The Catcher in the Rye": "The Graduate." But because it refuses to tie up its plot strands into prettily romantic bows, "Igby" isn't likely to be a "Graduate"-size hit.
Its sense of humor is also much darker. The opening scene is a grotesquely comic matricide, in which Igby and his older brother Oliver (Ryan Phillippe) put their snoring, heavily sedated mother, Mimi (Susan Sarandon), out of her misery by fitting a plastic bag over her head. Whether or not it's a fantasy is revealed only at the end.
At the same time, the movie's nastily funny portrait of post-yuppie American affluence and its disappointments recalls the shallow California dream as satirized in "The Graduate" and summed up by the word "plastics." A scene of Igby prowling uneasily through a lavish party in the Hamptons is a direct homage to the creepily cheery poolside fest in "The Graduate" celebrating Benjamin Braddock's return from college.
Unlike Benjamin, Igby has fallen off the fast track to an A-list college and professional success before the movie begins. He has flunked out of so many prep schools that Mimi has decided on military school as a last resort. But Igby soon flees and ends up camping out in a New York loft. The place doubles as a dance studio occupied by Rachel (Amanda Peet), a heroin-addicted choreographer and trophy girlfriend of Igby's wealthy godfather and benefactor, D. H. Banes (Jeff Goldblum).
Some of the film's least convincing scenes involve a cursory tour of downtown bohemia overseen by Rachel's best friend, Russel (Jared Harris), a stridently pretentious performance artist of indeterminate sexuality. At his lowest point, Igby earns money as a drug courier, distributing powdered goodies to Russel's circle of friends.
But it is Igby's ambivalent relationship with his dysfunctional family that animates the movie's soul. Igby's father, Jason (Bill Pullman), is in a mental hospital after a schizophrenic breakdown that is shown midmovie in a harrowing flashback. Angry, pill-popping Mimi is a highly connected social climber, snob and vocal anti-Semite. In a bracing turnabout from the wide-eyed saints with whom she is identified, Ms. Sarandon gives this monster a gleefully comic edge.
As Oliver, Igby's handsome older brother and part-time watchdog, Mr. Phillippe finds a hint of vulnerability in this cold, condescending smoothie who is studying economics at Columbia and to whom Igby refers as "the Fascist." Some of the movie's most touching moments involve the brothers' sexual competition for Sookie Sapperstein (Claire Danes), a Bennington dropout adrift in New York, who meets Oliver after establishing a soulful romantic connection with Igby.
Even though the movie drifts uneasily between satire and realism, and its visions of military school and bohemia feel secondhand, it maintains a ruthless emotional honesty. Ultimately, it gets at something that no other recent American movie has captured quite so acutely: a resentful, lurking disappointment in the good life.
Instead of bringing them happiness, prosperity has left most of the grown-up characters with only a frustrated sense of entitlement floundering in a spiritual void. Jason is literally driven crazy by the pressures of his life, while Mimi fights off emptiness with prescription medications. D. J., the only major adult character to flourish in this atmosphere, is a shark. As much as the chill of today's Darwinian social climate filters down the ladder, "Igby Goes Down" suggests that it just as surely seeps upward.

"Igby Goes Down" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes nudity, sexual situations, and some profanity.

IGBY GOES DOWN

Written and directed by Burr Steers; director of photography, Wedigo von Schultzendorff; edited by William Anderson; music by Uwe Fahrenkrog-Peterson; production designer, Kevin Thompson; produced by Marco Weber and Lisa Tornell; released by United Artists. Running time: 98 minutes. This film is rated R.

WITH: Kieran Culkin (Igby), Claire Danes (Sookie), Jeff Goldblum (D. H.), Jared Harris (Russel), Amanda Peet (Rachel), Ryan Phillippe (Oliver), Bill Pullman (Jason) and Susan Sarandon (Mimi).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Claire Danes as Sookie Sapperstein and Kieran Culkin as Igby Slocumb in "Igby Goes Down." (Myles Aronowitz/United Artists Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SPORTS (71%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); ATHLETES (56%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (54%); STEPPARENTS (50%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

PERSON: JENNIFER ANISTON (58%) Holden, Stephen 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Igby Goes Down (Movie) 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



363 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: New Focus in Filling Audit Watchdog Post 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
John H. Biggs, head of one of the nation's largest pension programs, has emerged as a top candidate to head a new regulatory body that will oversee the accounting profession because Paul A. Volcker, the first choice, has continued to express hesitancy over taking the job, people involved in the selection process said today.
 Mr. Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman who turned 75 last week, had been the top choice of both Republicans and Democrats at the Securities and Exchange Commission to head the new accounting oversight board. They had come to believe that his selection would give the board instant credibility because of his career at the Fed and more recently as a crusader for changes in the accounting profession. 
 But a lobbying campaign to enlist him for the job, waged by senators, commission officials and friends, appears to have failed. While flirting with the idea, Mr. Volcker has repeatedly told friends that he is reluctant to take on a new full-time job that would cut into his other professional obligations here and abroad.
As a result, people involved in the selection process said, Mr. Biggs, 66, has become a leading choice for the job, if he wants it. Mr. Biggs is an economist, actuary and former insurance company executive. His term as chairman and chief executive of TIAA-CREF is set to expire next spring. With $265 billion in assets for 15,000 institutions, Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund is the largest pension system in the country for educational institutions.
Mr. Biggs declined through a spokesman to comment today. One person who has recently talked to him about the job predicted today that he would take it, while another person said that a few weeks ago when he was reported to be on the short list of candidates, Mr. Biggs committed himself to thinking seriously about the job.
Mr. Biggs, like Mr. Volcker, has been a critic of the accounting profession and a leading voice in calling for stronger oversight. Earlier this year, Mr. Biggs urged Congress to create the agency, known as the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and give it broad investigative powers. 
"The investigative power of a new accounting regulatory agency needs to be clear-cut and not simply a derivative of the S.E.C.'s authority," he said in testimony before the Senate Banking Committee in February.
He asked the lawmakers to tighten regulations over the accounting profession and recommended that companies regularly change audit firms to assure their independence and avoid conflicts of interest. He also asked Congress to reopen the debate on the accounting treatment of stock options used to compensate executives.
The new accounting board is granted many important functions, which are generally reviewable by the S.E.C., including disciplining accountants and setting auditing standards. The board is also required to inspect the largest accounting firms yearly to ensure compliance with rules.
The law requires the S.E.C. to select a new board by the end of next month, although officials have been hoping to complete the selection earlier. The agency has a full plate of issues to tackle, including setting a budget, hiring employees and putting in place a range of new auditor rules.
Mr. Biggs was appointed last year to one of the accounting profession's self-regulatory agencies, the Public Oversight Board, whose members resigned earlier this year to protest the recommendations by Harvey L. Pitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, for a different regulatory structure. At the oversight board, Mr. Biggs took the seat that had been vacated by Paul H. O'Neill when he was named Treasury secretary.
A native of St. Louis, Mr. Biggs received a Ph.D. in economics from Washington University in St. Louis. In the 1970's and 80's, was vice chancellor of the school.
The S.E.C. is also considering a relatively short list to fill the other four positions on the new board.
People involved in the selection process said that list includes Mary L. Schapiro, vice chairman of the NASD, formerly the National Association of Securities Dealers; Bevis Longstreth, a former member of the S.E.C.; Joel Seligman, a securities law expert and dean of law at Washington University; Kayla J. Gillan, a former general counsel of the California Public Employees' Retirement System; Charles Bowsher, a former comptroller general of the United States; and Donald J. Kirk, a Columbia University accounting professor and former chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John H. Biggs has been a critic of the accounting profession and a leading voice in calling for stronger oversight. He urged Congress to create an oversight board with investigative powers. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (92%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUDITS (88%); INSURANCE (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); LOBBYING (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (82%)

ORGANIZATION: COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%) TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY-COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%)

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN; BIGGS, JOHN H; VOLCKER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



364 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 3030 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 MUSEUMS

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE, 36-01 35th Avenue, at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens. One of the largest collections of moving-image artifacts. On display: "Robert De Niro: Costume and Character," with more than two dozen costumes. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., "An Afternoon With Gordon Willis," part of a two-day master class featuring a screening of "Pennies From Heaven" (1981), directed by Herbert Ross, followed by a conversation with the film director Gordon Willis; on Sunday at 2 p.m., a screening of "All the President's Men" (1976), directed by Alan J. Pakula, introduced by Mr. Willis; at 5 p.m., a screening of "The Purple Rose of Cairo" (1985), directed by Woody Allen, introduced by Mr. Willis. Admission to each day's master class, $16, $10 for members. Also tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. and Sunday at 7 p.m., "Rocco and His Brothers" (1960), directed by Luchino Visconti. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; and by appointment. Film and video screenings are free with admission unless otherwise noted. Museum admission: $8.50; 65 and students, $5.50; 5 to 18, $4.50; 4 and under, free. Information: (718) 784-0077.

MUSEUM OF JEWISH HERITAGE: A LIVING MEMORIAL TO THE HOLOCAUST, 18 First Place, at West Street and Battery Place, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan. Features exhibitions on the Holocaust and Jewish life before and after World War II. On view through Jan. 5, "Yahrzeit: Sept. 11 Observed," with objects that reflect responses by Jews to the attacks. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays and the eves of Jewish holidays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. through Oct. 25; closed Saturdays and Jewish holidays, including Monday. Admission: $7; students and 55+, $5; children 5 and under, free. To reserve tickets: (212) 945-0039. Information: (212) 509-6130.

ZOOS

BRONX ZOO, Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Fordham. Some 265 wooded acres are devoted to naturalistic habitats, including Jungle World, African Plains, the Baboon Reserve, the World of Birds, the Aitken Sea Bird Colony, Big Birds and the Congo Gorilla Forest (admission, $3), a six-and-a-half-acre reproduction of the Central African rain forest, with lowland gorillas, African rock pythons, Wolf's monkeys, bugs, birds and reptiles. The Children's Zoo features interactive exhibitions and domestic animals (admission, $2). Daily camel rides are available on the weekends, $3 a person. Narrated tours of Wild Asia on the Bengali Express Monorail, $2 round trip. The Butterfly Zone, through Oct. 1, depending on the weather, with thousands of butterflies and moths and an area where visitors can see the metamorphosis of chrysalides, or cocoons, into butterflies or moths, weather permitting (admission: $2). Both the zoo shuttle and the Skyfari are $2 each way. Classes available for adults and children. Information and registration: (718) 220-6854. Reservations required for daily tours: (718) 220-5141. Zoo hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. General admission: $11; children 2 to 12, $6; 65+, $7; children under 2, free; by donation Wednesdays. Parking: $7. Information: (718) 367-1010.

CENTRAL PARK ZOO, Fifth Avenue at 64th Street. Sea lion feedings daily at 11:30 a.m. and 2 and 4 p.m., and penguin feedings daily at 10:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. "Wildlife Theater," interactive shows throughout the day. Adult and children's courses available; course information, (212) 439-6583. Hours, including the Tisch Children's Zoo: daily, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (Last ticket sold at 4 p.m.) Admission: $3.50; 65+, $1.25; children 3 to 12, 50 cents; under 3, free. Admission includes the Tisch Children's Zoo. Information: (212) 861-6030.

NEW YORK AQUARIUM, West Eighth Street and the Boardwalk, Coney Island, Brooklyn. Exhibition areas include Sea Cliffs, with walruses, sea otters, seals and wave machines; Explore the Shore, which offers a look at the aquatic world with a water tank, photographs, interactive videos and games; the Hudson River; Native Sea Life; Shark Tank; an oceanic tank; and beluga whale pools. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; weekends, until 5:30 p.m. (Final tickets are sold 45 minutes before closing.) Times for daily feedings are posted in the lobby. Admission: $11; $7 for children 2 to 12 and 65+; free for children under 2. Information: (718) 265-3474 or www.nyaquarium.org.

PROSPECT PARK ZOO, 450 Flatbush Avenue, near Empire Boulevard, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. Geared to children, with sea lions, wallabies, baboons, farm animals and a discovery trail. Sea lion feedings daily at 11:30 a.m., 2 and 4 p.m. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; weekends and holidays, until 5:30 p.m. (Final tickets are sold 30 minutes before closing.) Admission: $2.50; 65+, $1.25; children 3 to 12, 50 cents; 3 and under, free. Information: (718) 399-7339.

WALKING TOURS

"EXPLORING UNION SQUARE." Meets Saturdays at 2 p.m. at the Lincoln Statue at the north end of Union Square. Sponsored by the 14th Street-Union Square Business Improvement District and Quality Street Tours. Free. Information: (718) 783-3260.

"WALL STREET RISING PRESENTS ART DOWNTOWN," a free self-guided walking tour of art in public spaces, including 48 Wall Street, 25 Broad Street, 1 New York Plaza and 45 Wall Street. Maps are available at stops on the tour. Today, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; tomorrow and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Information: (212) 509-0300.

"EAST SIDE/WEST SIDE," Manhattan. A three-mile walk from Cooper Square to Chelsea, with stops in Stuyvesant Square, Gramercy Park and the Flatiron district, meeting tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. in front of the Kmart at Astor Place. Fee: $3. Sponsored by the Outdoors Club. Information: (212) 662-8922.

"HIKE NEW YORK CITY," a six- to eight-mile hike of Midtown and Lower Manhattan, with commentary on their history and folklore. Meets tomorrow at 10 a.m. at the visitors' entrance to the United Nations, First Avenue and 45th Street. Fee: $25, plus refreshments. Led by Michael Kaback. Information: (212) 370-4214.

DUMBO AND VINEGAR HILL, Brooklyn. Includes stops at a Buddhist temple and Greek Revival buildings. Meets tomorrow at 11 a.m. on the northeast corner of Waverly Place and Avenue of the Americas. Fee: $20. Sponsored by www.NewYorkCity-tours.com. Information: (212) 475-6914.

HISTORIC TRIBECA, focuses on the history and architecture of that neighborhood, and famous residents past and present. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the Woolworth Building, 233 Broadway, at Barclay Street, across from City Hall Park. Sponsored by I'll Take Manhattan Tours. Fee: $12. Information: (732) 270-5277.

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS. Today at 1 p.m., "Historic Lower Manhattan," with stops at the Woolworth Building and the New York Stock Exchange, meeting on the steps of the Alexander Hamilton United States Custom House, Bowling Green. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., "Brooklyn Bridge and Brooklyn Heights" begins in Lower Manhattan and includes a walk across the Brooklyn Bridge, meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and Chambers Street. Sunday at 6:30 p.m., "Gramercy Park and Union Square at Twilight," with stops at Tammany Hall, the Players Club and buildings associated with Stanford White and Theodore Roosevelt, meeting at the George Washington statue on the 14th Street side of Union Square. Fee for each: $12, $10 for students and 63+. Information: (212) 439-1090.

STREET SMARTS N.Y., tomorrow at 2 p.m., "Manhattan Murder Mysteries" explores some of the most famous crime scenes in New York; meets in front of the Park Central Hotel on Seventh Avenue at 56th Street. Sunday at 2 p.m., "Dandies, Dudes and Shady Ladies" explores saloon culture and old Bowery Boy haunts through SoHo and the Bowery area, meeting in front of the subway kiosk at Astor Place. Fee for each tour: $10. Information: (212) 969-8262; www.streetsmartsny.com.

"JACKSON HEIGHTS NOSH WALK," with samplings of Colombian, Peruvian, Indian, Bangladeshi, Polish, Italian and Thai fare, meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. in front of the North Fork Bank, 37-02 82nd Street, Queens. Sponsored by Noshwalks. Fee: $15. Information: (212) 222-2243.

NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS, Lower Manhattan. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., "United We Stand: New York in War and Peace" visits sites associated with wars from the frontier days to the 20th century, meeting inside Blimpie's restaurant, 38 Park Row, between Spruce and Beekman Streets. Sunday at 1 p.m., "Jewish Lower East Side Talk and Walk," with stops at historic sites, including a synagogue. Fee for each: $12. Information: (888) 377-4455.

NYC DISCOVERY TOURS: "Gramercy Park and Madison Square: Celebrating Theodore Roosevelt's Inaugural," with stops at buildings associated with him, tomorrow at 2 p.m. and Sunday at noon. The "Rosh Hashana Lower East Side and Brooklyn Bridge Tour" covers historic Lower East Side sites and includes a walk across the bridge, tomorrow at 4:15 p.m. and Sunday at 2:15 p.m. Fee for each: $12. Information and meeting places: (212) 465-3331.

"GREENWICH VILLAGE LITERARY PUB CRAWL." Combines readings of works by noted writers with stops at bars they made famous. Meets Saturdays at 2 p.m. at the White Horse Tavern, 567 Hudson Street, West Village. Sponsored by the New Ensemble Theater Company. Fee: $15; students and 55+, $12. Refreshments not included. Reservations: (212) 613-5796.

MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY. Today at 11 a.m., "Clubland!" visits clubs near Grand Central Terminal, including the Century Association and the New York Yacht Club. Meets at the entrance to Track 29 in Grand Central Terminal. Sunday at 11 a.m., "Downtown: Religious Diversity" visits early religious congregations in Lower Manhattan, meeting at the foot of City Hall Park, at Park Row and Broadway. Fee for each: $15, $12 for society members. Information: (212) 439-1049.

"HARLEM: KEYSTONE OF AFRICAN AMERICA." The history, homes, churches and cultural and economic growth of the area. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at City College, Amsterdam Avenue and 138th Street, Hamilton Heights. Fee: $12. Sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York. Information: (212) 242-5762.

"HIGHLIGHTS OF THE WEST VILLAGE," an overview in two parts. Stops at locations dating from the 18th and 19th centuries to the present, including sites of importance in the lives of Thomas Paine and Jimi Hendrix. Part 1, tomorrow and Sunday at 11:45 a.m.; Part 2, tomorrow and Sunday at 2:15 p.m. Fee: $11 each part. Sponsored by Gotham Walk. Information and meeting place: (212) 629-1886.

NEW YORK LIKE A NATIVE. Tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. "Brooklyn 101" covers the history and architecture of Park Slope, Prospect Park and Brooklyn Heights. On Sunday at 11:30 a.m. "Visit Coney Island" stops at the historic amusement park, as well as the Coney Island Museum and Brighton Beach. Fee: $13 tomorrow; $14 on Sunday. Reservations and meeting places: (718) 393-7537.

"FLUSHING BAY TO EAST RIVER," Queens, a 10-mile walk on Sunday, beginning at 10 a.m. at Main Street and Roosevelt Island in Flushing, ending in Astoria. Fee: $3. Sponsored by Shorewalkers. Information: (212) 421-5574 or (212) 686-5095.

GREEN-WOOD CEMETERY, Brooklyn. A two-hour walk through the cemetery where Currier and Ives, Horace Greeley, Samuel F. B. Morse, Louis Comfort Tiffany, Leonard Bernstein and others are buried. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. inside the main entrance at Fifth Avenue and 25th Street. Fee: $6. Led by John J. Cashman and Frank Mescall. Information: (718) 469-5277.

"DISCOVER PROSPECT PARK," a free walk that focuses on this park's water sources and the last forest in Brooklyn. Meets Saturdays and Sundays at 3 p.m. at the Boathouse in the Prospect Park Audubon Center in Brooklyn. Sponsored by the Prospect Park Alliance. Information: (718) 287-3400.

ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING. Tomorrow at 11:30 a.m.: "Lively Little Italy," coinciding with the Feast of San Gennaro, with stops at the Old St. Patrick's Cathedral, a famous bakery and the Old Police Headquarters. Meets on the northwest corner of Canal and Baxter Streets in Manhattan. Sunday at 1:30 p.m., a look at the Astor Place neighborhood, meeting at 1:30 p.m on the northwest corner of Broadway and Eighth Street in Manhattan. Sunday at 5:15 p.m., "Idyllic Island," touring Roosevelt Island, beginning with an aerial tram ride and including stops at the Blackwell Farmhouse, the Octagon Tower and a lighthouse; meeting on the northwest corner of 59th Street and Second Avenue in Manhattan. Fee for each: $5, plus $3 tram fare for Roosevelt Island tour. Information: (212) 265-2663.

"TAKE TIME TO SMELL THE ROSES IN CENTRAL PARK." Three tours covering the history and treasures of the park, Saturdays and Sundays at 9 and 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Each tour: $15. Sponsored by Central Park Walking Tours. Meeting places and other information: (212) 721-0874.

"LANDMARKS OF THE UPPER WEST SIDE." Stops at cultural, educational and residential sites, meeting on Sunday at 2 p.m. on the southeast corner of West 70th Street and Broadway. Fee: $10. Sponsored by New York City Cultural Walking Tours. Information: (212) 979-2388.

RECREATION

"LET FREEDOM RUN," Midtown to Lower Manhattan. A four-mile run and walk tomorrow to honor those who died in the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. Begins at 9 a.m. at Pier 84, Hudson River and 44th Street, Manhattan. Sponsored by the New York City Sports Commission, the Hudson River Park Trust, the Achilles Track Club and others.

"KOMEN NEW YORK CITY RACE FOR THE CURE," Central Park. A five-kilometer race and walk for all women and for male breast cancer survivors, beginning on Sunday at 9 a.m. at Central Park West and 77th Street. Sponsored by the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation and the New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration: $25; race-day fee: $35. Information: (212) 293-2873; (212) 860-4455; www.komennyc.org.

EVENTS

"REFLECTIONS ON ANTI-SEMITISM," Florence Gould Hall, 55 East 55th Street, Manhattan. A weekend of free screenings of films produced for French television. Today: "Deux Femmes a Paris" ("Two Women in Paris") at 6 p.m. and "Les Faux-fuyants" ("Evasion") at 8 p.m. Tomorrow: "Un Pique-nique Chez Osiris, Part 1" ("Picnic With Osiris, Part 1") at 6 p.m. and "Un Pique-nique Chez Osiris, Part 2") ("A Picnic With Osiris, Part 2") at 8 p.m. Tickets can be picked up on the day of the screening. Information: (212) 355-6160.

75TH FEAST OF SAN GENNARO, Mulberry Street, between Canal and Houston Streets; and Hester and Grand Streets, between Baxter and Mott Streets, Little Italy. Through Sept. 22. Daily, 11:30 a.m. to midnight.

ANNUAL WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK CRAFTS AND ANTIQUES FAIR, Washington Square South, from Macdougal Street to Broadway, Greenwich Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Friends of Washington Square Park.

FAR WEST 10TH STREET BLOCK ASSOCIATION STREET FAIR, from West Fourth to Bleecker Streets, Greenwich Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

DOWNTOWN ARTS FESTIVAL, featuring walking tours, art talks and performances in Lower Manhattan, tomorrow through Sept. 30. Events this weekend include "Chelsea Art Walks," with a series of free art talks and performances at locations including the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street; and tomorrow from noon to 6 p.m., a free video exhibition at Electronic Arts Intermix, 535 West 22nd Street, fifth floor. Sponsored by Downtown Arts Projects. Information: www.downtownarts.org.

GREENWICH AVENUE FESTIVAL, from Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Village Independent Democrats.

"FACES OF GROUND ZERO," Rockefeller Center, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, Midtown. Fifty-eight life-size portraits of rescue workers and survivors of the Sept. 11 attacks. Daily, 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. Free. Through Sept. 23. Information: (212) 632-3975.

"TAIWAN SALUTES" FOLK FESTIVAL AND CONCERT, Washington Square Park, and Greene and Macdougal Streets, Greenwich Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free. Sponsored by the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office and other organizations.

"FESTIVAL 2002," St. Catherine of Genoa Church, West 153rd Street, between Amsterdam Avenue and Broadway, Manhattan. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

UNIVERSITY PLACE CORE FESTIVAL, University Place, from Eighth to 14th Streets, Greenwich Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Congress of Racial Equality.

SECOND AVENUE AUTUMN JUBILEE, from 23rd to 34th Streets, Manhattan. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Bellevue South Community Association.

"BROADWAY ON BROADWAY," Times Square. A free performance of numbers from the current Broadway productions of "Mamma Mia!," "Oklahoma," "Into the Woods" and "Chicago," as well as previews of "Urban Cowboys," "Movin' Out" and "Man of La Mancha." Sunday at 11:30 a.m.

"WESTERN CARAVAN," Battery Park City, Esplanade Plaza, south of North Cove Marina, Lower Manhattan. Free western music and dancing. Tomorrow, 6:30 to 8 p.m. Sponsored by the Battery Park City Parks Conservancy. Information: (212) 267-9700.

"STATEN ISLAND REMEMBERS," Staten Island Waterfront Festival, St. George, across from the ferry terminal. Tomorrow, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. With music, a greenmarket, a crafts display and children's games. Sponsored by local merchants.

JACKSON HEIGHTS 37TH AVENUE FESTIVAL, from 83rd to 89th Streets, Queens. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Jackson Heights Kiwanis Club.

MEXICAN DAY PARADE, Madison Avenue, beginning at 41st Street and running to 23rd Street. Sunday at noon.

MANHATTAN AVENUE FESTIVAL, from Greenpoint to Bedford Avenues, Brooklyn. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sponsored by the Greenpoint Y.M.C.A.

"ACCESS UPHEAVAL," an annual free outdoor production presented by the Theater for the New City at spots around New York through Sunday. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., Tompkins Square Park, Seventh Street and Avenue A, Lower East Side. Sunday at 2 p.m., Washington Square Park, Greenwich Village. Information: (212) 254-1109.

17TH AUTUMN CRAFTS FESTIVAL AT LINCOLN CENTER, Damrosch Park and the Josie L. Robertson Plaza. Tomorrow and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sponsored by the American Concern for Art and Craftsmanship. hudsonriverpark.org.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Yahrzeit: Sept. 11 Observed" is at the Museum of Jewish Heritage. (Jake Price/Museum of Jewish Heritage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); FILM HISTORY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); PRIMATES (87%); HOLOCAUST (86%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); WORLD WAR II (64%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (64%); ANIMALS (64%); MAMMALS (64%); RAIN FORESTS (60%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (91%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AFRICA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



365 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Good Charisma, Bad Business 

BYLINE:  By Rakesh Khurana; Rakesh Khurana is an assistant professor at Harvard Business School and author of "Searching for a Corporate Savior: The Irrational Quest for Charismatic C.E.O.'s."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
Jack Welch is probably the ultimate manifestation of the charismatic chief executive, a figure that has become increasingly familiar in recent years. But charisma, whether in primitive societies or corporate boardrooms, is overrated, and its relation to success is uncertain.
 This is a useful lesson, especially considering the revelation of the many personal perks Mr. Welch continues to receive even into retirement: free tickets to baseball and basketball games, use of a corporate jet and a rent-free apartment on Central Park -- including all costs for food, laundry and even newspapers. Why did General Electric's board provide Mr. Welch, who retired last year as chief executive and whose net worth approaches $1 billion, with such lavish benefits? He can obviously afford to buy his own groceries. 
 G.E. has said its offer was necessary to induce Mr. Welch to stay on as chief executive longer than he had planned. But a better explanation may be that the board understood how such regal privileges would help maintain the illusion of Mr. Welch's charisma.
The charismatic leader, whether in ancient civilizations or in modern-day America, is a creation of society. So as not to appear a mere mortal, he is required to display various material symbols to bolster his image. In ancient times, leaders often wore special clothing, masks and ornaments that conferred on them a larger-than-life appearance. In monarchies, kings and queens assume charisma through their family heritage, buttressing it with such potent symbols as palaces, robes and crowns.
For Mr. Welch and other chief executives, the same function is played by private planes, limousines, palatial homes, exclusive seats at sporting events and other trappings of corporate power. Without them, their stature would be diminished.
Charisma -- the word is derived from the religious term charisms, meaning "gifts of the Holy Spirit" -- wasn't always important in business. For three decades following World War II, the typical chief executive was an organization man who worked his way up the ranks and was no better known to the general public than was his secretary or his dentist. That started to change in the 1980's, when a long decline in corporate profits ushered in today's era of investor capitalism. Senior managers -- once viewed as enlightened corporate statesmen -- began to be portrayed as an insulated, purely self-interested elite, ill prepared to face the challenges of global competition and technological change. Investors demanded chief executives who could shake things up.
This important change coincided with two other shifts. The first was the emergence of an almost religious conception of business, exemplified by the appearance of words such as "mission," "vision" and "values" in the corporate lexicon. The second was the rise of so-called populist capitalism, whereby ordinary Americans made investing the country's most popular participatory sport. To serve the public's growing appetite for business news, the press greatly expanded coverage of corporate doings, focusing -- as always -- on personalities and easily comprehensible narratives.
In turn, a new breed of corporate leader -- today's charismatic chief executive, one whose power derives from his followers' belief in his extraordinary gifts -- began to appear. Lee Iacocca, who was elected chief executive of Chrysler in 1979, will probably go down in history as the first modern example of a charismatic business leader. His turnaround of Chrysler (with the help of federal loan guarantees of up to $1.5 billion) made him a celebrity and even a national hero.
Mr. Welch, too, was universally praised -- in 1999 Fortune magazine named him "manager of the century." By most measures, Mr. Welch's career was certainly successful. Although a G.E. insider, he took on the mantle of a sword-wielding savior when he assumed the top job, shredding the old company before rebuilding it in his own image. He often appeared to have the gift of tongues, enabling him not only to inspire employees to work ever harder but also to bedazzle analysts, investors, the press and the public. And he did appear to be a miracle worker; during his 20-year tenure, G.E.'s value rose to $500 billion from $13 billion.
It turns out, though, that Mr. Welch was more successful than most charismatic business leaders. Although we want to believe that a charismatic chief executive will be able to burnish even the most tarnished business, there is no conclusive evidence that a company's top leadership actually has much impact on its performance at all. Studies show that external factors, such as general industry and economic conditions, have a far greater influence over a company's results than does its chief executive.
Most academic research merely confirms Warren Buffet's observation that when you bring good management into a bad business, it's the reputation of the business that stays intact. Even Mr. Welch's record is now being debated. G.E.'s stock has fallen by more than a quarter since his retirement, leading many to ask how much of the company's success was real and how much was just the "Welch effect."
It's a good question. The answer may reveal more about the power of charisma than it does about the talent of Jack Welch.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Melinda Beck) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); BASKETBALL (76%); BASEBALL (71%); SPORTS (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); WORLD WAR II (50%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; FRINGE BENEFITS 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (92%) WELCH, JACK; KHURANA, RAKESH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



366 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Backs Budget Control and the TaxCuts 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, warned today that the economy would suffer if Congress failed to keep the federal budget deficit under control. But he advised against Democratic efforts to replenish the government's coffers by rolling back or delaying the $1.3 trillion tax cut signed into law last year by President Bush.
 Appearing before the House Budget Committee, Mr. Greenspan said little about the current condition of the economy, disappointing investors, who had hoped for signals of optimism. Stocks closed lower, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling more than 201 points to 8,379.41, as the market was also hurt by concern about war with Iraq and new indicators of economic sluggishness. 
 Instead of providing clues to Fed interest rate policy, Mr. Greenspan injected himself into the partisan debate over the reasons behind the rapid swing from budget surpluses to deficits.
The message of the Fed chairman's prepared testimony was that a breakdown of budget discipline over both taxes and spending would lead to higher interest rates and slower economic growth in the long run. Yet in the question-and-answer session, Mr. Greenspan seemed to align himself philosophically with Republicans -- and anger Democrats -- over how to address the nation's fiscal troubles.
In response to some questions, Mr. Greenspan said the specifics of dealing with the situation were up to Congress, and he urged the House and Senate to extend budget rules, adopted a decade ago with bipartisan support, that theoretically bar tax cuts and spending increases that are not offset elsewhere in the budget. 
But at other points he placed himself in the camp of small-government low-tax conservatives. He suggested that increases in domestic spending be tightly limited, that there were long-term economic justifications for additional tax cuts and that it was too late to undo last year's tax cut, even though much of it is not scheduled to take effect for years.
Many Democrats have felt betrayed by Mr. Greenspan for having given Mr. Bush's tax cut a qualified endorsement early last year, undermining the Democratic argument that the tax cut was fiscally reckless.
With Democratic warnings that the tax cut could lead to renewed budget deficits having come to pass -- in part as well because of the recession and the costs of fighting terrorism -- Democrats have been trying to turn Mr. Greenspan's influence to their advantage by emphasizing his demands for fiscal discipline.
Up to a point, Mr. Greenspan gave Democrats what they wanted. He said he still supported an idea he floated last year, to allow tax cuts and spending increases to take effect only if the budget surplus projections that they were based on proved to be on track. Many Democrats have been making a case that a "trigger" of the sort proposed by Mr. Greenspan would justify canceling or postponing provisions in Mr. Bush's tax cut that have not yet taken effect, including the complete repeal of the estate tax in 2010.
But when asked specifically by Representative Ken Bentsen, Democrat of Texas, whether he would support delaying the scheduled tax cuts by applying the trigger concept to them, Mr. Greenspan said no.
"My own view is, I would prefer not," Mr. Greenspan said.
Mr. Greenspan, who normally couches his views on tax and spending issues in economic terms, cited politics as one justification for his stance, noting that there would be "resistance from a significant majority of the Congress."
He contended that provisions accounting for two-thirds of the tax cut's total value have already taken effect, an interpretation that other economists might dispute. And he said canceling or delaying the provisions not yet phased in would be disruptive to taxpayers who were counting on them in advance.
When asked by Mr. Bentsen how he would square his warnings about higher interest rates and slower economic growth caused by budget deficits with his unwillingness to rethink the tax cut, Mr. Greenspan said he did not "particularly wish to focus on any specific part of the budget."
Even when upset with him, Democrats still treat Mr. Greenspan with considerable deference. But their frustration with him today was thinly veiled. Representative James P. Moran, Democrat of Virginia, suggested that Mr. Greenspan had misled Congress by backing the tax cut last year even though the Fed chairman must have suspected that the $5.6 trillion, 10-year surplus projection used to justify it was built on unrealistic assumptions and an overvalued stock market.
"You knew that $5.6 trillion was not sustainable," Mr. Moran said. "You knew and warned us that the equity markets were hyperinflated, and any number of contributing factors made you more aware than most people that the money was not there."
Mr. Greenspan responded that the $5.6 trillion estimate from the Congressional Budget Office was "professionally as good as you could do."
For their part, Republicans did not have to work hard to tease from Mr. Greenspan support for their view that the key to restoring the budget to balance is holding down the growth of government spending.
When asked by Representative Mac Thornberry, Republican of Texas, if it would be positive for the economy for spending growth to remain "relatively restrained," Mr. Greenspan replied, "It would be positive."
Asked about consideration within the administration for a package of tax cuts intended to help investors by reducing taxation of dividends and cutting capital gains taxes, Mr. Greenspan said the package would have positive economic effects in the long run, though he said it would have to fit within a long-term budget plan that dealt with the deficit.
Mr. Greenspan sided with Democrats on some issues. He said he believed that large budget deficits ultimately push up long-term interest rates, the central point Democrats make in arguing against big tax cuts. And he said there was no reliable way to estimate how much economic growth is created by tax cuts, undercutting attempts by Republicans to adopt budget projections that assume that tax cuts pay for themselves.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The House Budget Committee yesterday heard the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, discuss economic policy. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); IRAQ WAR (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TERRORISM (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



367 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: As Bavaria Droops, So Does Its Favorite Son 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: MUNICH, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
As German voters prepare to elect a chancellor on Sept. 22, the conservative challenger, Edmund Stoiber, never fails to remind his countrymen that four million of them are out of work.
 It is a pointed message because Mr. Stoiber is premier of Bavaria, reputed to be Germany's most economically vibrant state. 
 At a noisy song-filled rally in his hometown this weekend, Mr. Stoiber hectored Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, who hopes to keep his own job, for failing to cut the number of jobless to below 3.5 million as he once promised. Mr. Stoiber said his success in Bavaria made him the obvious replacement for Mr. Schroder and his failed government. 
The trouble is, Bavaria has begun to falter. Unemployment here, while still below the national average of 9.9 percent, is rising faster than anywhere else in the country, reaching 5.9 percent last month.
"It's no longer true to say that Germany is weak and Bavaria is booming," said Jurgen Hofmann, the policy chief in the state economics ministry. "Bavaria is not an island."
With the election too close to call, the spike in unemployment is undermining Mr. Stoiber's most persuasive sales pitch: that he can resuscitate the German economy by applying the lessons of Bavaria.
"The Bavarian example was very attractive for a while," said Heribert Prantl, a columnist at the Munich newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung. "But with all the bad news, it has become a bit dubious."
In the nine months since Mr. Stoiber won the backing of Germany's conservative coalition to take on Mr. Schroder, the state Mr. Stoiber has run with a tight grip since 1993 has had a litany of grim news.
Bavaria's media mogul, the once mighty Leo Kirch, filed for bankruptcy in May after he took on too much debt trying to compete with better-financed titans like Rupert Murdoch. Mr. Kirch's fall embarrassed Mr. Stoiber because it came despite efforts by Bavaria's state bank to bail Mr. Kirch out.
Bavaria has also been singed by the collapse of the dot-com industry. Many of the Internet firms that sprouted here in the last decade, making Munich a city of "laptops and lederhosen," have gone bust.
Siemens, the electronics conglomerate that is the pride of Bavarian industry and one of its largest employers, is reeling from the carnage in the global telephone industry. It has laid off 17,800 workers. 
"Our strengths are in all the areas that were hardest hit by the global downturn," said Randolf Rodenstock, president of the Bavarian Business Association. "We are still relatively strong, but the gap is closing." Mr. Rodenstock can testify to the hard times. He runs Germany's largest maker of eyeglasses, a venerable family-owned company started by his great-grandfather in 1877. A costly foray into the United States has brought heavy losses and forced Mr. Rodenstock to lay off workers.
"Business is terrible," he said with a sigh.
As the economic situation in Bavaria deteriorates, Mr. Schroder has taken to noting how "preoccupied" he is with what is happening in the region. It is an odd role reversal for the candidates: for most of the campaign, Mr. Stoiber has seized on every fresh statistic to condemn Mr. Schroder's economic policies.
In historic terms, Bavaria is still a remarkable success. Bucolic, inaccessible and poorly developed after World War II, it has become an engine of the German economy. Mr. Stoiber's Christian Social Union, which has ruled here with an absolute majority since 1962, laid the groundwork by attracting companies like Siemens, as well as opening universities to support them.
Today, Bavaria ranks first or second among Germany's 16 states in per capita income and economic growth. Its unemployment rate is the second lowest, after the neighboring state of Baden-Wurttemberg. Compared with parts of eastern Germany, where joblessness hovers around 20 percent, Bavaria remains a paradise -- not to mention a magnet for job seekers.
That is part of the problem. The government says that 344,000 people moved here from other parts of Germany between 1993 and last year. When business went sour, the market could not support them.
"Highly skilled people are coming in, taking jobs from less skilled people who are already here," Mr. Hofmann said.
He insisted that Bavaria was a victim of global economic forces over which his boss has little control. But government meddling has not helped matters. The state-controlled bank, Bayerische Landesbank, poured billions of dollars into the Kirch empire, in what even sympathetic onlookers said was an ill-advised campaign to save a home-grown tycoon.
For all his focus on the new economy, Mr. Stoiber has not solved one of the chronic weaknesses in Bavaria's development: the disparity between north and south. Unemployment in Hof, a decaying industrial city on what used to be the East German border, is double that in Munich. 
"The south is picture-postcard Bavaria while the north is what we call poorhouse Bavaria," said Mr. Prantl, the columnist.
Mr. Stoiber had hoped to redress the balance by persuading BMW, the automaker that is Bavaria's best-known company, to open an assembly plant in Hof. But BMW decided to go to Leipzig, in eastern Germany.
Mr. Hofmann said that under European Union rules, eastern German states are able to offer more generous subsidies and tax incentives than western states. Bavaria could not match Leipzig's package. "That single decision would have made Hof a healthy city," he said. 
Political analysts say that Mr. Stoiber's problems run deeper than the Bavarian economy. He has been thrown off balance by Mr. Schroder's outspoken opposition to an American strike against Iraq. Polls indicate that Mr. Schroder's criticism has struck a chord with voters.
With war clouds abroad -- and growing doubts about the state of his own backyard -- analysts are saying it may be difficult for Mr. Stoiber to regain momentum in the final stretch of the campaign.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An election poster reading "Competence for Germany" supporting the Bavarian conservative Edmund Stoiber in Berlin this week. But maybe the Sept. 22 vote could be summarized: "It's the economy, dummkopf." (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); TRENDS (68%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS MFG (66%); WRITERS (65%); FAMILY COMPANIES (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (54%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (54%); SIE (LSE) (54%); SIE (FRA) (54%); SIE (BIT) (54%); SI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (89%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%) LANDLER, MARK; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); STOIBER, EDMUND 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) BAVARIA, GERMANY (97%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) GERMANY; BAVARIA (GERMANY)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



368 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2771 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES; 
In Bush's Words: On Iraq, U.N. Must Face Up to Its Founding Purpose

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's address to the United Nations yesterday, as recorded by The New York Times:
 Mr. Secretary General, Mr. President, distinguished delegates and ladies and gentlemen. 
 We meet one year and one day after a terrorist attack brought grief to my country and brought grief to many citizens of our world. 
Yesterday we remembered the innocent lives taken that terrible morning. Today we turn to the urgent duty of protecting other lives, without illusion and without fear. 
We've accomplished much in the last year in Afghanistan and beyond. We have much yet to do in Afghanistan and beyond. 
Many nations represented here have joined in the fight against global terror and the people of the United States are grateful. 
The United Nations was born in the hope that survived a world war, the hope of a world moving toward justice, escaping old patterns of conflict and fear. The founding members resolved that the peace of the world must never again be destroyed by the will and wickedness of any man. 
We created a United Nations Security Council so that, unlike the League of Nations, our deliberations would be more than talk, our resolutions would be more than wishes. 
After generations of deceitful dictators and broken treaties and squandered lives, we dedicated ourselves to standards of human dignity shared by all and to a system of security defended by all. 
Today, these standards and this security are challenged. Our commitment to human dignity is challenged by persistent poverty and raging disease. The suffering is great and our responsibilities are clear. 
The United States is joining with the world to supply aid where it reaches people and lifts up lives, to extend trade and the prosperity it brings, and to bring medical care where it is desperately needed. 
As a symbol of our commitment to human dignity, the United States will return to Unesco. This organization has been reformed, and America will participate fully in its mission to advance human rights and tolerance and learning. 
Our common security is challenged by regional conflicts, ethnic and religious strife that is ancient but not inevitable. 
In the Middle East there can be no peace for either side without freedom for both sides.
America stands committed to an independent and democratic Palestine living side by side with Israel in peace and security. Like all other people, Palestinians deserve a government that serves their interests and listens to their voices. My nation will continue to encourage all parties to step up to their responsibilities as we seek a just and comprehensive settlement to the conflict. 
Above all, our principles and our security are challenged today by outlaw groups and regimes that accept no law of morality and have no limit to their violent ambitions. 
In the attacks on America a year ago, we saw the destructive intentions of our enemies. This threat hides within many nations, including my own. In cells and camps, terrorists are plotting further destruction and building new bases for their war against civilization. 
And our greatest fear is that terrorists will find a shortcut to their mad ambitions when an outlaw regime supplies them with the technologies to kill on a massive scale. 
In one place, in one regime, we find all these dangers in their most lethal and aggressive forms -- exactly the kind of aggressive threat the United Nations was born to confront. 
Twelve years ago, Iraq invaded Kuwait without provocation and the regime's forces were poised to continue their march to seize other countries and their resources. Had Saddam Hussein been appeased instead of stopped, he would have endangered the peace and stability of the world. 
Yet this aggression was stopped by the might of coalition forces and the will of the United Nations. 
To suspend hostilities, to spare himself, Iraq's dictator accepted a series of commitments. 
The terms were clear -- to him and to all. And he agreed to prove he is complying with every one of those obligations. He has proven instead only his contempt for the United Nations and for all his pledges. By breaking every pledge, by his deceptions and by his cruelties, Saddam Hussein has made the case against himself. 
In 1991, Security Council Resolution 688 demanded that the Iraqi regime cease at once the repression of its own people, including the systematic repression of minorities, which the council said threatened international peace and security in the region. This demand goes ignored. 
Last year the U.N. Commission on Human Rights found that Iraq continues to commit extremely grave violations of human rights and that the regime's repression is all-pervasive. Tens of thousands of political opponents and ordinary citizens have been subjected to arbitrary arrest and imprisonment, summary execution and torture by beating and burning, electric shock, starvation, mutilation and rape. Wives are tortured in front of their husbands, children in the presence of their parents -- and all of these horrors concealed from the world by the apparatus of a totalitarian state. 
In 1991 the U.N. Security Council, through Resolutions 686 and 687, demanded that Iraq return all prisoners from Kuwait and other lands. Iraq's regime agreed. It broke this promise. 
Last year the secretary general's high-level coordinator for this issue reported that Kuwaiti, Saudi, Indian, Syrian, Lebanese, Iranian, Egyptian, Bahraini and Omani nationals remain unaccounted for -- more than 600 people. One American pilot is among them. 
In 1991 the U.N. Security Council, through Resolution 687, demanded that Iraq renounce all involvement with terrorism and permit no terrorist organizations to operate in Iraq. Iraq's regime agreed. It broke this promise. 
In violation of Security Council Resolution 1373, Iraq continues to shelter and support terrorist organizations that direct violence against Iran, Israel and Western governments. Iraqi dissidents abroad are targeted for murder. 
In 1993 Iraq attempted to assassinate the emir of Kuwait and a former American president. 
Iraq's government openly praised the attacks of Sept. 11, and Al Qaeda terrorists escaped from Afghanistan and are known to be in Iraq. 
In 1991 the Iraqi regime agreed to destroy and stop developing all weapons of mass destruction and long-range missiles, and to prove to the world it has done so by complying with rigorous inspections. Iraq has broken every aspect of this fundamental pledge. 
From 1991 to 1995, the Iraqi regime said it had no biological weapons. After a senior official in its weapons program defected and exposed this lie, the regime admitted to producing tens of thousands of liters of anthrax and other deadly biological agents for use with Scud warheads, aerial bombs and aircraft spray tanks. 
U.N. inspectors believe Iraq has produced two to four times the amount of biological agents it declared and has failed to account for more than three metric tons of material that could be used to produce biological weapons. Right now, Iraq is expanding and improving facilities that were used for the production of biological weapons. 
United Nations inspections also revealed that Iraq likely maintains stockpiles of VX, mustard and other chemical agents, and that the regime is rebuilding and expanding facilities capable of producing chemical weapons. 
And in 1995, after four years of deception, Iraq finally admitted it had a crash nuclear weapons program prior to the gulf war. 
We know now were it not for that war, the regime in Iraq would likely have possessed a nuclear weapon no later than 1993. 
Today Iraq continues to withhold important information about its nuclear program, weapons design, procurement logs, experiment data and accounting of nuclear materials and documentation of foreign assistance. 
Iraq employs capable nuclear scientists and technicians. It retains physical infrastructure needed to build a nuclear weapon. Iraq has made several attempts to buy high-strength aluminum tubes used to enrich uranium for a nuclear weapon. 
Should Iraq acquire fissile material, it would be able to build a nuclear weapon within a year. 
And Iraq's state-controlled media has reported numerous meetings between Saddam Hussein and his nuclear scientists, leaving little doubt about his continued appetite for these weapons. 
Iraq also possesses a force of Scud-type missiles with ranges beyond the 150 kilometers permitted by the U.N. Work at testing and production facilities shows that Iraq is building more long-range missiles that can inflict mass death throughout the region. 
In 1990, after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, the world imposed economic sanctions on Iraq. Those sanctions were maintained after the war to compel the regime's compliance with Security Council resolutions. 
In time, Iraq was allowed to use oil revenues to buy food. Saddam Hussein has subverted this program, working around the sanctions to buy missile technology and military materials. He blames the suffering of Iraq's people on the United Nations, even as he uses his oil wealth to build lavish palaces for himself and to buy arms for his country. 
By refusing to comply with his own agreements, he bears full guilt for the hunger and misery of innocent Iraqi citizens. 
In 1991 Iraq promised U.N. inspectors immediate and unrestricted access to verify Iraq's commitment to rid itself of weapons of mass destruction and long-range missiles. Iraq broke this promise, spending seven years deceiving, evading and harassing U.N. inspectors before ceasing cooperation entirely. 
Just months after the 1991 cease-fire, the Security Council twice renewed its demand that the Iraqi regime cooperate fully with inspectors, condemning Iraq's serious violations of its obligations. 
The Security Council again renewed that demand in 1994 and twice more in 1996, deploring Iraq's clear violations of its obligations. The Security Council renewed its demand three more times in 1997 citing flagrant violations, and three more times in 1998, calling Iraq's behavior totally unacceptable. And in 1999, the demand was renewed yet again. 
As we meet today, it's been almost four years since the last U.N. inspector set foot in Iraq -- four years for the Iraqi regime to plan and to build and to test, behind the cloak of secrecy. 
We know that Saddam Hussein pursued weapons of mass murder even when inspectors were in his country. Are we to assume that he stopped when they left? 
The history, the logic and the facts lead to one conclusion: Saddam Hussein's regime is a grave and gathering danger. 
To suggest otherwise is to hope against the evidence. To assume this regime's good faith is to bet the lives of millions and the peace of the world in a reckless gamble. And this is a risk we must not take. 
Delegates to the General Assembly, we have been more than patient. We've tried sanctions. We've tried the carrot of oil for food and the stick of coalition military strikes. 
But Saddam Hussein has defied all these efforts and continues to develop weapons of mass destruction. The first time we may be completely certain he has nuclear weapons is when, God forbid, he uses one. 
We owe it to all our citizens to do everything in our power to prevent that day from coming. 
The conduct of the Iraqi regime is a threat to the authority of the United Nations and a threat to peace. 
Iraq has answered a decade of U.N. demands with a decade of defiance. 
All the world now faces a test and the United Nations a difficult and defining moment. Are Security Council resolutions to be honored and enforced, or cast aside without consequence? Will the United Nations serve the purpose of its founding, or will it be irrelevant? 
The United States helped found the United Nations. We want the United Nations to be effective and respectful and successful. We want the resolutions of the world's most important multilateral body to be enforced. And right now those resolutions are being unilaterally subverted by the Iraqi regime. 
Our partnership of nations can meet the test before us by making clear what we now expect of the Iraqi regime. 
If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will immediately and unconditionally forswear, disclose and remove or destroy all weapons of mass destruction, long-range missiles and all related materiel. 
If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will immediately end all support for terrorism and act to suppress it, as all states are required to do by U.N. Security Council resolutions. 
If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will cease persecution of its civilian population, including Shia, Sunnis, Kurds, Turkomans and others, again as required by Security Council resolutions. 
If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will release or account for all gulf war personnel whose fate is still unknown. It will return the remains of any who are deceased, return stolen property, accept liability for losses resulting from the invasion of Kuwait and fully cooperate with international efforts to resolve these issues, as required by Security Council resolutions. 
If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will immediately end all illicit trade outside the oil-for-food program. It will accept U.N. administration of funds from that program to ensure that the money is used fairly and promptly for the benefit of the Iraqi people. 
If all these steps are taken, it will signal a new openness and accountability in Iraq. And it could open the prospect of the United Nations' helping to build a government that represents all Iraqis, a government based on respect for human rights, economic liberty and internationally supervised elections. 
The United States has no quarrel with the Iraqi people. They've suffered too long in silent captivity. Liberty for the Iraqi people is a great moral cause and a great strategic goal. The people of Iraq deserve it. The security of all nations requires it. 
Free societies do not intimidate through cruelty and conquest, and open societies do not threaten the world with mass murder. 
The United States supports political and economic liberty in a unified Iraq. 
We can harbor no illusions. And that's important today to remember. 
Saddam Hussein attacked Iran in 1980 and Kuwait in 1990. He's fired ballistic missiles at Iran and Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Israel. His regime once ordered the killing of every person between the ages of 15 and 70 in certain Kurdish villages in northern Iraq. He has gassed many Iranians and 40 Iraqi villages. 
My nation will work with the U.N. Security Council to meet our common challenge. If Iraq's regime defies us again, the world must move deliberately, decisively, to hold Iraq to account. We will work with the U.N. Security Council for the necessary resolutions. 
But the purposes of the United States should not be doubted. 
The Security Council resolutions will be enforced. The just demands of peace and security will be met, or action will be unavoidable. And a regime that has lost its legitimacy will also lose its power. 
Events can turn in one of two ways: 
If we fail to act in the face of danger, the people of Iraq will continue to live in brutal submission. The regime will have new power to bully and dominate and conquer its neighbors, condemning the Middle East to more years of bloodshed and fear. The region will remain unstable with little hope of freedom and isolated from the progress of our times. 
With every step the Iraqi regime takes toward gaining and deploying the most terrible weapons, our own options to confront that regime will narrow. 
And if an emboldened regime were to supply these weapons to terrorist allies, then the attacks of Sept. 11 would be a prelude to far greater horrors. 
If we meet our responsibilities, if we overcome this danger, we can arrive at a very different future. The people of Iraq can shake off their captivity. They can one day join a democratic Afghanistan and a democratic Palestine, inspiring reforms throughout the Muslim world. These nations can show by their example that honest government and respect for women and the great Islamic tradition of learning can triumph in the Middle East and beyond. And we will show that the promise of the United Nations can be fulfilled in our time. 
Neither of these outcomes is certain. Both have been set before us. 
We must choose between a world of fear and a world of progress. 
We cannot stand by and do nothing while dangers gather. 
We must stand up for our security and for the permanent rights and the hopes of mankind. 
By heritage and by choice, the United States of America will make that stand. 
And, delegates to the United Nations, you have the power to make that stand as well. 
Thank you very much. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (68%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



369 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES; 
The Need for Cooperation Remains an 'Old Truth' In a Changed World

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: STRASBOURG, France 

 BODY:
To justify action against Iraq, the Bush administration must provide evidence to its allies that President Saddam Hussein is a greater threat to the world now than he has been for the last decade, said Christopher Patten, the European Union's commissioner for external relations.
 If Washington can also give assurances that it is prepared to stay the course to keep a new government in Iraq stable, then, Mr. Patten said, the rest of the world cannot easily turn away from its responsibilities for world order and the possibility of a war in Iraq. 
 "The question of dealing with Iraq raises some problems which a lot of America's critics are going to find very difficult to answer," he said in a recent interview in his bare, second office in Strasbourg, where the European Parliament intermittently sits.
The United Nations Security Council resolutions demanding a return of arms inspectors to Iraq are clear, Mr. Patten said, but, he asked, "What happens if Saddam Hussein ignores existing U.N. Council resolutions, do you just shrug?" 
"What happens if you table a new Security Council resolution and he ignores it or plays with you over it?" he asked. "Do you sign a petition? Do you write to Le Monde or The Times?"
Mr. Patten, 58, has long experience on the liberal wing of Britain's Conservative Party and an abiding love for the United States. He is one of the vital figures trying to navigate their way between the Bush administration's Iraq policy and Europe's clear desire for United Nations backing and another attempt to send in arms inspectors before military action is considered.
Mr. Patten said he was worried about the effect of an Iraq war on the international coalition against terrorism. "I hope that the specific problem caused by that wicked regime doesn't make it more difficult to continue successfully the attempt to contain terrorism," he said carefully, or open up a gulf between the Muslim world and the West.
The new American perception about the threat Iraq poses is a result of Sept. 11, Mr. Patten said. "I think it's smart-aleck drivel to argue that Sept. 11 didn't change anything," he said. "Here you have the biggest terrorist atrocity ever visited upon a country that symbolizes modernity and the future" and Europeans still "underestimate, don't fully comprehend the impact it had on the American psyche."
For America, the shock of Sept. 11 "changed rhetoric, it changed perceptions about the world, and it should in my judgment have underlined the importance of some old truths, not least the importance of international cooperation," said Mr. Patten, who gave some controversial early warnings about the Bush administration's tendency to unilateralism.
But the United States has always felt tension between a primary focus on its perception of national interests, hoping to bring other nations along, and the belief that Washington should behave in a way that brings other nations with it, Mr. Patten said. "That's not a new debate," he said, "and I think it's fair to say that those who focus principally on hard power and on walls have found the events of Sept. 11 a more forceful piece of evidence for their argument than those who put the contrary point of view."
But given the success, over the last 50 years, of "the American view of the importance of combining hard power and soft power, combining containment and moral consensus," he does not believe the combination "is a lost cause," he said. First, because "these are ideas that have worked, that will go on working," and second, "because I think America and American policymakers are pretty smart, and I don't think are going to believe in the long term that everybody else is a wimp."
Has Sept. 11 changed Europe as well? Mr. Patten laughed softly. "If it's unhelpful," he said, "it's given some Europeans the excuse to think that grumbling about America is the same thing as having a foreign policy. 
"But if it's helpful, it will have convinced Europeans that we actually have to, as football coaches say, dig deeper, and if we're going to be a credible ally and an occasional counterweight."
Europe should respond, he said, by spending more money on European security and defense. Europe is taken seriously on trade and economic issues, and on global development and aid. But "are we taken sufficiently seriously when it comes to talking about security? No, we're not," he said. "Some of what we say about security is what many theologians used to call, 'an idea in the mind of God.' You don't have to conclude that the world is only describable in Hobbesian terms, you don't have to believe only in good and evil, you don't have to believe in original sin -- you can also believe in original virtue -- while at the same time thinking that you need quite a big stick as well as quite big carrots."
There is no question in his own mind, Mr. Patten said, "that if we want to be taken more seriously by the United States we have to be able to add more weight to our end of the rope."
Mr. Patten said he saw three dominant issues arising now.
First, he said, is "how the rest of the world relates to the extraordinary power of the United States," not just militarily, but economically and culturally.
Second, is whether "the global rule book" about military intervention in sovereign states must be adjusted. "What is the basis these days for international law and for international moral consensus?" he asked. The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, discussed the new arguments about military intervention in a 1999 speech to the United Nations, in the aftermath of the Kosovo and Rwanda wars. Mr. Annan argued, as Mr. Patten put it, that "intervention in the affairs of a sovereign country was justified if that country was treating its own citizens appallingly."
Iraq is a continuation of this debate, Mr. Patten said. What is imperative now, he said, "is to try to find some rough intellectual and legal infrastructure in these arguments that takes account of context, scale and intention."
And third, he said, is fundamentalism, and not just Islamic fundamentalism, which is "obviously in geostrategic terms probably the most worrying."
Examining some evangelical Christian and fundamentalist Jewish Web sites as well, Mr. Patten said, "it readily becomes apparent that all three of the great religions have believers who regard the modern world as a threat to their values."
The "problem in Islam is that it hasn't had a reformation," he said. "But when I go around an English cathedral, what do I see but Henry VIII behaving like the Taliban and knocking the heads off statues of the Virgin Mary? How can we avoid the present Middle East crisis, the gulf crisis producing that cliche, the clash of civilizations? Is it the case that forceful intervention in the affairs of Iraq is going to make the Arab world more moderate rather than less moderate? It's not an open-and-shut question by any means."
Mr. Patten sighed, the complications rising like mist. "What I'm very aware of," he said, "is that we've got better questions than answers."

A Liberal Conservative With a Taste for Irony

EARLY YEARS: Born May 1944. Balliol College, Oxford University, B.A. and M.A. Coolidge scholarship to the United States, 1965.

PUBLIC CAREER: Conservative Party research department from 1966; political adviser, Cabinet Office, 1970-72; political secretary to party chairmen, 1972-74. Director, research department, 1974-79; member of Parliament from Bath, 1979-92; under secretary of state in Northern Ireland, 1983-85; minister of education and science, 1985-86; minister for overseas development, 1986; secretary of state for environment, 1989, party chairman, 1990. Last governor of Hong Kong, 1992 until handover in 1997. European Union commissioner for external relations, 1999 to present.

POLITICAL DOSSIER: A Conservative who became too liberal for his party in the Margaret Thatcher years and got sent off to one of Britain's last colonial outposts when he lost his parliamentary seat.

STYLE: Witty, amusing, savors historical irony and good conversation. Loves reading, gardening and tennis.

HIS FUTURE: Dependent on Europe's future.

In His Words

First is how the rest of the world relates to the extraordinary power of the United States. . .

Second, what is the basis these days for international law and for international moral consensus?

The third issue -- the third horseman galloping towards this dread rendezvous -- is fundamentalism. . . .

The Islamic version is obviously in geostrategic terms probably the most worrying. And I'll just say in passing if you look at some of the evangelical Christian Web sites, if you look at some of the fundamentalist Jewish Web sites, it readily becomes apparent that all three of the great religions have believers who regard the modern world as a threat to their values.

The problem with Islam is that it hasn't had a reformation, but when I go around an English cathedral, what do I see but Henry VIII behaving like the Taliban and knocking the heads off statues of the Virgin Mary?

Perspectives
These are the 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th interviews of a series in which national and world figures reflect on the terrorist attacks and their effect on a year of public life and policy. The articles and interviews are online:
nytimes.com/perspectives

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher Patten (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); TERRORISM (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); HIJACKING (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (62%); PETITIONS (51%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); SURVEYS AND SERIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%) ERLANGER, STEVEN; PATTEN, CHRISTOPHER; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALSACE, FRANCE (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAQ; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



370 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE PRESIDENT; 
Bush Presses U.N. to Act Quickly on Disarming Iraq

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
President Bush challenged the United Nations today to force Saddam Hussein to disarm and end torture and repression of his people, saying that if Iraq continued its defiance of international resolutions, "action will be unavoidable."
 In a forceful, blunt address at the General Assembly, Mr. Bush told world leaders that the United States was determined, and invited them to take the same firm stand. He argued that President Hussein had ignored 11 years of United Nations resolutions ordering him to destroy his weapons of mass destruction, to cease supporting terrorism, to account for prisoners from the Persian Gulf war and to end a pattern of repression. 
 Mr. Bush's aides said the president had instructed Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to begin work on a plan of action through the 15-member Security Council, but they made it clear that the United Nations had to act within weeks. 
Mr. Bush did not threaten war, but that was his clear implication. "The just demands of peace and security will be met, or action will be unavoidable," he said. "And a regime that has lost its legitimacy will also lose its power."
Gen. Tommy R. Franks, leader of the Pentagon's Central Command, briefed the president last week on the latest concept for an American offensive against Iraq, a senior administration official said today, meaning that even while Mr. Bush was pressing for a diplomatic solution, he was continuing to refine his options for an attack.
"Saddam Hussein's regime is a grave and gathering danger," Mr. Bush said in his half-hour address, continuing to talk even as a red light on the podium flashed on to indicate that his time had long expired. "To suggest otherwise is to hope against the evidence. To assume this regime's good faith is to bet the lives of millions and the peace of the world in a reckless gamble." Transcript, Page A10. 
Foreign leaders and delegates applauded politely and expressed relief that the president had turned to the United Nations for another Security Council resolution to press his case against Iraq. But some said they were concerned that the world body would, in effect, be used to oust the leader of a member nation. Page A11. 
Mr. Bush also announced that the United States would rejoin Unesco, the United Nations organization that promotes cultural exchanges, after an absence of 18 years. 
In his speech, the president turned his campaign in a new direction, making no mention of Osama bin Laden or of nations his administration has identified as threats, like Iran and North Korea. He made only a passing reference to Al Qaeda. 
He never mentioned resuming weapons inspections in Iraq, a step Vice President Dick Cheney said last month would be "dangerous" and would provide "false comfort." His aides, however, told reporters that the United States would not oppose inspections as long as they occurred in the next few months, without interference from Iraq, and as long as they resulted in the immediate destruction of Mr. Hussein's stocks of chemical and biological weapons and nuclear installations. 
Mr. Bush said that in facing down Iraq, the United Nations' relevance was at stake, suggesting that it would become a toothless institution if it failed to enforce its mandates.
"In one place and in one regime we find all these dangers in their most lethal and aggressive forms, exactly the kind of aggressive threat the United Nations was born to confront," he said. 
Yet he also made clear that the United States would act alone if the United Nations hesitated. One of his senior aides said this time "there will be no negotiation with Saddam Hussein." 
Mr. Bush pursued his case throughout the day and evening, including at a reception tonight for visiting leaders held in the Winter Garden of the World Financial Center, on the edge of Ground Zero. The seven-story-deep pit where the World Trade Center once stood was a stark backdrop, and a reminder of his warning earlier in the day that if Iraq's weapons of mass destruction fell into the hands of terrorists, "the attacks of Sept. 11 would be a prelude to far greater horrors."
Traversing the East Side under security made even tighter by the high alert issued by the government on Tuesday, Mr. Bush pressed his case against Iraq with the leaders of India, Pakistan, Japan and the new government of Afghanistan. But he also had other themes, including defusing the Kashmir crisis, energizing a stalled economic reform program in Tokyo and routing returning Qaeda fighters in the Afghan provinces.
The White House had promoted today's speech as an indictment of a decade of Iraqi crimes, and one of the most important moments in Mr. Bush's 20-month-old presidency. He used prosecutorial language that is rarely heard in the General Assembly, and he went to great lengths to paint a vivid portrait of Mr. Hussein as an enemy of civilization.
"Tens of thousands of political opponents and ordinary citizens have been subjected to arbitrary arrest and imprisonment, summary execution, and torture by beating and burning, electric shock, starvation, mutilation and rape," he said. "Wives are tortured in front of their husbands, children in the presence of their parents -- and all of these horrors concealed from the world by the apparatus of a totalitarian state." 
He added, "He blames the suffering of Iraq's people on the United Nations, even as he uses his oil wealth to build lavish palaces for himself, and to buy arms for his country." 
Mr. Bush referred obliquely to an assassination attempt against his father, the former President Bush, after he left office, saying, "In 1993, Iraq attempted to assassinate the emir of Kuwait and a former American president." A senior aide told reporters, "Obviously, one doesn't want to appear to personalize this." 
Simultaneously, the White House released a 22-page document titled "A Decade of Deception and Defiance," which lists Mr. Hussein's efforts to avoid inspections and to import banned equipment for making nuclear and biological weapons, and work on missiles that Iraq agreed not to conduct as part of the cease-fire that ended the gulf war in 1991. 
But for all the anti-Hussein language, the administration was deliberately vague about exactly what it wanted the United Nations to do next, and how fast. Officials acknowledged that the United States did not want to be seen as prescribing a specific course of action, for fear of the usual charges that Washington was dictating its terms to the international community.
Tonight, a senior official involved in the continuing negotiations here said, "What we are looking for is a resolution that, at least initially, makes clear that Iraq is in violation, that Iraq has to do something about that, and makes clear that if it doesn't, there will be consequences."
But, the official continued, "exactly how those elements are going to be worded, that's what we have to work out in consultation." 
Secretary Powell is to pursue that issue on Friday at a lunch with the permanent members of the Security Council and in other consultations. 
Mr. Bush met before his speech with Secretary General Kofi Annan and told him, according to an aide, that "we want to make sure that the United Nations does not turn into a League of Nations." Mr. Bush, who used the same phrasing in his speech, was referring to the organization that was formed after World War I, without American participation, and collapsed in 1940, largely for having failed to confront Hitler.
Mr. Annan has been openly critical of what he sees as Mr. Bush's rush to action against Iraq, and at the meeting this morning, the two leaders posed stiffly for pictures until Mr. Annan said quietly to the president, "Let's shake." Although Mr. Annan delivered an address before the president's today that warned strongly against unilateral action, he also said the United Nations had to act.
"If Iraq's defiance continues, the Security Council must face its responsibilities," Mr. Annan said.
Today's meeting with President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan required a particularly delicate dance: Mr. Bush had to find a way to chastise General Musharraf for his decision to amend the country's Constitution to perpetuate his own rule. 
Mr. Bush began the meeting, an administration official said, by telling General Musharraf, "Adherence to democracy is key." But he was vague, and when pressed, administration officials said there had been no talk of penalizing Pakistan for its retreat from democratic reforms.
Pakistan has also refused international inspection of its nuclear installations, and American officials have made no secret of the fact that they are worried about whether Islamic radicals in its military or intelligence service could gain control of nuclear weapons. Asked today whether the administration was setting a double standard -- one for Pakistan, another for Iraq -- a senior official said, "Iraq is an outlaw regime." 
Later in the day, Mr. Bush met with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, and the United States announced an $80 million contribution to a $180 million project to build a new road in Afghanistan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Secretary General Kofi Annan urged the United States yesterday not to act alone against Iraq. President Bush, in turn, challenged the United Nations not to let Saddam Hussein make a mockery of its resolutions. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A1); President Bush addressed the United Nations General Assembly yesterday and urged the Assembly to act against Saddam Hussein. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); AL-QAEDA (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); INSPECTIONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; PERSIAN GULF WAR; PRISONERS OF WAR; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); DICK CHENEY (59%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



371 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
3 Former Tyco Executives Charged in Corruption Case
The former chief executive of Tyco International, L. Dennis Kozlowski, and the former chief financial officer were indicted on charges that they reaped $600 million through a racketeering scheme involving stock fraud, unauthorized bonuses and falsified expense accounts. The company's former general counsel was also indicted, on charges that he falsified company records to conceal $14 million in improper loans to himself.
 The state grand jury indictment contends that Mr. Kozlowski and Mark H. Swartz, the financial officer, created an elaborate system beginning in 1995 that allowed them to use millions of dollars in company money to pay for personal items. A federal regulator called the amounts in the case "staggering." Page A1. 

AOL Revamps Management Team
AOL Time Warner has named a new management team for its AOL unit, hoping to get beyond the accounting problems and begin developing interactive programming. In a nod to corporate politics, Jonathan F. Miller, AOL's chief, named as his top deputies one executive from each side of the company. C2.

New Choice for Accounting Board
John H. Biggs, the head of one of the nation's largest pension programs, has emerged as a top candidate to head the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board that will oversee the accounting profession. The first choice, Paul A. Volcker, has continued to express hesitancy over taking the job. C2.

I.R.S. Plans to Focus on Wealthy
The I.R.S. plans to ease its examination of ordinary wage earners and devote more attention to wealthy taxpayers. That means far fewer wage earners will be audited, especially if they make less than $100,000. A1.

Water Company Sells a U.S. Unit
Vivendi Environnement, the water company, has agreed to sell the equipment distribution unit of its U.S. Filter Corporation for $620 million to two private investment firms. C9.

Bank Deal Is Weighed in France
Credit Agricole is in talks to acquire Credit Lyonnais, people close to the companies said. A merger of two of France's biggest banks could touch off a new round of consolidation in France. World Business, Section W.

Welch Challenges Expense Claims
Lawyers for John F. Welch Jr., the former chief executive of General Electric, have filed a court motion challenging his estranged wife's description of his living expenses. Mr. Welch's wife, Jane B. Welch, has been seeking more than the $35,000 a month that Mr. Welch has been providing. C4.

Current Account Deficit Falls
The current account deficit, the broadest measure of trade with foreign countries, grew 15.6 percent in the second quarter, to $129.96 billion, up from $112.45 billion in the first quarter. A separate report the number of Americans signing up for state unemployment benefits last week rose unexpectedly to the highest level in more than four months. C5.

The Dow Jones industrial average lost 201.76 points, to 8,379.41. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slid 22.54 points, to 886.91, and the Nasdaq index fell 35.77 points, to 1,279.68. C5.

New Ad Campaign for Clairol
Procter & Gamble plans to begin a new national advertising campaign next week aimed at reinvigorating Clairol, which in recent years has had stagnant sales and a declining market share. Advertising. C4.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A heading in the Business Digest column yesterday about the current account deficit, the broadest measure of trade with foreign countries, misstated its movement in the second quarter. It grew; it did not fall.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph "Current Account Deficit" shows the current account deficit.$129.96 Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,379.41 down 201.76Nasdaq composite -- 1,279.68 down 35.7710-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.97% down 0.09The euro -- $0.9819 up 0.0067The dollar -- 120.11 yen down 0.29 Graph: "TODAY"Producer PricesGraph show the percentage change in producer prices.August figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Retail SalesGraph shows the percentage change in retail sales.August figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.5%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); ACCOUNTING (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (86%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (83%); LAWYERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MERGERS (77%); GRAND JURY (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (84%); SIEMENS WATER TECHNOLOGIES (65%); UNITED STATES FILTER CORP (65%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%); VEOLIA ENVIRONNEMENT SA (53%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (53%); CREDIT LYONNAIS SA (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (84%); TYC (NYSE) (58%); VIE (PAR) (53%); VE (NYSE) (53%); ACA (PAR) (53%); ACA (BIT) (53%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (65%); NAICS562998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (65%); SIC4959 SANITARY SERVICES, NEC (65%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (65%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (65%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (53%); NAICS221320 SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



372 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES; 
After 9/11, Fox Still Waits For U.S. Moves on Mexico

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
President Vicente Fox of Mexico says that it is time for the United States to move ahead on foreign policy matters derailed by the Sept. 11 attacks, specifically, America's relations with his country.
 "By dedicating so much concentration to the issue of security, bilateral matters pass to a secondary level," Mr. Fox said in an interview, conducted in Spanish, on Tuesday. He urged President Bush not to forsake his promise to work with Mexico on issues including broad immigration reforms. 
 "Those matters continue to have enormous importance to us," he said. "I ask myself if it is necessary to choose between the two issues?" 
"I believe that work can be done on security, in combating terrorism," he said. "But at the same time, the world must continue working. The world must continue advancing, and even more our bilateral relations with the United States."
Mexico responded to the attacks by taking up Mr. Bush's call to make security, especially at Mexico's northern and southern borders, a foreign policy priority. Mr. Fox declared that Mexico, which had won a seat on the United Nations Security Council, was a firm ally in the fight against terrorism.
But Mr. Fox's steadfast support for Mr. Bush gained him little in Washington, where there was a new surge in anti-immigrant sentiments. And his pro-American stand began to cost him greatly at home. Mexicans criticized him for submitting Mexican interests to the will of the United States. A defiant Mexican Congress in April denied Mr. Fox permission to travel to the United States.
"In Mexico, I find contradicting reactions in regards to relations with the United States," he said.
"On one side, citizens have great respect for the United States, they have a great feeling of friendship. That is solid. But in the opposition and in the political arena I often find criticism of the closeness of relations with the United States. That is a reality. And it is a reality that flares up every time a new issue arises. And the issue comes up every day."
Last month, Mr. Fox canceled a trip to Texas to protest the execution of a Mexican citizen. Mexico withdrew last week from a symbolic hemispheric defense treaty. Earlier this week, Mr. Fox joined a chorus of leaders who cautioned Mr. Bush against a unilateral assault on Iraq. 
And the Mexican president has displayed increasing impatience with the lack of progress in the United States on Mexico's proposals for immigration reforms. Among other things, the reforms would give legal status to three million undocumented Mexicans working in the United States.
When asked about these moves, Mr. Fox carefully measured his words. He emphasized that Mexico's relationship with the United States remained "equally strong," and "equally friendly." Still, a sense of urgency came through.
"There are feelings on my part that I would not describe as frustration or resentment, but I feel strongly that we need to deal with bilateral matters," he said. "I constantly make it known to the American government that we need the same kind of attention for Latin America."
Mexico felt political and economic aftershocks from the terrorist attacks on the United States. 
Mexico's economy, which moves in lock step with the United States, fell into protracted recession. The quarter-trillion-dollar trade with the United States was slowed by new border security measures. Unemployment, especially in foreign-owned assembly plants, continued to climb. And Mexico's tourist resorts lost tens of millions of dollars of business.
Even harder hit was Mr. Fox's foreign policy agenda, which was based on a new kind of relationship with the United States.
Despite heated criticism from the intellectuals and politicians, Mr. Fox abandoned foreign policy traditions that kept the United States at arm's length.
Days before the attacks, he succeeded in getting the Bush administration to acknowledge that the two nations shared a unique responsibility to work on immigration and border safety issues.
Some 300,000 Mexicans illegally enter the United States for work each year. Rather than avoiding this grim reality, Mr. Fox embraced it. 
He praised Mexican migrants as heroes who contribute to the economic strength of two nations. He presented an image of Mexico as an equal partner, not a poor neighbor, to the United States.
Relations between the United States and Mexico were at a pinnacle before the attacks, Mr. Fox said in the interview. He said he worried that a great opportunity would be squandered.
"That is why for us the impact is stronger," he said, "to go from the summit of optimism, of positive results, to the unprecedented shock of the terrorist attack."
Mr. Fox said he remained committed to his proposals for immigration reform. After the United States elections in November, he said, his government would embark on a broad new campaign that would seek support for the measures from grass-roots organizations up to Congress. And he said he expected the White House to join him.
"We would expect reciprocity, we would expect fulfillment of goals," he said. "President Bush himself has expressed to us that he would really be an ally in the cause of migration, that we would work together to return the issue to the highest priority."
Asked whether he believes that will really happen if the United States attacks Iraq, Mr. Fox said, "It seems to us that this is a matter that should be channeled through the United Nations Security Council; that there should be an opportunity for a visit by United Nations inspectors to Iraq," he said. "We, as a country, will be pushing strongly in that direction."

From Soda Pop to Top Spot

EARLY YEARS: Born Mexico City, July 2, 1942, son of wealthy farmers; Studied business administration at Ibero-American University; did not finish degree until 1999.

PUBLIC CAREER: Salesman for Coca-Cola starting in 1964; President of the company's operations in Mexico, 1975-1979.

POLITICAL DOSSIER: Joined the conservative, pro-Catholic National Action Party, 1980; Elected to federal chamber of deputies, 1988; Elected governor of Guanajuato, 1995. Elected president, 2000, ending 71 years of uninterrupted rule by the Institutional Revolutionary Party.

STYLE: Corporate background, populist style. Prefers blue jeans and cowboy boots. Mexico's most openly religious president in modern history, carried images of the Virgin of Guadalupe, Mexico's patron saint, as a campaign banner. Stirred controversy over separation of church and state when he kissed Pope John Paul II's ring during the papal visit in June.

In His Words

The consequences of an attack on Iraq are not predictable. It appears to me that it would have very broad effects at the global level on many things and it would have very broad effects on bilateral issues and issues on the Latin American agenda.

I believe that the issue of Iraq must be the product of deep reflection. It seems to us that this is a matter that should be channeled through the United Nations Security Council; that there should be an opportunity for a visit by United Nations inspectors to visit Iraq.

We, as a country, will be pushing strongly in that direction; in that it will be the U.N. that makes the visit, that it's the U.N. which certifies what conditions are there. But first we need objective information to be able to then reflect on the best decisions to take. I think the Iraq situation would have an impact that would affect the whole world.

At this moment we can't take a position, nor make a decision precisely because information is lacking. It would be very important to really know what are Iraq's activities regarding terrorism, what are Iraq's activities regarding weapons of mass destruction, what are its activities in terms of its ability to deliver these weapons.

The debate which must take place in the United Nations and in the U.N. Security Council, where we are present, is also important. So for me and for Mexico, first we need a lot of information, a lot of objectivity, deep reflection and then we will be able to give an opinion.

Perspectives
These are the 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th interviews of a series in which national and world figures reflect on the terrorist attacks and their effect on a year of public life and policy. The articles and interviews are online:
nytimes.com/perspectives

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vicente Fox (Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); TERRORISM (91%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (91%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); REFUGEES (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (75%); TRENDS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (51%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); SURVEYS AND SERIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) THOMPSON, GINGER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



373 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Bush Calls on U.N. To Confront Iraq
President Bush challenged the United Nations to force Saddam Hussein to disarm and end the torture and repression of his people, saying that if Iraq continued its defiance of international resolutions "action will be unavoidable." A1

Mr. Bush's address drew wide support from Congress, winning praise from lawmakers who had warned against unilateral American military action. A11

Nations across the globe also welcomed Mr. Bush's assertion that the United States would work with the Security Council to press Iraq to meet its commitments to the United Nations. A11

The Bush administration published a brief paper outlining what it says are efforts by Saddam Hussein to develop chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. A13

Mr. Bush also announced that the United States would rejoin Unesco, the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization. A11

U.S. Pilots Face Charges
The Air Force is expected to bring criminal charges against two American F-16 pilots who mistakenly bombed Canadian soldiers in Afghanistan in April, a Defense Department official said. A12

Dispute on 9/11 Inquiry
The Bush administration is balking at a request from Congress that Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld testify in public before the congressional committee investigating the Sept. 11 attacks, government officials said. A12

Russia Wants U.N. Support
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia appealed to the United Nations to support Russia's threat of military strikes against the former Soviet republic of Georgia, accusing the Georgians of a "grievous failure" to comply with a resolution to combat international terrorism. A9

The Bush administration imposed sanctions on three Russian military contractors that sold weapons to countries that the State Department said support terrorism. A9

Ruling on Education in India
India's Supreme Court opened the way for a new school curriculum that critics say could inject religious bias into education. A4

NATIONAL A18-24

Educators Across America Abandon Push for Uniforms
Saying that school uniforms increase discipline problems, school districts around the nation are abandoning the idea, which first took hold in the mid-1990's as a way of dealing with gang colors and improving security. A1

Lawyer Claims Florida Victory
With results posted three days after Florida's Democratic primary for governor, Bill McBride, a Tampa lawyer, has emerged as the winner over former Attorney General Janet Reno. A18

Tax Defeat for House G.O.P.
Democrats won a rare victory on the floor of the House when Republican leaders withdrew a bill to provide a limited number of low-income parents with a tax break for education expenses for their children. A22

Secret Court to Share Ruling
A secret appeals court, in a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee, promised to provide it with a copy of what is expected to be a signal ruling on the Justice Department's request for broad new wiretap powers. A13

14 Migrant Workers Drown
Fourteen migrant workers drowned in a Maine river when the van they were riding in hit a curb and tumbled upside down into the water, a spokesman for the state Public Safety Department said. A20

Dialysis Machines Restricted
The unexplained deaths of five kidney dialysis patients in Indiana and Michigan prompted federal regulators to warn dialysis centers to stop using a certain combination of blood tubing and dialysis machines. A20

Setback for a Beauty Queen
A federal judge ruled that the Miss America contest does not have to invite Rebekah Revels, the controversial North Carolina beauty queen who resigned her crown, to compete in its annual pageant. A24

Spending Limits May End
The Federal Election Commission is debating whether to allow political parties to spend unlimited amounts of so-called hard money donations to help elect presidential candidates whose campaigns are also supported by taxpayer funding. A24

Political Ad Controversy
Democrats and Republicans alike are under fire for misleading or inflammatory political advertisements involving Social Security. A22

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Teachers' Union Publishes Education Guide
The union representing New York City teachers has published an extraordinarily detailed guide to teaching reading and writing, a move that union leaders said would help students meet tough new standards but that others warned might be a way of protecting weak or lazy teachers in an era of increased accountability. B1

Zimbabwean Leader Visits City
President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe visited New York City Hall, sparking a raucous display of pan-African sentiment despite the efforts of Council leaders to keep it quiet. Mr. Mugabe has been working to redistribute his country's best land, taken by British settlers during the colonial period, to the millions of blacks who have subsisted on dry, rocky soil. Most officials support Mr. Mugabe's cause, but some question his tactics. B3

Battle Over a Gotti's Detention
Frederic Block, a Brooklyn federal judge, told prosecutors to bring Michael A. Zenk, the warden of the Metropolitan Detention Center, to court to determine if he should be cited for contempt for failing to obey an order to release Peter Gotti, the brother of the deceased mob boss John Gotti, from solitary confinement. The action was the latest in an increasingly heated battle over the conditions of Mr. Gotti's detention while he awaits trial. B6

Enrollment Up at CUNY
The City University of New York's enrollment jumped 5 percent this fall, the largest increase since 1978, pushing the total number of students to 207,181. B2

WEEKEND E1-26; E27-36

ESCAPES F1-14

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES A25

Wesley Naylor
A creator and composer of the long-running gospel musical "Mama, I Want to Sing" as well as two sequels, he was 44. A25

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

I.R.S. Changes Strategy
The Internal Revenue Service said it intended to ease its examination of ordinary wage earners and devote more attention to wealthy taxpayers suspected of hiding income from their businesses, partnerships, investments and offshore accounts. A1

3 Indicted from Tyco
Three former executives of Tyco International have been indicted on charges of looting the conglomerate of hundreds of millions of dollars. A1

Fed Warning About Deficit
Alan Greenspan warned that the economy would suffer if Congress failed to keep the federal budget deficit under control. But he advised against Democratic efforts to roll back or delay the $1.3 trillion tax cut signed into law last year by President Bush. C1

New Advisory Board Candidate
John H. Biggs, head of one of the nation's largest pension programs, emerged as a top candidate to head a new regulatory body that will oversee the accounting profession because Paul A. Volcker, the first choice, has continued to express hesitancy over taking the job. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The Iraq test; taking on junk email; a pay raise for the police.

Columns: Nicholas Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E36
TV Listings E26
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); TERRORISM (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); AIR FORCES (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (69%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); CURRICULA (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); GANGS (50%); RELIGION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (56%); US AIR FORCE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDIA (92%); GEORGIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002 



374 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Shares Mixed on Varied Economic News and Iraq Talk

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday as news on the economy and continued talk about action against Iraq kept the outlook cloudy. Although stocks managed to climb on Monday and Tuesday before the Sept. 11 commemoration, they fell Wednesday and Thursday and are down for the third consecutive week.
 But as stocks fell, bond prices rose and yields declined, keeping interest rates at or near their lowest levels in decades. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note fell to 3.91 percent, the lowest yield on a government security with a 10-year maturity since 1963. 
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 66.72 points, or 0.8 percent, at 8,312.69. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.90 points, or 0.3 percent, to 889.81. The Nasdaq composite index gained 11.72 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,291.40. For the week, the Dow was down 1.4 percent, the S.& P. index was off 0.5 percent and the Nasdaq was down 0.3 percent.
In addition to the economic news, the Dow was dragged lower by Honeywell International, the aerospace company, which cut its profit forecast late Thursday. Shares of Honeywell plunged $4.78, or 16.9 percent, to $23.56, accounting for half of the Dow's decline.
United Technologies also helped pull the Dow lower after an analyst at J. P. Morgan reduced his profit forecast for the company. The stock fell $3.10, or 5.1 percent, to $58.
The Nasdaq was helped higher by Microsoft, up 76 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $47.91, and Intel, up 33 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $16.03.
Tyco International fell yesterday after its shares held steady on Thursday when three former executives, including the former chief executive L. Dennis Kozlowski, were indicted. Shares of Tyco, which makes products ranging from surgical instruments to security systems, dropped 92 cents, or 5.2 percent, to $16.88.
The preliminary report on September consumer confidence showed a decline to 86.2 from a final reading of 87.6 in August, according to the University of Michigan. That was the lowest reading since November, when the confidence index was at 83.9.
On the positive side, retail sales rose 0.8 percent in August, after a revised 1.1 percent (down from 1.2 percent) increase in July. The August increase was above Wall Street forecasts of 0.5 percent and showed stronger-than-expected growth in nonauto sales, another plus.
Many economists had been awaiting the retail numbers to give support to their forecasts that growth in the third quarter, which ends this month, would be 3.5 percent at an annual rate or slightly higher. Yesterday's numbers did that, meaning this quarter's pace will be three times that of the second quarter.
But, at the same time, the weakness in consumer confidence worries analysts. If confidence continues to decline, consumer spending, which makes up two-thirds of the economy, will slow. That would mean the economy could weaken in the last three months of the year.
Some economists have said they expect confidence to fall further and consumer spending to slow if the economy continues to create jobs at the slow pace it has over the last four months.
Tony Crescenzi, chief bond market strategist at Miller Tabak & Company, took a more positive position. "Given the 9/11 anniversary, threat of war with Iraq, lower stock prices, and higher jobless claims, consumers are rationally expressing their anxieties," he said of the drop in consumer confidence. "But today's retail sales data and the retail sales trend shows that it is better to watch what consumers do and not what they say."
In other economic news, the Producer Price Index was unchanged in August while the so-called core index, which excludes food and energy, declined 0.1 percent. Both numbers were better than Wall Street forecasts.
In the bond market, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 16/32, to 103 26/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 3.91 percent, from 3.97 percent on Thursday and 4.02 percent a week ago. 
The yield on the Treasury's two-year note, which is often sensitive to expectations of a Federal Reserve rate cut, fell to 2.04 percent, from 2.09 percent on Thursday and 2.05 percent a week ago. The recent low for the two-year note was 1.89 percent on Aug. 5.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BONDS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); ALARM & DETECTION SYSTEMS MFG (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (71%); RETAIL SALES (64%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (71%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); INTEL CORP (53%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (71%); UTX (NYSE) (57%); HON (NYSE) (55%); HON (LSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (71%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (71%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (55%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



375 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: No Inflation At Wholesale; Retail SalesUp Strongly 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
Inflation at the wholesale level was a no-show again last month despite a sharp jump in energy prices, while retail sales rose a surprisingly strong 0.8 percent, powered by a big gain in car sales, the government reported today.
 The Labor Department said the Producer Price Index, a measure of inflation pressures before they reach the consumer, was unchanged in August after a 0.2 percent drop in July. 
 The Commerce Department said retail sales rose 0.8 percent in August after a revised 1.1 percent increase in July. Much of the August gain was driven by car sales, reflecting cut-rate financing offers, but even with cars factored out, retail sales posted a 0.4 percent rise. 
The reports on inflation and retail sales contrasted with a survey by the University of Michigan that showed that consumer confidence was down so far this month.
The university's midmonth report on consumer sentiment dipped to 86.2 from its August reading of 87.6, according to people who saw the report. The university's report, which is based on a telephone survey of households, is released only to subscribers. The reading was weaker than the 87.0 level that economists had been expecting.
The mid-September index of consumer expectations for future conditions fell to 80.0 from 80.6 in August. The current-conditions index slipped to 95.9 from 98.5 in August.
Analysts said the solid showing in retail sales should help ease concerns that the plunge in stock prices in June and July, by shaking consumer confidence, was putting the economic recovery at risk. 
Retail sales have been helped by the Federal Reserve's decision to keep interest rates at a four-decade low, which has increased sales of big-ticket items like cars and houses. 
On the inflation front, energy prices rose 1 percent in August, reflecting upward pressure on global oil prices as concerns increase over a possible war in Iraq. 
But the rise in energy prices was offset by a 0.4 percent drop in food costs as well as declining prices for new cars, trucks and computers. 
Over all, inflation has remained in check at both the wholesale and retail levels. Through the first eight months, wholesale prices have risen at an annual rate of 0.8 percent. 
Outside of the volatile food and energy sectors, inflation was also nonexistent last month with the so-called core rate of inflation actually falling 0.1 percent after having dropped 0.3 percent in July. 
So far this year, the core inflation rate is dropping at an annual rate of 0.5 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Producer Prices"Index of finished goods prices, 1982 = 100. Seasonally adjusted. Monthly Change (March 2001-August 2002) Aug.: Unch.July: -0.2%June: +0.1 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart: "Retail Sales"Total retail and food services sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Monthly Change (March 2001-August 2002)Aug.: +0.8%July: +1.1June: +1.4 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); FOOD PRICES (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (69%); IRAQ WAR (61%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



376 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Against All Odds, A Couple of Bulls 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
Take a look at the economic picture these days: job gains are weak, the latest government indicators are consistently mixed, each week brings fresh revelations of corporate wrongdoing and the bears continue to dominate the stock market. So why do two of the most accurate economic forecasters believe that the economy has picked up speed and will continue to achieve solid growth through the end of the year?
 James F. Smith, author of the Business Forecast at the University of North Carolina, explains his bullishness by the "middle American" perspective he has gained sitting hundreds of miles from Wall Street. 
 Nancy R. Lazar, executive vice president of the International Strategy and Investment Group, says she places her faith in the economy's historical truths as much as the latest data.
A bevy of forecasters, from Wall Street and elsewhere, are now estimating that the economy accelerated from a meager 1.1 percent annual growth rate in the second quarter to about 3.5 percent during the summer -- a healthy pace supported by the surge in mortgage refinancing at low rates, strong car sales and a drop in imports. 
Still, the top economists at most of Wall Street's big investment banks expect those positive factors to dissipate by year's end, leaving the economy to lose more jobs and eke out growth of no more than 2 percent in the fourth quarter.
By contrast, both Ms. Lazar and Mr. Smith contend that the economy will continue to expand, advancing by at least 4 percent in the fourth quarter of the year. That is even more growth than tireless bulls like Bruce Steinberg of Merrill Lynch and Diane C. Swonk of Bank One have predicted.
If these more bullish analysts are right, that could mean an improving economic outlook in time for the Congressional elections (the first report on third-quarter growth is scheduled for Oct. 31) and perhaps a better holiday shopping season than many retailers are now anticipating.
But why should anyone pay attention to them? Because beyond having a consistently above-average record, Mr. Smith and Ms. Lazar -- working with Edward S. Hyman, the chairman of the I.S.I. Group -- have made some of the most accurate economic forecasts of anyone, anywhere, in the last six quarters. While almost every forecaster except the dedicated pessimists failed to foresee the recession, Mr. Smith and Ms. Lazar presciently predicted a drop in the rate of economic growth to 1 percent or less last year.
Looking ahead, Mr. Smith said he believed that Wall Street economists had overestimated the effect of the stock market's tumble and underestimated the effects of low interest rates on consumers' spending. The reason for the discrepancy, he contended, is that Wall Street economists focus only on a very small but powerful cross section of the economy.
"The Wall Street types are completely blown away by the decline in the stock market," he said. "Since they all have such a high proportion of their net worth tied up in stocks, they think everybody does." The clients of the big Wall Street banks, he added, are not representative of the "real people" who drive the economy.
Mr. Smith's real people -- middle-class consumers -- will do more than enough to keep the economy growing at a speedy clip, he predicted. Many more families own their own homes, he pointed out, than own a share of stock or a mutual fund directly. Mr. Smith said he could conceive of homeowners refinancing their mortgages at lower interest rates and then buying cars with zero percent financing, perhaps leaving their total monthly payments unchanged.
"That's a middle-American thing to do," he said. "As long as interest rates remain relatively low, by standards of the last 40 years, why is this going to stop?"
Rather than conferring with managers of billion of dollars, Mr. Smith, who recently became the chief economist for the Society of Industrial and Office Realtors, said he preferred to talk to heartland executives, investors with smaller portfolios and one other expert -- his wife.
She was not surprised by the scandals that have helped cripple the stock market, Mr. Smith said. "Her response was, 'Hey, if you're middle American like me, all along you thought all these corporate tycoons were crooks.' "
The biggest investment banks, whose clients included fallen corporate icons like Enron, WorldCom and Tyco, still expect a sluggish end to the year. J. P. Morgan Chase and Goldman, Sachs both say growth will be 3.5 percent in the third quarter and 2 percent in the fourth. Morgan Stanley agrees on the third quarter, but places the fourth at just 1.5 percent.
Mr. Smith, who is betting on 3.8 percent growth in the third quarter and 4.2 percent in the fourth, stated proudly that he had never worked on Wall Street. "North Carolina's probably a better place to sit to look at trends than New York City," he said.
Ms. Lazar might have grounds to disagree with that last claim. She and Mr. Hyman have compiled an excellent forecasting record from their perch on Manhattan's East Side. Their forecast for economic growth in the fourth quarter is actually higher, at 4 percent, than it was at the beginning of this year. At the core of their predictions, Ms. Lazar said, are changes in government policy and trends in interest rates in the world's biggest economies.
"Changes in global short rates lead U.S. economic activity pretty consistently by 12 months," she said. "If you lower the cost of capital, it should help to improve economic activity. It makes the cost of doing business cheaper, and it makes the cost of buying things cheaper."
While a number of forecasters fear another downturn will result unless the Federal Reserve bolsters the economy by cutting rates further, Ms. Lazar said she was waiting for the full impact of last year's rate cuts. "There is a sense that the Fed's easing isn't working," she said. "I just disagree with that. We believe very strongly that it takes 12 months for changes in rates to work their way through the economy."
Inflation-adjusted spending by consumers could grow by 5 percent or more in this quarter, she said, because of low interest rates.
Slow growth in wages and rapid gains in productivity are helping to raise corporate profits, Ms. Lazar added. Companies are likely to hire more workers and especially to invest their profits in new capital, she said, again because of low interest rates. She predicted that spending on equipment could rise by as much as 10 percent this quarter.
Though Ms. Lazar admitted that the ambiguity of recent economic reports had made her a little nervous, she said that the I.S.I. Group would not change its forecast based on a few blips. "We've learned the hard way not to flip-flop based on some data that deviate from our forecast," she said. "In early 2001, when the economy was deteriorating, even the data at the time didn't show that deterioration."
(Yesterday, the I.S.I. Group did lower its forecast for growth in the third quarter to 3.5 percent from 4 percent, but its prediction for the fourth quarter remains at 4 percent.)
Indeed, forecasting the weather may be easy compared with Ms. Lazar's and Mr. Smith's jobs. "The data over the last couple of months have just been so mixed, it's been incredible," said Randall E. Moore, the editor of Blue Chip Economic Indicators, a monthly compilation of forecasts. He described the run of strong reports on consumer spending as "wacky," adding that the summer's dip in share prices and signs of softness in manufacturing even led some economists to fear the worst -- a return to recession.
The most recent data on the economy may signal a tilt in the bulls' direction, however. Instinet Research's index of chain-store sales rose 0.6 percent in the first week of September. Consumers' retail spending increased 0.8 percent in August, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. Earlier in the week, the department announced that wholesale inventories expanded by 0.6 percent in July.
On the other side, the Federal Reserve's beige book of anecdotal reports from around the economy, released on Wednesday, hinted at slow growth early in the summer. And a recent survey of chief executives by TEC International, a professional association, found that many were planning to postpone major business investments until next year.
Indeed, bearish voices like that of Richard B. Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley, continue to warn that the economy will get worse. "A lot of the growth in consumer spending in the third quarter borrowed from the fourth," he said. "Everything I hear from companies about capital spending continues to be downbeat."
Still, while some forecasters have become more cautious lately, economists generally remain more bullish about the outlook for the economy than many top corporate executives.
Perhaps that is because, as Mr. Moore put, at least among economists there are "some optimists out there to balance the pessimists."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nancy R. Lazar, above left, executive vice president of the I.S.I. Group, and James F. Smith, above, author of the Business Forecast at the University of North Carolina, are optimistic on the economy. (Above left, Carol Halebian for The New York Times; above, Jenny Warburg for The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: "Bullish Predictions"Nancy R. Lazar and James F. Smith, who predicted slow growth for the nation's economy in 2001, expect a stronger performance for the rest of this year. Graph tracks:MR. SMITH'S PREDICTIONSMS. LAZAR'S PREDICTIONSACTUAL GDP CHANGE AT ANNUAL RATE 2001 Predictions as of Jan. '01 2002As of Jan. '02As of Sept.13, '02 (Sources: James F. Smith; the ISI Group; Bureau of Economic Analysis)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RETAILERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (52%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (52%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY & INVESTMENT GROUP INC (70%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (83%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL; LAZAR, NANCY R; SMITH, JAMES F 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



377 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Fighting the Menace of Unwanted E-Mail 

BYLINE:  By Oren Etzioni; Oren Etzioni is an associate professor of computer science at the University of Washington.

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
A few days ago I created a new e-mail account, and within 24 hours I had received over 25 unsolicited commercial e-mail messages, otherwise known as spam. Even though I'm a professor of computer science, I, like so many others, have failed to protect myself from this daily nuisance. So I welcome the efforts by consumer groups that this month filed a petition with the Federal Trade Commission to enact a federal rule that would require senders to identify themselves more clearly and give recipients an effective way to opt out of such mailings.
 But legal efforts like this will not be enough. More than 20 states have enacted similar laws, but many of them have been challenged as unconstitutional restrictions of free speech or commerce. And the spam continues to flow. 
 Spam is a global phenomenon, and much of it is generated outside the United States. It requires a global response. Why not fight spam with spam?
Though spammers hope to lure us with their dubious propositions ("URGENT AND CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS PROPOSAL"), they rely on those of us who don't want to participate to delete their messages quietly and go about our daily business. What would happen if recipients instead replied en masse to each message? 
Unlike the authors of viruses, who hide in the shadows of the Internet, senders of spam often leave a trail. Faced with hundreds of thousands of responses, the spammer would have to use substantial resources to store the responses, sift through them and identify those registering genuine interest. Alternatively, people could file a complaint with the sender's service provider or overload the spammer's Web site, grinding it to a halt. 
With current technology, there are few other options. Some service providers allow users to elect to receive e-mail messages only from pre-approved e-mail addresses. But this can cause problems of its own for those who are sending a legitimate message to a recipient they don't know. And software filters pose the same risk of inadvertently blocking desirable e-mail messages, especially since spammers have found ways to make their messages look ordinary. 
One of the more promising techniques is the use of puzzles that would distinguish people from programs. Such schemes work as follows: Whenever I receive an e-mail message from an unknown sender, my computer automatically sends a message back politely requesting that the sender solve a simple puzzle -- like "What's the sum of four and five?" or "What word is embedded in the attached image?" -- to demonstrate that the message comes from a person and not an automated sender. The original e-mail message would be transmitted to me only if the sender replies with a solution to the puzzle. This is a promising development, but the process is awkward, potentially insulting to the sender and far from foolproof.
If technology is limited, what about an economic approach? The cost of sending e-mail is close to zero. Increasing that cost, for example by requiring senders to pay recipients of a message, would certainly eliminate much of the spam we receive. But it would be unfair to tax all e-mail messages, even legitimate ones, just to discourage spam.
These remedies may seem overly ambitious, since getting rid of spam can be done simply by hitting the delete key. But spam is more than just a nuisance. It costs money in lost work time, burdens computer systems and damages online discourse (by deterring people from posting on message boards and doing research on the Web out of fear of leaving an e-mail trail). Let's send a clear message to the spammers: stop spamming or taste your own medicine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (94%); EMAIL MARKETING (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PETITIONS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



378 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: A Brooklyn Inventor Eases an African Headache; 
An Inexpensive Handcart Catches On in Malawi, Where Women Have Long Used Their Heads

BYLINE:  By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
For centuries, women in rural Africa have carried heavy loads on their heads as they take goods to market. But a man in Brooklyn thinks he has a better way, and -- as far-fetched as it may seem -- people in one African nation have begun to listen.
 Arnold Wendroff, an itinerant inventor who worked in the Peace Corps and later studied in Malawi, has designed a wooden handcart to relieve the burden there. 
 Slightly larger and more stable than a wheelbarrow, the handcart can be easily built using native materials and two bicycle tires. It is also cheaper to make and more practical than a bicycle. Best of all, a woman can carry far more in the cart that she can on her head. 
The carts are now being used not only to replace head-borne baskets, but also to haul trash in Malawi's capital, Lilongwe, to carry produce in remote provinces, even to ferry sick people to hospitals. Politicians are paying attention, and Western development experts speak admiringly of Dr. Wendroff's efforts. 
It is a sweet vindication for Dr. Wendroff, a 60-year-old with a bristly beard who spent years crisscrossing Malawi like an evangelist, talking about his handcart to anyone who would listen.
There is nothing exceptional in the cart's design, Dr. Wendroff is quick to point out. The latest model is based on sketches in a book he bought at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. 
But in a region where the work force has been devastated by AIDS, the need for cheap and practical alternatives to what is known as head-loading is immense, said Prof. John M. Staatz, an expert in African agriculture and transport issues at Michigan State University. Much of the continent still lacks the money for such longer-term solutions as more cars and better roads. 
"It is really of great importance," said Jephthah Chagunda, the director of the Malawi Rural Travel and Transport Program, which is financed by the World Bank and recently bought and distributed 16 handcarts in a pilot project. About 65 carts are in use in Malawi, with more being built by a farmers' association and by the Lilongwe City Assembly. 
For Dr. Wendroff, the handcarts are just one part of a decidedly eccentric career. He is an occasional research associate in the geology department at Brooklyn College.
He got a Ph.D. in sociology by studying witchcraft and traditional medicine in Malawi in the 1980's There is no patent on the handcart design, and Dr. Wendroff said he made no money from the handcarts. He said he lived off a modest pension and a small inheritance.
"This will revolutionize the way they live, because they have to get their own water and firewood every day," Dr. Wendroff said recently outside his Park Slope home. He was sitting comfortably in one of his handcarts as a visitor wheeled him on a demonstration tour from his brownstone to Prospect Park, half a block away. With his 150-pound frame balanced in the cart, he seemed as light as a feather.
Still, the handcarts have not been an easy sell. 
The concept first dawned on Dr. Wendroff in 1989, when he was helping a friend clear some land in the Catskills. Later that year, in Malawi, he showed pictures of American garden carts to farmers, who were eager to buy them. But the cart's steel axles were unavailable there.
In 1992, Dr. Wendroff returned to Malawi with wheels and axles, traveling the countryside and trying to persuade government ministers, nonprofit groups and others to manufacture carts. Everyone was enthusiastic, but no one built them.
In 1998, he finally succeeded in persuading the Malawi minister of agriculture to hold a handcart demonstration. A favorable report followed, and two years later he met with the president of Malawi, Bakili Muluzi, which resulted in some favorable publicity in Malawi. But still no carts.
He redesigned the cart in wood, making sure it could be built and repaired with local materials like castoff bicycle screws. Nuts and bolts that can be bought at any American hardware store are extremely rare in Africa, he explained.
"It's so simple," he said as he led a visitor to his basement workshop in Brooklyn. He laid out the tools required to build a handcart: saws, hammer, screwdriver, brace, tape measure, square, plane, and countersink.
Simplicity, as it happens, was part of the problem. 
Unlike Asia, where bicycles and rickshaws have been mass-produced for decades, Africa has always looked to the West, where motorized transport and roads were the model.
There has been a "deep-seated stigma associated with handcarts, as they are considered a technological retrogression," said Peter Njenga, an Africa-based analyst for the International Forum for Rural Transport Development, in an e-mail message. But the fact is that there is no money to pay for more advanced methods. 
Now, history may finally be turning Dr. Wendroff's way. 
"There's been a recognition that they need simpler means of transport in the short term," said Stephen Brushett, an economist at the World Bank, which has been criticized for favoring giant development options like highways and dams.
There has also been a recognition that traditional African head-carrying has a price. Although studies have shown that African women have developed a special gait to deal with the loads they carry on their heads, many have suffered spinal injuries from excessive burdens in recent years, Mr. Chagunda said.
During Dr. Wendroff's latest trip to Malawi, in June, several nongovernmental groups ordered carts and expressed interest in helping distribute them throughout the country. Eventually, he hopes to take the idea to the rest of the continent.
Dr. Wendroff trained a number of Malawian carpenters to make the carts. The parts and labor to build a cart cost about 3,000 kwacha, or about $40, a lot of money in a country where the annual per capita income is $190. But other methods are far more expensive: an ox cart costs about $400 (without the ox).
In Lilongwe, the City Assembly has begun using the carts for garbage collection and street cleaning (replacing the wheelbarrows that were used previously). They are being used as ambulances by a rural hospital in Chitedze. The officials who worked with Dr. Wendroff in Malawi have been sending him follow-up questions by e-mail. 
"The women love it, and best of all, they're suggesting improvements," Dr. Wendroff said. "It really seems to be catching on."
Dr. Wendroff has even learned something about salesmanship. On his last trip, he noticed that despite their poverty, Malawians spend money on perfumed soap, because of the sexy billboards advertising the soap in Lilongwe. Could something similar be done for handcarts?
"We don't have money for advertising," he said. But he has decided that naming it the Livingstonia cart -- after the 19th century colonial explorer -- may have been a mistake. "Now we're thinking of calling it the Africart," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Women in Malawi, a nation in southern Africa, are slowly learning to use a simple handcart to carry much more than they can on their heads. Arnold Wendroff, above right, a Brooklyn inventor, is trying to expand their use. (Arnold Wendroff); (Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. B1); In Chitedze, Malawi, residents are putting the cart before the noggin. (Arnold Wendroff)(pg. B2) Map of Africa highlighting Malawi: In Malawi, even common nuts and bolts can be hard to come by. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); TIRES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); AIDS & HIV (66%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) MALAWI (98%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



379 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2074 words

PERSON: William Phillips 

HEADLINE: William Phillips, Co-Founder and Soul of Partisan Review, Dies at 94 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
William Phillips, the co-founder and longtime editor of Partisan Review, the forum for the brilliant and contentious stable of writers who became known as the New York Intellectuals, died yesterday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 94. 
 Partisan Review's circulation never exceeded 15,000, but Mr. Phillips and his co-editor, Philip Rahv, kept it at the forefront of the great ideological and cultural currents of their time with an extraordinary knack for discovering hungry and talented writers and critics who were to make an indelible mark on American culture and politics. 
 Lionel Trilling, Mary McCarthy, Irving Howe, Dwight Macdonald, the art historian Meyer Schapiro, and the critics Clement Greenberg, Harold Rosenberg and F. W. Dupee, little-known mavericks and rebels when they began to contribute to Partisan Review, helped make it the nation's most influential literary and political journal in the years immediately before and after World War II. 
P.R., as it was known to aficionados, published many famous short stories, including Bernard Malamud's "Magic Barrel" and Isaac Bashevis Singer's "Gimpel the Fool" (his first in English, in a translation by a young writer named Saul Bellow). The magazine also introduced American readers to existentialism and to Susan Sontag's landmark cultural essay, "Notes on Camp."
In its pages, Greenberg gave Abstract Expressionism its first serious attention, Allen Tate and Robert Penn Warren spread the ideas of the New Criticism, and European writers and intellectuals like Hannah Arendt, Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, Albert Camus and Arthur Koestler were able to reach an American audience. Robert Lowell, Norman Mailer, Elizabeth Hardwick, James Baldwin and Norman Podhoretz were among the young Americans whose early work appeared in this little magazine.
"We were outsiders beginning something new and had no idea how long it would last or how important it would be," Mr. Phillips said in a 1997 interview. "I finally realized what was marginal then has become fairly central to the culture."
Mr. Phillips was the quiet half of the Partisan Review's ruling pair, and his partner, Rahv, a brilliant editor and critic, took much of the credit for the magazine's luster. But if the rigorous but overbearing Rahv, who died in 1972, was the spirit of the magazine, Mr. Phillips proved the more durable editor, guiding Partisan Review for more than 60 years.
"He kept it together, and he kept it going," said Edith Kurzweil, the magazine's current editor, who married Mr. Phillips in 1995 and is his sole immediate survivor. "His standards were extremely high, and he had taste and intelligence. It's easy enough to ask established people to write if you have enough money to pay them. It's much harder judging a new talent as a good writer."
Mr. Phillips, a bohemian son of Eastern European immigrants, was a Marxist when he and Rahv founded the magazine in 1934 in a Greenwich Village loft. He continued to read manuscripts into his 90's, after the magazine had lost much of its influence and was dependent on university largesse.
He insisted on engaging Partisan Review in the great ideological debates: the battle between Trotskyites and Stalinists in the 1930's, the backlash against Communism in the late 40's and 50's, and the 70's disputes between neoconservatives and the dwindling corps of deep-dyed liberals. The social historian Christopher Lasch said Mr. Phillips and Rahv "earned from American intellectuals a lasting debt of gratitude by exposing the totalitarian character of Soviet Communism."
As an occasional writer for the magazine, Mr. Phillips was overshadowed by his contributors. He was so able to see a question's many sides that he found it difficult to chisel a tidy position. 
"That fearful thing -- a writer's block -- had descended upon him and would not relinquish its grip," William Barrett, the philosopher and editor at Partisan Review, wrote of Mr. Phillips in his 1982 memoir, "The Truants." 
Yet Mr. Phillips's deficiencies enabled him to step out of the limelight and manage his crew of brilliant, cranky polemicists who felt comfortable discoursing on Trotsky in one issue and Tolstoy in the next. 
Mr. Phillips was a kind-hearted man who revealed his resentments with a dry, sometimes Yiddish-flavored wit. He once said that the woman who could abide Rahv's personality would have to become his "alter-Iago." Another time, he called Rahv a "manic-impressive" and said there would be no point in his undergoing psychoanalysis: "Most of us, under analysis, break down and admit our shortcomings," he said. "Philip would break down and confess he was a great man."
Their relationship became what Barrett once described as a "strained and bickering marriage" held together by a beloved child, Partisan Review. 
Unlike others at the magazine, Mr. Phillips did not allow ideology to overcome common sense. Macdonald resigned from Partisan Review because he wanted it to be more political and because he opposed American entry into World War II, thinking that socialism might emerge victorious in a war among Europe's capitalist societies; Mr. Phillips and Rahv recognized that Hitler's defeat was paramount.
Fortified in later years by endowed positions at institutions like Harvard and Columbia, Partisan Review's early writers found an economic comfort they could not have imagined in the cold-water flats of their youth. Yet, as their memoirs disclose, those days of wrestling about art and politics remained the most rewarding of their lives. 
"I remember Camus arriving in America and calling us first thing, thinking he was meeting people who were more important than we were at the time," Mr. Phillips reminisced in 1997 when an anthology he edited, "60 Years of Great Fiction From Partisan Review" (Partisan Review Press), was published. "I miss being in the midst of a community of so many talented, intelligent people. You were marginal in terms of the main culture, but you felt a tougher intellectual life. The talk! The talk was exciting."
William Phillips was born Nov. 14, 1907 in East Harlem. His father, who changed the family name from Litvinsky, was a failed lawyer from Odessa whom his son once described as "a luftmensch," literally "a person of air." His mother was a chronically depressed hypochondriac who often consulted quacks. She once separated from her husband and took their son back to her native Kiev for three years before returning.
"I learned early to cut out, to turn into myself, as though what was going on was a psychodrama in which I was a suffering spectator, a victim," Mr. Phillips wrote in his memoir, "A Partisan View" (Stein & Day, 1983).
Growing up poor in the heavily Jewish East Bronx, he attended City College, where he studied with the legendary philosopher Morris Raphael Cohen and also encountered T. S. Eliot's essay collection "The Sacred Wood," which, he said, sent him "swimming in the exotic waters of modernism."
While taking graduate courses in literature at New York University, he met Edna Greenblatt, whom he married in 1933 and whose salary as a high school teacher helped support them in rougher years. Like more than a few Depression-era couples, they made a deliberate decision not to have children. She died in 1985.
The Depression, Mr. Phillips once wrote, destroyed his "faith in the idea of a future" but stirred his interest in politics, particularly Marxism. He joined the John Reed Club, a Greenwich Village organization of writers and artists that was supported by the Communist Party.
"It was a time of sense and nonsense, idealism and cynicism," he wrote 30 years later, adding it "was possible to believe simultaneously in democracy and dictatorship." 
Although he rose to secretary of the club, he was put off by crude party-line exhortations and agitprop aesthetics. He dreamed of a magazine to express the subtler distinctions of his own views, and found a congenial dreamer in Rahv, an immigrant from Russia who was receptive to avant-garde culture and disenchanted with writing for the Communist journal The New Masses. When an English lecturer packed the house at a club event, they had the $800 windfall they needed to start Partisan Review as the official organ of the John Reed Club.
"We were cocky kids driven by a grandiose idea of launching a new literary movement, combining the best of the new radicalism with the innovative energy of modernism," Mr. Phillips once recalled. 
But they were constantly pressured to subordinate literary standards to Soviet ideology. When they broke away from the club after nine issues, they were branded agents of imperialism, and longtime friends stopped talking to them. 
They were fortunate to recruit Dupee, the literary editor of The New Masses; his Yale classmate, the argumentative Macdonald; and their brilliant friend Mary McCarthy. Dupee brought in a backer, an abstract painter with an independent income, George L. K. Morris, who supplied the $1,500 to get the first independent issue off the press in December 1937.
The journal, the editors promised, would be devoted to "the modern sensibility in literature and the arts and to a radical consciousness in social and political matters." It was a brave manifesto because they were intent on attacking Stalin and the Soviet Union from the standpoint of a purer Marxism and an advancing avant-garde culture when modernism was under attack for not advancing the interests of the masses. 
The first issue was auspicious. As well as Delmore Schwartz's famous story, "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities" (about his parents' marriage), it included a poem by Wallace Stevens, essays by Lionel Abel and Edmund Wilson, and reviews by Lionel Trilling and Sidney Hook. 
The writers drawn to Partisan Review formed a discernible world that some compared to an American Bloomsbury. It was inhabited by erudite thinkers who hung out in Stewart's Cafeteria in Sheridan Square and enlivened parties with luminous conversations, bitter feuds and talk of torrid love affairs. The atmosphere was so "pervasively Jewish," Barrett wrote, that he tended to forget he was "not a Jew after all." 
In its heyday, mostly as a quarterly, the magazine published landmark essays like Leslie Fiedler's "Come Back to the Raft Ag'in, Huck Honey," which drew attention to the issues of race and homosexual overtones in American literature; Greenberg's "Avant-Garde and Kitsch"; and Macdonald's "Mass Cult and Mid-Cult." In politics, it remained consistently anti-Stalinist and in 1946 published a blistering editorial against left-wing thinkers at The New Republic and The Nation, calling them a "Fifth Column" that was "licking Stalin's boots."
The McCarthy era presented a difficult test, which Lillian Hellman said Mr. Phillips failed by not defending her and other writers when they were attacked by the House Un-American Activities Committee. Mr. Phillips countered that Partisan Review did oppose McCarthyism in several editorials, but argued that Hellman and others did not deserve a defense because they were silent when countless Soviet intellectuals were arrested and tortured by Stalin.
By the 1960's and 70's, Partisan Review's best writers had moved on, and Rahv had let most of the burdens of editing the magazine fall on Mr. Phillips. In 1965, when the board decided to list Mr. Phillips as editor-in-chief, Rahv sued for control.
"I do not believe there has ever been a lawsuit about a nonprofit literary magazine, and only an intransigent revolutionary mind, deeply immersed in the tradition of Marxism, could have thought up such a parody of capitalist property relations," Mr. Phillips wrote.
Rahv won the right to see manuscripts, but in 1969 he resigned to start his own magazine. Partisan Review was then published under the auspices of Rutgers University, which provided Mr. Phillips with office space and a professorship in the English department. In 1978, Rutgers canceled the arrangement, and Mr. Phillips found a home for the magazine at Boston University.
In later years, Mr. Phillips tried several times to recreate the enchanted intellectual world he knew, bringing together warring partisans like Howe, Sontag, Lionel and Diana Trilling, and Norman Podhoretz. But at one soiree, after Donald Barthelme attacked Lionel Trilling's novel, and Diana Trilling retorted by savaging Barthelme's work, Mr. Phillips understood his task.
"It was clear," he said, "that I was trying to mate lambs and wolves."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. Phillips, seated at right, in 1940 with fellow editors, from left, F. W. Dupee, George L. K. Morris, Philip Rahv and Dwight Macdonald. (Maurey Garber); William Phillips in 1983. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); WRITERS (90%); LITERARY CRITICISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (72%); HISTORY (70%); WORLD WAR II (68%); ART HISTORY (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



380 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
A Mugging By Definition Is a Mugging

BYLINE:  By IRA BERKOW

 BODY:
YOU may recall that one day around 13 B.C. the Roman poet Horace opined, "The people are a many-headed beast." Now we flash forward to the afternoon of Sunday, Oct. 7, A.D. 2001, to a baseball game in Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco. One Barry Lamar Bonds cracks a home run into the right-field bleachers, where thousands of the multitude sit and graze.
 Horace, whose sports expertise might have been limited to chariot races when he was writing about the savagery of the masses, could have been excused for not having the foresight to know that this hit was a big deal. It was the 73rd and last home run of the season for Bonds, establishing a major league record. 
 One of the fans, Alex Popov, in that outer reach of Pac Bell, raises up a baseball glove and the ball lands in the glove. As he brings the ball down to his chest -- joyous to the point, presumably, of delirium -- he is suddenly pounced upon by about a dozen of his, well, fellow fanatics. Part of Popov's clothing is ripped, his eyeglasses, he later says, are broken, and the ball is snatched from his possession. Patrick Hayashi emerges from the pile of arms and legs and teeth to grasp the ball in his solid possession.
Popov, after staggering to his feet, eventually sued Hayashi for possession of the ball. Both men, each with substantial legal representation, met in San Francisco Superior Court eight days ago, each side trying to persuade the judge, James J. McBride, to award him the ball, which has been placed in a court-monitored safe.
"Can reasonable minds disagree that this is a catch?" McBride asked, referring to a TV news tape that showed Popov reaching above the crowd and snagging the ball, at least momentarily. "I'm not talking about these six lawyers here, I'm talking about reasonable minds."
On Thursday, Judge McBride decided that only a jury trial should determine the outcome of who owns the ball. And why not? If, in this litigious land, a court can pick the president of the United States, it can certainly decide who should be the proper claimant of a baseball. The case begins Oct. 7.
To be sure, this is no ordinary baseball. No one wanted it for purely sentimental reasons, or just to have a major league baseball with Allan H. Selig's stamped autograph on it.
This baseball, it is common knowledge, is worth a significant chunk of change. When Mark McGwire established the home run record in 1998 with 70 -- breaking the record of 61 held for 37 years by Roger Maris -- McGwire's 70th home run ball was auctioned for $2.7 million (the total sale was for $3,005,000 after adding the auction house's commission).
Today, Bonds's No. 73 is believed to be worth about $1 million -- the drop in price due either to the sagging economy or the new home run record.
A Popov lawyer, meanwhile, asserted that his client had "unequivocal dominion and control" of that baseball.
A counsel for Hayashi contended that his client just happened to find the ball in his possession under "crowded conditions" that were simply "spirited and boisterous." 
When you attend a baseball game, it is part of the culture that if a baseball comes your way, by means fair or foul, you are entitled to it as a souvenir if you can get it.
We've seen grown men scramble for a ball and risk the ruin of a $500 suit. I once saw Ted Turner, then owner of the Atlanta Braves, in slacks and blazer, battle for a foul ball in his box seat in the old Fulton County Stadium in Atlanta. He came up with the ball, too. (Maybe he was just trying to save money on equipment.)
A law professor at the University of Tulsa, Paul Finkelman, who recently wrote an article for the Cardozo Law Review, "Fugitive Baseballs and Abandoned Property: Who Owns the Home Run Ball?" said yesterday, "If one is in control of an honestly obtained object, then that object belongs to him."
While Horace had his points about madcap mobs, and Darwin made a point about survival of the fittest, we do like to believe that there are some restraints in a civil society. And baseball fans, though this may be disputed, do come under the rubric of a civilized society.
So it shouldn't matter whether the man with the ball has possessed it for two seconds or two hours, it's his. Hayashi couldn't legally take the ball from Popov if Popov had it in his pocket when leaving the park, so he shouldn't be allowed to take it after the catch, either. A mugging is a mugging is a mugging.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrick Hayashi, center, after the scramble. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); WRITERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); AUCTIONS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); JUDGES (69%); JURY TRIALS (64%); US PRESIDENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (84%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



381 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
France Struggles to Ease Debt of Phone Company
France Telecom is in turmoil. Its stock is down and its chief executive has resigned. And the French government, which owns 55 percent of the company, is struggling to find a way to help the company lighten its $70 billion debt load.
 The government cannot allow the company to collapse, but it cannot directly subsidize it without drawing the ire of the European Union. While it could buy enough of the proposed new shares to keep its current stake in the company undiluted, the move would cost as much as $8 billion. News Analysis. Page C2. 

Stocks Mixed but Fall for Week
Stocks were mixed but closed lower for the third consecutive week. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 66.72 points, to 8,312.69. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index inched 2.90 points higher, to 889.81. The Nasdaq composite index rose 11.72 points, to 1,291.40. For the week, the Dow was down 1.4 percent, the S.& P. was off 0.5 percent and the Nasdaq was down 0.3 percent. C4.

Inflation at the wholesale level was unchanged in August despite a sharp jump in energy prices. Retail sales rose a surprisingly strong 0.8 percent for the month, powered by gains in car sales. But a survey by the University of Michigan showed that consumer confidence was down so far this month. C3.

United Unions to Offer Concessions
The unions at United Airlines plan to offer a proposal for concessions late next week to help the carrier obtain a federal loan guarantee. United said it was encouraged by its talks with the unions, even though it would not have the concessions by Monday, the deadline it had set in order to update a business plan that is part of an application for a $1.8 billion guarantee for $2 billion in private loans. C4.

Europe Threatens Trade Retaliation
The European Union has published a list of potential products for retaliation if the United States does not end a tax break for its exporters. Europe has threatened to impose sanctions of up to $4 billion. C2.

ImClone Ordered Paper Shredders
Samuel D. and Harlan W. Waksal, the two top executives of ImClone Systems, ordered paper shredders in January, just as federal investigations of the company were beginning, the company said in a letter to Congress. Samuel Waksal, left, who resigned as the chief executive in May, was indicted last month on insider trading and other charges, including the destruction of documents to obstruct a federal investigation. In the letter to Congress, a lawyer representing ImClone said that Harlan Waksal had not shredded or directed the shredding of any documents sought by investigators. C3.

Claims Against Insurers Dismissed
In Manhattan, a federal judge has dismissed fraud claims against 11 insurance companies, dealing a setback to efforts by J. P. Morgan Chase to collect $965 million for losses on gas and oil trades with Enron. The judge ruled that J. P. Morgan could take its breach-of-contract claim against the insurers to trial. C3.

In Houston, a federal judge has upheld a verdict finding Arthur Andersen guilty of obstruction of justice in a case involving the firm's auditing of Enron. The ruling clears the way for the sentencing of the firm next month. C14.

AOL Hires Former Time Executive
AOL Time Warner has hired Michael Kelly, a former Time Inc. executive, to run a marketing group created to increase advertising sales at the company's units. C4.

Judge to Dismiss Tobacco Ad Suit
A judge in San Diego said he would dismiss a lawsuit accusing tobacco companies of continuing to single out minors with advertising but gave the plaintiffs one last chance to respond. The suit seeks limits on advertising broader than what tobacco companies agreed to under a 1998 settlement. C14.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,312.69 down 66.72Nasdaq composite -- 1,291.40 up 11.7210-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.91% down 0.06The euro -- $0.9719 down 0.0100The dollar -- 121.73 yen up 1.62 Graph tracks daily closings of the Nasdaq composite since March.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (84%); INVESTIGATIONS (84%); INSURANCE (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); RETAIL SALES (66%); INDICTMENTS (64%); AIRLINES (64%); LITIGATION (63%); EXPORT TRADE (61%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (61%); LAWYERS (60%); JUDGES (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (50%) 14$02; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (95%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (95%); FTE (NYSE) (95%); FTE (BIT) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



382 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: In the Race for Governor, Still Debating Over Debating 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki, who avoided debates in his two previous successful campaigns for governor, said yesterday that he "absolutely" would debate the Democratic nominee, H. Carl McCall.
 But Mr. Pataki dodged a question on whether he would go forward and debate if Tom Golisano, the Independence Party candidate, participated. By the end of the day, whether there would be debates in the 2002 race for governor of New York remained almost as unclear as before Mr. Pataki's comments. 
 The governor said, "Absolutely, I'm looking forward to it," when asked on the campaign trail if he would debate Mr. McCall, the state comptroller. 
But Mr. Pataki did not answer when he was asked about debating Mr. Golisano, who, according to unofficial results, defeated him in the Independence Party primary on Tuesday. When asked a follow-up question about debates, Mr. Pataki said only, "The precise nature of the debates will be worked out by the campaigns."
Candidates with large leads in the polls tend to avoid debates for fear of granting their opponents exposure -- especially those from long-shot third parties -- or of committing some damaging slip of the tongue. Mr. Pataki has not been an exception, even when he has said he welcomed debates.
In 1998, despite saying he wanted to debate the Democratic nominee, Peter F. Vallone, then the speaker of the New York City Council, Mr. Pataki skipped the events. He blamed personal attacks by Mr. Vallone, who had vigorously attacked the governor's policies but not Mr. Pataki himself. Mr. Pataki's aides said privately at the time that the governor felt no obligation to show up because he had a 30-point lead in the polls. 
In 1994, running against Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, Mr. Pataki refused to participate because Mr. Cuomo insisted that Mr. Golisano take part. Mr. Golisano founded the Independence Party that year, running the first of his three campaigns for governor. He has typically drawn from the same pool of conservative voters as the governor.
But Mr. Pataki may come under more pressure this year to debate. His lead is not as large as in 1998; a Marist College poll released earlier in the week showed him 17 points ahead of Mr. McCall among registered voters, down from 30 points in May.
And Mr. Golisano, who has spent $33 million of his own money on his campaign, said he planned to spend at least $40 million more, with much of it expected to go toward television advertising attacking Mr. Pataki.
Mollie Fullington, Mr. Pataki's campaign spokeswoman, said the campaign had received several invitations from the news media for debates, but that no decision had been made on attending, or on what, if any, conditions the governor would request. Mr. McCall's aides said he planned to accept offers for four televised debates, while Mr. Golisano said he had not been invited to any.
But Mr. Golisano's apparent victory in the Independence primary on Tuesday -- current totals show him leading Mr. Pataki by 900 votes, but the results will not be official until next week -- and his vow to spend heavily on advertising have increased the amount of attention being given to him by the news media.
The preliminary primary numbers have led Mr. Golisano's staff to promote him as a third major candidate worthy of inclusion in televised debates. Officials at some television stations that normally broadcast debates said they would at least consider inviting him, pending the final outcome of the primary.
Mr. McCall urged those organizing the debates to include Mr. Golisano and other third-party candidates. Only one such forum, sponsored by the League of Women Voters and newspapers and television stations in Rochester, is planned. Organizers said they would invite all the candidates once the primary results were certified. 
"Why not have everyone in?" Mr. McCall said during a campaign swing across upstate New York. "Let's get everybody and have the public have the opportunity to hear all the views." That echoes the position of Mr. Golisano and candidates for other third parties, who have long chafed at their exclusion from most televised forums. "I certainly want to debate," said Mr. Golisano, who spent much of yesterday in Albany giving interviews. "I am willing to do it anytime, anywhere." 
Mr. McCall and Mr. Pataki focused their campaigning on upstate New York yesterday, an area that is shaping up to be a key battleground like it was in recent statewide campaigns. Mr. McCall visited several upstate cities, delivering high-spirited promises to improve schools and the economy while faulting Mr. Pataki's record on both.
In signs of efforts to raise his profile nationally, Mr. McCall said at a news conference that the Democratic national chairman, Terry McAuliffe, will begin raising money for his campaign. And his aides said he is scheduled to deliver the Democratic response to President Bush's national Saturday morning radio address.
Mr. Pataki visited Troy to announce that Evident Technologies Inc. planned to add 200 new high-tech jobs there, one of a string of economic development announcements the governor has made in the last several weeks. He also visited the New York Islanders' training camp in Lake Placid and released a television ad featuring several Democrats speaking in his favor.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. George E. Pataki in Troy, N.Y., yesterday with Joseph L. Bruno, left, the majority leader in the State Senate, and Clinton Ballinger, the chief executive of Evident Technologies, which is adding 200 new jobs in Troy. Below, H. Carl McCall, the Democratic nominee for governor, campaigning in Buffalo. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); CITIES (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



383 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: 2 Germans Tinge the Political Debate With Personal Attacks 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
The two rivals to lead Germany faced off today in Parliament, exchanging arguments and insults face to face for the last time before the Sept. 22 election. New polls suggested that the incumbent chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, may have opened a small lead over his conservative rival, Edmund Stoiber.
 With his continuing opposition to a war over Iraq, Mr. Schroder, a Social Democrat, has built on the momentum that shifted to him, beginning with his competent handling of last month's floods. 
 Voters who have been wary of the stiff Mr. Stoiber, a Bavarian who has focused almost entirely on the weak economy, have found more reason to revert to Mr. Schroder, the polls indicate. Even though Mr. Schroder's small lead now remains within the 3-point margin of sampling error for most German polls, the trend appears to be in his direction.
Today, in the last major debate in Parliament over the budget, Mr. Schroder was both fierce and contemptuous of Mr. Stoiber. "You want to be chancellor but don't have the ability for it," Mr. Schroder told his angry rival. 
Mr. Schroder said he welcomed the statements by President Bush that the United States would work with the United Nations to disarm Iraq. But he said he remained convinced that a war in Iraq was a bad idea while Afghanistan remained unstable and there was no evidence to justify a new sense of urgency about the danger of Iraq.
"My arguments against a military intervention remain, and that is why, under my leadership, Germany will not take part in a military intervention," Mr. Schroder said.
To get United Nations arms inspectors back into Iraq must be the ultimate goal, Mr. Schroder said. "For that we will mobilize all political, all diplomatic and all economic possibilities," he said. 
But Mr. Stoiber accused Mr. Schroder of trying to cover up his economic failures by focusing on "peace," to which every German is committed, he said.
"Nobody should play politics with people's fears," Mr. Stoiber said. "This is not about the decision whether there will be German troops in Iraq. It is about whether one can divert attention from a miserable economic balance sheet."
Mr. Stoiber said dismissively, "You answer a foreign policy question that nobody is asking, but you don't answer the questions the German people are asking of you."
Mr. Stoiber continued to hammer at Mr. Schroder's poor economic record, his failure to get the number of unemployed below 3.5 million (as he promised) and Germany's anemic growth, one of the weakest in Europe.
"People no longer trust you after you promised so much in 1998 and didn't stick to any of it," Mr. Stoiber said. "Upturn or downturn? That is the choice facing Germans on Sept. 22."
Mr. Schroder faced another embarrassment today when the badly indebted France Telecom said it would end its financing of the German telephone operating company, MobilCom A.G., which is now facing collapse and the loss of 5,000 more jobs. France Telecom owns 28.5 percent of MobilCom.
Mr. Schroder promised to try to save MobilCom, but it was not clear how he would do it, given that the company has only a few days' worth of cash reserves and no potential new investors are in view.
The new polls indicated that Mr. Schroder had at least caught up with Mr. Stoiber's conservatives in the last four weeks, after months of lagging five to seven points behind.
A poll by Infratest Dimap released today showed the Social Democrats at 38.5 percent, compared to the conservatives' 36 percent, while the Electoral Research Group, which normally shows the Social Democrats higher, put them at 40 percent, up two points, with the conservatives down to 37 percent. The Forsa Institute showed the Social Democrats at 40 percent and the conservatives at 38 percent. But a fourth poll by Emnid, also released today, showed the two main parties even, at 38 percent each.
What was perhaps most upsetting to the conservatives was an Allensbach poll released on Wednesday. The most accurate of the polls in 1998, Allensbach had shown a steady conservative lead, but its latest results showed the two main parties even, at 37 percent.
Allensbach's director, Elisabeth Noelle, said, "We're heading to a tense finale."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, front, during the debate with his challenger, Edmund Stoiber, rear. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); TRENDS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); DISARMAMENT (71%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%) ERLANGER, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); STOIBER, EDMUND 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) GERMANY; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



384 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: A MAYOR'S ADDRESS; 
Bloomberg Seconds Bush In Defending Use of Arms

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
Michael R. Bloomberg, the fourth mayor of New York to address the United Nations General Assembly, used the occasion yesterday to make a subtle case for military action against Iraq, underscoring the message President Bush delivered just a day earlier.
 Calling the Sept. 11 attack an assault on the principles of the United Nations itself, Mr. Bloomberg said, "Freedom comes at a price -- and tragically, sometimes that price is the commitment to defend freedom by arms." 
 "No matter how painful, America understands its obligations to its citizens, and the citizens of the world," he said. "America has been, is and always will be willing to do its duty -- to sacrifice even its own blood so that people everywhere can live as individuals, responsible for their own destinies." 
In a tacit reference to Iraq, Mr. Bloomberg added, "As President Bush has said repeatedly, we will aggressively pursue terrorists wherever they seek refuge and terrorist states whenever they threaten our security."
Mr. Bloomberg addressed the General Assembly at the start of the day's session, almost a year after then-Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani appeared before the body and challenged it to reject terrorism. Twice before, New York mayors were invited to speak before the Assembly, but in connection with a groundbreaking ceremony and the grand opening of the U.N. headquarters.
Although the session yesterday was sparsely attended, Mr. Bloomberg was clearly thrilled to have been invited. He brought about 30 guests, including his mother, Charlotte; his sister, Marjorie Tiven; and his daughter Emma. Also seated in a spectator gallery were selected deputy mayors, agency commissioners and personal friends.
Mr. Bloomberg began his speech by saying that had his father lived, the moment "would have been the high point of his life." Later, the mayor took Secretary General Kofi Annan over to meet his family.
Mr. Bloomberg appeared to have put significant effort into polishing and practicing his presentation, delivering his remarks smoothly and skipping only one phrase. He was sufficiently at ease to joke with the delegates, who responded with polite laughter, about the city's troubles with their parking habits.
"Let me start by saying that, from my vantage point, New York City's relationship with the U.N. has never been better than it is today," Mr. Bloomberg said. "Of course, like all neighbors, we do have our friendly disagreements from time to time about local problems. As a matter of fact, if you own the illegally parked black Lincoln town car with license plate number DPL 1234, I'm sorry, it's about to be towed."
Mr. Bloomberg, who was invited to speak by General Assembly President Jan Kavan in recognition of the first anniversary of the terror attack, thanked the delegates for their work and the support of their governments over the last year. He emphasized the growing importance of intellectual and economic exchange between nations and spoke of how the attack had killed people from 92 countries, bringing out the strength of a global community.
On a less lofty note, he also sought to assure the delegates that the city was committed to helping the United Nations with a renovation. In a nod to a pet constituency, Mr. Bloomberg added, "As our Latino community says, 'Nuestra casa es su casa.' "
Painting the city as a global hub, "where more than 120 languages are spoken and every major religion is practiced, where the cuisine of every nation is relished and the artistic expression of every culture displayed," Mr. Bloomberg promised that the city would remain free and open.
But the speech was, in the end, perhaps most notable for its understatement. In keeping with Mr. Bloomberg's nonconfrontational public style, he made no mention of specific targets like Iraq or Al Qaeda and for the most part avoided the often blunt, scolding tone of his predecessor. Just three weeks after the attack, Mr. Giuliani used the same stage to urge the member nations, sternly, to abandon neutrality in fighting terrorism. "You're either with civilization or with terrorists," Mr. Giuliani said at the time.
Mr. Bloomberg's tone was gentle by contrast, and he directed his harshest statements to those responsible for the attack. "You may use our very freedoms to disguise your evil aims," he said toward the end of his speech, which lasted about 12 minutes, shaking his finger for emphasis. "But you will not shake our faith in or our commitment to those freedoms. You may try to destroy us. But you will not succeed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg yesterday called the attacks of Sept. 11 an assault on the principles of the U.N. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); PARKING OFFENSES (65%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS; GENERAL ASSEMBLY (UN) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) CARDWELL, DIANE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



385 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Bush Says He Doubts Iraq Will Meet Demands
President Bush said that it was "highly doubtful" that Saddam Hussein would meet demands to disarm, while American officials said they would seek to write into any new United Nations resolution an authorization for the United States to enforce disarmament if Iraq did not comply. A1

The United States made rapid headway today toward persuading the Security Council to confront Iraq, as Russia hardened its position against Baghdad and the European Union supported a new resolution to force the return of weapons inspectors. A6

9/11 Suspect Is Captured
Ramzi bin al-Shibh, a high-ranking Qaeda operative believed to be one of the few people still alive who know the inside details of the Sept. 11 plot, has been captured and is now in custody, American officials said. A1

Pentagon officials disclosed new details about equipment found in a laboratory near Kandahar, Afghanistan, that they contend Al Qaeda intended to use to make biological and chemical weapons. A7

A Canadian teenager accused of killing an American medic while fighting with Al Qaeda in Afghanistan is being held there by the United States, Canadian officials say. A8

Two American F-16 fighter pilots have been charged with manslaughter and assault in the bombing of Canadian troops in Afghanistan, the Air Force said. A9

Court Says Bhutto Cannot Run
A Pakistani court rejected an appeal by a former prime minister, Benazir Bhutto, seeking permission to run in parliamentary elections in October, virtually ensuring that Ms. Bhutto would not return from exile to challenge the military government. A4

Georgia Moves Against Terror
The former Soviet republic, hoping to defuse tensions with Russia, announced that it had bolstered security on its border with Chechnya, arrested two armed insurgents and invited international observers to monitor its efforts to crack down on terrorism. A3

NATIONAL A10-13

Canon Lawyers Argue Against Sex-Abuse Policy
The sexual-abuse policy adopted by America's Roman Catholic bishops contradicts longstanding church laws and risks being substantially revised by the Vatican, according to a number of canon lawyers. A1

Tainted Deer Face Eradication
Worried by the discovery of the plague that ravages deer's brains, Wisconsin officials have begun an aggressive plan to kill 25,000 deer in a 389-square-mile eradication zone in the state's southern region. A1

Democrats' Iraq Dilemma
After a year of trying to keep the political debate focused on domestic policy, Democrats are uncertain about Iraq, not yet ready to give President Bush a blank check to wage war and not ready to oppose him. A1

Detained Over a Conversation
Three men of Middle Eastern descent, who were detained for more than 17 hours and whose cars were searched for explosives, proved themselves to be medical students. A woman had said she overheard them talk of an attack. A10

Reno's Recount Bid Rejected
Janet Reno's request for a statewide recount of primary ballots was rejected by a Florida commission appointed by Gov. Jeb Bush. A12

Judge Has Doubts on Tapes
The federal judge overseeing the trial of Zacarias Moussaoui, the first person charged in the Sept. 11 attacks, suggested in a ruling that she would not let a jury hear cockpit recordings from the United Airlines jet that crashed in Pennsylvania. A9

Migrant Workers Mourned
The worst traffic accident in Maine's history has left residents mourning the death of 14 seasonal migrants who did the labor-intensive forestry and farming work few natives are willing to do. A12

Offroad Pollution Rules
The Environmental Protection Agency will impose stringent new pollution regulations on some of the country's dirtiest engines, marking the first time that snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles will fall under the Clean Air Act. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Suspected Terrorists Are Arrested Near Buffalo
Federal authorities arrested five men of Arab background in Lackawanna, N.Y., a suburb of Buffalo, on suspicion they were linked to a terrorist cell, federal law enforcement officials said. The men had been in the United States for several years and lived within a few blocks of each other, officials said. A1

Leaders Oppose New Casinos
Connecticut's governor and United States senators say that they want no more casinos built in their state. The officials have for years supported the state's Indian tribes and their billion-dollar casino operations. B1

Victims' Families File Suit
At least 950 relatives of victims of the attack on the World Trade Center filed lawsuits against the Port Authority, claiming safety failures and inadequate evacuation procedures. They beat a Sept. 11 deadline. B3

Verizon Sues to Stop Rebuilding
Verizon, the largest local phone company in New York, filed a lawsuit to block the reconstruction of 7 World Trade Center unless the developer agrees to redesign the 52-story tower or pay for moving critical parts of a telephone network that would be buried underneath the building. B3

Beliefs B6

SPORTS D1-7

ARTS & IDEAS B7-14

EDUCATION

Math Scores Improve
Eighth graders in New York State showed significant improvement on statewide tests last year, although the majority still failed to meet the state standard, according to data released by the State Department of Education. New York City, which made special efforts to improve math scores, continued to lag behind suburban and rural districts. B1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Analysts Bullish About Growth
A bevy of forecasters from Wall Street and elsewhere are estimating that the economy accelerated from a 1.1 percent annual growth rate in the second quarter to about 3.5 percent during the summer. C1

Questions About HealthSouth
Medicare officials have been raising questions about the HealthSouth Corporation's billings to the government for at least four years, according to a Justice Department lawsuit filed earlier this year. C1

Ex-Analyst Traded Gifts
A former Merrill Lynch stock analyst who was a tireless cheerleader for Tyco International exchanged gifts with L. Dennis Kozlowski, Tyco's former chief executive, the analyst's lawyer said. C1

Lucent to Cut More Jobs
Lucent Technologies, the nation's largest maker of communications equipment, warned that it would eliminate more jobs. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES A16

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Election reform's Exhibit A; a measured pace on Iraq; Governor Pataki elaborates; betraying the foreign victims.

Column: Frank Rich.

Bridge B12
TV Listings B14
Crossword B12
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); MANSLAUGHTER (75%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (75%); AIR FORCES (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); ARRESTS (75%); HOMICIDE (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); EXPLOSIVES (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (72%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); LITIGATION (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); LAWYERS (66%); RELIGION (66%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (65%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); POLITICAL DEBATES (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); US AIR FORCE (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); CANADA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GEORGIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



386 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: REFUGEES; 
Flood of Afghans Returning Home Prompts U.N. to Request More Aid

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
A senior United Nations official said today that Afghanistan would need an infusion of $300 million before the end of the year to avoid widespread suffering this winter. 
 The official, Mukesh Kapila, said the United Nations had seriously underestimated Afghanistan's needs when it projected that 800,000 refugees who had been living in Pakistan and Iran would return after the fall of the Taliban. 
 Instead, about two million Afghans have flooded back into the country, crowding refugee centers and overwhelming aid groups.
"With winter coming and the record number of refugees that have returned, suddenly much more is required," said Dr. Kapila, who is a special adviser to Lakhdar Brahimi, the former Algerian foreign minister who is the United Nations' top official in Afghanistan. 
Dr. Kapila warned that a failure to provide adequate assistance to needy Afghans this winter would undermine the American-backed central government of President Hamid Karzai and encourage "spoilers and mischief makers" who have tried to create unrest. 
"We've raised hopes and expectations," he told reporters. "It would reflect very badly on our abilities if we did not do more."
After a meeting between Dr. Kapila and Eugene Dewey, the assistant secretary of state for population, refugees and migration, a Bush administration official said that Afghanistan's needs were greater than anticipated, but declined to comment on whether the United States would increase aid before the end of the year. 
Dr. Kapila, who recently visited foreign ministers in Europe, will make his next appeal for additional aid to Japan.
His concerns were echoed today by Mr. Karzai, who warned an audience in New York of "a dangerous trend of high, high optimism," which could turn to despair if reconstruction stalled.
"The Afghans want a real government, or no government at all," Mr. Karzai said during an appearance before the Council on Foreign Relations. 
In a speech to the United Nations General Assembly on Thursday, Mr. Karzai also complained that international donors had not fulfilled pledges made earlier this year in Tokyo, where nations promised to give Afghanistan $4.5 billion in aid over five years. In particular, he said the donor countries had fallen short in providing money for projects like the reconstruction of roads and bridges.
"The Afghan people urgently need the pledges in Tokyo to be turned into cash," Mr. Karzai said. 
After Mr. Karzai's speech on Thursday, the United States announced it would contribute $80 million to a $180 million road-rebuilding program in Afghanistan. 
The House has approved a bill that would provide $1.45 billion in aid through the end of 2004, when Afghanistan is expected to hold elections. The Senate is scheduled to consider similar legislation in the coming weeks. 
Mr. Karzai and Dr. Kapila also repeated calls for expanding the International Security Assistance Force to more regions of the country. The Turkish-led, 4,500-member force is currently limited to patrolling Kabul, the capital. 
The Pentagon recently withdrew its objections to expanding the force beyond Kabul, but said that the United States would not contribute troops.
Dr. Kapila said that "out of control" warlords and local military commanders across Afghanistan had allowed, and perhaps even ordered, looting, robbery, hijackings and assaults by their soldiers, including of international aid workers. 
"Law and order has been getting worse in many parts of the country," he said, "which in turn makes life very difficult for aid agencies to work."
Mr. Karzai said today the security force should be expanded to three or four major cities, adding that even relatively small numbers of additional troops would have an enormous "psychological impact." But Dr. Kapila said there had been no offers from any countries to provide troops. 
Dr. Kapila and Mr. Karzai also raised concerns today that Afghanistan's problems might be forgotten as the United States turned its attention to Iraq. 
"Too much blood has flowed, too much money has been spent already to now think of anything other than going forward" in Afghanistan, Dr. Kapila said. "Otherwise, this will have been a complete waste."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Afghans near Kabul, carry water from a nearby village. They recently returned home as refugees in Pakistan. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); HIJACKING (76%); TRENDS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICS (73%); CIVIL WAR (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (68%); LEGISLATION (66%); APPROVALS (64%); AIRLINES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FINANCES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%) DAO, JAMES; KARZAI, HAMID (PRES); DEWEY, EUGENE (ASST SEC); KAPILA, MUKESH (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (90%); ALGERIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); EUROPE; JAPAN; PAKISTAN; IRAN

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002 



387 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Where Modern Life Began 

BYLINE:  By Lindsay Duguid; Lindsay Duguid is fiction editor of The Times Literary Supplement.

 BODY:
 LIVING AT THE EDGE
A Biography of D. H. Lawrence
and Frieda von Richthofen.
By Michael Squires and Lynn K. Talbot.
Illustrated. 501 pp. Madison:
University of Wisconsin Press. $34.95.
 IN March 1912, D. H. Lawrence, a schoolmaster, met Frieda von Richthofen Weekley, the wife of a university professor, at her house in Nottingham, England. Two months later, abandoning her children, they began their life together. Over the next 20 years, the couple moved from place to place, setting up short-lived households where the rent was cheap -- a cottage near London for six shillings a week, a Hampstead flat for $:36 a year, an Italian villa for $:14 for six months; the economics of the enterprise were based on loans, handouts and Lawrence's tiny literary earnings. They were prepared to wander the world to escape "the beastly, tight, Sunday feeling which is so blighting in England," the atmosphere of tentative modernism that hung around benefactors like Ford Madox Hueffer and Lady Ottoline Morrell. Former guests at rather precious country houses like Garsington, they wanted to find somewhere where they could make their own lives and write a new kind of novel. "Frieda and I are together," Lawrence wrote, "and the work is of me and her, and it is beautiful."
A pattern was soon established. They would settle -- full of optimism -- in a place with a strong local personality (Cornwall or Sicily, New Mexico or Ceylon), start their housekeeping and socializing; then some upset, often involving a third person -- John Middleton Murry in Cornwall, Mabel Dodge in Taos -- would see them packing up for the next move. Lawrence wrote of their brief Australian adventure in 1922, "I love trying things and discovering how I hate them," but the beginnings always offered a clean slate, a glorious opportunity. "You will love it," he wrote to a friend from Sussex in 1915, "it is so beautiful and white." A telegram to Frieda in Mexico in 1923 read simply: "Chapala paradise. Take evening train."
Part of the restlessness was money-driven; part had to do with Lawrence's need to find a climate that might ease his recurring coughs and colds, diagnosed as tuberculosis in 1925. Most of it was idealistic. Their desire for a new way of living, inspired by the libertarian beliefs of Frieda's former lover, Otto Gross, was further fired by their mutual passion -- half anger, half love -- that often erupted into fights. Against Lawrence's rhapsodic honeymoon poem, "Song of a Man Who Is Loved" ("Between her breasts is my home, between her breasts") and the glimpses we get of early domestic bliss given in "Living at the Edge" must be set Lawrence's fierce image (as Frieda once wrote, "We live so hard on each other, one day like the lions that ate each other, there will be nothing but two tails left") and Frieda's challenge to Mabel Dodge: "Try it then yourself, living with a genius, see what it is like and how easy it is."
The rages and infidelities are well documented in their many letters, along with the household routines and the new ideas. Lawrence wrote copiously to his friends, describing his poverty and his struggle to be published, telling them what was in his heart. And there are plenty of descriptions of the couple -- cooking, gardening, singing at the piano, shouting at each other. They were often sketched by fellow writers, inspired by malice or just the pleasure of pinning down the strangeness of this thin, red-bearded genius and his billowing, gaudily dressed wife. Katherine Mansfield provides a vivid picture of them: Lawrence sewing or "making little copies of pictures," Frieda standing "with big bowls of blue and white water round her wringing out check tablecloths."
The story of Lawrence and Frieda, engrossing in its detail, often seems to be prophetic, an exemplar of modern living. It is also the background to the creation of "Women in Love," "Lady Chatterley's Lover" and the other revolutionary works. Michael Squires and Lynn K. Talbot tackle all these aspects in "Living at the Edge." They cover the ground thoroughly, bringing together material from libraries and field trips, politely disagreeing with earlier biographers. As they follow their subjects' trail, it becomes clear that they share an uncomplicated belief that an author's books can be used to illuminate his life and vice versa ("as if Lawrence, unable to satisfy Frieda in life, will do so in fiction"). Their analysis of the work almost entirely in biographical terms has, at times, a doggedness, a lack of appreciation of style and form. Their grasp of background is also sometimes a little unworldly. The treatments of Taos and Hollywood are convincing, but descriptions of "Versailles, the opulent 17th-century palace built by Louis XIV" and "an old town house in Hampstead" sound uninformed.
Rather similar are their sometimes comical attempts to understand the Lawrences' relationship using the modern therapeutic template of the marriage counselor ("It was his midlife crisis"). "After about 1916," they tell us sadly, "almost no one records the Lawrences holding hands, kissing, hugging, or showing affection." They also feel that it is their duty, as modern biographers, to show whether a sexual act took place. "Was the affair consummated?" they ask about Lawrence's dalliance with Rosalind Baynes; "How far did their intimacy go?" of his infatuation with the young Cornish farmer William Henry Hocking; and there are pages devoted to hunting clues to anal penetration, impotence and homophobia. Instead of being enlightening, the effect of this is generally dispiriting.
The last section of this long, detailed book -- after Lawrence's death in a sanitarium in the south of France, the return of his ashes to Taos and the disputes over his will -- is the freshest. We get a compelling portrait of Frieda as a literary widow, haggling over film rights and the sale of Lawrence's handwritten manuscripts, publishing her own highly charged memoir, "Not I, but the Wind," and taking issue with Richard Aldington's biography. Until her death in 1956, she continued to live the complicated simple life, better financed now, with Angelo Ravagli, her third husband, the final unstable triangle of her long career. The photographs show a dumpy elderly lady smiling at the camera by the side of her gray-haired spouse. Squires, who teaches English at Virginia Tech, and Talbot, who teaches Spanish at Roanoke College, end with the passing of Lawrence's royalties to Ravagli's Italian children after their father's death in 1976, but perhaps the last word should be awarded to Frieda, who wrote in 1915 at the start of the great adventure: "You think I do not count besides Lawrence, but I take myself, my ideals and life quite as seriously as he does his." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); POETRY (69%); TUBERCULOSIS (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%)

PERSON: DUGUID, LINDSAY; SQUIRES, MICHAEL; TALBOT, LYNN K; LAWRENCE, D H (DAVID HERBERT) (1885-1930); VON RICHTHOFEN, FRIEDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) WISCONSIN, USA (88%); NEW MEXICO, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (88%); ENGLAND (88%)

TITLE: LIVING AT THE EDGE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



388 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: My Big Fat Greek Gender Identity Crisis 

BYLINE:  By Laura Miller; Laura Miller is an editor at Salon.com.

 BODY:
 MIDDLESEX
By Jeffrey Eugenides.
529 pp. New York:
Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $27.
 EVEN before she's born, Calliope Stephanides's gender is up for debate. Her parents, Milton and Tessie Stephanides of Detroit, want a girl, and a bachelor uncle convinces Milton, ostensibly on the authority of an article in Scientific American magazine, that if the couple have "sexual congress" 24 hours prior to ovulation "the swift male sperm would rush in and die off. The female sperm, sluggish but more reliable, would arrive just as the egg dropped." Tessie complies, despite her worries that "to tamper with something as mysterious and miraculous as the birth of a child was an act of hubris." Once Tessie is pregnant, Milton's mother, Desdemona -- a refugee with her husband, Lefty, from a Greek village on the slopes of Mount Olympus -- dangles a silver spoon tied to a string over the belly of her daughter-in-law and pronounces the child a boy. Her son storms in to protest the divination; the baby is a girl, he insists. "It's science, Ma."
They're both right, after a fashion. Callie will spend the 1960's and early 70's, the first years of her life, as the relatively unremarkable daughter of an entrepreneurial Greek-American family, only to discover at 14, in the office of a Manhattan physician, that she is a hermaphrodite -- or, more precisely, a pseudohermaphrodite, a sufferer of 5-alpha-reductase deficiency syndrome. "To the extent that fetal hormones affect brain chemistry and histology, I've got a male brain," explains Cal, the man Callie decides to become after she learns the truth and the narrator of "Middlesex," Jeffrey Eugenides's expansive and radiantly generous second novel. "But I was raised as a girl."
Eugenides's first novel, "The Virgin Suicides" (1993), was a dreamy, slender book about the gulf in understanding between the adolescent boys in a Michigan suburb and the five daughters of a strict Roman Catholic couple living in their neighborhood. The boys fill that gulf with romantic obsession, a beast that thrives in a vacuum, and the girls, stricken with a fatal loneliness, die by their own hands like a bevy of unlucky fairy tale princesses. "Middlesex" may be an entirely different sort of book -- it's longer, more discursive and funnier, for a start -- but it's equally preoccupied with rifts. There's the gap between male and female, obviously, but also between Greek and WASP, black and white, the old world and the new, the silver spoon and the sluggish sperm. Finally, there is the tug of war between destiny and free will -- an age-old concern of Greek storytellers, as every college freshman learns, reborn in the theories advanced by evolutionary psychology.
Evolutionary psychology, at least in its popular incarnation -- which seems to get more popular every day -- keeps chipping away at the garden-variety humanism espoused by most novelists. That's why it's surprising so few of them (at least within the genre of literary fiction) have bothered to take notice of it. Viewed through a sociobiological lens, infidelity, the novel's favorite meat, is transformed from the stuff of betrayal and moral failing to the mere playing out of a Darwinian reproductive imperative; despair springs from an inherited defect in the regulation of neurochemicals, not from an existential apprehension of the absurdity of the human condition. The tangled parks and gardens that have long been the novelist's stamping grounds are being bulldozed to make way for sleek, sterile industrial complexes where, in cataloging each molecule in the human genome, scientists may ultimately be able to tell us which gene caused Anna Karenina to cheat and gave Oliver Twist the nerve to ask for more gruel.
Cal isn't a faithful adherent of either the nature or the nurture camp; he eventually runs away to avoid undergoing surgery and hormone treatments at the hands of a doctor who thinks that 14 years of living as a girl must count more than the male identity Cal wants to embrace. Eugenides, after all, is an artist, not a polemicist, and the truth about what shapes us may never be settled. "Sing now, O Muse, of the recessive mutation on my fifth chromosome," Cal vamps in the book's opening pages. ("Sorry if I get a little Homeric at times. That's genetic, too.") By mimicking an ancient author equally preoccupied by the tension between preordained fate and self-determination, Cal telegraphs a very modern question: Is "Middlesex" -- or any novel, for that matter -- the story of its hero/ine or the history of a particular configuration of DNA? As Cal -- sometimes -- chooses to tell it, the novel describes the "roller coaster ride of a single gene through time," how it found its twin in the mingled gametes of Desdemona and Lefty, who, it turns out, are brother and sister as well as husband and wife, able with their freshly minted American identities to consummate a union they could never have gotten away with back in their home village. Practically the whole first half of "Middlesex," like a doorstop biography run amok, takes place before Cal is even born.
If all this makes "Middlesex" sound like a novel of ideas, well, it is; but it's several other things too. It's a saga that takes Desdemona and Lefty from the burning of Smyrna through Detroit's purgatorial assembly lines, the shadow economy of Prohibition and the founding of the family's legit businesses, first a bar and then a restaurant. The Stephanideses career through the Depression, World War II, the cataclysmic Detroit race riots of 1967, the counterculture, Watergate, the energy crisis.
"Middlesex" is also a coming-of-age story, albeit an exceptionally fraught one, as it gradually dawns on the adolescent Callie that there's something seriously odd about her body -- and that she's besotted with a female classmate. There's a bit of road novel as well, when, enlightened as to the actual state of his chromosomes, Cal hitchhikes to -- where else? -- San Francisco. And, finally, there's the sliver of a love story, as the now 41-year-old Cal, ensconced in a safely nomadic State Department career, gingerly courts a Japanese-American photographer, wondering if he can trust her with the surprise between his legs.
Eugenides pitches a big tent, but one of the delights of "Middlesex" is how soundly it's constructed, with motifs and characters weaving through the novel's various episodes, pulling it tight. The young Armenian doctor who saves Lefty in Smyrna and sees his own children butchered by Turkish soldiers becomes the aged, bleary-eyed family retainer who overlooks Callie's unusual anatomy. Middlesex, the modern house the Stephanideses manage to purchase in the exclusive suburb of Grosse Pointe (it's too peculiar and unfashionable to sell to WASPs) is "like communism, better in theory than reality." Which makes it also like the blank-slate notion of gender identity advanced by the doctor who wants to drag Cal under the knife. 
And while some of the odds and ends Eugenides tosses into the mix (a disquisition on Michael Dukakis, a supporting character's bizarre connection to the Nation of Islam) don't quite integrate, far more often than not the novel feels rich with treats, including some handsome writing. When the author describes the pulchritudinous teenage Desdemona's braids as "not delicate like a little girl's but heavy and womanly, possessing a natural power, like a beaver's tail," for example, the metaphor has an elemental eroticism worthy of Hardy.
Because it's long and wide and full of stuff, "Middlesex" will be associated by some readers with books by David Foster Wallace and Jonathan Franzen, brilliant members of Eugenides's cohort. Those writers, however, have more satirical, even self-lacerating inclinations; there can be an air of penance to their work (as there is to "The Virgin Suicides"). Here, at least, Eugenides is sunnier; the book's length feels like its author's arms stretching farther and farther to encompass more people, more life. His narrator is a soul who inhabits a liminal realm, a creature able to bridge the divisions that plague humanity, endowed with "the ability to communicate between the genders, to see not with the monovision of one sex but in the stereoscope of both." That utopian reach makes "Middlesex" deliriously American; the novel's patron saint is Walt Whitman, and it has some of the shagginess of that poet's verse to go along with the exuberance. But mostly it is a colossal act of curiosity, of imagination and of love.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tim Robinson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); GENDER IDENTITY DISORDER (89%); MEN (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); FAMILY (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); REFUGEES (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); BIOCHEMISTRY (64%); BRAIN (63%); LITERATURE (62%); SUICIDE (61%); RELIGION (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN MAGAZINE (58%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: MILLER, LAURA; EUGENIDES, JEFFREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: MIDDLESEX (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



389 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: A Textbook Case 

BYLINE:  By Sylvia Nasar; Sylvia Nasar, the author of "A Beautiful Mind," teaches financial journalism at Columbia University and is working on a book on 20th-century economic thinkers.

 BODY:
 INVENTING AMERICA
A History of the United States.
By Pauline Maier, Merritt Roe Smith,
Alexander Keyssar and Daniel J. Kevles.
1,185 pp. New York:
W. W. Norton & Company. $77.50.
 Remember those history textbooks of the 1950's extolling the miracles of modern science? They treated inventors as heroes and portrayed technology as the deux ex machina that would solve America's social ills. Then, perhaps because of the nuclear power's dark side or the specter of the collapsing ecosystem, succeeding generations of textbooks banished science and technology from their pages altogether. 
"Inventing America," by the historians Pauline Maier, Merritt Roe Smith, Alexander Keyssar and Daniel J. Kevles, was supposed to remedy that neglect by treating "science and technology as integral elements of American history." But those who hoped that this much-anticipated textbook would give college freshmen a better grasp of how bright ideas helped turn America into a global power, the world's richest nation and the undisputed leader in scientific discovery will be frustrated. 
Starting with an elegiac chapter on ancient America, the authors document successive waves of invention and provide examples of how new technologies, spread by businesses large and small, unsettled politics, altered work and lifestyles, triggered booms and busts and otherwise contributed to change. The book is packaged with two CD-ROM's containing archival and other materials. But "Inventing America" doesn't deliver what a textbook should. It neither introduces students to relevant concepts like productivity or life expectancy, nor helps them marshal evidence to distinguish between competing hypotheses.
The premise that inventiveness is somehow an "American" characteristic confounds invention with innovation. Long before the Industrial Revolution, other societies, including the Chinese and Islamic empires, displayed great technical virtuosity. But none of these societies unlocked the secret of turning inventions into economic growth. For millenniums, average output per person bobbled around $1 a day -- more or less what it takes to provide the minimum of necessary calories -- while the bulk of humanity was tethered to subsistence farming. When societies did corral extra resources, by trading, vanquishing new territories or subjugating other peoples, these were typically spent, as H. G. Wells lamented, "on the mere insensate multiplication of common life."
Telling the story of technology without highlighting its impact on growth is like producing "Hamlet" without the Prince of Denmark. Had the authors compared America's performance in the past 150 years with that of other societies and eras, what would have jumped out isn't just a list of inventions, but rather America's astounding track record of applying inventions, borrowed and homegrown, in an economically useful fashion.
Of course, the ultimate measure of technological success isn't productive prowess but quality of life. Fixated on the relative status of different social groups, "Inventing America" ignores basic yardsticks that show that, on average, American living standards have risen at least eightfold and that Americans now live one-third longer than in the mid-19th century. (An example of how the authors' mind-set distorts their account is the description of malaria -- a significant cause of desperate poverty in many parts of the globe today and in the American South before World War II -- as "the mosquito-borne disease that killed large numbers of European imperialists.")
The benefits of technology got spread around in two main ways. One is that everyday products became vastly cheaper. More important, though, is the proliferation of entirely new products. As David Landes reports in "The Wealth and Poverty of Nations," Nathan Meyer Rothschild -- the richest man in the world in the first half of the 19th century -- died of an infected abscess that $10 worth of antibiotics would have cured. In other words, most modern necessities weren't available at any price.
But after more than a thousand pages of "Inventing America," the sources of America's technological fecundity remain a mystery. As in those old 50's textbooks, necessity appears to breed invention, instead of the other way around. The authors note the birth of the modern corporation, the development of capital markets and the growing importance of corporate R & D but never connect the dots. And when they generalize, the results are frequently unconvincing. 
For example, they find that war and defense research has been the primary "incubator" of American technology. Defense research, inspired by the cold war, "made possible the creation of biotechnology, personal computers and the information economy." The implication is that without a few good wars Americans would still be flying around in propeller planes. But the Soviets had one of the greatest scientific establishments of all time and routinely devoted one-third to one-half of their output to military spending. Yet they lost their empire for want of microchips, washing machines and pantyhose. Japan, stripped of its military might after World War II, became a powerhouse of innovation.
In keeping with their dismissive attitude toward the nuts and bolts of business, the authors assign little importance to markets, property rights or the profit motive. At one point, they refer to Americans' "disquiet with the profit-maximizing practices of the marketplace": "Millions of Americans watched 'The Sopranos,' a TV series about an extended Mafia family in New Jersey whose members were absorbed with ordinary personal relationships at home while routinely conducting murder and mayhem in their business -- in all, a metaphor for how the conflicts and decencies of private life coexisted with the coldblooded indecencies that the marketplace often fostered." They don't consider that profit might play a role in motivating innovators to bring their inventions to market, or that competition might have a part in the "economic miracle" casually mentioned a few sentences later.
In short, the authors lack compelling explanations of why America has produced so much innovation and growth since 1870 and why so many other societies haven't. Twenty years ago, in "America Revised," Frances FitzGerald complained about the quality gulf between the haute cuisine served by leading history journals and the fast food dished out in most history textbooks. Judged from this perspective, "Inventing America" hasn't broken the mold. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); TEXTBOOKS (91%); WRITERS (87%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); LITERATURE (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); RELIGION (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; MAIER, PAULINE; SMITH, MERRITT ROE; KEVLES, DANIEL J; KEYSSAR, ALEXANDER 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); DENMARK (70%)

TITLE: INVENTING AMERICA: A HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



390 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: A Design for Living 

BYLINE:  By Gary Rosen; Gary Rosen is the managing editor of Commentary and the author of "American Compact: James Madison and the Problem of Founding."

 BODY:
 A BRILLIANT SOLUTION
Inventing the American Constitution.
By Carol Berkin.
310 pp. New York: Harcourt. $26.
 The American founders have been a hot property in recent years. Their writings were invoked by all sides during the Clinton impeachment and the election fiasco in Florida. Speculation about their romantic entanglements -- Jefferson with his slave Sally Hemings, Hamilton with the blackmailing Maria Reynolds -- has been the stuff of public controversy. Books about the founding generation have made the best-seller list, won the big nonfiction prizes, even been transformed into Ken-Burns-style documentaries. 
For academics who specialize in the period, this burst of interest has been a windfall, gaining them attention as never before. Inevitably, it has also led some of them to turn their work, for better and worse, in a more self-consciously popular direction. Carol Berkin's "Brilliant Solution," a lively account of the "inventing" of the American Constitution, is a case in point. 
Berkin -- a historian at the City University of New York and the author of several scholarly books on the revolutionary era -- begins her story in 1786, just three years after the conclusion of the War of Independence, at a moment when many wondered if the United States would survive. Not only was the economy deep in depression, with the sovereign states busily erecting trade barriers against one another, but civil order itself seemed at risk. Indebted farmers threatened armed rebellion from South Carolina to Massachusetts; Indian tribes waged guerrilla war against settlers on the frontier; and in the Mediterranean, Barbary pirates preyed on American merchants. For its part, the national government -- such as it was under the Articles of Confederation -- was broke, powerless and universally disdained. 
The stage thus set, Berkin introduces us to the American notables who, during the steamy Philadelphia summer of 1787, hammered out the new frame of government that brought an end to this crisis of national confidence and authority. Several of the faces are familiar, like the scholarly master strategist James Madison, "small and somber looking in his habitual black suit," and the brash Alexander Hamilton, whose "genius for analysis" allowed him to solve the most complex economic and political problems "with apparent ease." But we also meet lesser lights: Pierce Butler, "the peacock of the convention," in his powdered wig and lace-trimmed coat; Luther Martin, "an alcoholic given to eccentric, often antisocial behavior"; and the obese, high-spirited Gunning Bedford Jr., "the most jovial member" of the group. 
Almost all of the 55 delegates agreed on the need for a much more effective central government. But there was no consensus on what powers it should have, what form it should take or how representation should be handled. The stickiest of these questions involved the role of the states. Would each one continue to have an equal voice, as under the Articles of Confederation, or would seats in the two houses of Congress be distributed solely on the basis of population? The convention ultimately split the difference, of course, but, as Berkin reminds us, there was nothing automatic about this compromise. The most committed nationalists spent half the summer fighting for a government based entirely on proportional representation. If they'd won, we would not now have a Senate in which 600,000 North Dakotans carry the same weight as 34 million Californians. 
Berkin is at her best in describing the exhausting and seemingly endless politicking of the convention, and in pointing to the various roads not taken. Madison, for instance, wanted a Congress with the power to veto any state law it considered harmful to the union. As for the presidency, Elbridge Gerry argued that an executive triumvirate would be safer and more representative than a single official, and Benjamin Franklin urged that the chief executive serve without pay, so as to free him of any taint of corruption. These proposals didn't get far, but the debate over how to arrange the executive branch continued right up to the convention's end. Under one popular but ultimately unsuccessful scheme, George W. Bush would now be two years into his single seven-year term -- assuming that the House and Senate had elected him in the first place -- and would be properly addressed not as "Mr. President" but as "Your Excellency." 
"A Brilliant Solution" is that rarest of achievements -- civic education that manages to entertain. But Berkin's eagerness to breathe life into the often dry proceedings sometimes gets the better of her. Given the scarcity of sources, one wonders how she knows that Madison "cringed" upon hearing an impolitic speech by Gouverneur Morris, or that George Washington "wrestled with his memories" on a ride through Valley Forge. Her portrait of Hamilton is certainly vivid enough without the observation that his "wavy chestnut hair, fair complexion and surprisingly sensitive mouth suggested Apollo." Nor does there seem to be any compelling reason to conclude the book with a detailed account of the first presidential inauguration, except that ceremony and pageantry lend themselves to drama. 
More disappointing is Berkin's obvious reluctance to muddy her narrative with discussion of the ideas behind the Constitution. Her occasional nod to the delegates' fears about the abuse of power is no substitute for an excursion into the classic essays of "The Federalist," which get only passing mentions. Where is Madison arguing that "ambition must be made to counteract ambition," or Hamilton defending the proposition that "energy in the executive is a leading character in the definition of good government"? 
Berkin might also have provided at least a taste of the longstanding debate about the ultimate aims of the American experiment. Were the founders reborn republicans of the Roman mold, concerned above all with citizen virtue, or were they thoroughly modern men, defenders of a bourgeois order defined by private property and individual rights? What made them -- or the American people, for that matter -- even think they were entitled to fashion a government? 
By steering clear of the rival philosophies behind our philosophy-suffused founding, Berkin makes "A Brilliant Solution" feel superficial at times, like a script for the History Channel. But that's not entirely a bad thing. Personalities and action are more easily digested than ideas, and this dramatic, well-informed account deserves to reach a wide audience. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); HISTORY (75%); BESTSELLERS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); MARITIME PIRACY (64%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (56%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: ROSEN, GARY; BERKIN, CAROL 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEDITERRANEAN (74%)

TITLE: BRILLIANT SOLUTION, A (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



391 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 94

LENGTH: 3244 words

HEADLINE: Nascar-Lovin 

BYLINE:  By Matt Bai; Matt Bai is a contributing writer for the magazine. His last article was a profile of the Wisconsin gubernatorial candidate Ed Thompson.

 BODY:
Lincoln Davis is running for Congress in central Tennessee, in the district where they've been distilling Jack Daniel's whiskey since 1866. Davis is a Democrat, and he knew from the start that if he was going to win the race for an open seat, he was going to have to get past the wine-and-cheese stereotype that Democrats carry in rural America.
 "We've allowed our opponents to define us as people with no normal values," Davis, a state senator, told me. "We don't like guns, we don't pray, we don't believe in Christ. And I said from the start, 'Nobody in this campaign is going to outgun me, outpray me or outfamily me."' 
 True to his word, Davis came out in favor of posting the Ten Commandments in public, and he got help in his primary campaign from the National Rifle Association. He won the nomination easily. Publicly, the Democratic Party in Washington touts his campaign as one of its best chances to pick up a much-needed House seat in November. 
But when strategists from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee recently met with Davis's consultants, he said, they strongly advised him to tone down his talk about God and guns. "We were told by the D.C.C.C.: 'You're running this election wrong. You're running it on values, and you're going to lose,"' Davis told me. "When I heard that, I just giggled at them."
Control of Congress will probably come down to some 50 close House and Senate races in November, many of them in rural districts and states. And like Davis, a lot of Democrats in those races are running away from their own party, and hard. 
Theoretically, the Democratic message should play well in small-town America at a time when the economy lags and corporate scandals are decimating retirement plans. But now, more than ever, Democratic candidates face a cultural problem in these districts; they must overcome the perception that they're in league with effete urban liberals, people who wouldn't know a Moon Pie or an RC Cola if it whacked them in the head. The party of Jefferson and Jackson, which not long ago owned the nation's back roads and general stores, is seen in much of the country as disconnected from -- if not contemptuous of -- the people who spend their weekends hunting, at church or watching stock cars.
This divide, long a source of concern within the party, has lately become a burning preoccupation. Since the 2000 election map highlighted a deep cultural tension between the cities (the blue states) and the sticks (the red states), some Democrats in Washington have been calling on the party to concentrate its efforts on rural voters. Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota, chairman of the Democratic Policy Committee in the Senate, says that the party's standing in rural states is in serious peril, after years of neglect. "They will not see senators and congressmen elected 20 years from now in those states unless they give a damn about helping to build a political base once again," he says. "You ask, 'What do people think of the Democratic Party?' Frankly, I don't think much of it."
But the people who run the party, many of them from the urban political machines, insist that the party's appeal in rural America is in fact growing; they point out that Democrats control most of the statehouses in the South and hold both Senate seats in West Virginia, Georgia and both Dakotas. From their point of view, the only thing Democrats need to do in remote areas is talk louder about the economic issues -- like Social Security and health care -- that define the party. 
Into this widening breach step a pair of new-breed political consultants: Steve Jarding and Mudcat Saunders. Jarding, who once plucked chickens in South Dakota, his native state, and his sidekick, Saunders, a self-described "hillbilly" from Virginia, helped win a surprising victory for the party in the Virginia governor's race last year. Their unconventional rural strategy centered on issues that aren't usually the focal point of Democratic campaigns, like taking vocational education and broadband technology to remote areas. But what really drew attention was how they got their message out: the campaign featured a bluegrass band, a race truck and their very own hunting brigade. 
Since then, Jarding and Saunders have taken their tactics on the road, aspiring to create a whole new army of what might be called Nascar Democrats. They have advised Democrats in several key Congressional and gubernatorial races this fall, from Colorado to New Hampshire to Texas. And now John Edwards, the North Carolina senator whom many view as the party's next great hope, has hired Jarding -- with Saunders in tow -- to run his fledgling presidential campaign, which means their rural strategy is about to go national.
'Democrats have the wuss problem," Mudcat Saunders tells me. "Rural white guys think we're all a bunch of wusses." His given name is David, but everyone calls him Mudcat, and he is probably the only political operative in America whose title is "rural strategist" -- or, as he likes to put it, "Bubba coordinator." 
A lifelong N.R.A. member with a deep mountain drawl, Saunders, 53, spends weekends "gobble hunting" and fishing at a cabin by a creek. And yet he is not exactly your average Bubba. He dresses in Ralph Lauren button-down shirts and does as much dealing on a cellphone as any Hollywood agent. He made good money developing real estate and selling farms in Virginia, where he also lobbied the Legislature on behalf of clients. He represents a leading Nascar team, the Wood Brothers, and helps broker business deals for a bluegrass label -- rural culture is not only a political tool for Saunders; it's a business as well. 
Saunders teamed up with Jarding in 2001, when he joined Mark R. Warner's campaign for the governorship of Virginia, which Jarding was managing. The 44-year-old Jarding is a bulldog of a man who uses so many expletives that you'd never guess he almost became a priest. As a paperboy in Mitchell, S.D., he used to deliver George McGovern's daily newspaper. But Jarding knows Washington as well as he knows the Plains. He has run campaigns for Bob Kerrey and Tom Daschle, among others, and between 1995 and 1997 helped steer the Democratic Senate Campaign Committee, which is about as inside as you can get. He has a reputation within the party as a smart and aggressive tactician.
When he took on the Virginia governor's race last year, Jarding decided that Warner could win, but only if he carried a significant portion of the state's rural districts. To a lot of Democrats, that was a little like saying that Warner could be Superman, if only he could learn to fly. Since the 1960's, when rural white voters, especially in the South, abandoned the party over its support of civil rights, Democrats have increasingly had to depend on their base of urban voters, minority groups and organized labor; in national elections, rural votes have been difficult, if not impossible, to come by.
Lee Atwater, the Republican strategist, tried to sever relations between Democrats and rural America completely in the 1980's by turning every campaign into a war over social issues like affirmative action, abortion, gun control and school prayer -- wedge" issues that separated liberal Democrats from small-town voters. It worked. By the 1990's, scores of Democratic officeholders in the South were defecting to the G.O.P.
Democratic presidential candidates didn't help the situation. Chosen by the party's urban base, candidates in the 80's tended to embarrass themselves stumping in rural America, when they bothered to travel there at all. "I remember when Michael Dukakis came to Georgia to campaign," recalls Senator Zell Miller of Georgia, a Democrat. "He went to this event down in Dodge County, and his advance team had scattered hay bales all around. To me, that was worse than him riding in that tank."
Nowhere did Democrats lose more ground than in Virginia, where by 2001 Republicans controlled the Statehouse, both branches of the Legislature and both Senate seats. Looking to change that, Jarding and Saunders spent $28,000 to have Warner -- a high-tech, Harvard-educated millionaire -- sponsor a local Nascar team. They also commissioned a bluegrass campaign song that became a popular single on country radio. (Saunders wrote the lyrics, which included the line "Get ready to shout it from the coal mines to the stills/Here comes Mark Warner, the hero of the hills.") They put together a "Sportsmen for Warner" organization, with trademark orange signs planted in front yards around the state, and touted Warner's pro-gun position so aggressively that the National Rifle Association took the unusual step of staying out of a governor's race.
Once Warner shed the image of a Washington Democrat, he was able to talk to voters in the more remote southern part of the state about their economic crisis: namely, a disappearing job base that forces children to leave home in search of education or work. Rural voters responded enthusiastically. But when Warner rolled out seven rural policy positions and campaigned more than 40 times in southern Virginia, national party leaders grumbled that he was wasting too much time there.
On Election Day, Warner carried an impressive 51 percent of Virginia's rural vote, easily giving him the margin needed to capture the Statehouse.
It's a nice success story, but a lot of Democrats aren't impressed. For one thing, it's not entirely clear that Warner's rural strategy is what got him elected: he spent a lavish $18.5 million on the campaign, much of it for TV ads.
And some Democrats worry that Warner's strategy, taken to a national level, could compromise the party and cost them critical votes in the suburbs. In trying to stave off attacks from the right over guns and abortion -- he came out in favor of gun owners' rights, and though he declared himself pro-choice, he refused to campaign on the issue -- Warner infuriated state party leaders, gun-control advocates and abortion-rights groups. These issues are among the party's core principles, and they're important to a lot of the suburban voters and minority groups who are critical to the Democrats' formula for winning elections. 
On gun control, for example, Sergio Bendixen, a pollster, has found that while the party's stand may alienate rural voters, it appeals strongly to Latino voters -- arguably the most important new bloc of swing voters. That's why gun-control groups insist that they help the party far more than they hurt it. "If the Democratic Party thinks its future lies with rural white males, they're crazy," says Michael Barnes, a former Democratic congressman who now heads the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. "That's not how you win state elections, and it's not how you win national elections."
As they travel the country on behalf of Edwards's presidential campaign ("My Johnny ain't no wuss," Saunders growls), Jarding and Saunders have become apostles in a rental car, preaching the new rural strategy at every stop. They are winning converts. In New Hampshire, Gov. Jeanne Shaheen, now a Senate candidate, has modeled her own sportsmen's support group after Warner's, right down to the graphics on the sign. In Texas, Tony Sanchez, a gubernatorial candidate, sought out Jarding and Saunders to help reach hunters and racing fans. 
This does not necessarily mean that the rural strategy, as Jarding and Saunders envision it, is taking hold. At least some of the candidates copying Warner are looking for cheap gimmicks to get the attention of rural voters, but without a real policy agenda behind them. If it's not accompanied by substantive ideas, the consultants say, a stock car with your name on it isn't a whole lot different from a few bales of hay.
No democratic senator has been more critical of his own national party than Zell Miller. Last year, Miller wrote publicly that when Terry McAuliffe, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, speaks, it sounds to him like "fingernails across a blackboard." When I spoke to Miller in his office recently, he told me that he has never seen the national party so estranged from rural Americans.
Then Miller asked -- apropos of nothing, it seemed to me -- whether I knew who Bill Elliott was. I didn't.
Nodding, Miller led me to his photo wall and pointed to a picture of a racer. "Bill Elliott won the Pennsylvania 500 last Sunday," he said. "They run stock-car races on Sunday, and they go from one city to another. This last week they were in Pennsylvania. A few weeks ago, they were in New Hampshire. They'll go all the way to California." He said all this in the same sympathetic tone I might have used to describe the concept of the Super Bowl to a first grader.
"This here is Dale Earnhardt," he went on slowly. "He's the guy who got killed."
In his very Southern way, Miller was making a point about culture. Rural voters bristle at the fact that in urban America, their chosen pastimes are considered backward, the punch lines to redneck jokes. And so the amorphous concept of respect, in rural America, has become a genuine political issue. African-American voters, long bound to the Democratic Party by issues like affirmative action and affordable housing, don't demand that a candidate embrace hip-hop. But to rural voters, an appreciation for stock-car racing, hunting and bluegrass is a critical show of faith -- and it has to precede any serious discussion of Social Security or tax cuts.
Mark Penn, the centrist Democratic pollster who coined the term "soccer moms," has argued in recent speeches that the party should now focus on "office-park dads" -- married suburban men between 25 and 50 who work for corporate America and are concerned mainly with economic issues. But Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster who grew up in Montana, disagrees; in her view, which has been largely ignored by the party, "Nascar dads" are the most important emerging voting bloc. "We were the party of the state fair, and we ought to be the party of the Nascar race," she says.
Last year, after the Warner campaign, Jarding and Saunders thought they had a killer idea. Through his Nascar connections, Saunders arranged for the Democratic National Committee to sponsor its own Nascar team, to be called Donkey Power, which would include five trucks constantly touring the country. Some of the unions that support the party, Jarding and Saunders figured, could bear the cost, for about $250,000 each. (The United Auto Workers already spends far more than that to sponsor its own Nascar team.) They even had the truck designed, complete with the logo of a snarling donkey, smoke emanating from its nostrils, over the motto "Racing for Rural America." ("That ain't no wuss donkey," Saunders says.)
But Jarding was unable even to get a meeting with McAuliffe. Instead, he spoke by phone with Gail Stoltz, the party's political director, who rejected the idea. When I asked about that decision, a party official told me: "We don't think that's the best way to deliver the Democratic message. Right now, something that deals with the issues has more impact than something like Nascar."
When I asked McAuliffe, the Democrats' most visible spokesman over the last few months, if the party does in fact have a "wuss problem" in rural America, he shook his head immediately. "Absolutely not," he replied.
A Syracuse native who made millions as an entrepreneur, McAuliffe is a legendary fund-raiser, boisterous and hard to dislike. He said that he has been more aggressive in rural America than any of his recent predecessors, which is true; he has made appearances this year in several rural states, and when he invited a group of Southern senators to the party's D.C. headquarters, it was the first time some of them had even been inside. But McAuliffe also insists that the Democrats' strength remains in the cities.
"I'd like every vote in America," McAuliffe said. "But I'm also realistic. I'm not going to get every vote in America. And listen, most of the population, as you know, is living within 50 miles of the coastline."
This, too, explains why party leaders aren't eager to make a national blueprint of the Warner strategy. Although they won't say so on the record, some Democratic strategists believe that since rural areas are shrinking anyway, the party shouldn't waste critical resources appealing to them. It's not an especially convincing argument; much of that fading rural population is relocating not to suburbs but to the fast-growing "exurbs" -- communities like Forsyth, Ga., 60 miles outside Atlanta, and Collin, Tex., 30 miles from Dallas -- which often retain a rural sensibility, and which tilted heavily for Bush in 2000. 
"Sure it's true that there aren't as many farmers as there used to be," says Bruce Reed, president of the Democratic Leadership Council. "But there is a huge influx of people into places you've never heard of. They're not suburban, because they're not next to cities. But they have a significant amount of voters, and we write them off at our own peril."
John Edwards spoke recently in Washington at what was billed, despite its setting, as the first stop on his "Tour for Rural America." The event, put together by Jarding and Saunders, was a fund-raiser for Ben Jones, who is running for Congress in rural Virginia and who played Cooter in the bygone "Dukes of Hazzard." You can't get more country than that.
The question hanging over Edwards is whether a new-style Nascar Democrat, courting rural voters, can actually win the party's old-style presidential primaries. Edwards doesn't feel like speculating. "I understand why, from a purely political perspective, to someone like you or me, this would seem strategic," Edwards told me. "On the other hand, from my perspective, it's the most natural thing in the world. These are the people that I grew up with, and I have a natural connection with them, and it doesn't matter to me what anybody thinks." 
But skeptics -- some within Edwards's own camp -- point out that voters in the early Democratic primaries tend to be more liberal and urban. "You can't be against gun control and win the Democratic nomination," says a high-ranking party official. "If Edwards wants to try, he's welcome to it."
Edwards already has his name on the side of a stock car in Iowa, which just happens to be driven by a Democratic state legislator. He'll soon have his own song, recorded by the Lonesome River Band, a big-time bluegrass group that has signed on as the campaign's official musical act. And early next year, Edwards plans to introduce in the Senate the first pieces of a legislative agenda for rural America, including a housing bill.
Some will inevitably accuse the Edwards campaign of pandering, which causes Jarding to lapse into more expletives. "I'm sorry, but what is politics?" he demands. "Any time you talk to a voter or listen to a voter, you're pandering." 
For decades, Jarding argues, Democrats have happily pandered to urban and suburban voters, showing up at art galleries and shopping malls, while rural folks have been ignored. "Nascar is a part of America's culture," he says. "Hunting is part of America's culture. There are lots of parts of America's culture, and I'm just suggesting that Democrats got hoodwinked for a long time into believing that we could neglect some of them. I'll go head to head with any Republican. You want to talk about hunting and fishing? Fine. Now you're on my turf. And I'm a Democrat." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: According to Steve Jarding (left) and Mudcat Saunders, there's gold in them thar hills -- votes, that is. (Brian Finke); John Edwards goes rural by putting his name on a stock car. (Charlie Neibergall/The Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NASCAR RACING (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); RELIGION (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (50%); SCANDALS (50%) ELECTIONS; RURAL AREAS 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%) DEMOCRATIC PARTY; SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: LINCOLN DAVIS (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%) BAI, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



392 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Americans in Europe Find Dollars Weaker

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
NINE months after euro banknotes and coins became legal tender through much of Europe, the currency has become such a part of life here that the mark, the franc and the lira -- not to mention the punt and the schilling -- seem as quaint as the castles along the Rhine.
 Sadly, for Americans contemplating a trip to Europe, the reign of the dollar over the euro, which made France, Italy, Spain and the nine other euro-zone countries seem cheap, is also fading into memory. 
 As the United States economy has stumbled, the dollar has lost its swagger. After trading as high as 1.21 euros to the dollaron Oct. 26, 2000, it briefly fell below the euro in July, and has settled at a rate of roughly 1.02 euros to the dollar. To the glee of Europeans who keep score in these matters, they have achieved parity, give or take a penny. 
But that means much of Europe is nearly 10 percent more expensive for Americans than it was at the beginning of 2002, when the euro was introduced (it has traded as a "virtual currency" since 1999). And that is worrying news for a tourism industry already reeling from an estimated 10 percent-plus decline in visitors from the United States from May through August because of the faltering economy and terrorism fears.
"We're going to be hurt if the euro goes back above the U.S. dollar," said Peter Hoogs, the vice president for sales and marketing at SRS World Hotels in Stockholm, which represents 400 hotels in 65 countries. "Americans have gotten used to Europe being a little bit cheaper."
It is hard to tell how much the euro has contributed to the decline in visitors this year. Given all the other reasons Americans stayed home, some tourism-industry experts say its effect may have been slight.
"The euro began reaching parity after most people made their decision to go to Europe this summer," said Neil S. Martin, a marketing consultant for the European Travel Commission. 
"In our experience, a strong dollar is a bigger inducement to consider a trip to Europe than a weak dollar is a disincentive," he said.
Still, in Europe's most heavily trafficked tourist destinations, the absence of Americans is palpable. In Venice, the gondoliers are begging for business, as the city's tourist board estimates there was an 18 percent decline in visitors in June, compared with the same month last year. 
Marshall Horowitz, a lawyer from Los Angeles who visited northern Portugal with his family last month, said, "We were the only Americans we saw in our whole week in the Douro Valley." Mr. Horowitz stayed at Casa das Torres de Oliveira, a manor house nestled in the vineyards above the Douro River. The owners told him only 4 percent of their guests came from the United States.
Interviews with retailers and hotel managers from Nice to Heidelberg paint a mixed picture. Some say the strengthening euro has had little measurable impact on their business, while others say it has altered buying patterns of those who do come.
"The American traveler is spending less and has lowered his choice to a less luxurious range of products," said Paul Roll, the general director of the Paris Convention and Visitors Bureau.
At Galeries Lafayette, the celebrated Paris emporium, the sales director, Jean-Michel Hallez, said the number of American shoppers and their purchases had declined about 7 percent this year.
But he added, "The link between the value of the euro and the drop in American consumption is not relevant."
Andreas Cordier, manager of the Romantik Hotel Zum Ritter St. Georg in Heidelberg, said: "I can't see any influence. Even with a weaker dollar, Heidelberg is still inexpensive for American tourists."
Tourism experts agree, however, that any further erosion in the dollar would dampen traffic. "It will become a problem if it contributes to a feeling that Europe is expensive," Mr. Martin said.
While predicting currency trends is difficult, economists believe the fragility of the American economy and fears of war against Iraq could keep the dollar weak for the near future. If that puts Paris and Rome out of reach, it might help historically expensive cities like Oslo and Stockholm.
Norway and Sweden did not enter the monetary union, and a strong euro could close the price gap between them and the rest of Europe. While Denmark also did not join, its currency, the Danish krone, is linked to the euro.
Some tourism-industry experts say Sweden is already benefiting. "People are coming to Sweden because it is relatively cheaper than other euro-zone countries," Mr. Hoogs said.
Within the union, the single currency has narrowed the cost differences among northern and southern countries -- for example, Germany and Spain -- especially in areas like taxis and public transportation. Analysts say it has also helped propel the growth of Europe-wide budget airlines, like Ryanair and easyJet.
Mr. Martin and other tourism promoters are trying to put a good face on the rising euro. They point out that the dollar is still worth 15 percent more against the euro than in 1999. And besides, they say, countries with robust non-euro currencies, like Britain, still attract tourists.
They note that the introduction of 13 billion euro notes and 56 billion coins -- a logistical challenge that people here anticipated with some dread -- came off without a hitch. Travel agents say American visitors are delighted not to have to change their money at every border crossing.
For the accidental tourists of the world, one could even argue that the euro's equivalency to the dollar makes traveling in Europe not that different from traveling at home. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); EURO (91%); COINS & COINAGE (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (87%); TOURISM (87%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (75%); LEISURE TRAVEL (71%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LODGING (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); TERRORISM (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CURRENCY; EUROCURRENCY; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: SRS WORLD HOTELS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (92%); ITALY (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (73%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



393 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; 
Package Deals In Tough Times

BYLINE:  By MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON; MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON is a freelance writer.

 BODY:
THE continuing struggles of companies selling tours to Europe -- the economy, security issues and uncertainty in the airline business -- translate into some alluring deals for Americans this fall and winter.
 Last fall was so calamitous that the European Travel Commission is using 2000 as a basis for comparison when predicting visitor arrivals this fall from the United States, "Last year can't be used as a barometer," said Neil Martin, a commission spokesman. 
 And compared to 2000, the commission expects a drop of 5 to 15 percent for the months of October through December. 
This follows a summer season that looks to be down about 15 percent from the previous summer, Mr. Martin said. 

A Continent of Choices
 In the following look at some deals for the coming months, prices are per person, based on double occupancy, and generally with midweek departures and arrivals; from mid-December to early January, holiday supplements apply. The least expensive programs usually use a tourist-class hotel, with upgrades possible. Most packages do not include airport taxes and surcharges, which range from $68 to $110 a person.
Sceptre Tours, which specializes in travel to Ireland, is offering a $399 package that includes round-trip air travel from New York or Boston on Aer Lingus and six nights' vouchers for bed-and-breakfasts, plus a week's car rental with unlimited mileage. Those arriving in Shannon rather than Dublin are upgraded to a hotel the first night; other possible upgrades include a car with automatic transmission ($36 a person a week) or to B & B's with private bath (also $36 a week). 
The Emerald Package, as it is called, is available Oct. 16 to March 31, with added costs from Chicago, $90, and Los Angeles, $200. Sceptre also offers a similar package but with one night's stay in a castle and the private bath upgrade, beginning at $499. Visit www.sceptretours.com, or call (800) 221-0924.
IMTC has packages called Starter Smart Packs to 12 European cities --including Vienna, Prague, Innsbruck, Budapest, Salzburg, Paris and Berlin -- from 10 cities in the United States starting from $499 ($689 from the West Coast). These prices include round-trip air fare and three nights' lodging. While prices vary by destination city, all include breakfast, and hotel service charges and taxes. This offer is good from Nov. 1 to March 31. A similar package that adds a week's car rental begins at $519.
IMTC also lets you pair three nights in Vienna with three nights in either Bucharest, Istanbul, Amsterdam, Venice or Florence, with stays in four- or five-star hotels. The Bucharest-Vienna package begins at $699 at the four-star hotels, and $1,299 at the five-stars. Air fare between the cities is included. Go to www.imtc-travel.com, or call (800) 790-4682 for more information.
France Vacations has a package to Paris that includes round-trip air from New York and five nights' hotel stay starting at $479 from Nov. 1 to March 31. A program combining three nights in Paris and three nights in Florence, with round-trip air fare from the East Coast and between the European cities, starts at $769 for the same period, and a Paris-and-Rome package starts at $699. A six-night Paris-and-London package, with travel between cities by second-class Eurostar train, begins at $679. Information: www.francevacations.net or (800) 332-5332.
Similar offerings come from Europe Express. Packages include a six-night London-Paris trip, departing from New York and including rail travel between the destination cities, starting at $615, from Nov. 1 to March 25. A six-night package in Vienna, including air, hotel, breakfast and service charges, begins at $639. The company's Amsterdam Winter Escape, starting at $546, includes four nights in Amsterdam and round-trip air fare. Visit www .europeexpress.com or call (800) 927-3876.
TourCrafters has attractive packages to Italy. For $599, one includes a round trip on Alitalia from Newark, J.F.K., Chicago, Boston or Miami, plus five nights in either Rome, Naples, Florence or Venice. Lodging is in three-star hotels in all cities except Venice, where the hotel is "two-star superior," and includes daily buffet breakfast, plus hotel service charges and taxes. Departures are Nov. 16 through March 15 (except Venice, for which bookings are Nov. 11 to Feb. 21). For more information, call (800) 621-2259 or visit www .tourcrafters.com.
If you can leave on a Tuesday or Wednesday, Virgin Vacations, the inclusive-tour arm of Virgin Atlantic, is offering a six-night London package from just $399. This includes round-trip flights from Newark, J.F.K. or Boston; rail transportation between the London airport and the city center; six nights in a hotel (the $399 lodging is Central House, a budget-class hotel near Victoria Station); daily breakfast, hotel taxes and service charges; and a London guidebook and coupons for discounted dining and wine tasting. The package is for travel Nov. 1 to Dec. 14, and must be booked before Nov. 26. Go to www.virgin.com/vacations, or call (888) 937-8474.
Northwest Airlines WorldVacations is combining round-trip air fare to Paris, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Rome or London, with two nights' hotel and daily Continental breakfast, starting at $439 from New York, Newark or Boston, including taxes and departure fees. This fall special is good for travel through Oct. 31, and reservations must be made by Oct. 24. Winter packages for the same cities begin at $369, with departures Dec. 2 through March 31. For more information, visit the Web site nwaworldvacations.com (click on Cyberdeals, then Europe), or call (800) 800-1504.

For Surfers
No discussion of deals these days is complete without the Internet, and American Airlines has a Web-only offer for travel to Paris or London this fall and winter. I tried booking a sample trip, and while several dates were unavailable, eventually I booked six nights, Sept. 25 to Oct. 1, in Paris at the tourist-class Hotel du Centre in the Ninth Arrondissement. With a round-trip flight from J.F.K. the cost was $714.70 a person, excluding airport surcharges. The six-night stay also included a three-course meal in the hotel restaurant, with wine and coffee, for each person, and 3,000 bonus AAdvantage miles. 
American's three-night packages to Paris begin at $484 a person through Oct. 31 (these must be booked by Oct. 17), and $381 a person from Nov. 1 to 15 or Nov. 22 to Dec. 14. Go to www.aavacations.com and click on Deals and then What's Hot.
For comparison, I went to www.expedia.com and searched for a package to Paris for the same dates. Expedia nearly matched American's offer through Delta Air Lines, with a six-night package on the same dates that included a slightly better, three-star hotel. The price of $803.82 a person included airport taxes and surcharges. On Delta's site, www.deltavacations.com, I found a similar package for $805.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mary Ann Smith) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIR FARES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (73%); CITY LIFE (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; DISCOUNT SELLING 

COMPANY: AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (55%)

TICKER: AERL (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%)

PERSON: OLSON, MARTHA STEVENSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); IRELAND (79%); FRANCE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); CZECH REPUBLIC (52%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



394 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2835 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, The Newest Pot of Gold 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN WARNER 

DATELINE: PISCATAWAY 

 BODY:
A cloud of super-cold air rises as researchers in the Rutgers University cell and DNA repository open a tank filled with ampules of cryogenically frozen cells. The tanks in this laboratory hold cells from more than 30,000 people with a family history of genetic disease including autism, schizophrenia and diabetes.
 Scientists at Rutgers grow cells from DNA and parcel them out to researchers around the world who will mine it for clues that may lead to cures. 
 Dr. Jay Tischfield, director of the repository and head of Rutgers's genetics department, said the laboratory was financed with more than $6 million in federal funds -- just a tiny drop in a huge government spending push to support medical research. These days the federal government as well as many states are pouring billions into medical research to find new treatments for disease. 
Moreover, in the anemic afterglow of the 90's, when states were flush and budgets were being met, the infusion of huge amounts of government funds are serving as a much-needed economic development tool, generating thousands of new jobs and millions of dollars in additional tax revenue.
"I've been at this for 30 years, and I've seen some very lean times," said Dr. Tischfield. "This is by far the best it has ever been."
Public investment in medical research is expected to ripple throughout the economy like the government-financed military-industrial complex of the 1950's and 60's, which created new technologies -- including a primitive Internet -- while bolstering both the Pentagon and military contractors during the cold war.
In this latest marriage of federal largesse and private brainpower, scientists in New Jersey are working on futuristic medical technologies that may result in designer drugs tailored to patients' genetic makeup, artificial skin and bone, or tiny chips that can be embedded in the body to deliver time-released medication.
"The analogy to defense is true," said Bill Stephenson, vice president for research at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. "These days a great deal of start-up activity is in the biomedical arena, and I think it is absolutely the case that federal spending for research spurs the growth of new companies."
While most of the new public money is going to academic research, it is also seeping into projects at private companies trying to cross the bridge from pure science to commercial applications. Many of these companies are even being run by former professors, or some simply on leave, who have morphed into entrepreneurs.
When it comes to private spending on research, New Jersey draws $10 billion a year -- the most for any state on a per capita basis and among the top five in total dollars -- according to the New Jersey Commission on Science and Technology. Of that, more than half flows into medical research spending, mostly from giant American and European drug manufacturers with operations in New Jersey.
Despite its vast private research infrastructure, New Jersey lags behind many states in financing from the National Institutes of Health, the largest pot of public money. The Clinton administration set out to double the institutes' budget from 1998 to 2003, and it has grown since 1998 at a rate of 15 percent a year to $27.24 billion this year. Of that, cancer research received the largest chunk, $5.5 billion in the budget for 2003
New Jersey ranks 24th among the states in financing from N.I.H. -- just behind Oregon and one rung above Iowa -- with 588 awards totaling $182 million. California comes in first with nearly $2.5 billion followed by Massachusetts with $1.7 billion.
Michael Breton, associate vice president for research and sponsored programs at Rutgers, said the main reason that New Jersey fell somewhere in the middle was that despite its affluent, well-educated population, New Jersey had only three medical schools and few large teaching hospitals. At each end of the state, in New York and Philadelphia, prestigious medical centers siphon off New Jersey patients and researchers.
"It's not as if the region lacks these major super research institutions," Dr. Breton said. "They're just not physically within the borders of New Jersey."
The University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey is the state's largest recipient of money from the institutes, with 267 grants totaling $89.2 million, ranking 55th among all institutions receiving the federal funds.
Rutgers ranked 100th with 139 grants totaling $38.4 million and Princeton was 105th with $35.3 million in grants. Neither institution has a medical school, which frequently spawn faculty research grants.
Nonetheless, all three institutions are pushing medical initiatives, and the future could be quite lucrative in terms of grant revenue, long-term royalties and creating educated employees for the state's work force.
In 1970 the State Legislature created the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, which is now the nation's largest health sciences university with 4,500 students. It has three medical schools under its umbrella -- New Jersey Medical School, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School and the School of Osteopathic Medicine -- as well as five other health-care schools including dentistry and nursing.
Dr. Stephenson, of U.M.D.N.J., said that in its first years the university focused on the basics. "We were intent on building the educational structure and the health-delivery structure, and we just didn't pay a lot of attention to the research side," he said.
But four years ago the university began a major push to improve its research capabilities, including programs in cancer, cardiovascular disease, neuroscience and injury caused by trauma. In all, the university will spend $236 million on research this year, and it has embarked on a $518 million building program to house new research, classroom and clinical space.
"We were bursting at the seams," said Dr. Stephenson. "You can't grow your own, or hire superstars, unless you put together new space."
The university has already completed the International Center for Public Health, a $78 million building in Newark, and a $7 million annex to existing research centers in Piscataway.
A new $37 million behavioral health science building is set to open in Newark next spring, and U.M.D.N.J. is building a new $45 million research tower for molecular biology in Piscataway.
Just this summer, the university broke ground on a $100 million, seven-story cancer center in Newark that will include a hospital complex along with cancer research labs. It is also tripling the size of its cancer facility in New Brunswick with a $71 million, 150,000-square foot building. In addition, the university's Cancer Institute of New Jersey will receive $20 million in financing from the state's tobacco settlement fund.
The buildings are to be financed through $95 million in state bonding authorized by the Whitman administration and an additional $280 million in bonds underwritten by the university alone. Dr. Stephenson said the university would finance the rest of the construction with gifts to the university and other internal funds.
University revenue could grow by $30 million to $40 million a year, said Dr. Stephenson, if one or more of its licensing deals with start-up companies resulted in a major new drug coming to market. By comparison, the university earned earned a meager $1 million on royalties this year.
His optimism is based on more than just good feelings. In the past six years, the university has spun off 12 companies commercializing its technology, and Dr. Stephenson said that in two to five years one may have a drug coming to market.
In addition, Dr. Stephenson said the new buildings would also help the university increase its business in lucrative clinical trials for the drug industry.
"Quite frankly, we have not served the pharmaceutical industry right here in New Jersey as adequately as we might," he said.
For now, the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey is now running clinical trials valued at $30 million, though it aims to increase that to $100 million to $200 million in the next several years, Dr. Stephenson said.
"This is in a state where the pharmaceutical industry is probably spending $3 billion to $5 billion a year running clinical trials around the world," he said. "What that's telling you is we're not providing a very attractive location for doing trials."
Rutgers spent $242 million on research last year, up from $96 million in 1990. In medical research, the university has been focusing on neuroscience, including spinal cord injuries, biomaterials and molecular biology. In addition, Rutgers has spun off 40 companies developing ideas discovered there. The university has plans for two new medical research buildings -- a $28 million complex that will house Dr. Tischfield's genetics programs and biomaterials research, and a $23.8 million center for biomedical engineering. Both buildings, financed by state higher education funds, a bond offering and Rutgers's own capital campaign, are to open in 2004.
Dr. Tischfield said the new buildings were essential to lure top graduate students who might also be considering schools like the University of California at San Diego, where new lab space was continually cropping up.
"Rutgers has a long way to go, but it has come a long way in a short amount of time," said Dr. Tischfield, who was recruited to Rutgers from Indiana University in 1999.
A native New Yorker, Dr. Tischfield said he had little or no opinion of New Jersey before he took the job at Rutgers. Then, as he drove around while house-hunting, he kept running into huge pharmaceutical research and development facilities.
"As unfair as it may be, New Jersey tends to be ignored in research," he said. "But from the point of view of economic activity -- with Big Pharma here -- New Jersey is the place."
At Princeton, the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics is expected to move into a new $45 million building -- designed by the architect Rafael Vinoly and financed by Carl Icahn, a 1957 graduate -- in November. Created in 2000 in response to the explosion in genomics research and to give the academic community access to high-tech tools available in industry, the institute is bound to grow and prosper, since its director is Shirley M. Tilghman, who is now the president of the university.
James R. Broach, acting director, said the Lewis-Sigler institute drew on faculty from many departments, including mathematics, engineering and chemistry, to help biologists make sense of all the data being generated by new genetic research tools.
"In the post-genomics era we are not so much data-limited as we are limited by our ability to handle the data," said Dr. Broach.
The institute was founded with a $35 million gift from Peter B. Lewis, a Princeton trustee and chief executive of the Progressive Corporation, an automobile insurance company, and named for him and Mr. Lewis's Princeton roommate, Paul Sigler, a structural biologist who was on the faculty at Yale University until his death in 2000.
In addition to the federal money available for medical research that is currently being done, the state has financial programs to help foster that research. The state's largest grant-making agency in that field is the New Jersey Commission on Science and Technology, which is budgeted to spend $14 million this year, of which more than $6 million is aimed at biomedical research. That is the same level of spending as last year, though down from $25 million in 2000.
John Tesoriero, executive director of the commission, said the agency had financed $30 million in biomedical research over the past five years. This year the commission opened five technology incubators, publicly financed labs where companies can rent space to work on ideas in the early stages without investing in equipment or committing to a long-term lease. After closing two others, the state now has 10 incubators, many of them occupied by small biotechnology start-up comnpanies.
Still, Mr. Tesoriero said New Jersey's state support for medical research was tiny compared with that in many other states.
"It is the fashion right now to develop every urban center into a center for biotechnology," he said. "They see it as the next savior of these urban economies."
Mr. Tesoriero said it was hard to justify spending taxpayer dollars to stimulate medical research in a state whose pharmaceutical companies, with their rich salary structure, were already the envy of most other states' economic development officials.
"Nonetheless, we have to keep our university infrastructure in such a way that it would support this industry base," he said. "We need programs or these biotech companies can just as easily go to Pennsylvania, or San Diego or Boston."
For his part, Mr. Tesoriero said his program filled a need that went unmet by the state's large drug industries, financing research in the early stages with the promise of commercialization -- a niche that has been harder to fill as private venture capital has dried up.
"We're not funding the very far-out kind of basic research," he said. "Our applicants have to demonstrate the business potential or importance of all of the work that goes on in the projects we fund."
Jon Shure, president of the New Jersey Policy Perspective, said government business incentives would inevitably shift toward new technology.
"People realize the future is not in bringing in more factories," he said. "It is in high-tech, biotech and other cutting edge areas. But whether the incentive is for medical research or building cars, there's still a need to find out some basic things, like do they really need the incentive to come here? How many jobs are they actually going to create? What will those jobs pay?"
And he asked: "If you want to have high-end, good-paying modern technology businesses in the state, is the best way to give them pots of money or is it to make sure we have good schools and good transportation, a clean environment and all the other things government is supposed to do?"
The payoff for public investment in research is that ideas pondered in academic laboratories will grow from ideas to commercial products. 
Stuart Peltz, founder of PTC Therapeutics Inc., in South Plainfield, is building his company on discoveries he made as a researcher at Robert Wood Johnson Medical School.
Dr. Peltz said New Jersey did lag behind other biotech hotbeds in private capital networks and state support. For instance, he said that other states were using pension funds and more of their tobacco fund settlement to stimulate medical research.
"New Jersey could think about how to be creative to help educate and get people to start doing this in a bigger way," he said. "Massachusetts, San Francisco, San Diego -- there's not better science there, it's just more entrepreneurial."
Still, despite these obstacles, New Jersey does have its advantages.
Karen Giroux, chief executive of Polymerix Corporation, a startup company in Piscataway that is developing a plasticlike form of aspirin based on technology from Rutgers, said being in New Jersey might help it forge rich licensing and partnership deals with large drug makers.
"New Jersey is ground zero for the drug industry," said Bob Butz, president of Polymerix who has worked in North Carolina, San Diego and San Franciscco.
"When I was in San Francisco I was always on airplanes heading east," he said. "Here, you can drive to your meetings."
Despite greater acceptance of entrepreneurial science, there remains a line between public, academic interests and free-market science. Dr. Breton, of Rutgers, said that until the State Legislature changed conflict-of-interest rules for state employees in 1991, scientists could not have an interest in a company that did business with the university, like leasing lab space or licensing technology. The change has made it much easier for university scientists to branch out with commercial programs.
But he said the university still preferred that scientists took a leave, or did not serve as an officer of outside companies in which they had a financial stake.
"There's been a general change in attitude since the 1980's," Dr. Breton said. "It's O.K. for faculty members to be involved in commercial projects, within certain limits. It used to be the ivory tower approach."
For instance, when Dr. Tischfield finished graduate school at Yale, he was offered a job at a pharmaceutical company, but his academic mentor at the time said he would never speak to him again if he took the job.
Now, in addition to his academic research, Dr. Tischfield sits on the boards of several start-up companies and runs his DNA repository like a business. He said private companies had tried to run similar operations but went out of business, leaving researchers in the lurch, whereas from his position in academia, he answered to no shareholders.
Pointing to one tank filled with frozen cells, he said, "I only have to answer to these people and their families."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Polymerix Corporation in Piscataway is experimenting with products based on technology developed at Rutgers University. Bryant Pudil, a research associate there, inset, works on a coronary stent coated with polymer. Public investment in medical research is rippling through the state's economy. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for the New York Times)(pg. 1); Maura Haley, top left, and Carrie Dellarosa experiment with cell cultures at Post Transcriptional Control, a biotechnology company associated with the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey that works on DNA projects; above, human cell samples are stored in liquid nitrogen at Rutgers University; left, Dr. Jay Tischfield, head of the genetics department at Rutgers and director of its cell and DNA repository, said of new financing for medical research: "I've been at this for 30 years, and I've seen some very lean times. This is by far the best it has ever been."; Suseela Kanamathareddy at Polymerix, a biotechnology company in Piscataway that is developing a plasticlike form of aspirin based on technology from Rutgers. (Top, Laura Pedrick for The New York Times; above and below left, photographs by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); DNA (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (86%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GENETIC DISEASES (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (78%); BIOMEDICINE (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (77%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); BUDGETS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); DENTISTRY (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); DIABETES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (71%); HEALTH CARE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (64%); COLD WAR (64%); AUTISM (57%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; INDUSTRY PROFILES; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (63%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%) RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE AND DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY 

PERSON: WARNER, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



395 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
FendingOff Babel In a Global Village

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN B. LEVINE 

 BODY:
ROBERT BISHOP grew up next door to one of Australia's immigrant hostels after World War II and remembers marveling at the creative talents of his Spanish, Greek and Latvian neighbors. Many of the women were educated professionals, a rarity in those days, and their children almost always rose to the top of their classes.
 Taught as a child that Aussies were the best, he was rocked by this evidence to the contrary. It was his first inkling of the core principle of his career: "No country has a monopoly on good ideas." 
 Mr. Bishop, now chief executive of Silicon Graphics Inc., has become the quintessential global manager. Over 35 years, he and his Japanese wife, Yoshimi, have lived and worked on four continents as he built operations in 30 countries for three American high-technology companies. He has taught at business schools from Stockholm to Milan and counseled governments in Malaysia and Australia. Currently, Mr. Bishop, 59, is based at Silicon Graphics headquarters in Mountain View, Calif., while his wife maintains their home in Geneva and their three adult daughters pursue careers in Switzerland, England and the United States.
Mr. Bishop's continent-straddling profile is a prized commodity. In a recent study of 100 mostly non-American international executives chosen as exemplary by their companies, half had multicultural backgrounds, like having parents of different nationalities or being raised in more than one country. "There's no single kind of global manager," said Morgan W. McCall Jr., co-author of "Developing Global Executives" (Harvard Business School Press, 2002) and professor of management at the University of Southern California. "But the person who begins with global roots has a big advantage."
It was once enough to build international businesses by moving employees overseas or hiring local nationals, said Susan C. Schneider, a management professor at the University of Geneva and co-author of "Managing Across Cultures" (Prentice Hall, 1997). But no more.
Management structures are shifting from country and regional sales units to worldwide product development and manufacturing organizations. And home-office staffs are usually a melange of nationalities requiring managers with broad cultural understanding. "We've long had a borderless economy," Dr. Schneider said. "It's no surprise that we now have an elite corps of executives with borderless careers."
The most attuned managers have what she calls the "global mind-set" that allows them to pick up on local differences and leverage them around the world. It rarely develops without living in foreign cultures.
Mr. Bishop gained such a mind-set by seeking experience in three major markets: the United States, Japan and Europe. He found radically different management values but quickly learned to harness them wherever he went. To this day, he shares frank details of Silicon Graphics operations with all employees in quarterly teleconferences, a legacy of his years in Germany.
In Japan, he learned to hew to a long-term strategy, no matter the short-term demands of investors. "I continually get hazed by Wall Street, but I've learned not to blink," he said. After 10 quarters of losses, cash flow recently turned positive at Silicon Graphics, which appears to be back on track with robust sales of three-dimensional visualization applications to the military.
Another hallmark of the global executive is people skills -- a challenge if you are dealing with people from a half-dozen cultures, Dr. McCall said. And, he warned, you can't assume that lessons learned in one foreign experience will apply to others.
Ask Sidney A. Taylor, president of Incal Pipeline Rehabilitation Inc. Since 1992, Mr. Taylor has honed his cultural sensibilities by running Incal, an oil pipeline maintenance company based in Houston, from Paris.
When he entered the Algerian market a few years ago, he expected the same high-caliber technical expertise of his client there that he had experienced elsewhere in the region. But for weeks, a midlevel Algerian manager held up approval of a urethane coating for no apparent reason. Mr. Taylor soon realized that the manager was terrified of losing his well-paying job -- a rare prize in most developing countries -- over a wrong decision but lacked the technical skills necessary to make it. So Mr. Taylor simplified his pitch and won him over. "You learn to psychoanalyze people to get under the surface of what they're saying," he said.
TO get a feel for the local psyche, Mr. Bishop, the son of a longshoreman, visits shipping docks and railroad yards wearing street clothes to talk with ordinary workers. "Understanding the underside of society in the struggle between rich and poor helps me develop empathy for the people of a country," he said. In turn, that builds trust with employees and customers.
His most gratifying "foreign" experience came in the 1970's in Atlanta as a senior executive at the Digital Equipment Corporation. A management rivalry between the Atlanta office and Boston headquarters had grown bitter and taken on overtones of a North-South conflict. But because he was an Australian, with an Australian accent and Australian mannerisms, he was able to avoid being identified with either camp. Acting as an neutral broker, he said, he mended the split and went on to lead his region to record-breaking sales.
The Internet does not diminish managers' need to understand local cultures, in Mr. Bishop's view. While global communications have simplified mundane tasks like local pricing, they have also freed management to spend more time on global manufacturing, marketing and financing strategies, he says, and those new duties will require more acute cultural antennae, not less. Mr. Bishop himself, in other jobs before coming to Silicon Graphics in 1999, made two round-the-world trips every quarter to visit local managers and customers. "The complexities aren't going away," he said. "There's no substitute for being there."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about executives with work experience in several countries misstated the tenure of one such manager, Robert Bishop of Silicon Graphics Inc. He joined the company in 1986 and returned in 1999 from a four-year hiatus to become chairman and chief executive; that was not his starting year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Bishop, chief of Silicon Graphics, on a trip to Sydney. He grew up in Australia and has worked in the United States, Japan and Europe. (Jimmy Pozarik for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); CHILDREN (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (64%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: SILICON GRAPHICS INTERNATIONAL CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SILICON GRAPHICS INC 

TICKER: SGI (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%)

PERSON: LEVINE, JONATHAN B; BISHOP, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); ENGLAND (75%); LATVIA (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%) AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



396 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
When the News Serves as a Business Textbook

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH 

 BODY:
LIKE nearly every graduate business school in the country, Long Island University offers a course in ethics. At the university's Southampton College branch, the course fills up quickly. "That's mainly because it's required," said Herbert Sherman, who teaches it.
 In the last year business ethics has grown even more interesting, as scandals involving companies like Enron, WorldCom, ImClone and Global Crossing became front page news. This semester, which started for most business school students just after Labor Day, that interest is likely to continue and increase. 
 The spate of corporate scandals that have helped put the brakes on economic recovery have also pushed topics like ethics, auditing management and nonstandard accounting systems to the forefront of the classroom discussion, not to mention onto the front pages of the nation's newspapers and the top of the nightly newscasts.
"Students take the recent scandals very seriously, and as a result the ethics course is much more fun to teach," Professor Sherman said. "Students have plenty of their own ethics stories to tell. Some of them are pretty scathing."
At Adelphi University last semester, Rakesh Gupta, who teaches management and business policy and is an associate dean of the School of Business, moderated a discussion on business ethics featuring professors from other departments as panelists. One was Stephen Greenfield, a philosophy instructor, who suggested that Plato and other ancient philosophers had dealt effectively with similar questions about decision making, integrity and fair dealing many centuries ago.
"The discussion veered toward what you might call situational ethics," Professor Gupta said. "I believe people can have a personal moral code that allows for dealing with different situations using different sets of ethics. When you're dealing with law, however, it's more cut and dried."
Professor Gupta said he believed the discussion introduced many students to a more nuanced approach to the question of values versus morals. "Someone from Germany or India may have other ways of dealing with moral issues, but that doesn't mean they are less ethical," he said.
By way of example, Dean Gupta said he encourages classroom debate about the morality of giving (or taking) baksheesh, accepted as a way of doing business in many Eastern countries but categorized as bribery in the United States, and hence illegal. 
As subjects like off-balance-sheet loans, auditing controls and insider trading have become cocktail party fodder, business professors find that students who in past years sat quietly through their lectures, perhaps discreetly dozing on some occasions, are now scrutinizing every word.
Mark Holtzman said that over the summer he prepared to teach his fall semester accounting class at Hofstra by following news coverage as the scandals proliferated, posting some of those accounts on the Web site he maintains as a classroom resource. "I try to encourage students to look beyond the statements issued by companies and see the potential for earnings manipulation," he said. "I try to focus on the gray area between manipulation and possible fraud."
Professor Holtzman acknowledged that the subject might seem a little dry. "Perhaps it is a little specialized," he said. "But when you deal with a company like WorldCom and a situation involving $7 billion in nonexisting assets, the subject suddenly gets more interesting to more people."
The recent scandals have not yet made it into textbooks. Case studies dealing with the scandals -- articles about business situations written by academics that are reprinted and distributed as study guides -- have just begun to appear.
Faculty members at the Island's six graduate business schools said the lack of textbooks was hardly the hindrance it would have been a few years ago, before corporate financial information became readily available on the Web.
"You really don't have to wait for the textbook or the case study to be published," Professor Holtzman said. "It's all in the business press, and it's all on the Internet."
Robert Berman, a marketing professor at Hofstra and a co-author of "Retail Management: A Strategic Approach" (Prentice Hall, 2002), now in its ninth edition, said that the recent business news had touched many lives. "It affects so many businesses and so many people," he said. "Huge retailers like Kmart have recently had to restate earnings." 
This year, Professor Berman and Joel Evans, his colleague at Hofstra and co-author, added a chapter to their book dealing with methods of accounting for unsold merchandise. It is a chapter, they said, very much inspired by recent events. Issues like returning discounts from vendors based on unmet sales projections is increasingly relevant, he said, if sometimes a challenge to those without accounting backgrounds.
"Some of this is so technical we don't really go into it with our marketing students," Professor Berman said. "I might mention it and say, 'This is an area you should be cognizant of.' "
It will probably be another semester or two before the accounting and financial issues now roiling the corporate world find their way into textbooks. "The academic world doesn't turn on a dime," said David R. Decker, the dean of the School of Management at the New York Institute of Technology's Old Westbury campus. "And it doesn't need to. Our curriculum already incorporates ethical considerations in six of the 14 courses taught." 
The scandals "have heightened awareness of the issues and provided a great deal of food for thought and fodder for the classroom," said Jerry Trapnell, the dean of the College of Business and Public Affairs at Clemson University in South Carolina and the chairman of the curriculum committee of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business in St Louis.
"Clearly these issues cannot be ignored," he said. "But they aren't dominating the classroom either. It's important to maintain balance."
Because many of the Island's M.B.A. candidates are middle managers or rising executives at local companies, classroom discussions may hit close to home, Professor Holtzman of Hofstra said. To avoid making any student uncomfortable, he sticks to the facts and avoids speculation, he said, and insists students do so as well.
"Computer Associates has been in that troublesome gray area for years in terms of its accounting methods, and last year we did bring up C.A. in a class discussion," Professor Holtzman said. "There were a couple of C.A. employees in my class. I've had Symbol employees in my class, too," referring to Symbol Technologies, another local company whose internal practices have come under scrutiny.
"It wasn't uncomfortable," he said. "I was especially careful what I said about those companies, so I wouldn't make a fool of myself. Whatever I might know about a company, its employees know more than I do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Frank G. Zarb School of Business at Hofstra, students are encouraged to look beyond the figures in company reports. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (95%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BUSINESS ETHICS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SCANDALS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); INSIDER TRADING (71%); WEB SITES (71%); US LABOR DAY (70%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; BUSINESS SCHOOLS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: STRUGATCH, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



397 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
Middletown Armory To Become a Hotel

BYLINE:  By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
WHEN John Adams visited Middletown, Conn., in 1771, he pronounced it "the most beautiful town of all." But after the collapse of its maritime industry in the early 19th century and the loss of its textile mills in the 20th century, it fell on some tough times.
 Over the last four years, however, most of the storefronts on Middletown's Main Street have filled up, a 12-screen theater has opened in the downtown and there has been a restaurant boom, bringing dozens of dining establishments to the business district. 
 Now a Long Island developer is preparing to start a $10.2 million project to turn the old city armory into Middletown's only downtown hotel, with 100 rooms, a restaurant and lounge that would accommodate up to 160 people, and 3,000 square feet of office and meeting space.
"I've tended to be interested in these secondary cities," said Robert B. Friedman, a partner in Friedman, Gordon, Smith & Klee, a partnership in Woodbury, N.Y., which is to begin work on the project this month and expects to finish the hotel next July. "I took a trip up there and really fell in love with the city. I think its downtown has enormous potential." 
Richard C. Kearney, Middletown's economic development specialist, noted that Wesleyan University will invest $1 million in a new arts center in the downtown and that there is a proposal for a riverfront project that would bring housing, stores and a conference center to a site on the Connecticut River, just a few blocks from Main Street. The hotel will add another dynamic to what is becoming a flourishing downtown, he said.
"It will act as an anchor on Main Street; it will bring 100 to 150 people a night down to Main Street on an overnight basis, which will add some pedestrian traffic and business at the restaurants and services in that neighborhood," Mr. Kearney said. "It will make it seem like a different kind of city."
Munro W. Johnson, the city's community development specialist, said the only lodging for travelers currently available in Middletown is in two motels, both on the edge of town. The armory project will be the first hotel in the business district.
"The significance of that from a downtown development point of view just can't be overstated," Mr. Johnson said. "We have the new streetlights on Main Street, a streetscape plan is in place -- there are a whole lot of things that really make us feel like we're on the way up."
Larry McHugh, president of the Middlesex County Chamber of Commerce, also noted that the armory would be convenient to Route 9, the limited access highway that passes through Middletown. "This will be the only hotel on Route 9 from Interstate 84 in New Britain to Interstate 95 in Old Saybrook, which will give it a tremendous advantage," Mr. McHugh said. Some 60,000 cars a day pass through the city on Route 9 every day, he said.
John R. Watkinson, a prominent merchant in Middletown in the early 19th century, built the original part of the armory in 1810 as a home, said Dione Longley, director of the Middlesex County Historical Society.
"It would have been fairly grand for Middletown at that time," Ms. Longley said. "And interestingly, it was built about the time that Middletown began its economic slide with the decline of the maritime business."
Middletown was the state's most populous and prosperous community at the time the first wing of the armory was built, because its location on the Connecticut River made it a hub for maritime trade. 
When the state acquired the property for use as an armory in 1919, it moved the original structure 90 degrees, built a duplicate of it to face it and connected them by a drill shed that now faces Main Street. The state discontinued its use of the armory about 10 years ago.
The city used $190,000 in federal grants to restore the facade of the building in 1995 and 1996, originally in the hope that it would be used as a community center or youth center, but those plans never came to fruition. A local businessman, Gerard Weitzman, purchased the armory in 1997. Mr. Weitzman, whose family has owned Pelton's Pharmacy in Middletown since 1800, died in 1999 in a car accident.
Mark Masselli, chief executive of the Community Health Center on Main Street, said Mr. Weitzman's death spurred local business and political leaders and the president and vice president of Wesleyan College to form a committee that would seek a developer for the property. 
"We were really thinking of some way to memorialize his long-term commitment to Main Street, to commerce and really, very specifically, to the armory project," Mr. Masselli said. 
IN the early 1990's, the city had hired the Boston-based Pinnacle Group to make a feasibility study of the hotel market in the downtown. At that time, Pinnacle recommended against it. But the committe approached Pinnacle to take a second look.
"When they came back this time, they said, 'Middletown is absolutely ripe for a hotel,' " Mr. Masselli said. 
What has changed, the project's supporters say, is that the downtown has slowly filled up over the years. Today, there are almost none of the empty storefronts that characterized the city on Pinnacle's first visit, and there are a number of new projects that are bringing more and more people downtown, from the Kids City Museum, which is undergoing a $3 million expansion, to a nine-unit artists' co-operative that will open next month in the north end, with a gallery, cafe and pottery studio.
The marketing study attracted interest from about 10 reputable developers throughout the Northeast, Mr. Masselli said. "Most of them barely knew where Middletown was, but they knew Pinnacle, and they knew if Pinnacle said the area could support a hotel they wanted to be here," Mr. Masselli said.
Mr. Kearney said there are two major sources of business for a hotel in Middletown: Wesleyan, which draws visitors from all over the world for college functions and arts conferences; and Pratt & Whitney's aircraft division, which does business internationally. 
Mr. Masselli said the committee met with all the developers but was most impressed with Mr. Friedman, who had developed the Nathan Hale Inn at the University of Connecticut in Storrs and the Comfort Suites in Norwich. 
Mr. Friedman said he would use the same team for the armory as for his first two hotel projects: Group One of Boston as the architect; O. Ahlborg & Sons of Cranston, R.I., as a general contractor; and International Hotels and Resorts as the manager when the project it is finished.
About 8,000 square feet of the existing armory, including the entire facade, will be retained, he said, while a 60,000-square-foot, five-story addition will rise to the rear of the building for guest space.
The city and Wesleyan will put another $750,000 into the armory project; private investors in the city will put up additional funding; and the Weitzman family will lease the site to the developers, retaining a stake as well.
"About one-third of the project cost is coming from the community," Mr. Friedman said. "That's important because they feel like they have a stake in its success. If people have their money on the table, they're more likely to support it."
The project was ready to go last year, but the slowing economy and then the terrorist attacks of last Sept. 11 derailed it.
"It literally took thousands of phone calls to get it back on track," Mr. Masselli said. "The banks were reluctant at first, but then they were encouraged by the broad community support for this project, and for the broad economic support -- Mr. Friedman and his backers are putting more than $1 million of their own money into the armory."
MR. WEITZMAN'S stepson, Neil A. Alan, said his stepfather "really wanted to do something special for the community." He added: This was a project he would have loved to see happen. It was the reason he purchased the building. This is exactly the kind of thing he wanted to do."
Mr. Alan said he supported the selection of Mr. Friedman to develop the project as well.
"I think he's become a big fan of Middletown as well," Mr. Alan said. "We wanted someone who was going to create an independent hometown style inn for us, something that would fit into the Middletown fabric. This is not going to have a cookie-cutter, chain feel to it. But where better to build a Main Street hotel than Main Street, U.S.A.?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: The entire facade of the armory will be retained and a five-story addition will rise to the rear for rooms for guests. The project is expected to cost $10.2 million and to be finished next July. (Group One Inc.; George Ruhe for The New York Times, top) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CITIES (73%); RETAILERS (71%) HOTELS AND MOTELS 

ORGANIZATION: FRIEDMAN GORDON SMITH & KLEE 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) MIDDLETOWN (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



398 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Meriden Takes Another Shot at Revival 

BYLINE:  By MARK PETERS 

 BODY:
JOHN CLEMENTS is leery of the planners and the politicians who talk about redevelopment in downtown Meriden. Past efforts have forced his family to move its jewelry store, left customers without parking and caused businesses to shut down.
 But even as Mr. Clements bemoaned almost four decades of plans and projects, he agreed that something had to be done to help the city's failing downtown area. 
 "There definitely is a need; just drive down main street," he said, pointing to the street that runs in front of his store.
This summer, a plan was proposed to end the years of empty storefronts and deserted streets. The idea is winning the support of elected officials and business leaders in this midsize city in the center of the state.
The plan, called the City Center Initiative, would drastically change the shape of downtown, realigning main roads and moving hundreds of residents.
Supporters say that within a decade they expect a vibrant, growing city center to exist, ending a history of redevelopment flops that have left residents cynical about the downtown area's future.
The City Center Initiative, which was released in late July, calls for $40 million in public spending and
$90 million in private investments to create three retail centers, two office buildings, several restaurants, a multiplex theater, 1,000 new parking spaces and a downtown park.
What is scheduled to be replaced are an outdated federal housing project, a neighboring condominium complex and the Meriden Hub, a near-empty mall that was built as part of a city redevelopment project in the late 1960's.
"It is comprehensively solving an overall problem," said Wayne D'Amico, a consultant for the Meriden Economic Resource Group Inc., which commissioned the plan with other private, nonprofit development groups.
The plan, created by BL Companies in Meriden, relies on the use of public money to solve nagging problems like poor highway access and chronic flooding. The end result is what is being called a one-of-a-kind site in Connecticut: about 40 acres of developable land in an urban center with frontage on Interstate 691.
"I don't know of anything close," said Robert Landino, president of BL Companies, comparing the Meriden initiative with Hartford's redevelopment project. "As an example, Adriaen's Landing is one-third the size."
From this central site, the plan stretches west to what is traditionally known as the center of downtown and east to the neighborhood surrounding city hall. Ideas for the later stages include an art district, a community college campus and a new industrial park.
Saulo Sfroza can already envision the new buildings and the tree-lined boulevards. Thirty-two years ago his barber shop was the first business to open at the Meriden Hub, which was considered to be a key to downtown redevelopment at the time. Now, Mr. Sfroza's is one of only three businesses left in the dilapidated mall.
"I hope they do it," he said over the buzz of electric shears. "I don't know when. It would be good for Meriden."
Although he is optimistic, some of his customers on a recent Saturday were not as excited.
Vincent Cassarino, who grew up a short walk from Mr. Sforza's shop, said he had lived through redevelopment in the late-1960's and a smaller project in the late-1980's and considered them both costly failures.
"Look around," he said. "Most of the places are empty."
Like many older residents, Betty Calvi, 74, can remember the bustling downtown of her youth where everyone went on the weekend to shop, eat and be entertained.
Since the plan has been released, its supporters have tried to exorcise the ghosts of past projects, while also trying to convince residents that the long-term plan could return the downtown area to what it was.
"They are looking to the past," said Stephen T. Zerio, the City Council majority leader.
Many residents and even some elected officials, however, cannot forget the $27 million the city spent to make downtown improvements starting in 1989. The project included a parking garage, a new courthouse and police complex, red brick sidewalks and decorative lighting. It did little to stimulate interest downtown.
Mayor Mark D. Benigni said residents needed to understand that the city's approach has changed. The philosophy before was what is being label as a "field of dreams" approach in which the city made millions of dollars in improvements and then waited for businesses to come. This time, however, construction will not begin until there are commitments from retail developers.
"I really want our citizens to be excited, to look at this as an opportunity," Mr. Benigni said.
The idea for a comprehensive redevelopment plan grew out of a series of meetings last year in which business and political leaders realized there were too many competing ideas for downtown.
"Everyone wanted to gentrify or rejuvenate something," Mr. D'Amico said.
The group concluded that the state government and developers would not support a plan if there were no clear goal. The solution was to back one initiative.
Since the plan's release, several business leaders have backed the plan, but the opinions from the City Council have wavered.
Some council members say that residents are opposed to the initiative because they fear the city will raise taxes to pay for it. A vote last month to approve further work on the plan passed by a 10-2 count with one Democrat and one Republican dissenting.
"I am just very leery of the fact I think the taxpayers will pick-up a large portion of this project," said Deputy Mayor Walter A. Shamock Jr., a Republican.
Those who are pushing the plan say that the city is more than a year away from starting any construction, and with tough votes on housing and property acquisitions ahead, support will continue to be tested.
"The plan will change tens, if not hundreds, of times before it is finalized," Mr. Zerio said.
The initiative needs state money to move forward. Private groups that have financed it thus far are not prepared to commit further dollars, and there is little political support for the city to spend any money on the initiative at this point. 
The state Bond Commission meeting, which is scheduled for Sept. 27, will be a crucial test for the initiative, since the commission will consider allocating $250,000 for further planning.
During a stop earlier this month, Gov. John G. Rowland, who sets the commission's agenda, promised the city would get the money.
There is also a second plan emerging for downtown. A local developer, Joseph F. Carabetta, is pitching a plan that focuses on building a new high school, a community college, a sports stadium and a park in the same area. The idea is based on his belief retail will not work downtown.
Those who support the City Center Initiative concede there are hundreds of reasons for the plan to fall apart, but they also see no other choice: waiting for change will do nothing to revitalize downtown.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, one of several blighted buildings in the city's downtown. Left, an area with the Interstate 691 overpass in the background. Below, a mall parking lot that is scheduled to be transformed as part of a long-term plan.; Wayne D'Amico, a consultant, on the roof of a building in downtown Meriden overlooking an area where a redevelopment project is in the works. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RETAILERS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (50%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

ORGANIZATION: BL COMPANIES 

PERSON: PETERS, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) MERIDEN (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



399 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME; 
Making Estimates Add Up

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
VIRTUALLY every consumer who borrows money to finance a house or apartment is provided with a pair of documents known as the "Good Faith Estimate of Settlement Charges" and the "Truth-in-Lending Disclosure." The forms -- mandated by federal law since the mid-1970's -- are intended to provide borrowers with tools for comparing the costs of similar loans being offered by different lenders. 
 But lenders, lawyers and mortgage finance experts say the documents -- which have been unchanged for nearly three decades -- are confusing to consumers and may not accurately reflect the differences in loans. In fact, in July the Department of Housing and Urban Development proposed new regulations under the Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act -- the law that mandates the good faith estimate and truth-in-lending forms -- in the hope of "simplifying and improving" the mortgage process. 
 "The original premise behind the good faith estimate was that it would help protect the public from unscrupulous lenders," said Ellen Bitton, president of Park Avenue Mortgage Group, a Manhattan mortgage broker. "Unfortunately, it has been hugely successful at confusing people." 
Ms. Bitton explained that the theory behind the good faith estimate was to provide a mortgage applicant with a single document containing estimates of all the costs associated with the transaction. Armed with that document, she said, a consumer would be able to compare various loans and ultimately decide which would be best.
But the good faith estimate is not always a very good indicator of the actual costs of a particular mortgage. And since lenders use different strategies for preparing estimates, Ms. Bitton said, there may be big differences in estimated closing costs.
"Some lenders will put in the lowest estimates possible," she said. "But with my clients, I would prefer to overestimate an item than to underestimate it. I prefer that they are happily surprised that it will cost less than they expected."
Stephen Ornstein, a Washington lawyer who specializes in mortgage finance law, said the good faith estimate must be provided within three days of the borrower's applying for a mortgage. Costs included on the form, he said, include the appraisal, the credit report, the lender's application fee and the number of "points" the borrower will pay for the loan. A point -- 1 percent of the mortgage -- is basically the lender's charge for agreeing to make the loan.
Other items in the good faith estimate are various "title charges," including the cost of a title search, notary fees, lender's attorney fees and title insurance for the lender. (What may not be included in the "title charges" section, however, are the fees charged by the borrower's lawyer and the cost of the owner's title insurance policy.) 
Ms. Bitton of Park Avenue Mortgage Group said there are a number of other items on the good faith estimate that can be confusing to borrowers.
For example, she said, lenders often require borrowers to pay one-twelfth of the annual cost of hazard insurance and real estate taxes along with the monthly mortgage payment. And typically, Ms. Bitton said, the lender will also require two or more months of escrows to be paid in advance. Since some lenders do not require those reserves at all -- leaving it up to the borrower to make tax and insurance payments directly -- monthly escrow payments might appear on one lender's disclosure form but not on another's. (Of course, the borrower pays the money in either case.)
Other items that may or may not appear on a good faith estimate relate to taxes imposed on the sale or financing of property. For example, Ms. Bitton said, while there is a 1 percent tax in New York on the entire sales price for properties sold for $1 million or more -- known as the "mansion tax" -- some lenders disclose the tax while others, inadvertently, may not. 
"And many lenders are unaware of the Peconic Tax," she said, referring to a 2 percent local tax on certain properties in Suffolk County on sale amounts exceeding $250,000.
Another item that causes significant confusion in New York, Ms. Bitton said, relates to the state's mortgage recording tax. That tax, which can range from 0.75 percent to 1.875 percent depending on the location of the property and the amount of the mortgage, is typically reported on the good faith estimate. 
It is sometimes possible, however, for a borrower -- particularly one who is refinancing a mortgage -- to arrange to have an existing mortgage either modified or assigned to a new lender, thereby avoiding the tax on the balance of the old mortgage. When that is being considered, she said, another item often appears on the good faith estimate -- the "consolidation, extension and modification" charge. Since there is no guarantee the assignment will be done, however, the lender also includes the estimate for the mortgage recording tax. As a result, there will be two estimates on the form: one that reflects the cost to avoid the tax and another for the tax itself.
Oded Ben-Ami, a senior loan officer of the Sterling National Mortgage Company in Great Neck, N.Y., said one of the most confusing pieces of information consumers are provided with is the annual percentage rate reflected on the initial truth-in-lending disclosure form that lenders send to applicants for loans. This is because the A.P.R. is almost always higher than the interest rate the borrower believes he is paying. 
Mr. Ben-Ami explained that most people shopping for a mortgage focus on at the interest rate being charged. An interest rate of, say, 7 percent obviously appears more attractive than a mortgage with an interest rate of, say, 7.25 percent. However, Mr. Ben-Ami said, the lender offering the 7 percent rate might charge two points for that mortgage while the lender offering the higher rate might charge only one point or even none. The difficulty for the borrower, of course, is determining which mortgage ends up being the less expensive over the long run.
What The annual percentage rate attempts to do, he said, is quantify the difference between those two mortgages. And it does so by taking into consideration the costs of the loan. In other words, if the interest rate being charged is 7 percent, the effective annual percentage rate of the loan might be 7.3 percent when the costs of obtaining the loan are taken into consideration.
But while the annual percentage rate calculation takes into consideration some of the costs of obtaining the mortgage, it does not take into consideration all of them. 
For example, Mr. Ben-Ami said, the A.P.R. calculation does not include the appraisal, the credit report, title insurance or the borrower's legal fees. 
And when the loan being applied for is an adjustable rate loan, he said, the A.P.R. is basically useless because there is no way of knowing what the new rate will be after the initial interest rate period expires.
John C. Weicher, assistant secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development in Washington, acknowledged that the current disclosure laws offer less-than-perfect protection for consumers. "We've been hearing these kind of complaints for a while," Mr. Weicher said. "And we agree that the good faith estimate is nowhere near as useful as it should be."
To remedy some problems, he said, HUD has proposed amendments to the regulations that would require lenders to be more precise with their estimates of closing costs and honor those estimates through the date of closing. Under the proposed amendments, for example, for categories of costs where the lender is providing the services, the amount the lender actually charges can be no more than the good faith estimate, Mr. Weicher said. He added that for estimates of costs for services provided by third parties -- like title insurance charges -- the actual amount paid cannot be more than 10 percent higher than the estimate.
In addition, he said, the proposed amendments require lenders to include all governmental charges and taxes on the good faith estimate. Amounts that the lender should have included but did not, he said, would have to be paid by the lender. 
"We're trying to make the process as simple as we can so the consumer has the total cost of the transaction in a single figure," Mr. Weicher said, adding that while the final version of the regulations may still change -- depending on comments received during the public comment period, which ends Oct. 28 -- the department expects the final regulations to be in place by next spring.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US TRUTH IN LENDING ACT (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); US REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES ACT (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); TITLE INSURANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CITIES (54%) HOUSING; MORTGAGES; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; INTEREST RATES 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



400 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2410 words

HEADLINE: The Arts Take a Hit, and Regroup 

BYLINE:  By KATHERINE ZOEPF 

 BODY:
IT has not been a good year for Westchester's fine arts and performing arts institutions. 
 An ailing economy, a number of corporate donors moving out of the county, audiences who stayed home more in the months after Sept. 11, along with the usual pressures of competing with Manhattan's larger and better-financed arts organizations, have combined in the past year to create an unusually difficult fund-raising climate. 
 Across the county, the managers of Westchester's arts institutions have been looking into their coffers and assessing the shortfalls, then deciding how best to raise money in the months ahead and how to present exciting seasons given their current straitened circumstances. 
"We're all shaking in our boots," said John Raymond, the managing director of the Emelin Theater in Mamaroneck. "Fund-raising is always hard, no matter when you do it. But this year has been terrible." 
There has already been a casualty. The Westchester Symphony, which was founded in White Plains in 1924 and was once a staple of Westchester cultural life, folded in January, citing a dwindling subscriber base and a lack of corporate support. Taken as a cautionary tale, the symphony's demise sent shudders through the county's arts organizations. 
"Twenty years ago there were seven professional orchestras in Westchester," said Elaine Carroll, the executive director of the Westchester Philharmonic, which, now that the Westchester Symphony has left the scene, is the only professional symphony orchestra left in the county. "If people are serious about having quality arts here in Westchester, we need their support now." 
Sept. 11 left the arts in an awkward position. Ticket sales and museum admissions dropped sharply, as did subscriptions and corporate donations. 
Nearly all managers of arts institutions are quick to say that they expected the arts to lose out for a time to other charitable appeals. "Because of Sept. 11, people were asked to give to so many of the social service agencies and, well they should!" Mr. Raymond said. "The arts obviously take a back seat to that type of appeal. But for us in the arts, it's not a comfortable place to be." 
As the post-Sept. 11 gloom became more prolonged, and reports of a recession emerged, Mr. Raymond and his cohorts at other local arts institutions began to realize that ticket sales and donations would not be bouncing back as quickly as they had hoped. 
Janet T. Langsam, is the executive director of the Westchester Arts Council, an organization based in White Plains that redistributes grants from foundations and others to artists and acts as a lobbyist on behalf of the county's arts institutions and works to build a sense of community among them. Ms. Langsam said that though the arts are suffering, they are by no means alone. 
"It's no question that this has been an exceptionally difficult year," Ms. Langsam said. "But no one has singled out the arts. It's just a very stressful time all around, and we're all stretching our imaginations and resources to maintain funding." 
Dr. Lucinda H. Gedeon, director of the Neuberger Museum of Art in Purchase, said that the stock market and shrinking portfolios among the Neuberger's donor base have been far worse for fund-raising this spring than the aftershocks of the terror attacks, but pointed out that it is hard to separate the two. "Fear has increased, and in that way Sept. 11 has had a tremendous effect on the market and on people's giving," Dr. Gedeon said. "Giving has decreased markedly because portfolios have gone down, and people don't have that surplus anymore."
Dr. Gedeon said that more than half the Neuberger's yearly operating budget, about $3.5 million for 2002-2003, came from fund-raising, a figure that is not unusual among arts institutions in the county. 
This season, the Neuberger, in its brown brick fortresslike building on the Purchase College campus, is mounting some ambitious new exhibitions. An exhibit of African shields is already on view, and a show of Chuck Close prints is set to open in a few weeks. "We've seen a loss of interest on our endowment, and we haven't been getting gifts of appreciated stock like we used to," said Dr. Gedeon. "But individual giving has remained steady, and our memberships went up last year. People do seem to find solace in the arts during times of trial. And as a museum, we're cheap entertainment."
Though for some arts institutions all forms of giving have fallen, fund-raisers say, corporate giving has fallen most steeply. The organizations which relied most heavily on corporate donations have been the hardest hit. 
"There has been a downturn in philanthropic giving in the corporate sector," said Ilene Lieberman, the director of development for the Performing Arts Center of Purchase College. "Gifts are smaller this year." 
Though corporate giving has fallen sharply this year, it has been on the decline for some time. Susan Shine, director of development for Caramoor, said corporate giving has been falling for more than a decade. "It used to be, 10 or 15 years ago, that there was a sense of corporate responsibility to the neighborhood. These days, many of the major corporations prefer to support sports events. We're simply not big enough. 
"The need to be a good corporate neighbor, that has been declining," she said. "When you're talking about corporate sponsorships, then you're dealing with bang for the buck. Sports has been our largest competition for those types of gifts. I just can't deliver the same numbers as the U.S. Open." 
That corporate neighborhood is also in flux. In the last decade, Texaco, Clairol, Philip Morris and Kodak, all generous patrons of the arts, have left the county. 
"What has happened on the corporate side has been very difficult," Ms. Langsam said. "And then last year the New York State Council on the Arts cut its funding by 10 percent across the board. It's been very stressful, and it's been worst for the smaller, younger organizations, that don't have the long-term constituency to fall back on."
For their part, the major corporations that have stayed in Westchester say that their commitment to supporting area arts institutions is unchanged. Kendra Collins, a spokeswoman for I.B.M., said that the company gives an annual grant of $25,000 to the Westchester Arts Council and that this year it gave an additional grant of nearly $50,000 to the council to finance the council's new building, a former bank in White Plains built in the 1920's now known as the Arts Exchange, which has offices, galleries, studio and performance space for local artists. The council is in the process of raising $5 million to renovate the building and endow its programs. 
Richard Detwiler, a spokesman for PepsiCo, said that the company provides upward of $80,000 annually in support of the arts in Westchester, primarily through the Arts Council. "We also provide a great deal of support for the Music America festival at the Westchester Philharmonic," he said.
According to Susan Russ, a spokeswoman for Readers Digest, the Readers Digest Foundation provides an annual $5,000 grant to the Westchester Arts Council, and additional grants to organizations including the Hudson River Museum, and the Hudson Valley Writers Center. "The focus is on education, literacy programs, library services," she said. "We support the arts when there's a nice link there." 

Falling Subscriptions Hinder Season Plans
After a decline in contributed income -- outright gifts from individuals, corporations, the government or foundations -- most Westchester arts institutions cite falling subscriptions as their biggest worry for the coming season. 
Dan Montez, the general director of the Taconic Opera, based in Yorktown Heights, said that falling subscriptions have made it more difficult to plan the coming fall season. "When someone subscribes, that gives us money up front," he said. "It helps us decide how many singers we can hire, what quality of production we can put on. Single ticket sales usually come pouring in the week of the show, which makes budgeting and planning very difficult."
Ms. Carroll said that she and her colleagues at the Westchester Philharmonic, which performs in Purchase at the Performing Arts Center, have found that ticket sales are rarely enough to cover the loss of subscribers. "People always say they'll just buy individual tickets, but you never sell as many seats that way," she said. "If it rains, or they just don't feel like it, they won't come. When people subscribe to an organization, they feel that in some way they are a part of it. So when we lose subscribers, we are losing people who feel they have that sense of ownership in the philharmonic." 
The Westchester Philharmonic has seen a 9 percent drop in subscriptions between Labor Day 2001 and the present, Ms. Carroll said, to 1,408 subscribers from 1,590. The philharmonic's most popular subscription, which includes five shows, costs $200, she said. A single adult ticket in that same seating category costs $60. Corporate gifts to the Philharmonic have also dropped, from about $201,512 in 1999-2000 to $180,998 in 2001-2002. 

Teaching Children The Arts Closer to Home
Although subscribers are dwindling, many county arts institutions report a surge of interest in their education programs -- which also seems to be related to the terror attacks.
"We've seen tremendous growth in our school program, which we attribute to Sept. 11," Dr. Gedeon said. "Parents prefer to keep their children closer to home. The schools are not taking as many big bus trips into the city." 
Mary Hastings, the director of education initiatives for the Westchester Philharmonic, said that increased interest in the philharmonic's schools program, "Mozart and Me," has been a mixed blessing. 
"We have seen an increase in the number of schools that have expressed interest in our educational programs," Ms. Hastings said. Yet at the same time, she said, they have lost a large chunk of funding for education programs.
Ms. Hastings said that this decline, which is almost entirely due to a drop in corporate donations, means a diminished ability to help finance classical music programs for poor schools. "I haven't started doling out the funding for this school year, but in another three weeks I'll be clutching my chest," she said. "My biggest worry is the Yonkers school district. The buses alone represent an incredible hardship for a poor school, and we are used to fully scholarshipping all our Yonkers schools. It's going to be very hard to tell them that we can't do that this year." 

Belt Tightening And Seeking New Avenues
As they prepare for the fall season, the managers and development directors of Westchester's arts organizations have been asking themselves why one of the wealthiest counties in America is struggling so hard to pay for its love of the arts. Did the boom years of the 1980's and 90's give rise to more arts organizations than Westchester can comfortably support in the long run? If not, then how can struggling arts groups cut operating expenses and through what new avenues should they seek financing? 
For now, the managers of Westchester arts institutions say, they are tightening their belts and hoping the money drought ends very soon. 
"We're looking very closely at our exhibitions," Dr. Gedeon said. "We're planning fewer new exhibitions, and lengthening the time that exhibitions are up. Were looking at every line item in the budget, being creative in terms of doing with less." 
Mr. Raymond of the Emelin, which is celebrating its 30th anniversary this year, said that the theater has cut back on its operating expenses.
"We're not going to be bringing in as many of the big companies with the big fees," he said. 
"We try to get people in the tri-state area -- that's one way we've been able to keep our cost down. One thing we're doing this year is a collaboration with the Schoolhouse Theater in Croton. They had a wonderful production of 'National Anthems,' by Dennis McIntyre. It won't be as expensive as if we had to mount it from beginning to end."
This year, the Taconic Opera, which is celebrating its fifth anniversary, has hired professional fund-raisers for the first time, to improve direct-mail contacts. "They're more aware of where the wealth is in Westchester," said Mr. Montez. The opera is holding a gala on Oct. 3 and is staging a new performance of "Rigoletto" under Mr. Montez's direction.
Westchester's arts institutions are also taking more aggressive steps to attract new, and younger, audiences. This year, the Westchester Philharmonic has introduced both a new family pricing system, offering $5 tickets for children under 16, and a new subscription program for young adults (five concerts for $20). Both programs, Ms. Carroll said, are growing slowly: "Price is not the only problem in attracting young people to the fine arts," she pointed out.
The Performing Arts Center, which is celebrating its 25th anniversary this season, reports success with its innovative program of smaller, more specialized subscriptions. The center offers about 14 different subscription series, which range from international classical music to a Motown series this year. "One year we did a folk series, and another year we did a 70's rock series," said Ms. Lieberman. "Ticket sales have been strong, and we attribute that to the varied program."
Stephen Apkon, the executive director of the year-old Jacob Burns Film Center in Pleasantville, said that, recession notwithstanding, the Burns Center has been much more successful than anticipated. He attributed the success in part to the center's diverse offerings, which attract audiences of all ages. 
Denise Bessette, a producer for the four-year-old Hudson Stage Company in Croton-on-Hudson, said that in spite of financial worries, the company is proceeding with its plans to produce a new musical, "True Home," starring Cass Morgan and written by Ms. Morgan and a group of her songwriter friends. 
"We're going ahead with our fall production even though we're severely undercapitalized," Ms. Bessette said. "Our biggest challenge right now is finding the money. I'm sure there's money out there with private sources -- we just have to discover each other." 
Ms. Shine of Caramoor agreed. "I continue to believe that the audiences and the donors are out there," she said. "Most of us in the classical music world live on a very close budget. You can't be a fund-raiser without being optimistic." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Emelin Theater on Library Lane in Mamaroneck, which is celebrating its 30th anniversary this year. With fund-raising efforts not bringing in as much money, the theater has cut back on its operating expenses.; Construction under way at the Performing Arts Center of Purchase College, where its director of development reports that individual giving has remained steady but that corporate gifts have declined and are smaller. The center, which is celebrating its 25th anniversary this season, has found success in offering smaller, more specialized subscriptions. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times); John Raymond, of the Emelin, says this has been a terrible year for fund-raising. Ilene Lieberman, left, of the Performing Arts Center at Purchase College, says sports has been the largest competition for corporate sponsorships. Dr. LucindaH. Gedeon, of the Neuberger Museum of Art, who says giving decreased as portfolios went down, leaving people without a surplus. (pg. 8); Paul Lustig Dunkel, of the Westchester Philharmonic, which has lost subscribers and donations. The Neuberger Museum of Art in Purchase, top. (Hiroyuki Ito); (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); THEATER (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CORPORATE GIVING (73%); TERRORISM (72%) CULTURE; TERRORISM; PHILANTHROPY 

PERSON: ZOEPF, KATHERINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 

 
