

1 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; BOXING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: For Fame and Fortune, Boxing Hopefuls Seal Their Lips and Sign Their Lives Away

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Boxing is a sport in perpetual chaos and decline, with sanctioning organizations and their multiple champions, calculating promoters, no transcendent stars or presence on broadcast television, and the whiff of corruption.
 Rather than repel him, those conditions appealed so much to Mark Burnett, the immensely successful producer of ''Survivor'' and ''The Apprentice,'' that his next reality television series, ''The Contender'' on NBC, will feature 16 boxers living and training together in Southern California in pursuit of a $1 million prize. 
 Sylvester Stallone is the host, and he and Sugar Ray Leonard are the boxers' mentors. George Foreman and other celebrities are scheduled to appear on the series, for which NBC is paying $2 million an episode. It is to launch in January. 
 But the series is in one fundamental way different from those that Burnett has set on a secluded island or in Donald Trump's Manhattan boardroom with Type A people drawn from a variety of backgrounds who are voted off their islands or fired.
 This time -- as with Oscar De La Hoya's ''The Next Great Champ,'' which survived four episodes of low ratings on Fox before moving to cable -- Burnett has chosen an industry that is regulated by state athletic commissions and federal boxing law.
 By doing so, he has set up a clash between the secrecy needed to protect the results of a taped reality series and the wide-open world of boxers fighting in front of a paying crowds that did not have to sign nondisclosure forms (as those who attended ''Contender'' matches did).
 Reality television is governed by internal rules that foster competition, jealousy, pressure, hatred, love, adventure and drama. The result, in past series, has been to create a winner who is wilier, stronger, more daring, more attractive, more gullible.
 The boxers in ''The Contender'' had to sign a 28-page participant contract, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times. The contract outlined the restrictions they would live under, the extent to which the they would sign their life stories away and the penalties they would incur for disclosing what happened in their hermetically sealed world. The rules add up to a voluntary surrender of some of their civil rights, a characterization that Burnett did not dispute. 
 They have been required to:
 $(6$) Permit, with no legal recourse, the program to portray them by using potentially ''personal, private, surprising, defamatory, disparaging, embarrassing or unfavorable'' information.
 $(6$) Allow concealed cameras to follow them in ways that would ''in other circumstances be considered a serious invasion of my privacy.''
 $(6$) Agree to let the producers ''make certain misrepresentations to me and others'' about themselves, their rivals and the prize purses.
 $(6$) Pay a $5 million breach-of-contract penalty if they disclose anything about the series, without authorization by the producers, until after the final episode is broadcast. A $500,000 fine is suggested for those who speak without permission afterward.
 $(6$) Earn, at times, ''food, food money and/or catering'' at the producers' discretion. At other times, the boxers were told, they would get a ''reasonable supply'' of food.
 The clauses, first reported by Thomas Hauser on the Web site secondsout.com, are common to reality television -- one, for ''The Contender,'' regulates sexual activity among the boxers as if they were choosing a fiancee on ''The Bachelor.''
 Speaking on the condition of anonymity, one producer of the show said the most draconian rules were designed to frighten participants into compliance and that it was unlikely a boxer would be sued for $5 million.
 Burnett plans to promote the boxers beyond the program, and he has received licenses from California and Nevada. So has Brian Edwards, a lawyer for DreamWorks SKG, the co-producer of the series.
 ''Boxing is broken, no doubt about it,'' Burnett said by telephone last week. ''But if I'm right, and based on my other unscripted dramas, I can take 16 young men, and each of them will leave the contest way ahead of where they came in, in terms of their value to themselves and to us. We know that marketing is the key to their economic success.''
 Despite the wall of silence, some results have leaked, and many of the boxers' names are known: Sergio Mora (who has a 12-0 record), Peter Manfredo Jr. (21-0), Jesse Lee Brinkley (23-1-0) and Ishe Smith (14-0).
 Mark L. Tuft, a lawyer in San Francisco who specializes in the media, said there was no problem in a person agreeing to waive what would be grounds for defamation or invasion-of-privacy claims. ''But what are the outer reaches of this?'' he said. ''I suppose there is a line beyond which it becomes unconscionable.''
 Burnett defended his practices and suggested that if some of his famous alumni, like Richard Hatch of ''Survivor'' and Omarosa Manigault-Stallworth of ''The Apprentice,'' were willing to suspend their civil rights for money and fame, so should the boxers. He said that the boxers had representatives read the contracts with oversight by the California State Athletic Commission.
 ''You can't value the boxers' rights over Richard's or Omarosa's,'' Burnett said. ''Based on the state of boxing, and the value of these men, all of whom came in disenfranchised, pushed aside and lied to, we've kept our word and gave them a fair chance.''
 The boxers were unavailable for comment.
 The California commission has no purview over the participant deals and did not examine them, said Dean Lohuis, the interim executive officer of the agency. ''Our job is to look out for the safety of the fighters and to be sure they were ready,'' he said, adding that the commission kept strict oversight of the bouts.
 The agreement by the boxers to abide by reality TV rules that do not exist in their normal lives would be useless to Burnett if viewers knew the results of the bouts, which have been taped, except for the final; it will be carried live in April from Caesars Palace in Las Vegas.
 To shield the results from public view, Burnett persuaded the California State Athletic Commission to waive -- to some critics, violate -- a federal boxing reform law that requires results to be reported to three boxing registries within 48 hours. The purpose of the provision is to protect boxers from being injured in a bout that has not been reported, then taking another match in a state that was unaware of his condition.
 To counteract the effect of the waiver, the boxers signed contracts that required them to suspend themselves until the final episode is shown. That means that some fighters will be prevented from taking any other fights for at least seven months, or possibly longer. Burnett is paying them ''holding fees'' through April, to make up for any lost income. ''They're not losing much compared with what they were paid in the past,'' he said. 
 Originally, episodes were to start this month, but they were delayed to distance them from the failure of De La Hoya's series.
 Burnett said it was purely ''common sense'' that results be held back, especially if the boxers' safety was not compromised. ''We're not going against the intent of the law,'' he said. ''Why does somebody want to know? Does the existing way of knowing things make it right? No.''
 Chris Mears, chairman of the commission, said that not waiving the reporting rule would have been a ''triumph of bureaucracy over reason.''
 ''We don't need to run to the federal government every time we're confronted with an interpretation of rules,'' he said.
 Sen. John S. McCain, Republican of Arizona, who co-sponsored the boxing reform law, was unavailable for comment. He met with Burnett several months ago, but he has not said anything publicly about the program.
 But Tim Leuckenhoff, president of the Association of Boxing Commissions, which certifies one results registry, Fight Fax, wrote in an e-mail message that his organization did not approve of the California commission's decision to violate the law.
 Patrick English, a boxing lawyer who helped draft the federal law, said, ''Local commissions cannot decide what portion of the act they obey and don't obey.'' He added, ''It's pretty clear that California bent itself into a pretzel to accommodate 'The Contender.'''
 New York State would not have been host to ''The Contender'' if it meant waiving the reporting requirement, said Ron Scott Stevens, the executive director of the New York State Athletic Commission. ''I'd be taking the law into my own hands,'' he said.
 Stevens said there were other provisions in the promotional contract the boxers signed that he would have challenged, such as how training expenses are paid and how Burnett's group can unilaterally assign a boxer's contract to anyone else, but the fighter cannot do the same.
 ''Contender'' boxers also had to waive their rights to appeal the results of any prechampionship bout to the California commission.
 Hauser, a respected boxing writer and a former consultant to the show, said the convergence of the reality and promotional contracts offered the possibility of abuse. ''The people on 'The Contender' may be completely well intentioned and treat the fighters fairly,'' he said. ''But it's not like putting a truck driver on a desert island. This is these boxers' livelihoods. They should be treated with dignity.''
 That's precisely what Burnett insists he is doing as he grafts his reality paradigm onto a sport that he says he wants to reclaim.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 4, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A sports article on Monday about a new television series, ''The Contender,'' which will depict 16 boxers living and training together in Southern California in pursuit of a $1 million prize, misstated the title of Ron Scott Stevens, who commented on the circumstances under which New York State would have been willing to be host to the series. He is chairman of the New York State Athletic Commission, not executive director.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The producer Mark Burnett, left, is collaborating with Sylvester Stallone on a reality television show about boxing. ''The Contender,'' which will be on NBC this winter, will give 16 boxers a shot at a $1 million prize. (Photo by Vince Bucci/Getty Images)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); BOXING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%) Boxing; Television; Television; Law and Legislation; States (US); Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA HOYA (59%); DONALD TRUMP (56%) Richard Sandomir; Mark Burnett

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



2 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: Have Supercomputer, Will Travel

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
Add Steve Chen to the growing list of America's high-technology exports. 
 Mr. Chen, a Taiwanese-born American citizen who was considered one of the nation's most brilliant supercomputer designers while working in this country for the technology pioneer Seymour Cray in the 1980's, has moved to China -- where he is leading an effort to claim the world computing speed record. 
 Supercomputing is being seized upon by the Chinese government to help speed the nation's transition from low-cost manufacturing to becoming a more powerful force in the world economy. China's leaders know that high-speed computing is essential to global leadership in scientific fields and advanced design of a variety of sophisticated products. 
 ''Right now the Chinese have started to pay attention; they are catching up and they learn fast,'' said Mr. Chen, 60, who is splitting his time between China and San Jose, Calif., where his wife, Kate, and their four children live.
 Military intelligence experts in this country have long been concerned that supercomputing capabilities may aid China's weapons development. But many technologists and economists say that blazing computing speeds alone do not represent a particularly new nuclear weapons threat. Instead, they are more concerned that the Chinese may catch up more quickly with the United States in areas that have economic and scientific, rather than military, ramifications. 
 Mr. Chen's decision to set up shop in China was driven in part by an unexpected twist: the opportunity to build a new company looked more promising to him there than in the United States, where he was unable to secure financing from American venture capitalists for his latest ideas. Mr. Chen concluded that the fallout from the collapse of the Internet bubble had poisoned the investment climate.
 ''I saw the crazy stuff going on,'' he said recently in a telephone interview from Shenzhen, near Hong Kong. ''A lot of people got hurt.''
 While Mr. Chen is not a native of mainland China, his decision has parallels to an increasingly common odyssey by foreign-born researchers, who once would have found the greatest openings to use their skills in the United States. As the spread of capitalism creates opportunities elsewhere, many such talented people are returning to China, India and other developing countries to create or join advanced technology firms. 
 In May, Mr. Chen joined Galactic Computing Shenzhen, which is backed by investment money from a Hong Kong company that supported an earlier Chen venture and with further backing from a group of Chinese universities. His move reflects the fact that the market for high-performance computing is growing more rapidly in China than elsewhere in the world.
 The Chinese are not yet a major force in supercomputing, but according to American computing experts, that is changing rapidly.
 Today there are 14 Chinese supercomputers among the top 500, ranking the country fourth in the world, equal to Germany and behind only the United States, Japan and Britain. In June, a supercomputer assembled at the Shanghai Supercomputer Center using more than 2,500 chips designed and manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale, Calif., became the world's 10th-fastest computer.
 ''In terms of momentum they are the most rapidly ascending country in the world,'' said David Keyes, a professor of applied mathematics at Columbia University, who visited China last month to participate in a conference on high-performance computing.
 Galactic recently demonstrated a prototype of Mr. Chen's newest supercomputer at a biomedical research institute in Beijing. The machine, he said, is capable of one trillion calculations a second, a performance level that would place it among the top half of the world's 500 fastest computers. 
 Such computing now occupies a central role throughout the global economy, providing stark proof that decades-long American attempts to control the flow of advanced information-processing technologies are largely moot. It is only a matter of time, experts say, before companies in places like China, India and Russia essentially match the capabilities of the American and Japanese leaders.
 ''When they really get noticed,'' said Horst D. Simon, director of the computation center at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California, ''will be when a country like Malaysia or Australia decides to buy a supercomputer from a Chinese company like Mr. Chen's rather than from I.B.M.''
 Now that computer chips openly available anywhere in the world have reached such high speeds, the expertise needed to build supercomputers has shifted to the software needed to hook hundreds or thousands of processors together. Mr. Chen has long been recognized as one of the world's pioneers in that specialty.
 He arrived in the United States from Taiwan in 1975, at age 31, to pursue graduate studies in computer science. During the 1980's, Mr. Chen was widely considered one the leading computer designers in the United States.
 As a computer architect at Cray Research from 1979 to 1987, he gained a reputation for machines that were both elegant and blindingly fast. He also became known as a visionary who frequently needed assistance in finishing overambitious projects.
 ''He's very charismatic,'' said David J. Kuck, a computer scientist and Intel researcher, who was Mr. Chen's professor in a Ph.D. program at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in the 1970's. ''His English wasn't the greatest, but everyone understood what he wanted to do.''
 As a graduate student, Mr. Chen designed one of the first software programs known as a parallel compiler, which was useful in restructuring programs so they could run on computers with multiple processors. That pioneering work became the basis for much of today's commercial parallel computing software. 
 At Cray Research, Mr. Chen had an intense rivalry with Mr. Cray, who was leading a team that pursued a competing design. Ultimately, Cray's chief executive, John Rollwagen, canceled one of Mr. Chen's computer projects. Soon afterward, in September 1987, Mr. Chen established his own supercomputing company, Supercomputing Systems, with backing from International Business Machines.
 That effort led to a partially completed prototype, but the company failed commercially in 1992 when I.B.M. canceled funding. Because the Cold War was ending, military funding for high-performance computing slowed dramatically. Later, Mr. Chen became the chief technology officer of Sequent Computer Systems, which was later acquired by I.B.M.
 Mr. Chen's decision to try his luck in China as an entrepreneur stands in contrast to an earlier example of technology transfer from the United States to China. During the 1950's Tsien Hsue-shen, a leading aerospace designer with a Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology, was deported from the United States as a presumed security threat during the Communist witch hunts of the McCarthy era. After returning to China, he became the father of the country's intercontinental missile program.
 During the Clinton administration, Washington attempted to control the flow of high-performance computers to China because of fears they could be used to design nuclear weapons. That policy, with modifications, has continued. Indeed, just this month, State Department officials renewed calls for maintaining the arms sales embargo against China, which extends to restrictions on the fastest computers.
 But with the new type of supercomputer -- which blends thousands of freely available off-the-shelf microprocessors connected via high-speed fiber-optic cables that can stretch for hundreds of miles -- restrictions on the sale of so-called dual-use computers that have both military and civilian applications no longer stand in the way of developing systems able to compete with the fastest machines made by American and Japanese companies.
 American supercomputer experts said that Mr. Chen's move to China could have a major impact, similar to the shock felt among government technology insiders in 2002 when Japan developed the Earth Simulator, currently the world's fastest supercomputer.
 ''There is no stronger form of technology transfer than to have a world-class expert go off with all his knowledge,'' said Seymour Goodman, a physicist at the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta.
 Mr. Chen was an eager convert to American ways after he moved to the United States from Taiwan, even bringing members of his extended family to Eau Claire, Wis., where he established a stylish Chinese restaurant.
 Mr. Chen said he still viewed himself primarily as a scientist dedicated to contributing to supercomputer design in ways that would benefit not just China but the United States and the rest of the world, too. He said he intended to pursue that goal with whoever offered him the greatest help.
 That reflects long-held views, which he expressed in an interview with The New York Times in the early 1990's.
 ''I come from a very humble family and Confucian teachings are in my background,'' he said then. ''When I came to the United States and I observed this disciplined, businesslike, practical manner, I found a marriage of the two cultures. I also saw the bad points of each.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Chen, a pioneer in superfast computing, said he had difficulty finding venture-capital funding after the Internet bubble burst. (Photo by Natalie Behring for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPERCOMPUTERS (91%); VENTURE CAPITAL (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); INTERVIEWS (62%) Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information; Finances; Research; Supercomputers; Venture Capital ; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: Galactic Computing Shenzhen

PERSON: Steve Chen; John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); TAIWAN (92%); HONG KONG (92%); INDIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



3 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Student's Death Returns Crowd Control to the Fore

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 31 

 BODY:
The death of a 21-year-old college student outside Fenway Park on Oct. 21, the night the Red Sox beat the Yankees for the American League pennant, is only the latest reminder that crowd control has re-emerged as one of the toughest challenges for the police nationwide.
 ''I've known some police chiefs who now hope their hometown team doesn't win because controlling a big crowd can be so difficult,'' said Chuck Wexler, the executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, an organization of police chiefs meant to promote smarter law enforcement.
 The problem of crowd control had largely disappeared decades ago, said Mr. Wexler and several big-city police chiefs. That changed with the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle in 1999, when 35,000 protesters were drawn to the talks and the police sprayed tear gas and rubber pellets at many demonstrators. 
 ''The W.T.O. demonstrations were a real groundbreaker; it really woke up the police,'' said Seattle's current police chief, Gil Kerlikowske. 
 Dealing with crowds has forced the police to search for new and effective ways to maintain order. 
 ''Dealing with these kinds of crowds, particularly if people have been drinking, is such a no-win situation,'' Mr. Wexler said. ''It is very difficult for police chiefs to manage the competing priorities in these situations, allowing people to exercise their First Amendment rights while protecting public safety.'' 
 He added: ''Police chiefs know they can control 99 percent of a demonstration, but if one officer does anything wrong, they will be held accountable. Crowd control is a real drain on resources, and there is always the threat of litigation.'' 
 Since the 1992 riots in Los Angeles after the acquittal of four officers in the videotaped beating of the motorist Rodney King, the police have come to realize that the constant presence of video cameras means whatever they do may be captured on tape and broadcast.
 A result is that many police forces now devote much more time to planning and training for demonstrations, and have invested heavily in what are termed less-than-lethal weapons.
 It was one of these new weapons, a FN Herstal pepper-spray pellet gun, that killed the Emerson College student in Boston after the pennant-clinching game, the police here have said. The student, Victoria Snelgrove of East Bridgewater, was hit in the eye by the pellet, which was supposed to break up on impact and release a small cloud of disabling gas.
 It is not supposed to be aimed above chest level, according to warnings from the manufacturer. 
 Two young celebrators on Lansdowne Street at Fenway Park also suffered injuries that evening, with one cut above the lip by a pellet and another with pellet fragments that penetrated his skull.
 Kathleen O'Toole, Boston's police commissioner, has appointed an independent commission, headed by a former United States attorney here, Donald Stern, to investigate. 
 Several other cities also have the FN Herstal pellet-spray guns but have not used them.
 Seattle is among them, and Chief Kerlikowske dispatched a team of senior officers as observers over the past year to cities where demonstrations were expected, including Boston during the Democratic National Convention in July, New York during the Republican National Convention in August and September and Savannah, Ga., in June during a meeting of the Group of 8 leaders. 
 ''By far the best tool is having a large number of officers you can deploy,'' Chief Kerlikowske said. He has used officers on bicycles to move ahead of demonstrators or to form blocking cordons. 
 ''Especially with sports demonstrations, I just don't see effective weapons except for a large number of officers,'' he said. 
 The Seattle police are equipped with Taser stun guns that fire an electric shock. But Chief Kerlikowske said they would not be useful in dealing with large numbers of demonstrators packed tightly together or hiding behind one another. 
 Tasers are more effective in dealing with people suffering from mental illness who are threatening an officer, so the officer does not have to fire his gun, he said. 
 The trouble is that except for New York, no city has the deep reserves of police officers needed for crowd-control duty, said John F. Timoney, Miami's police chief, who was formerly the police commissioner in Philadelphia and before that first deputy commissioner in New York.
 While New York has 36,000 police officers, Chief Timoney said, Boston has only about 2,200 and Miami only 1,100. 
 At the Democratic National Convention in Manhattan in 1992, Chief Timoney said, he was able to put 4,000 officers at the scene to prevent violence.
 Mr. Timoney got his own taste of dealing with demonstrators in Miami last November during a meeting of the Free Trade Association of the Americas. 
 The demonstrators, some of whom had protested at the World Trade Organization in Seattle, started hurling bottles and setting fire to cars on the fourth day of the event, Mr. Timoney said.
 ''We then made a decisive move on them, clearing them back six or eight blocks,'' he said. But when his officers fired pepper balls, a less high-powered version of the weapon used in Boston, ''It was clear they were not working.''
 ''After it was over, I didn't understand why these things didn't work, so I went out in a parking lot and let myself be shot by a pepper ball,'' Mr. Timoney said.
 ''I felt a stinging in my chest,'' he said. ''It hurt. But as far as releasing pepper spray, I didn't smell anything. So I decided the weapon was a waste of time.''
 The Miami police are now trying out another technology, a liquefied form of pepper spray that can be fired at demonstrators up to 20 feet away like a squirt gun, Mr. Timoney said.
 In Boston on Saturday for the celebratory parade after the Red Sox won the World Series, the police were more successful in dealing with excited baseball fans than they were after the pennant victory. This time, they deployed a huge number of officers as the Red Sox paraded through the city. 
 The crowd, estimated by the city at 3.2 million people, was the largest ever in Boston, according to Mayor Thomas M. Menino. Only 20 people were arrested for disorderly conduct or public drunkenness, the police said.
 Twenty people were also taken to hospitals with minor injuries.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The police found themselves in a standoff with a celebrator last Wednesday in Boston after the Red Sox won the World Series. (Photo by Daniel Bersak/Associated Press)
 Victoria Snelgrove died after a police pellet hit her in Boston. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); POLICE FORCES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); RIOTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); SPORTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); LITIGATION (63%); TOURNAMENTS (60%) Demonstrations and Riots; Freedom and Human Rights; Fenway Park (Boston); Playoff Games; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); POLICE EXECUTIVE RESEARCH FORUM (83%); POLICE FOUNDATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%) Boston Red Sox; New York Yankees; Police Executive Research Forum

PERSON: Fox Butterfield; victoria snelgrove; Chuck Wexler

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



4 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1886 words

HEADLINE: States Are Battling Against Wal-Mart Over Health Care

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
In the national debate over what to do about the growing number of working people with little or no health insurance, no other company may be taking more heat than the country's largest employer, Wal-Mart Stores.
 The company, despite its popularity with consumers, has grown accustomed to being accused of crushing Main Street merchants with its sprawling stores and low prices and of driving down wages for workers across the retail industry. And more than a million former and current female Wal-Mart employees are part of a sex discrimination lawsuit that the company is fighting.
 Now, Wal-Mart finds itself under attack for what critics see as its miserly approach to employee health care, which they say is forcing too many of its workers and their families into state insurance programs or making them rely on charity care by hospitals. 
 Wal-Mart vigorously defends its health care policies, saying it offers affordable coverage for all employees. 
 The company says it has no way of knowing how many of its employees, whom it calls associates, or their families are insured under state programs. The larger issue of whether companies can and should absorb the soaring cost of health care is a national issue, said Susan Chambers, the executive vice president who oversees benefits at Wal-Mart. ''You can't solve it for the 1.2 million associates if you can't solve it for the country.''
 A survey by Georgia officials found that more than 10,000 children of Wal-Mart employees were in the state's health program for children at an annual cost of nearly $10 million to taxpayers. A North Carolina hospital found that 31 percent of 1,900 patients who described themselves as Wal-Mart employees were on Medicaid, while an additional 16 percent had no insurance at all. 
 And backers of a measure that will be on California's ballot tomorrow, which would force big employers like Wal-Mart to either provide affordable health insurance to their workers or pay into a state insurance pool, say Wal-Mart employees without company insurance are costing California's state health care programs an estimated $32 million a year.
 Meanwhile, in Washington State, where the insurance commissioner is pushing the legislature to adopt a law similar to the one on the California ballot, companies that struggle to compete with Wal-Mart while insuring most of their own workers have become openly critical. 
 ''Socially, we're engaged in a race to the bottom,'' said Craig Cole, the chief executive of Brown & Cole Stores, a supermarket chain that employs about 2,000 workers in Washington and adjoining states and pays for insurance coverage for about 95 percent of its employees. ''Do we want to allow competition based on exploitation of the work force?'' he asked.
 Wal-Mart, which disputes the California figures and says it cannot verify the Georgia and North Carolina data, says its employees are largely insured. It cites internal surveys indicating that 90 percent of its employees have insurance -- many through means other than Wal-Mart's coverage because they are senior citizens on Medicare, students covered by their parents' policies or employees with second jobs or working spouses. 
 ''We are doing everything we can to take care of our associates and not shift costs,'' Ms. Chambers said.
 The company has gone on its own offensive, saying last week that it was spending $500,000 to defeat the California measure, Proposition 72. The measure is opposed by many other businesses, particularly restaurants and retailers, and by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who asserts that it would impede the state's economic recovery and lead to a loss of jobs. 
 Wal-Mart has also been running a television ad nationally that features a Wal-Mart worker whose company health insurance covered his toddler son's treatments for life-threatening liver disease. ''Without Wal-Mart,'' the father says, ''I don't know that he would have made it.'' 
 But critics say the reality for too many Wal-Mart workers and their families is no insurance -- either because they are unable to meet the company's eligibility requirements or because they cannot afford monthly premiums as high as $264 a month for family coverage on an $8-an-hour cashier's wage. Wal-Mart says its employees make $10 an hour on average. 
 Countering Wal-Mart's television ad, a California group supporting Proposition 72 has begun publicizing the case of a former Wal-Mart employee, Marco Guillen, who says he twice missed the company's annual enrollment deadline for health insurance. The first time, he said, was because he was confused about his eligibility. The second time, he said, was because he was in a coma after being in a car accident. His medical bills were about $1 million, he said, and were paid by the state's Medi-Cal version of Medicaid. 
 Wal-Mart declined to discuss the specifics of the case, saying that doing so would violate Mr. Guillen's rights under the federal laws governing patient privacy. 
 The company says it spent about $1.3 billion of its $256 billion in revenue last year on employee health care to insure about 537,000 people, or about 45 percent of its work force. Wal-Mart says that 23 percent of its employees are not eligible for coverage, but that it covers 58 percent of those who are.
 That compares with an insured rate of 96 percent of eligible full-time or part-time employees of Costco Wholesale, the discount retailer that is Wal-Mart's closest competitor nationwide. Costco employees -- most of whom are not represented by a union -- become eligible for health insurance after three months working full time, or six months part time. 
 At Wal-Mart, which has no union employees, many who work full time must wait six months to become eligible. Part-time workers are not eligible for at least two years. Because of turnover, some employees never work long enough to become eligible.
 If there is any place where Wal-Mart's labor costs find support, it is Wall Street, where Costco has taken a drubbing from analysts who say its labor costs are too high. Costco's pretax profit margin is only 2.7 percent of revenue, less than half Wal-Mart's margin of 5.5 percent.
 Wal-Mart now asks employees to pay 33 percent of the company's cost of providing insurance, but says it plans to reduce that to 30 percent. So far, Costco has resisted pressure to increase employees' share of health care premiums beyond a planned target of 8 percent in 2007, reasoning that too many of their workers would be forced to drop coverage. 
 ''From the very beginning of time, the founders here felt you have to pay a living wage and provide benefits,'' said Richard Galanti, the chief financial officer of Costco, which is based in Issaquah, Wash.
 Wal-Mart finds itself up against a national tradition of providing health insurance to workers that took root during World War II, when wages were frozen and many companies offered health benefits in lieu of higher pay. After the war, unions at many big manufacturers also demanded generous benefits, and workers of all stripes throughout corporate America came to expect health insurance as a right of employment. 
 But in recent years, as global competition has become more intense, as organized labor has lost some of its clout and as medical costs have spiraled upward, employers have become increasingly unwilling to shoulder the cost of coverage. In 1987, only a quarter of the people working for large companies did not have insurance. By 2001, that figure had increased to about a third, according to a recent study by the Commonwealth Fund, a New York nonprofit group dedicated to health care research. Industry experts assume the percentage of working uninsured has continued to grow. 
 Other data indicate that of the 45 million people without health insurance in this country, nearly 70 percent are working full time or are the dependents of full-time workers.
 Wal-Mart's rise to become the nation's biggest employer and largest retailer also speaks to a larger shift in the economy in the last generation, as a growing proportion of jobs shifted to service industries. Wal-Mart has succeeded because tens of millions of shoppers around the country flock to its stores for its sharply discounted prices. That business model, which is being widely imitated, depends on low-cost labor. 
 But government officials in various states, as well as some other employers, say Wal-Mart should nevertheless share more of the financial burden of its workers' health care. 
 ''The Wal-Mart executives chose to remove the responsibility from themselves,'' said Mike Kreidler, the insurance commissioner for Washington State, who is pushing for a law requiring employers to provide insurance coverage either directly or indirectly. 
 Although Wal-Mart officials flatly deny it, some Wal-Mart employees say they are encouraged to turn to public health care assistance. When Wal-Mart hired Samantha Caizza, a single mother of three, as a cashier at its Chehalis, Wash., store last November, she says she was told by a personnel manager ''to get ahold of the state'' for coverage for her children. 
 Unlike many Wal-Mart workers, Ms. Caizza was willing to talk to a reporter about her experience because she was fired in June -- for reasons she said had to do with union organizing activities. Wal-Mart said it could not comment on her case. 
 The company hands out instructions to its employees to help them to apply to social service agencies, which Wal-Mart says is simply part of the service they provide employees who need to have their income verified for any number of reasons. 
 Many employees say they simply cannot afford the health plans being offered. Ms. Caizza, for example, worked about 32 hours a week, making $8 an hour. Full-time employees make about $1,200 a month on those wages, meaning the $133 to $264 they are asked to pay for family coverage may not be within their reach. And even the cheapest plans come with a hefty out-of-pocket price for employees, where they may be on the hook for as much as $13,000 in medical costs for their families. 
 ''While I was working there, I couldn't afford it for my children,'' said Beverly Winston, another former employee, who says she turned to state-subsidized coverage for her children while working at Wal-Mart in Renton, Wash., in the late 1990's. Ms. Winston is among the group of women around the nation now suing the company for sex discrimination. 
 ''We work very hard for that to be affordable,'' said Ms. Chambers, the Wal-Mart executive, who said she thought the prices for the least expensive plans were ''a very reasonable opening-price point.''
 With the number of uninsured people in Washington climbing -- now slightly more than a half-million people, or 9.4 percent of the population by one estimate -- the state is grappling with the rising costs of caring for them. ''The problem is getting much worse,'' said Mr. Kreidler, who says the cost of caring for the uninsured in Washington now approaches $400 million a year. 
 Asking the hospitals to keep paying the rising cost of the uninsured is not a solution, Mr. Kreidler said. 
 But Wal-Mart says it is not reasonable to ask companies like it to solve the problems of the uninsured and the escalating cost of medical care. It needs to be ''part of a national debate,'' Ms. Chambers said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Samantha Caizza, with children Izabella McLane, left, and Ilizah McLane, said that when Wal-Mart hired her at its Chehalis, Wash., store, it told her to contact the state for health coverage for her children.
 A television commercial that Wal-Mart Stores has been running nationally portrays an employee whose company health insurance covered his toddler son's treatments for life-threatening liver disease. (Photo by Peter Yates for The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); FAMILY (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); HOSPITALS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LITIGATION (70%); CHARITIES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (64%) Retail Stores and Trade; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor; Fringe Benefits; Retail Stores and Trade; Medicine and Health; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Costco Wholesale (Co)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%)

PERSON: Reed Abelson; Susan Chambers

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California; Georgia; Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



5 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; MediaTalk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Legal Affairs, a Magazine of Ideas, Severs Its Ties to Yale Law School

BYLINE: By NAT IVES

 BODY:
In the brutal business of magazine publishing, the most successful recent entries have been shopping guides from powerhouses like Conde Nast Publications. 
 Then there is Legal Affairs, a two-year-old magazine of law and ideas that was born and nurtured at Yale Law School. Even though the magazine has no claim to financial success, Legal Affair's staff has decided to shed its Yale ties and go it alone. 
 The January/February issue will be the first to appear without the label, ''A magazine of Yale Law School.'' Yale's money probably will not end, but it is expected to flow more slowly and perhaps less predictably.
 ''The idea was there would be a period of a couple years when the magazine would operate under the protective umbrella of the institution,'' said Seth P. Waxman, a former solicitor general of the United States and a faculty member at the Georgetown University Law Center, who was recently elected chairman of the magazine's board. 
 ''The notion always was that the intellectual space and the social space this magazine was intended to fill was not the private province of Yale Law School,'' he added.
 Lincoln Caplan, editor and president at Legal Affairs, says he sees several advantages in stripping Yale from the masthead. 
 One is the possibility of attracting a second look from potential readers who feel no affinity with Yale. Another is that advertisers, sponsors and foundations may be more willing to consider supporting a magazine that is no longer cashing checks from Yale, he said. 
 ''Without the support of Yale and other funders, the magazine wouldn't exist,'' Mr. Caplan said, adding that the magazine is on track to become self-sustaining by 2007. Circulation has grown to around 21,000 and traffic to the Web site is growing, Mr. Caplan said, citing the Legal Affairs blog, called How Appealing. 
 And even though no one would describe the magazine as part of the mass media, it has gained recognition for quality: The Chicago Tribune named Legal Affairs one of the 50 best magazines in the country, putting it on an eclectic list that also included The Economist, Wired and WoodenBoat.
 Mr. Waxman, the magazine's board chairman, said: ''This is not a shopping magazine. We're hoping that people will come to the magazine to shop for ideas and stimulation.'' NAT IVES


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); BOARD CHANGES (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (53%); WEB SITES (50%) Magazines

COMPANY: CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%) Yale University ; Legal Affairs (Magazine)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Seth P Waxman; Lincoln Caplan; Nat Ives

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



6 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: Korean Missionaries Carrying Word to Hard-to-Sway Places

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan 

 BODY:
A South Korean missionary here speaks of introducing Jesus in a ''low voice and with wisdom'' to Muslims, the most difficult group to convert. In Baghdad, South Koreans plan to open a seminary even after Iraqi churches have been bombed in two recent coordinated attacks. In Beijing, they defy the Chinese government to smuggle North Koreans to Seoul while turning them into Christians.
 South Korea has rapidly become the world's second largest source of Christian missionaries, only a couple of decades after it started deploying them. With more than 12,000 abroad, it is second only to the United States and ahead of Britain.
 The Koreans have joined their Western counterparts in more than 160 countries, from the Middle East to Africa, from Central to East Asia. Imbued with the fervor of the born again, they have become known for aggressively going to -- and sometimes being expelled from -- the hardest-to-evangelize corners of the world. Their actions are at odds with the foreign policy of South Korea's government, which is trying to rein them in here and elsewhere. 
 It is the first time that large numbers of Christian missionaries have been deployed by a non-Western nation, one whose roots are Confucian and Buddhist, and whose population remains two-thirds non-Christian. Unlike Western missionaries, whose work dovetailed with the spread of colonialism, South Koreans come from a country with little history of sending people abroad until recently. They proselytize, not in their own language, but in the local one or English.
 ''There is a saying that when Koreans now arrive in a new place, they establish a church; the Chinese establish a restaurant; the Japanese, a factory,'' said a South Korean missionary in his 40's, who has worked here for several years and, like many others, asked not to be identified because of the dangers of proselytizing in Muslim countries.
 In Iraq, eight South Korean missionaries were briefly kidnapped in April. Then, in June, Kim Sun Il, a 33-year-old man who had planned to do missionary work, was taken hostage and beheaded. In July, nearly 460 North Korean defectors arrived in South Korea, thanks to a smuggling network set up by missionaries in China.
 In 1979, only 93 South Koreans were serving as missionaries, according to the Korea Research Institute for Missions. Compared with South Korea's 12,000, there are about 46,000 American and 6,000 British missionaries, according to missionary organizations in South Korea and the West.
 Roman Catholicism first came to the Korean Peninsula in the late 18th century, followed a century later by Protestant missionaries from the United States. Christianity failed to set firm roots in Japan and China, where 19th-century missionaries were seen as agents of Western imperialism. But it spread quickly on the Korean Peninsula, where American missionaries helped Korean nationalists fight against Japanese colonial rulers and informed the outside world of the brutalities of Japanese colonialism. 
 It was only in the last two decades, however, with the growth of the South Korean economy and its newly democratic government's decision to allow its citizens to travel freely overseas, that South Korean Christianity took on a missionary gloss. 
 Today, an equal number of missionaries are born again or members of Presbyterian, Methodist and Baptists denominations, said Steve S.C. Moon, executive director of the Korea Research Institute for Missions. These missionaries, like their Western counterparts, tend to focus on activities that are evangelical, educational and medical, and their beliefs are far more traditional than those of newer sects like the Rev. Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church, the Korean-rooted movement. 
 A typical case is the Presbyterian Onnuri Church, founded 19 years ago with the main purpose of training missionaries. It now has 500 in 53 countries, though it focuses on China, Indonesia and India, said Kim Joong Won, director of its missionary program.
 Until June, Onnuri had a church in Baghdad where Kim Sun Il, who was beheaded, had gone to worship.
 ''He is a martyr to God's glory,'' said Mr. Moon of the research institute. ''Korean missionaries are eager to do God's work and glorify God. They want to die for God.''
 Because religious visas are difficult to obtain in the Middle East, many come on student visas or set up computer or other businesses, and evangelize discreetly.
 One Korean who has worked here several years and spoke of evangelizing in a ''low voice and with wisdom,'' said that over intimate meals with three or four Muslims he would let the conversation drift to Jesus. So delicate is his work that he never mentions words like ''missionary'' or ''evangelize.'' Muslims who have converted to Christianity are never identified as such -- a necessary precaution in a society where some families engage in so-called honor killings of relatives who have left Islam.
 Many missionaries also focus on bringing Arab Catholics or Chaldeans into the evangelical fold.
 ''There are so many ways to do our work,'' said the missionary in his 40's, who works in a local church in Amman and delivers English sermons that are translated into Arabic. 
 ''Just as American missionaries did in Korea by building schools and hospitals, there are many ways here,'' he said. ''One important group is Iraqi refugees. They come here. They are tired physically and spiritually. They are so lonely. We help them. They realize they are being helped by Christians. Then they ask about Jesus.''
 About 30 missionary families have settled here in Amman. Others wait to return to Iraq, which they left in June under intense pressure from the South Korean government. John Jung has been working with an Iraqi pastor, Estawri Haritounian, 40, to open a seminary at the National Protestant Evangelical Church in Baghdad.
 ''Saddam Hussein's regime allowed Christians to gather in private houses, so it was difficult, though possible, for us to evangelize,'' said Mr. Jung, who has been traveling in and out of Iraq for several years. ''But now it has become even more difficult for Christians in Iraq. Christians are afraid of Muslims for the first time. We are frustrated we can't be in Iraq at this important time. But as soon as the security allows, we will go back to Baghdad.''
 In Baghdad, Mr. Haritounian explained recently that the church had been founded half a century ago with the help of British missionaries. American missionaries replaced them later and were in turn succeeded by South Koreans.
 ''We dreamed this dream, Pastor John and I, to start a seminary in Baghdad,'' said Mr. Haritounian, showing eight completed, though empty, classrooms.
 Mr. Jung, in Amman, said they hoped to start classes as soon as the security improved in Baghdad. ''We'll start with only 15 students, but we hope to grow in the future,'' he said.
 Many in Amman said South Koreans had an advantage over others, especially now that the war in Iraq has aggravated anti-American feelings in the Middle East.
 ''People expect missionaries to be from America or Europe, so Koreans can do their work quietly,'' Mr. Haritounian said. ''Because of the bad image of Americans now, it will be more difficult for American missionaries to work here.''
 Dennis Merdian, 50, an American missionary, said that in one difficult project he and a South Korean counterpart agreed immediately that it would be better for the South Korean to take the lead.
 ''He wasn't carrying the American government with him,'' Mr. Merdian said.
 But because of their short history of living overseas, some South Koreans expect that other cultures will behave the same way their own does and that Christianity will spread abroad as quickly as it did in South Korea, said Mr. Moon of the Korea Research Institute for Missions.
 ''Western missionaries tend to carry a sense of guilt because of their imperialist past,'' he said. ''But Koreans don't have that historical baggage, and they are not inhibited in reaching out to people with the Gospel. So in their missionary work, they tend not to consult the local people, but make decisions in one direction.''
 Shadi Samir, 28, a Jordanian pastor who has worked with South Koreans and recently visited Seoul, said he had seen inexperienced missionaries commit cultural blunders.
 ''They come here full of energy and go out on the streets where they approach women and tell them Jesus loves them,'' Mr. Samir said. ''By making such mistakes, they create problems not only for themselves and other Koreans, but also for us.''
 Kim Dong Moon, a missionary who works in the Middle East and also writes about the missionary movement, said some South Korean missionaries had been deported from the Middle East and ended up on blacklists.
 ''There are some pushy Korean missionaries whose approach is: 'Come to the Kingdom of God now! Or, go to hell,''' Mr. Kim said recently in Seoul.
 In China, South Koreans concentrate on converting the Chinese, as well as the ethnic North Koreans living in northeastern China. After they are smuggled out of China to South Korea, though, only about a third of the North Koreans continue practicing Christianity, missionaries said. Other South Koreans train North Korean Christians to return to the North to spread the Gospel.
 ''North Korea, which is occupied by the devil Kim Jong Il, is the biggest target of our missionary work,'' said Kim Sang Chul, president of the Commission to Help North Korean Refugees, a Christian organization.
 The missionary here in Amman in his 40's said that, in his previous posting in the Philippines, he was awed when he saw American missionaries fly to remote islands and, wherever they spotted signs of life in the jungle below, drop food packets as the first contact with what missionaries call ''unreached people.''
 ''So even here, it is very difficult, but not impossible,'' he said. ''We are planting one church at a time.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Nov. 1 about the increasing amount of overseas missionary work done by South Korean Christians misattributed a quotation about Kim Sun Il, a South Korean who was taken hostage and beheaded in Iraq in June. It was Kim Joong Won, director of the missionary program of the Presbyterian Onnuri Church of South Korea -- not Steve S.C. Moon, executive director of the Korea Research Institute for Missions -- who said: ''He is a martyr to God's glory. Korean missionaries are eager to do God's work and glorify God. They want to die for God.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Evangelists rehearsed before a Friday service last month in Amman, Jordan, where about 30 South Korean missionary families have settled. (Photo by Norbert Schiller for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 A Korean evangelist led Arab and African students in song and prayer last week at a seminary in Amman. (Photo by Norbert Schiller for The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (61%); HOSTAGE TAKING (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) Christians and Christianity; Missionaries; Christians and Christianity

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); AMMAN, JORDAN (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); JORDAN (92%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



7 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Attack of the Killer Tomato Prices

 BODY:
It's not exactly the potato blight, but fresh tomatoes are suddenly in short supply. Blame hurricanes in Florida, heavy rains in California and even a crop-eating bug in Mexico. The vegetable (before writing to tell us it's a fruit, please read on) can be found at the supermarket, but for as much as $3 a pound. Elsewhere, it may go missing entirely. 
 Fast food restaurants, especially those that boast of fresh ingredients, are in a pickle. Rather than take a chance that it could not deliver, Wendy's recently canceled an ad featuring a tomato slice on a chicken sandwich. Other quick meal outlets plan to post notices that say, in effect, no, you cannot have it your way. In one of New York's authentic Mexican restaurants, Zarela, the chips and fresh salsa -- complimentary at the bar and before meals -- are still there. But the owner, Zarela Martinez, says this price crisis is the worst since the great beef fajita meat inflation of last year. Some Italian restaurants are substituting canned tomatoes or changing recipes until the shortage lets up. 
 It is an interesting dilemma. Tomatoes were once shunned in this country. Benjamin Franklin called them unsafe, perhaps believing they contributed to his gout. In parts of Europe, tomatoes were considered an aphrodisiac. To this day, they are misunderstood. While purists are correct that the tomato is a fruit, the Supreme Court in the late 19th century ruled it a vegetable, which infamously did not escape the Reagan administration when it briefly extended that label to ketchup in school lunches. 
 Today, armed with evidence of the great health benefits from nutrients like lycopene, Americans eat an average of 90 pounds of tomatoes a year, about one-fifth of them fresh. Having to weather this shortage, many of them, we suspect, will consider growing their own garden variety next year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); WEATHER (89%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (76%) Tomatoes; Editorials; Shortages; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



8 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Stratford-upon-Avon Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: To Be a 'Clone Town,' or Not: That Is the Question

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

DATELINE: STRATFORD-UPON-AVON, England 

 BODY:
To survive the approach to the home where William Shakespeare was born, a striking timber-frame house in the center of this bustling town, it would be wise to bid adieu to all bucolic notions of quaint old England and ready oneself for the onslaught of globalization.
 A visitor must march past Country Casuals, Boots pharmacy, Next, and Marks & Spencer, and pass Accessorize, HMV, Whittard and of course, the dueling coffee shops, Starbucks and Costa Coffee. If it were not for Shakespeare's dwelling and a few notable old houses, this town -- with row upon row of British chain stores -- would scarcely be different from any other in Britain these days. Most butcher shops and hardware stores have closed. So have the family clothing shops, the fishmongers and a long list of other independent businesses. 
 ''If someone blindfolded you, put you in a helicopter and set you down in a town somewhere in England, you wouldn't be able to tell where you are anymore,'' said Jim Hyslop, 55, who lives just outside Stratford. The chain stores, he said, ''change the character of a place.''
 In the past five years, chain stores owned by corporations and out-of-town megastores similar to Wal-Mart (one of them, Asda, is, in fact, owned by Wal-Mart), have come to dominate many British towns and cities, creating a palpable sense of homogeneity from Kent all the way to Cumbria, and drawing striking parallels to America.
 Many of the main shopping thoroughfares, so-called ''high streets,'' now traffic in sameness: ubiquitous cellphone shops (Orange, Vodafone, O2); the familiar coffee chains (Starbucks, Caffe Nero and Costa Coffee); the typical clothing stores (Gap, Next, Warehouse); and the cookie-cutter restaurants (Cafe Rouge, ASK, Pizza Express). Neighborhood greengrocers are also on the way out, replaced by chain minisupermarkets, most notably Tesco, a company that has become one of the world's top retailers.
 ''In the case of Britain, and especially England, there is a huge sense of identity investment in the image of towns and cities, and the notion that this sort of bland, gradual effacement of character is taking place has taxed people at a deep level,'' said Andrew Simms, policy director for the New Economic Foundation, an independent economic research organization that published a report in August called ''Clone Town Britain.''
 ''It makes life boring,'' Mr. Simms added. ''It makes our communities boring places to be. That is one thing that has touched people deeply. People don't want to live in towns that look all the same. It's dull.''
 In its report, the foundation visited a series of towns and cities and counted both chain shops and independent businesses. It also contends that the spread of chains and sprawling Tesco-style stores winds up hurting local economies, because less money is pumped back into the area, and people are deprived of choice. A previous report in 2002 found that specialty stores like butchers and bakers were closing at a rate of 50 a week, along with 20 traditional pubs a month.
 The reasons independent businesses are vanishing here are familiar to Americans: high rents; customer demand for cheaper goods; and corporate muscle. It is just that in the past few years their disappearance has become increasingly visible and particularly striking in a part of the world that once took such pride in its community shops.
 ''It's happening because of the consumer,'' said Nick Gladding, senior analyst at Verdict Research, a group that specializes in retail. ''They are becoming more demanding.
 ''And people increasingly like familiarity,'' he added, noting that there are generational differences in shopping trends. ''People like to know what to expect when they go into a shop or restaurant.''
 Lacey's, an ironmonger, or hardware store, in Stratford-upon-Avon, has been in town for generations. It is run by David Haywaid, 53, as it was by his father and grandfather before him. Mr. Haywaid said the town had changed markedly in recent years as independents had been driven to close because of high rents. ''The only shops that can make money are the clothing shops, with their horrendous markups,'' he said.
 His own shop is so old-fashioned that it is now a draw in itself, luring nostalgic out-of-towners who pine for ''something different,'' said Mr. Haywaid, who owns the building his store occupies. Around the corner, at Barry the Butcher, Stewart Ashfield, the deputy manager, agrees. Not too long ago, there were 12 butcher shops in town; now there are 2. ''Stratford has changed out of all recognition,'' he said. ''We've been damaged by these chains, and the out-of-town shopping stores where people shop for everything under one roof as in America. What's been lost is the personal touch.''
 ''Clone towns,'' though, as the report calls them, are beginning to encounter resistance as people question whether Britain should emulate America or follow Continental Europe, which is trying hard to preserve its uniqueness. In France and Poland, for example, local authorities can veto the construction of large supermarkets.
 Local governments here are starting to push for economic incentives to guarantee a greater variety of shops. One town, Ludlow, has joined an Italian movement called Citta-slow, which embraces the ''slow town'' concept and promotes the benefits of eating locally grown produce.
 A few powerful landlords have also taken stands against chain stores. The Mercers' Company, one of London's biggest landlords, is trying to attract independent shops by offering them discounts on the streets around Covent Garden, a popular tourist spot. Howard de Walden Estates, the hereditary landlord of much of Marylebone Village in London, has rejected a number of chains on its high street in order to preserve a unique, and quite popular, mix of shops. The company's chief executive has been critical of local governments, saying they are taking a short-term view of planning by always going with the highest bidder.
 The question is: Is it too late to stem the tide?
 ''They talk about a tipping point, where you suddenly see independent retailers wiped out in certain areas,'' said David Bishop, a spokesman for the Federation of Small Businesses. ''Unless you take some constructive action now it will resemble the U.S. We're a long way from that, but it is a real danger.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chain stores proliferate in Stratford-upon-Avon, where one of the few sites distinguishing the town from many others in England is the house where Shakespeare was born, above. But resistance to cookie-cutter towns is rising, with some landlords rejecting chain-store tenants.
 David Haywaid runs Lacey's, an independent hardware store in Stratford-upon-Avon that has itself become a tourist draw. (Photographs by Steve Forrest for The New York Times)Map of England highlighting Stratford-upon-Avon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); COFFEE & TEA (76%); HARDWARE STORES (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (71%); MEAT STORES (70%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%) Retail Stores and Trade; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: TELEFONICA O2 EUROPE PLC (65%); MARKS & SPENCER GROUP PLC (57%)

TICKER: MKS (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (65%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (65%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (65%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (65%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: Lizette Alvarez

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



9 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Whither the Met's Artistic Priorities? It Depends Who's Doing What

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Opera sometimes seems as impenetrable a place as the Pentagon. So naturally, mystified opera buffs are abuzz with speculation over the unexpected announcement that Peter Gelb, a recording executive who during years of economic woe for the industry kept the Sony Classical label afloat with hugely profitable crossover projects and film soundtracks, will be the Met's next general manager, succeeding Joseph Volpe in 2006. 
 But before knowing what to make of Mr. Gelb's appointment, we have to ask what exactly the job will involve in the post-Volpe era? There is a relatively standard set of skills required to manage an orchestra, whether it's the New York Philharmonic or the Santa Rosa Symphony. Opera is a much more complicated endeavor, and different companies demand different mixes of skills from chief executives. 
 If the company has a strong artistic director or a principal conductor with wide authority, then it may need a whiz-bang administrator. But at some opera companies the general manager is the de facto artistic director, especially regarding matters of production and staging.
 Much is being made of Mr. Gelb's inexperience in running an institution as complicated as the Met. Can he handle union negotiations, oversee fund-raising drives, cultivate good relations with the board and head a staff of 850 full-time and 1,200 part-time employees? I don't doubt that after working for a preparatory year under Mr. Volpe, an unabashed micromanager who started at the company as a carpenter, Mr. Gelb will get the hang of things. 
 But what will his artistic priorities be? This question can't be answered without knowing what James Levine intends his own role to be now that his title has been downsized from artistic director to music director. Will Mr. Levine, busy in his new job as music director of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, and Mr. Gelb divvy up the artistic responsibilities? It's not yet clear -- not even, I suspect, to them.
 The Met as an institution and opera fans everywhere can only be grateful that Mr. Levine has devoted himself so intensely to the company for more than 30 years. Still, one fair criticism of his tenure is that in the last decade or so he has not been as involved as an artistic director should be with the overall artistic profile of the company, at least for the nights when he has not been on the podium.
 Mr. Levine has tended to pick his battles. It was crucial to him that the Met become a company where major works of the 20th century, like Berg's ''Wozzeck'' and ''Lulu'' and Stravinsky's ''Rake's Progress,'' turned up at least as often as repertory works like Verdi's ''Trovatore'' or Wagner's ''Tannhauser.'' 
 And when he felt it essential for the company to make a major artistic statement, Mr. Levine usually got his way. For example, the Berlioz bicentenary was acknowledged with a superbly cast and ambitious new production of the epic ''Les Troyens'' and a colorful Met premiere production of the unfamiliar ''Benvenuto Cellini.'' But as a tradeoff, Mr. Levine has willingly let others, including Mr. Volpe, decide how often to bring back ''Tosca,'' or what director to hire for a new production of ''Carmen.'' 
 Mr. Levine's other concession, a more serious one, has been to back off from pushing the Met to commission new works and present significant recent operas introduced elsewhere. Mr. Levine's interest in contemporary music is a genuine passion, not an intellectual pose. But as of this fall, he has another outlet for contemporary music: the Boston Symphony.
 To judge from the ecstatic reaction to Mr. Levine's inaugural concert on Oct. 22 (an exhilarating performance of Mahler's mighty Eighth Symphony), Boston audiences are thrilled to have him. And to judge from the programs he is conducting this season, rich with works by Gyorgy Ligeti, Lutoslawski and Schoenberg, and premieres by Elliott Carter, Charles Wuorinen, Milton Babbitt and John Harbison, the orchestra's directors and players support Mr. Levine's adventurous vision. 
 Given the bracing challenges that await him in Boston, it is hard to imagine his getting too excited about conducting the new production of Gounod's ''Faust'' at the Met this season. My guess is that if he stays healthy and fulfills his commitment to the Met through 2011, his focus will still inexorably shift to Boston.
 Mr. Gelb would thus be in position to fill any vacuum. I had hoped that Mr. Volpe's successor would be someone interested in cultivating opera as a continuing art form. Mr. Gelb has been quick to blame the problems facing classical music -- aging audiences, lack of interest among young people, the calcification of the repertory -- on elitist composers, academics and critics who espouse, as he sees it, cerebral, complex music that nobody wants to hear. He has called for a revolution in programming that will be sympathetic to ''accessible'' music of broader appeal.
 You never hear theater impresarios complaining that challenging, literate and brainy plays like Michael Frayn's ''Copenhagen'' and Tom Stoppard's ''Invention of Love'' are not accessible or that they lack audience appeal. But directors of orchestras and opera companies routinely blame their own timidity on supposedly resistant audiences.
 In my experience, when an opera company really believes in a challenging new work, and when that conviction comes through in the production and the performance, audiences will respond. Part of the excitement of attending the premiere of Kaija Saariaho's mesmerizing and musically compelling ''Amour de Loin'' at the Salzburg Festival in 2000 and the premiere of Thomas Ades's brash and audacious adaptation of Shakespeare's ''Tempest'' this year came from being among listeners who sensed that we were attending the birth of formidable and authentic new works.
 Mr. Gelb surely knows Ms. Saariaho's music, for there is a splendid 2001 Sony Classical recording of several of her works, conducted by Esa-Pekka Salonen. Will Mr. Gelb bring Ms. Saariaho's opera to the Met? And Mr. Ades's? And other significant recent operas?
 What about future commissions? It's hard to know what role Mr. Levine played in commissioning the next two operas the Met will unveil (by Tobias Picker and Tan Dun), since he is not scheduled to conduct either work. Will he and Mr. Gelb find it easier to agree on composers? 
 These questions matter to the future of the Met just as much as who directs the next new production of Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle. The Met has made its choice, and Mr. Gelb, an accomplished executive, deserves a chance to prove himself. But please, Mr. Gelb, no crossover opera! 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); FUNDRAISING (51%) Opera; Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Opera

PERSON: Peter Gelb; Joseph Volpe; Anthony Tommasini

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



10 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; New Economy; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Did the F.D.A.'s approval of Applied Digital's implantable chip help its long-term outlook?

BYLINE: By Barnaby J. Feder

 BODY:
THE recent news that the Food and Drug Administration had approved an implantable microchip for humans has garnered a lot of attention. But that does not mean that the idea of chips as personal identity tags will ever generate profits. 
 The device, called the VeriChip and marketed by Applied Digital Solutions, horrified privacy advocates, who were concerned less with its F.D.A.-approved use than with where the technology might lead, declaring that people could become walking bar codes. Investors, however, piled into Applied Digital's stock, sending it up 68 percent, to $3.57, on Oct. 13, the day of the announcement. The shares, which are listed on the Nasdaq, later climbed as high as $4.62. On Friday, the shares closed at $4, up 19 cents, or 5 percent. 
 Moving quickly to exploit the optimism, Applied Digital announced on Oct. 22 that it had raised $11.9 million in a private sale of 2.5 million shares at $3.61 a share, and warrants to buy nearly 2.2 million shares. The purchaser was Satellite Strategic Finance Associates, an investment company that bought $2 million of shares of Applied Digital in April. 
 It is far from clear, however, whether the F.D.A. approval actually moved Applied Digital far enough toward its long-term vision to make it a less risky stock. 
 Scott R. Silverman, Applied Digital's chairman and chief executive, said that investors in the company, which is based in Delray Beach, Fla., see VeriChip as ''the proverbial home run'' and said that he was not about to discourage that view. While he insisted that a revamping that the company had undergone has created a business that can survive without VeriChip, he said that ''Veri-Chip's what's going to deliver value to shareholders in the long run.'' 
 The F.D.A.'s approval is for Veri-Chip's use in a system that would give health care workers quick access to the medical records of anyone who had been implanted with the device.
 But the average ballplayer has a far better chance of hitting a home run than the average investor has of picking big winners among the thousands of new technologies that small companies like Applied Digital are trying to take to the market. In this case, investors also face the challenge of understanding Applied Digital's intricate finances and relationships with its publicly traded subsidiaries, Digital Angel and Infotech USA.
 Digital Angel also cashed in on the jump in Applied Digital stock after the F.D.A.'s announcement, selling close to 1.07 million shares of Applied Digital for $4 million. That stock was obtained in March in a stock swap with Applied Digital.
 The complicated financial structure is tied to Applied Digital's past. Applied Digital grew out of a wireless communications venture called Applied Cellular Technology. Richard J. Sullivan, a veteran entrepreneur, became chief executive in 1993, took the company public in 1994 and engineered more than 50 acquisitions by 2002.
 Applied's stock soared to more than $151 a share early in 2000, then collapsed with the bursting telecommunications and Internet bubbles. Mr. Silverman, a lawyer and consultant, was named president in 2002 to help streamline Mr. Sullivan's money-losing hodgepodge. He succeeded Mr. Sullivan as chief executive last year.
 In addition to its stake in Digital Angel, which is based in South St. Paul, Minn., Applied Digital controls 52 percent of InfoTech USA, a computer services and networking firm based in Fairfield, N.J., that was formerly known as SysComm International. All three have been losing money, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Silverman recently summed up Applied Digital's status as ''much closer than ever before to net income.'' 
 There is nothing modest about Applied Digital's vision for VeriChip. The company's executives have told investors that VeriChip is addressing markets worth hundreds of billions of dollars. VeriChip, they have said, could become the theft- and loss-proof successor to the credit card, a device to monitor the whereabouts of children and mentally impaired adults and a tool to prevent anyone other than a police officer from using a gun issued to the officer.
 But Applied has not demonstrated that it is technically feasible for Veri-Chip-driven data systems to operate at the reliability levels needed in most of the financial, security and medical uses bandied about by the company's enthusiasts. 
 To be sure, Digital Angel and competitors like AllFlex USA and Avid Identification Systems have been using similar implanted radio tags to permit pet shelters, laboratories and veterinarians to identify millions of animals. But the infrastructure investment that would be needed to have a major impact on VeriChip's intended human markets is far larger and more complex.
 It is also difficult to see how Veri-Chip would compete economically with other available technologies. None of the alternatives do everything VeriChip can, but biometrics, like face and iris scans or fingerprints, and radio tags embedded in smart cards or wristbands have a head start toward commercialization. Generally, they are also less expensive to deploy than VeriChip.
 So far, VeriChip's biggest success has been in Mexico, where several hundred Mexicans have enrolled in a version of the medical application that was approved by the F.D.A. in the United States. A smaller group, which includes Rafael Macedo de la Concha, Mexico's attorney general, were implanted with chips to control access to documents vital to the battle with drug traffickers.
 Mr. Silverman said the F.D.A. clearance would unlock the domestic medical business, which he said was VeriChip's best application. 
 But the F.D.A. approval limits the chip to encoding a 16-digit identification. The chip cannot carry such basic data as blood type or organ donor instructions, and it is useless if the health care worker does not have the scanner and a computer or other means of accessing electronic records. 
 The approval letter from the F.D.A. also contains ominous warnings about potential risks, like migration of the implanted chip and interference with magnetic resonance imaging device, which are widely used in hospitals. There is no evidence that such possibilities are problems with VeriChip, but critics hope such warnings will help scare off the big medical products companies that Applied Digital desperately needs to sign on as distributors.
 Given Applied Digital's complexity, some investors said that Digital Angel was a less risky way to invest in VeriChip's potential. Digital Angel owns the underlying technology, which it licenses to Applied Digital, and manufactures VeriChip along with its animal tracking devices. Applied Digital's license runs out in 2013, so even if VeriChip grows into a major product, Applied's grasp over its long-range returns may be shaky.
 Digital Angel's shares, which closed at $2.71 the day before the F.D.A. approval of VeriChip, ended trading Friday at $3.53.
 David Talbot, a portfolio manager for Healthvest Advisors, which first invested in Digital Angel three years ago, said new management installed at Digital Angel has steered the company toward profitability. Mr. Talbot said that he believed the animal tagging business alone was worth more than Digital Angel's current stock price. But when asked about relations between the Applied Digital companies, he added, ''I wish it wasn't so convoluted.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); US FDA APPROVALS (90%); RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Identification Devices; Computer Chips

COMPANY: DIGITAL ANGEL CORP (92%); POSITIVEID CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%) Applied Digital Solutions; Food and Drug Administration

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (92%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



11 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ARKANSAS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Clinton, at Little Rock Rally, Tries to Persuade Home State

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Oct. 31 

 BODY:
Former President Bill Clinton returned home on Sunday night for the first time in months, but except for a few balloons, some letter-sized signs and a lone man carrying an anti-abortion sign outside the Statehouse Convention Center, you might never have known.
 Still recovering from heart surgery, Mr. Clinton had logged thousands of miles in the last week, rallying earlier in the day in Albuquerque on behalf of Senator John Kerry. But now, introduced by several Arkansas officials and the actor Danny Glover, he was among his own. 
 ''So I had this little operation,'' he began, chuckling, on a stage set with haystacks, pumpkins and mums. Explaining that Kerry officials had asked him to cross the country to other states to campaign, he said he told them: ''Well, I'm sure not going to fly over Arkansas. I'm coming home.''
 Speaking for about 30 minutes to a crowd of about 6,000 and looking rail-thin in a long, dark blazer and bluejeans, Mr. Clinton mounted an argument for Mr. Kerry's candidacy. He said that the reasons Mr. Kerry was not leading in Arkansas were Republican rhetoric on gun control and gay marriage, and voters' fear of switching leaders in the midst of a war.
 He dismissed the first two issues, saying, ''This election is not about guns and gay marriage'' to calls of ''Say it, Bill.'' As for the security issue, he said that Mr. Kerry's supporters needed to go out and persuade people that he was indeed the better candidate. ''I know a lot about this,'' he said in one of the evening's many references to his presidency. ''I did this for you for eight years.''
 Mr. Clinton appeared roughly 10 blocks -- along a street bearing his name -- from the soon-to-open presidential library that gleams over the Arkansas River. His visit was the fulcrum in an 11th-hour push meant to catapult Mr. Kerry over the top. In 2000, Mr. Clinton did not campaign here for Al Gore, and many Democrats say that is one of the main reasons Mr. Bush won the state. 
 For months, Arkansas had been a near-ghost town for presidential politics, with the candidates bypassing it on the stump and the campaigns spending their advertising dollars elsewhere. Democrats had all but written it off, and many Republicans had moved it into their win column.
 But after some polls suggested a tightening race, both sides intensified their efforts, transforming the state into a heaving landscape of dueling advertisements and counterpunching news conferences. 
 Earlier in the week, television and radio stations began broadcasting several new Kerry advertisements paid for by Democrats and Democratic-leaning groups, some featuring Mr. Clinton. The state Republican Party ran three 30-second radio spots, two of them attacking the former president.
 In the advertisements, Republicans, who argue that Mr. Kerry is out of touch with voters in a socially and economically conservative state, have sought to portray Mr. Clinton as sharing more of the values of New York than of Arkansas, emphasizing that he has not lived in the state for more than a decade.
 Mr. Clinton, a former governor, shot back with his own Arkansas credentials on Sunday night, saying that the state had been better off economically when he was in Washington, and that ''in the last four years as a private citizen I created more jobs in Arkansas than the Bush administration ever did.''
 Kerry officials also say that Arkansans, who have sent large numbers of troops to Iraq, have grown frustrated with Mr. Bush over the direction of the war as well as the economy. They hope that Mr. Clinton will energize core Democratic voters, including women and blacks, and help ''turn around some white men,'' as Rodney E. Shelton, the state director of Kerry's campaign, put it.
 But precisely how Mr. Clinton will affect the race here is unclear. He is still enormously popular in the state, political analysts say. Asked in a poll released on Wednesday by the University of Arkansas how he would go down in history, 53 percent of those responding chose ''outstanding'' or ''above average,'' while 25 percent answered ''average.''
 But it is far from a given that the support Mr. Clinton enjoyed, especially among black voters, will transfer to Mr. Kerry.
 Rodney Evans, of Little Rock, speaking in the days before the former president's visit, said that although he had voted for Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore, this time he would vote for Mr. Bush because of his views on abortion. 
 ''Honestly, that's weighed a lot into my considerations,'' said Mr. Evans, an elder at his church. Speaking of Mr. Bush, he added, ''I think he's a Christian man, I think he's a family man, I think he's concerned about the elderly.''
 Mr. Evans said that he was not certain about Mr. Kerry's position on the issue, but that he looked at other issues like employment and welfare reform in making his decision about Mr. Clinton, who, like Mr. Kerry, is an abortion rights advocate.
 ''It may be kind of crazy to say,'' Mr. Evans, who is black, said, ''but I felt like he really wanted to help African-Americans.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Former President Bill Clinton spoke on behalf of Senator John Kerry last night in Little Rock, Ark. (Photo by Danny Johnston/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ABORTION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); MARRIAGE (66%); GUN CONTROL (66%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (60%); LIBRARIES (50%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); AL GORE (58%) Bill Clinton; John (Sen) Kerry; Diane Cardwell

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (91%) ARKANSAS, USA (96%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Arkansas

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



12 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: In the Last Lap, Joking, Jockeying and Hiding the Sweat

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: GAINESVILLE, Fla., Oct. 31 

 BODY:
One of the best indications of President Bush's mood, his aides say, is the degree to which he indulges his boyish humor and enthusiastic impatience. So it was telling, they said, that as he crisscrossed the country in the last few days awaiting the nation's judgment, the candidate who ritually promises to uphold the honor and dignity of his office made a show of goofing around on Air Force One.
 On Saturday, he was spied near the staff cabin swinging his arms like a samurai warrior with a sword. If the pose left some aides a bit mystified, it also reassured them that Mr. Bush was not only confident of the outcome but was also having a great time in the presidential race's frantic, exhausting final stages.
 ''He turned to me several days ago and he said, 'Do you think John Kerry's enjoying himself?''' Karen Hughes, Mr. Bush's longtime confidante and communications adviser, said. ''And I was sort of taken aback and I said, 'What do you mean?' And he said, 'Well, I'm really having a good time.' 
 ''He's energized by the people. We're all tired, everybody's tired, we're working long hours. But we're all energized.''
 Calculated or genuine, Mr. Bush's playful optimism has become part of his campaign's playbook as he hurtles toward Election Day in a nail-biting position that no incumbent seeking a second term has faced at least since 1948: facing polls that provide no clear evidence of whether, when he wakes up in the White House on Wednesday morning, he will have been rehired, fired or placed in recount limbo. 
 Whatever strain he may be feeling, he betrays none of it in public, no doubt aware, his aides say, that the slightest crack in the facade could dampen turnout among his supporters and the enthusiasm of the hundreds of thousands of volunteers he is calling on to herd them to the polls. People who have spent time with him behind the scenes say the picture is not much different in private.
 ''It seemed to me that he was very normal, just like when I'd see him in the White House,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, who rode across his home state with the president last week.
 But with the presidency on the line, even some of Mr. Bush's closest family members admit to an extraordinary level of tension, suggesting that the president may not be quite as carefree on the inside as he tries to come across on the outside.
 His mother, Barbara Bush, made a speech a few days ago in Cleveland and said the closing days of the race were going to be ''terrible'' for her.
 ''I plan to have a nervous breakdown,'' she said in remarks reported by The Cleveland Plain Dealer.
 After nearly four years in the White House, leading the nation through trying times and an all-out battle to keep his job, and a campaign he has been waging with ever-increasing intensity for nearly a year and a half, Mr. Bush is showing some wear and tear. 
 He is grayer, and his face is considerably more lined than it was before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. He has bags under his eyes, despite his determination to get a good night's sleep (a former baseball team owner and serious fan, he did not stay up to watch the Boston Red Sox, Mr. Kerry's rooting interest, win the World Series on Wednesday night).
 At 58, Mr. Bush prides himself on having kept himself in good shape; he can no longer run regularly because of bad knees, and his campaign schedule has deprived him of his new favorite form of exercise, long rides on his mountain bike. But when he is on the road he often has an elliptical trainer brought into his room so he can work out.
 He is appearing at most events now with Laura Bush, and her presence seems to lift his spirits. In Wisconsin on Saturday, he stood beside her on the stage as they were being introduced, gently rubbed her shoulder, reached down to hold her hand and smiled at her. 
 Mr. Bush was traveling with the inner circle that has been with him from the start of his career in elective office: Karl Rove, the strategist whose reputation is on the line; Ms. Hughes, who has shaped his message and public image; Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director; and Joe Hagin, the deputy White House chief of staff. Mr. Bush's brothers Jeb and Marvin were along for part of the day. So was Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, whose presence was a reminder that even at this moment of high political drama, his fate rested to some degree on events in Iraq and the rest of the world. 
 When Mr. Bush arrived Sunday night in Cincinnati, Mr. Rove; Scott McClellan, the press secretary; and other staff members emerged from Air Force One in their Halloween costumes: camouflage outfits, a la Kerry.
 For Mr. Bush and his top aides, it has been a long haul. The president started traveling the country raising money in the middle of last year. He has been mocking and criticizing Mr. Kerry since February, almost from the minute Mr. Kerry became the front-runner for the Democratic Party nomination. He has faced a string of bad news from Iraq, an economy that never generated jobs at the rate he had promised and his own spotty performance in the debates.
 On the stump, Mr. Bush has had good moments and bad in the campaign's closing days, offering all kinds of opportunity for metaphor but no real insight into what will happen Tuesday.
 Just about everything went wrong for him on Friday morning in Manchester, N.H. He was supposed to be introduced by the pitcher Curt Schilling, a hero of the World Series sweep by the Red Sox, but Mr. Schilling backed out at the last minute.
 Mr. Bush was interrupted by protesters holding up a sign referring to the missing explosives in Iraq. As he reached one of the most emotional moments of his speech, canisters of confetti in the rafters above him detonated prematurely in a cackle of gunfire-like explosions, causing him to flinch and forcing him to complete his address in a relentless blizzard of blue and white that accumulated on his hair and suit jacket.
 But on Friday night, he was greeted rapturously by about 20,000 people in an arena in Columbus, Ohio, in the kind of event that his advance people dream of pulling off. He shared the stage with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, who exhorted the crowd to get out and work ''day and night'' to help Mr. Bush.
 Mr. Bush is an enthusiastic campaigner who clearly draws energy and strength from the roars of his crowds and the adoring looks of supporters who get to shake his hand or catch his gaze. When they are asked to explain the source of Mr. Bush's confidence, and theirs, his aides point to the deafening reception he gets at his most successful rallies.
 But Mr. Bush is a hard-headed enough politician not to be totally swayed by anecdotal evidence, especially from rallies at which nearly everyone has been screened to some degree by his campaign or local Republican groups. So in the campaign's waning hours, he gets constant updates on the polls. 
 He has grown so comfortable with the details of polling that it has resulted in a running joke between him and his staff, Ms. Hughes said. After hearing Mr. Bush engage in constant colloquies with Mr. Rove over the merits of voter ''screens,'' the quasi-scientific equations that pollsters use to try to ensure that their results accurately reflect the sentiments of likely voters, Mr. Hagin took action. He recently went to a Home Depot, Ms. Hughes said, bought some window screens, spray painted them with polling jargon like ''R+3'' and presented them to the president aboard Air Force One. 
 Mr. Bush flirted with ending the campaign by shifting to the kind of optimistic, forward-looking oratory that candidates usually turn to at this point. In his speech in Manchester on Friday, he never mentioned Mr. Kerry and spoke in unusually personal terms about how his presidency had affected him.
 But within hours he was back to his aggressive attacks, portraying the election as a stark choice between security and uncertainty, strength and weakness, principle and expediency. And even as he reaches out to what he calls ''discerning Democrats,'' his campaign is keeping his conservative base stoked.
 In Wisconsin on Saturday, Mr. Bush urged his supporters to reach across the aisle when they work their precincts on Tuesday. Then he welcomed the presence in the audience of Wayne LaPierre, the executive vice president of the National Rifle Association, and emphasized that he had ''proudly signed'' the ban on the abortion procedure that opponents call partial-birth abortion. Before he went on stage, the country singer Lee Greenwood pumped up the crowd by saying Mr. Bush had ''the right God.''
 The pace of his campaigning has picked up noticeably in recent weeks. He will hopscotch through five swing states on Monday before ending the day with a rally in Dallas. After voting in Crawford, Tex., on Tuesday morning, aides said, he may well break with tradition and campaign on Election Day, with several stops en route back to Washington to watch the results at the White House.
 However it turns out, Ms. Hughes said, Mr. Bush has indicated to her that he will be ''at peace.'' But his assumptions about how it will turn out, she said, do not leave much room for defeat.
 ''He wants to feel he's done everything possible,'' Ms. Hughes said. ''He's competitive. He wants to be the president for the next four years.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Whatever strain he may be feeling, President Bush betrays none of it to the public. (Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)(pg. A1)
 President Bush took in the crowd yesterday at the University Air Center in Gainesville, Fla. ''He's energized by the people,'' Karen Hughes says. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Presidential Elections (US); Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN KERRY (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; Barbara Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



13 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CAMPAIGN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: Frantic Presidential Race Ends With a Flood of Ads

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and JIM RUTENBERG; David M. Halbfinger reported from Tampa for this article, and Jim Rutenberg from Philadelphia. Richard W. Stevenson contributed reporting from Miami, and Glen Justice from Washington.

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Oct. 31 

 BODY:
The presidential campaign was coming to a close in an epic cacophony of advertisements striking notes of hope and fear, patriotism and betrayal as the candidates headed Sunday into a two-day sprint to sway an electorate that remained stubbornly deadlocked.
 Shuttling in opposite directions across Ohio and here in Florida, Senator John Kerry and President Bush hopped from church services to outdoor rallies, delivering variations of their messages in an effort to galvanize supporters -- and, perhaps, to win over those last few undecided voters.
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll found that Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry remained locked in a statistical tie. But the poll registered an increase in Mr. Bush's job approval rating, as well as an increase in the number of Americans who said the nation was heading in the right direction. Republicans described this as evidence that Mr. Bush was picking up speed but said that both figures remained dangerously low for an incumbent. 
 The poll also found that voters were concerned about the integrity of the voting system, divided over the legitimacy of Mr. Bush's election four years ago and anxious about the future no matter who won. [Page A16.]
 In the record advertising war -- totaling an estimated $60 million in the final week, fully one-quarter of all advertising spending in the entire 2000 campaign -- and on the stump, the campaigns put forth their closing arguments, honed and battle-tested over eight long months of campaigning. 
 ''I pledge to you that I will be a president who fights as hard for your jobs as I do for my own,'' Mr. Kerry said in Manchester, N.H., before a crowd of about 10,000, which state Democrats said was a record for a political event. ''We need to lift America up.''
 Appearing in Miami, which is heavily Democratic, Mr. Bush made an appeal for support from across the aisle on the basis of his record in battling terrorism. ''If you believe America should fight the war on terror with all her might and lead with unwavering confidence,'' Mr. Bush said, ''I ask you, come stand by me. If you are a Democrat who believes your great party has turned too far left in this year, I ask you, come stand with me.''
 Here in Florida and in other swing states, residents were picking through reams of campaign mail as their telephones rang with recorded messages from the likes of former President Bill Clinton and the Boston Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling urging them to vote for Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush.
 Airports in swing states were filled with a steady stream of volunteers from uncontested states arriving to knock on doors and make telephone calls to exhort people to vote, all part of a turnout drive that is expected to surpass any other in history.
 In Ohio alone, the two sides claimed to have more than 150,000 field workers and volunteers who would contact more than one million homes before the polls closed.
 And in churches, mosques and synagogues, spiritual leaders implored worshipers to vote -- and in some cases were not so subtle in encouraging them to favor one side or the other.
 After a general election campaign that engaged so extraordinarily early, and never let up, Mr. Bush's closing advertising pitch is similar to his opening one: the world is a dangerous place and the nation's safety cannot be trusted to the liberal likes of Mr. Kerry. As an announcer says in one of Mr. Bush's three closing spots running here, ''Alone in the booth, why take the risk?''
 Mr. Kerry's closing argument is the culmination of a several-month search for a clean line of attack: Mr. Bush has made a mess of Iraq, has not done enough to help the middle class find jobs and afford health care, and it is time for a ''fresh start.'' For those worried about Mr. Kerry's ability to protect the nation, he says directly into the camera in one spot running throughout swing states, ''I will stop at nothing to find and kill the terrorists.''
 On the trail on Sunday, Mr. Kerry raced from a Baptist church in Dayton, Ohio, to a rally with newly lionized Boston Red Sox executives in downtown Manchester, N.H., to a nighttime event in Tampa, pressing his agenda of job creation, affordable health insurance and improved education as his aides argued that voters were looking for more than just an effective commander in chief.
 Mr. Kerry tried to focus mainly on domestic issues. He began his day by attending Mass at Holy Angels Catholic Church in Dayton, then crossed town to speak from the pulpit of Shiloh Baptist Church, where he preached a politics of compassion for the needy.
 ''When you clothe the naked, when you feed the hungry, when you heal the sick, when you visit those in prison,'' he said, quoting Matthew, ''what you do unto the least among us you do unto the Lord himself.''
 Mr. Bush, too, went to church. During a service at the Roman Catholic Church of the Epiphany in Miami, Msgr. Jude O'Doherty addressed Mr. Bush, saying, ''Your belief in prayer and dependence on God is an example to all of us,'' according to an account by a pool reporter. 
 To applause from parishioners, the priest thanked Mr. Bush for his ''whole-hearted support of human life'' and for supporting the ''partial-birth abortion'' ban.
 Mr. Bush appealed to an array of electoral groups as he crisscrossed the state. At a rally in Miami he spoke a few phrases in Spanish and sought to appeal to Cuban-Americans, typically a reliably Republican voting bloc, by reiterating his desire to see Cuba rid itself of Fidel Castro. 
 For the third day, the campaigns and their surrogates debated whether Osama bin Laden's latest taped message effectively punctuated Mr. Bush's overarching message on terrorism or reminded voters of Mr. Kerry's argument that Mr. bin Laden remained missing despite Mr. Bush's earlier pledge to get him ''dead or alive.''
 In a transcript of an interview CBS News released Sunday night, Mr. Kerry said, ''I don't think it plays into anybody's hands, and I don't want it to.''
 He added: ''How dare Osama bin Laden enter into the election process of the United States of America? I think Americans are smart enough to not let this thug get in the way of decisions that affect health care, schools, jobs, Social Security, Medicare, the future of this country.''
 Mr. Bush told Tom Brokaw of NBC News that Mr. bin Laden was ''not going to intimidate or decide this election'' and that ''we are systematically destroying Al Qaeda,'' a theme that his surrogates struck throughout the day.
 The extraordinarily high advertising spending here and in 11 other swing states comes despite the conventional wisdom that get-out-the-vote efforts matter far more than any paid commercials at the end of a presidential election. 
 But strategists for both campaigns and outside analysts say that with the race so tight neither side can afford to leave any commercial break uncovered as they race to keep their base voters primed while also trying to sway those few stubborn, undecided stragglers.
 ''If you're voting ultimately on the economy or terrorism or Iraq or health care, these are messages to just reinforce your beliefs,'' said Evan Tracey, chief operating officer of Campaign Media Analysis Group, a Virginia-based firm that tracks advertising and provided the $60 million estimate, which both campaigns affirm. ''Then there are people who connect on the last spot they hear, the last newspaper article they read. In the past those people don't generally matter. But everybody's playing on the margins right now, and they've got to make sure they don't let off the gas at the end.'' 
 Mr. Kerry's media strategists say they planned for this last-minute push months ago, with a deep conviction that Al Gore's depleted war chest in 2000 left him vulnerable in the final days to Mr. Bush, who, they estimate, out-advertised him by some 30 percent, and is the best financed incumbent in history this time around.
 ''Bush outspent us by $700,000 in the final week and we lost there by 600 votes,'' said Tad Devine, a top strategist for Mr. Kerry, said of Florida. (Mr. Gore actually lost there by 537 votes). ''You don't think maybe I could have found another 600 votes with another $700,000?''
 With that in mind, Mr. Devine said the Kerry campaign took a calculated risk to not advertise in August, when it dropped in the polls after coming under heavy attack from Mr. Bush and a group of Swift boat veterans so that it could advertise heavily now. 
 This time in the final days both sides have enough money to advertise just about everywhere they see fit. And while they dispute who is advertising more here and in Ohio, the two sides agree there is no sort of disparity like in 2000.
 The heaviest advertising war ever -- estimated at more than $550 million since March -- has a downside for the candidates. The airwaves here and elsewhere are so cluttered with commercials that ''it's hard to break through in this climate,'' said Matthew Dowd, Mr. Bush's chief campaign strategist. 
 He said Mr. Bush's now well-known ''wolves spot'' featuring a pack of wolves prowling a forest as an announcer warns ''weakness attracts those who are waiting to do America harm'' was devised to stand out in the crowd. 
 Mr. Kerry's strategists said their spots stood out by primarily featuring Mr. Kerry speaking directly into the camera in a way that Mr. Bush -- whose aides acknowledge that he is not as smooth a speaker as Mr. Kerry is -- has not done during the election. But the campaigns have stiff competition from outside groups. The Swift Boat Veterans for Truth are running a final couple of spots once again accusing Mr. Kerry of betraying his fellow soldiers when he came back from fighting in Vietnam to speak out against the war in the early 1970's. The Media Fund, a Democratic group, is running advertisements in several states raising questions about Mr. Bush's relationship with the ''corrupt'' Saudi royal family, which the group's president, Erik Smith, described as ''magic'' because ''it speaks to the base and independents.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 2, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about the final Sunday of campaigning before the presidential election misstated the party affiliation of people who said that President Bush's job approval rating, and the number of Americans who believe the nation was heading in the right direction, were dangerously low for an incumbent. They were Democrats.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Maps: ''The Great Ad Wars of 2004''Since March, the campaigns of President Bush and Senator John Kerry have bombarded living rooms across the country with over 630,000 commercials. A look at how the advertising war progressed.What the Ads Were AboutThe threat of terrorism was the dominant theme of Mr. Bush's advertising
 he rarely brought up the situation in Iraq. Mr. Kerry, while dealing with Iraq and terrorism in some months, tended to focus more on domestic issues, especially health care.Percentage of ads that mentioned:Graph tracks the percentage of ads by Bush and Kerry from March-Oct. 2004 that mentioned the following:IraqTerrorism or domestic securityHealth careEmploymentTaxesMonitoring The ToneAds from the Bush campaign were largely focused on attacking Mr. Kerry or contrasting him with Mr. Bush. In June and July, the two campaigns were almost entirely focused on attempting to define Mr. Kerry.Graph tracks the percentage of ads by Bush and Kerry that attack, contrast or promote from March-Oct. 2004.Help From Outside the CampaignsFormally unaffiliated outside groups played a large role in the campaign. Counting ads run by pro-Kerry outside groups, total advertising in support of Mr. Kerry balanced out Mr. Bush's advertising advantage in the early months.Graph tracks the number of Pro-Bush or Pro-Kerry ads that attack, contrast or promote run from March-Oct. 2004 by the following:Ads run by outside groupsParty ads run independentlyCampaign's own ads or those coordinated with the partyNote: All data for October are through the 28th. The maps depict only ads shown on local stations.The Shifting Advertising MapThe size of each circle represents the number of ads run by both campaigns in a given market (1,000 2,500 5,000)The color of the circle represents the relative advantage in the number of ads shown (Large Bush, Slight Bush, About the same, Slight Kerry, Large Kerry)March: Opening Salvos After Mr. Kerry became the presumed Democratic nominee, the two campaigns largely determined the 11 or so states they would focus on.Map of the United States highlighting the number of ads run by both campaigns in a given market and the relative advantage in the number of ads shown. (Areas in white saw fewer than 100 ads during the month.)TOP MARKET IN MARCHPhoenix: 1,133 ads shown471 more Bush ads than Kerry adsJune: The Playing Field Widens While the volume of ads dropped somewhat, the number of states where the campaigns were running ads expanded to about 20.Map of the United States highlighting the number of ads run by both campaigns in a given market and the relative advantage in the number of ads shown. (Ads started to run in Colorado, Louisiana and Virginia.)TOP MARKET IN JUNEPortland, Ore.: 1,270 ads shown886 more Kerry ads than Bush adsOctober: The Final Barrage The map of targeted states contracted to the dozen or so most highly contested, where there was a huge increase in the volume of ads.Map of the United States highlighting the number of ads run by both campaigns in a given market and the relative advantage in the number of ads shown. (Several states, notably Missouri, largely vanished from the map.)TOP MARKET IN OCTOBERMiami-Fort Lauderdale: 5,480 ads shown446 more Kerry ads than Bush ads(Source by University of Wisconsin Advertising Project, based on data from Nielsen Monitor-Plus)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); BASEBALL (62%); TERRORISM (61%); RELIGION (56%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Finances; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2000; Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%) David M Halbfinger; Jim Rutenberg; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (68%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



14 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Party Support Questioned In Congressional Race

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLL

DATELINE: UNION, N.J., Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Democratic Party officials thought enough of Steve Brozak's chances of unseating a Republican congressman this year that they gave him a prime-time speaking slot at the Democratic National Convention. 
 But since then, party officials have not followed through with much financial or political support, and Mr. Brozak's opponent, Representative Mike Ferguson, is not among the 15 Republican representatives that House Democratic leaders have identified as most likely to be defeated on Tuesday. 
 David Rebovich, managing director of the Rider Institute for New Jersey Politics, called that omission ''a possible kiss of death for Steve Brozak.'' 
 But Mr. Brozak, 43, has continued his uphill effort to defeat Ferguson in the Seventh Congressional District in New Jersey.
 An investment banker and a retired Marine lieutenant colonel who served in Iraq, Mr. Brozak, a former Republican, said he switched parties and decided to take on Mr. Ferguson because of his dismay over President Bush's handling of the war and the economy.
 On Thursday morning, Mr. Brozak stood outside a Dunkin' Donuts in Union passing out literature when a man approached and told him the district needed a Republican in office. Mr. Brozak asked to be heard and the two men spoke privately for a few moments. A few minutes later, the man, William Bentz, 70, of Union, said to Mr. Brozak, ''I'll vote for you.''
 Mr. Bentz, a Republican who said that he planned to vote for President Bush and that he voted for Mr. Ferguson two years ago, said that a few minutes with Mr. Brozak was all he needed to change his vote.
 ''He's a former soldier who immediately comes off as trustworthy and seems to want to do a good job for the people and the soldiers in Iraq,'' Mr. Bentz said. ''I just don't think Mr. Ferguson did enough for us.''
 Mr. Ferguson, 34, who received 58 percent of the vote two years ago, appears relaxed and confident. ''Our numbers are good, and the voters are responding to our positive campaign,'' Mr. Ferguson said. ''We are confident of a win.'' The district, which includes parts of Hunterdon, Middlesex, Somerset and Union Counties, went through redistricting after the 2000 election, giving Republicans a slight advantage.
 But Mr. Brozak could still win if Senator John Kerry carries the state by high single-digit or low double-digit numbers, some experts said.
 ''The district is one where if John Kerry surges in the end, Steve Brozak might pick up some support from new voters and unaffiliated voters,'' Dr. Rebovich said. ''But since he lacks the money to do a last-minute media blitz, his fate really rests on John Kerry in New Jersey.'' 
 Although one poll had Mr. Kerry tied with President Bush in the state, others show the senator ahead by 4 to 14 percentage points.
 There have no independent polls of the Brozak-Ferguson race.
 Mr. Brozak has raised $800,000 while Mr. Ferguson has raised $2.3 million. 
 ''I'm not going to beat him in dollars,'' Mr. Brozak said, ''but, I can beat him on the ground. Once people hear my positions and my stance on the issues, I'm confident that when they show up at the polls they will vote for me.''
 Mr. Ferguson, who has picked up endorsements from law enforcement and veterans groups, said he was focusing on domestic security and the economy to win the election.
 ''The people have seen the good work that's been done and know that I'm working with the president to make the country safer and better economically,'' he said.
 Ingrid Reed, of the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers, says it has been one of the state's hardest-fought races and could go either way because more people are expected to vote in this election.
 ''It is unclear if Brozak has made a dent in Ferguson, but anything is possible,'' she said. ''All in all, it is an interesting race.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Brozak says he is running for Congress because of concern over the Iraq war and the economy. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)
 Michael Ferguson, right, the congressman, with Bruce Patterson, a Republican Party committeeman. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); REDISTRICTING (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); ARMED FORCES (69%); IRAQ WAR (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (69%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (69%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (69%)

PERSON: MIKE FERGUSON (90%); JOHN KERRY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004



15 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Peering at the Sticker on a Cleaner Car; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: California's New Emissions Standards Ignite a Debate Over Price

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
How much will it cost Californians to buy cooler cars?
 The Golden State's roads are known for vintage T-birds, customized muscle cars and the Bentleys in Beverly Hills. But the state's regulators have a different kind of cool in mind -- cars that emit significantly lower amounts of the gases that have been linked to global warming. 
 When California adopted the nation's first automotive greenhouse gas regulation in September, the auto industry and state regulators disagreed over how much it would all cost. The new regulation would require a 30 percent reduction, on average, in automotive greenhouse gas emissions -- carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide and methane -- by the 2016 model year. 
 The regulation, though directed at greenhouse gases, would probably demand an improvement in fuel economy of more than 40 percent. While smog-forming pollutants have been regulated for decades, catalytic converters can neutralize those emissions. But no filtration technology exists for greenhouse gas emissions, so cutting those emissions would have to come almost entirely from better fuel economy, though a modest amount could be cut by overhauling a car's air-conditioner. 
 The staff of the California Air Resources Board says the new regulation will add about $1,000 to the cost of an average vehicle, but they said they believed that cost could be made up in five years in savings at the gasoline pump. The industry, by contrast, said it would add $3,000, a cost that would never fully be made up by fuel savings. 
 If the regulation survives a legal challenge from the auto industry, New York has indicated it wants to follow California's lead. Several other Northeastern states that hew closely to California's air quality standards may also follow suit. 
 So how would cars and trucks have to change? 
 The Union of Concerned Scientists, a leading environmental group lobbying for the regulation, recently issued a report on how six specific vehicles could be modified to reduce global warming emissions by 40 percent or more, exceeding the California standards. 
 The group projected that, for a cost of $1,960 per vehicle, the 2003 model Ford Explorer XLT, with a V-6 engine, could be modified to reduce its greenhouse gas production by 43 percent, a change that would improve fuel economy by more than 70 percent. (California's standards require that emissions from vehicles in the Explorer's weight class be reduced by 24.5 percent by 2016.) The report contends that buyers could make up that added cost in a little over three years by spending less on gasoline. 
 Thomas C. Austin, the consultant employed by the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, an industry lobbying group, to argue against the California regulation, conducted an analysis of the environmental group's projections. (The Ford Motor Company declined to offer its own analysis, referring questions to the alliance.)
 Mr. Austin said that according to his analysis it would cost $4,361 a vehicle to make the modifications proposed by the environmental group, and that some changes were not feasible. He also projected a somewhat lower reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The two sides disagreed about almost every aspect of cost projections because of different methodologies and sources. 
 ''They look for what's been published to support the case to encourage government agencies to further regulate,'' Mr. Austin said of the Union of Concerned Scientists, noting that to make its case, the group used ''the most optimistic projections of fuel economy improvements and the most optimistic projections of cost.'' 
 Environmentalists and California regulators argue that the industry's recalcitrance is no surprise, citing its history of opposing everything from safety belts to small increases in fuel economy standards. 
 ''The industry has a long track record of underestimating potential and overestimating cost,'' said Louise Bedsworth, the senior vehicles analyst at the Union of Concerned Scientists, who wrote the report. ''We've seen it on many safety regulations; we continually see this pattern of pushing back, but in most areas we've seen them come through and succeed in the end.'' 
 Here are major modifications that Ms. Bedsworth would make to an Explorer to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Mr. Austin's comments on those proposals.

Aerodynamics
 For starters, the Explorer, a sport utility vehicle, would need to be a lot rounder. Ms. Bedsworth said automakers could modestly reduce emissions by improving aerodynamics because cars and trucks that are less wind resistant are more fuel efficient. 
 ''The Explorer is a pretty boxy S.U.V.,'' she said, a shape that makes it less aerodynamic. 
 Two current S.U.V.'s, Honda's Acura MDX and the Volvo XC90, made by Ford, are significantly more aerodynamic than the Explorer because of more rounded styling. The company could also cover the underside with paneling to smooth over nooks that hinder wind flow. 
 Mr. Austin said that Ms. Bedsworth's proposals would make the Explorer an ugly duckling. Some of the most iconic vehicles of the day are characterized by boxiness, from the Hummer to the Chrysler 300C. 
 ''It's been decades since the auto industry showed you could produce vehicles that had half the drag coefficient than vehicles do today,'' he said. ''But look at them. To most people, they're not the kind of cars they want to drive.''
 Ms. Bedsworth said Ford could also extend the Explorer's steel body over the tops of the tires to improve wind resistance, the way Honda designed the body of its tiny hybrid electric car, the Insight. But Mr. Austin said ''most people think the Honda Insight is an ugly car.''

Tweaking the Tires
 Some new tires improve fuel efficiency with designs and materials that lessen the force needed to propel them down the road. Ms. Bedsworth says she believes further improvements are possible, but Mr. Austin said new federal tire pressure regulations might induce automakers to use larger tires that would impede efficiency gains. 
 Mike Wischhusen, the director of industry standards and government regulations at Michelin, said changing tire size would not necessarily change fuel economy performance by itself. His company's chief executive, Eduoard Michelin, recently outlined a goal of improving tire performance, as it relates to fuel economy, by 50 percent by 2020.

Under the Hood
 Ms. Bedsworth said a variety of technologies could be combined to improve efficiency under the hood. A 42-volt starter generator, a mild form of hybrid technology, would allow the Explorer to shut down at stoplights. 
 The modified Explorer's engine would also combine three technologies that are in use today, though not all in one vehicle. The altered S.U.V. would have a diesel-like direct-injection gasoline engine that puts air and fuel directly into the engine cylinders rather than into precombustion chambers. The engine would also employ variable valve timing, a technology that ensures that the engine valves open and close in the most efficient manner, and cylinder deactivation, which shuts down one-half of the engine if it's not needed. 
 Mr. Austin said the last two technologies ''don't make engineering sense'' when packaged together because they were so similar in nature that using them jointly would not be worthwhile.
 Ms. Bedsworth said Honda employed both technologies in its Odyssey minivans, but only one technology -- variable valve timing or cylinder deactivation -- was used in each minivan, depending on the version. 
 Ms. Bedsworth said there would still be some added benefit to using both. ''The package still comes out to be cost effective,'' she said. 
 Increased engine efficiency would slightly increase, to 230 from 210, the horsepower of the 2003 model Explorer used in the study.

Improved Air-Conditioning
 The industry is almost certain to argue in its legal challenge that the California regulation is pre-empted by Washington's authority to regulate fuel economy. But environmentalists point out that tweaking a vehicle's air-conditioning system is one way to get modest emissions reductions independent of fuel economy improvements. 
 The refrigerant used in automobile air-conditioners, known as HFC-134a, is a heat-trapping gas that is even more damaging than carbon dioxide. An improved air-conditioner could contain the gas better, or alternatively, a different type of refrigerant could be used.

Weight Loss?
 Mr. Austin said to achieve the kind of emissions reductions proposed by the Union of Concerned Scientists, or the lesser reductions required by the California regulation, the Explorer would have to be significantly lighter. ''Our analysis indicates that weight reduction is a more cost-effective way to improve fuel economy than some of the other measures that would otherwise be required,'' Mr. Austin said.
 The use of lightweight materials like aluminum, and the cost of redesign, would add more than $1,000 to the vehicle cost, he said. But Ms. Bedsworth disagreed, saying that the Explorer's weight would not have to change to meet the emissions standards.

Savings at the Gas Pump
 Mr. Austin disagreed with projections used by California regulators to gauge how many miles the average vehicle in the state is in service. Those projections are critical to making a cost-benefit analysis of the new standard. He also disputed the discount rate the Union of Concerned Scientists used to calculate the current value of future fuel savings. 
 Ms. Bedsworth said her projections were conservative, pointing to the $1.68-a-gallon gas price used in her analysis. Gasoline costs $2.39 a gallon, on average, in California, according to the most recent estimate from the Energy Information Administration.


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart/Diagram: ''A Greener Explorer, but at What Cost?''California has approved the nation's first greenhouse gas emissions standards for automobiles. According to the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental group that supports the regulation, the cost of meeting the new standards will not be excessive and the investment will be recouped over time from fuel savings. But the auto industry says the union has significantly underestimated the costs and overestimated the savings. Here is how the two sides differ on modifying a 2003 V-6 Ford Explorer to reduce emissions.EMISSIONSCarbon dioxide and other global-warming-related gases, in grams per mile2003 Explorer: 440 grams (332 grams California standard in 2016, est. after design changes)Union of Concerned Scientists 251Auto industry: 273PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS: ACCESSORIES -- Make them work more efficiently.EST. COST PER EXPLORERUnion of Concerned Scientists: $115Auto Industry: $123PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS: AIR-CONDITIONING -- Use a different refrigerant.EST. COST PER EXPLORERUnion of Concerned Scientists: 50Auto Industry: 128PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS: WEIGHT -- Make the vehicle lighter.*EST. COST PER EXPLORERUnion of Concerned Scientists: 0Auto Industry: 1,287PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS: STARTER -- Use an electric starter generator to turn the engine back on after vehicle makes a stop.EST. COST PER EXPLORERUnion of Concerned Scientists: 1,050Auto Industry: 1,886PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS: MODIFIED ENGINE -- Use a diesel-like direct injection engine and use other technologies that can improve efficiency during combustion.EST. COST PER EXPLORERUnion of Concerned Scientists: 600Auto Industry: 406+PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS: TRANSMISSION -- Use a double-clutch transmission. The union says it will pay for itself over time by eliminating the need for a torque converter. The industry disagrees.EST. COST PER EXPLORERUnion of Concerned Scientists: 0Auto Industry: 531PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS: REDESIGN TIRES -- To reduce road resistance by 20 percent.EST. COST PER EXPLORERUnion of Concerned Scientists: 95Auto Industry: NOT FEASIBLEPROPOSED MODIFICATIONS: IMPROVE AERODYNAMICS -- Particularly on the bottom of the vehicleEST. COST PER EXPLORERUnion of Concerned Scientists: 50Auto Industry: NOT FEASIBLETOTALUnion of Concerned Scientists: $1,960Auto Industry: $4,361*The union says the vehicle can be the same weight, but the industry says the weight must be reduced to meet emissions requirements.+Not entirely feasible, but what is possible would cost $406.(Source by Union of Concerned Scientists
 Sierra Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); NITROGEN OXIDES (90%); METHANE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); GASOLINE (76%); SMOG (76%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%) Weather; Carbon Dioxide; Nitrous Oxide; Methane; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Fuel Efficiency; Automobiles ; Weather

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (93%) Union of Concerned Scientists; Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



16 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: Once Folly, Then Vital Post-9/11 Link, Ferry Seeks Help

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

 BODY:
In the beginning, they laughed at Arthur E. Imperatore Sr., labeled his dream a folly and ridiculed his plan to restore ferry service to New York's waterways as little more than a romantic vision and a throwback to a bygone age. 
 Then came Sept. 11, 2001. Suddenly ferry travel became more than a lure to attract buyers to luxury developments or a way to keep a few cars off the road and a few people off crowded trains and buses. It became a necessity in a regional transportation system that was wounded and more vulnerable than many had thought.
 Mr. Imperatore, the owner of a New Jersey trucking company who plunged into the ferry business in 1986, was no longer someone to ridicule. Instead, his venture was deemed worthy of support. And so the money poured in: grants and other assistance from local and federal government agencies, prompting and encouraging him to expand his New York Waterway from a company with 24 boats and 12 routes to one with 35 boats and 20 routes. 
 But New York Waterway is now reporting financial problems, and its executives have turned to regional transportation officials for a different kind of help. Agencies like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the New York City Department of Transportation are now on the spot to provide money or other help so that service is maintained for the nearly 32,000 people who ride the company's routes every day. 
 The company's problems are testing the resolve of various government agencies to preserve the role that ferries have carved out for themselves in the regional transportation network. What the agencies do depends not only on their view of the importance of ferry service, but also on their ability to allocate precious transportation dollars for a service that some say still serves only marginal needs at best.
 The choice is a tough one for officials who want to support ventures that keep commuters off roads and bridges and out of the tunnels -- but not at a cost to other mass transit systems.
 New York Waterway's condition has been described by its officials as ''a cash flow problem'' that has little impact on the company's long-term financial health. Because it is a privately held family business, it is difficult to determine just how severe the financial shortfalls really are.
 But interviews and public documents paint a picture of a company with serious problems -- serious enough for its owners to ask the Port Authority to find a way to take over some of its routes. 
 Officials of New York Waterway, the Port Authority and the city Department of Transportation will not publicly discuss their continuing talks.
 Some people familiar with New York Waterway say it has management and structural problems. They said it failed to address the high price of fuel and other ballooning costs at a time when the ridership slid substantially from its post-Sept. 11 highs. Critics inside and outside of government, who would speak only on the condition that their names not be published, said the company expanded too rapidly and failed to scale back quickly enough when demand for its service began to wane. The Port Authority is looking at the company's books and the Imperatores' related businesses, including buses, parking, fuel and insurance brokerage.
 The company disputes that its troubles are self-inflicted. But officials concede that the arc of its fortunes over the last three years has not been pretty: they have gone from pretax profits of $5.8 million in 2001, when the daily number of passengers was climbing to about 65,000, to a pretax loss of $1.4 million in 2003, as passengers dipped to 32,000 a day.
 The economy has not helped. Before Sept. 11, 2001, employment in Manhattan stood at about 2.4 million, with 362,210 of those jobs in businesses located in nine ZIP codes downtown. Mike Dolfman, the regional commissioner of the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, said the recession and the attack on the World Trade Center drove the number of jobs down to 2.2 million in 2002. The number went up slightly in 2003, but by the first quarter of 2004 there was a decline of about 86,000 jobs in those nine ZIP codes, to 276,105. The decline there since 2002 has been about 50,000 jobs.
 During this time, New York Waterway expanded, partly at the urging of city and Port Authority officials seeking to build confidence among employers that the area would rebound.
 The company took advantage of a federal program to provide loan guarantees, lowering interest rates, for boats built in the United States, and ordered five boats from an Alaska shipyard. But as it was negotiating to buy five more, the federal program was suspended. Still, bullish on the future of ferry service and urged on by local officials, the company went ahead with the purchase, although interest rates were 2 percentage points higher on the $10 million order.
 Meanwhile, said Pat Smith, a spokesman for the company, its officials were approached by the Port Authority in early 2002 to run round-the-clock ferry service from Hoboken to two Lower Manhattan docks on schedules duplicating the 6- to 10-minute headways of the PATH line, which had stopped serving Lower Manhattan after its station was destroyed in the Sept. 11 attack.
 At the time, ridership was climbing, reaching 50,000 a day from 33,000 a day. By November 2003, just before the PATH line reopened, it had reached 65,000 a day. The company's revenues climbed from $36 million with pretax profits of $2 million in 2000 to $73.8 million with profits of $6 million in 2002.
 Much of this was attributable to reimbursements from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, routed to the company through the Port Authority, to make up for the cost of the service that was not met by the fares collected. When the PATH reopened, the reimbursement ended, Mr. Smith said.
 ''Now we pay the city to land boats at Pier 11 at the tip of Manhattan for the same service that the federal government once reimbursed us,'' Mr. Smith said.
 Meanwhile, the company had more than doubled the routes it had before Sept. 11, and had 10 more boats on the water. At the same time, costs were higher, with diesel fuel prices nearly doubling from 88 cents a gallon in 2003 to $1.66 a gallon now.
 The company also has had to pay $800,000 to the city for docking fees incurred during the evacuation of 160,000 people after the Sept. 11 attack and the many trips it later provided for workers and National Guard troops. It has also spent $2.5 million to defend itself in federal and state investigations into its handling of some $31 million in Federal Emergency Management Agency money it received for its post-Sept. 11 services. People familiar with New York Waterway's problems say it is clear that the company needs help. Among the solutions being discussed are operating subsidies or the transfer or shutdown of some of its routes. 
 But there is disagreement over whether a private company should receive government funds to stay in business -- and whether the amount of service provided warrants saving.
 Carter Craft, program director of the Metropolitan Waterfront Alliance and an advocate for ferry service, said he believes government has to find a way to lend a hand.
 ''We are a transit-needy area and a transit-dependent area because we are so densely populated,'' Mr. Craft said. ''If the charge of public agencies is to provide public transit, then it makes no sense for them to not subsidize water transport in the way they subsidize roads, trains and buses.''
 Local governments have already spent tens of millions of dollars on the three private ferry companies -- New York Waterway, Sea Streak and New York Water Taxi -- to build terminals on both sides of the river. Three New York terminals and one New Jersey terminal are now under construction, with about $250 million worth of public financing. New York Waterway has the contract to operate one of them at the World Financial Center in Lower Manhattan.
 Given that investment, Mr. Craft said, not providing operating aid is like building and maintaining subway stations but not providing any trains.
 But others question the importance of ferries altogether, saying they merely shave the margins off the hundreds of thousands who rely on mass transit in the region. 
 John Pucher, a transportation planner at the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, said that riders of three private companies that run ferries on Hudson River routes account for 1 percent of the estimated 7 million mass transit riders a day. (The Staten Island Ferry, which runs between Staten Island and Manhattan, is run by the city and carries as many as 70,000 passengers a day, almost twice the number on the three private Hudson River lines. Passengers ride free.)
 Further, the critics argue, because of their higher fares, which range from $6 to $19 a round trip, the private ferry companies serve a small market of well-off suburban commuters. 
 ''It fills an important niche,'' Mr. Pucher said, ''but it is not the way to move a large number of people. I just think that the priority if you have really limited public funds ought to go to rails and buses.''
 But some officials said one of the realizations after Sept. 11 was just how important it is to build redundancies into the region's transportation network. ''To me it is a matter of national security to have viable ferry service available,'' said one Port Authority official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has not commented on whether he thinks the ferries should get financial assistance, saying only that there is no city money available. Daniel Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and the administration's expert on ferry service, did not return calls for comment. One plan being discussed has New York Waterway's two competitors taking over some of its routes. But Tom Fox, the general manager of New York Water Taxi, said the government is going to have to help.
 ''You don't take an infant industry and throw it in the bathtub by itself,'' Mr. Fox said.
 City Councilman David Yassky of Manhattan, chairman of the Council's Transportation Committee and a vocal advocate for public support of ferry service, said that helping the companies serves the greater good by taking cars off the roads and pollution out of the air. He said that he was optimistic that public agencies would ''do the right thing.'' Whether it will be in time to help New York Waterway, he said, he could not be sure.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The New York Waterway ferry landing in Battery Park City. The company and its competitors have benefited from $250 million in public financing for ferry terminals. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 New York Waterway, the dominant private Hudson ferry system, expanded its fleet after 9/11, but ridership declined and federal aid was cut off. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (92%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); TRAINS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); TRUCKING (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



17 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Lockout at Top Hotels Mars Tourism in San Francisco

BYLINE: By CAROLYN MARSHALL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
The drumbeats and chanted slogans begin at dawn and echo through downtown streets well after dark, as bellhops, barkeeps, maids and cooks -- locked out of their jobs by 14 of this city's most prominent hotels -- picket to protest stalled contract talks that have set this popular tourist destination on edge.
 Now in its fifth week, this labor dispute threatens to tarnish San Francisco's self-described reputation as ''Everyone's Favorite City.'' Workers are at odds with their managers, and city leaders are at odds with hotel owners. Mayor Gavin Newsom said he was so frustrated by the continuing lockout last week that he briefly joined a picket line to show owners his solidarity with the union. An industry trade group, the Hotel Council of San Francisco, publicly denounced his actions. 
 And caught in the cross-fire are the city's treasured tourists. Guests at San Francisco landmark hotels like the Intercontinental Mark Hopkins, the Sheraton Palace and The Fairmont have nervously crossed picket lines, settled for reduced services, endured shouts and taunts and exchanged pillow mints for earplugs. 
 ''I feel sorry for the workers, I feel sorry for the hotel owners and I feel sorry for me,'' said Stephanie DeMars, a visitor from Texas and guest at the Westin St. Francis in fashionable Union Square
 The contract in question expired in August, setting in motion talks between Unite Here Local 2, the union representing the city's 8,000 hotel workers, including the 4,300 members locked out, and the operators of some of San Francisco's largest, four-star hotels, represented by the San Francisco Multi-Employer Group. 
 Classic bread-and-butter issues were on the table, including wage increases, costs of health benefits, pension changes, a right-to-organize clause and the length of the contract. 
 But talks stalled in September when the union balked at proposed health and pension concessions and hotels refused to discuss the concerns until Local 2 dropped its quest for a two-year contract, to expire in 2006. That is when contracts will expire in nine other cities, including Boston, Chicago and New York. The unions reason that if all 10 cities can negotiate simultaneously, it will give labor the kind of bargaining chip it needs to do battle with the multinational corporations that own the nation's best hotels.
 ''They are attempting to nationalize the unions,'' said Matthew Adams, vice president of both the hotel negotiating group and the Hyatt Regency here. ''It would cripple our industry and we're simply not going to stand for it.''
 To protest the unbudging stance of the hotel group, union workers initiated a two-week strike at four hotels on Sept. 29. Two days later, the 14 hotels retaliated with a lockout.
 The mayor called last week for a 90-day cooling off period but the hotels, now using replacement workers, refused to let employees return, even though the union strike ended as planned.
 ''We've never seen this kind of action from the hotels,'' Mayor Newsom said. ''It sends a terrible message to the rest of the country that there is unrest here.'' The mayor, saying that the hotels were ''putting a gun to the head of the city,'' called the lockout a ''huge mistake.'' 
 Michael Casey, president of Local 2, called the continued lockout ''indefensible and unconscionable.'' 
 ''We have said repeatedly that all items are negotiable,'' Mr. Casey said. ''The best thing for the big hotels, the members and the city is to accept a cooling off period and end the lockout.'' 
 Union workers on the picket line last week said they were particularly unhappy with proposed wage increases, calling it ''insulting.''
 The union is seeking an increase of 55 cents an hour for each year of a two-year contract for untipped workers and an increase of 45 cents for workers who receive tips. Management has offered an annual wage increase of 20 cents an hour per year for five years, while employees who receive tips would receive an annual raise of 5 cents an hour. 
 The union contends the hotels' proposal would not compensate workers for the extra contribution employers want toward medical costs.
 Medical contributions for most employees, who now pay $10 per person per month, would gradually increase to $40 per person per month over five years. And the proposed change in eligibility requirements would leave 1,100 families without health benefits, the union said. 
 The hotels declined to give a number, but said it was substantially lower than the union's estimate and they have asked the union to substantiate its claim. 
 Mr. Adams of the hotel group said the hotels had little choice but to seek concessions, given the exploding cost of health care. The hotel group said five-year projections suggested that hotel employers would pay in total an additional $2.6 million a month just to cover San Francisco workers. 
 ''We're not an unlimited resource,'' Mr. Adams said. ''We're simply looking for some level of employee participation.'' 
 He added that with California's new worker compensation laws and tax increases, ''The cost of doing business in San Francisco is tremendous.''
 Workers on the picket line at The Fairmont and The Mark Hopkins last week said they were all too familiar with the high cost of living in San Francisco, especially on a wage of $14 to $22 an hour. Reva James-Frye, 53, a city resident and telephone operator at the Fairmont for 15 years, earns nearly $15 an hour, or about $33,000 a year. Roughly half of her paycheck goes toward rent.
 ''I can barely make ends meet now,'' Ms. James-Frye said. ''What is the point of getting a little 20-cent raise if it's going to go back in their pockets to cover health benefits.''
 Guillermina Tremillo, 27, a single mother of a 2-year-old, works two jobs to make ends meet, both at the famed Top of the Mark restaurant. Ms. Tremillo also shares a home with her entire family, including her parents and five sisters, all of whom pool wages. But four of her sisters work at San Francisco hotels and they too have been locked out. 
 ''My feelings are very hurt,'' Ms. Tremillo said. ''I do two jobs so they save one person with me. They make money with me. You give and give the most you can and they just don't care.'' 
 Mr. Adams said, however, that management wanted the employees to return to work. ''A contract can be had in fairly quick order if we can resolve the issue of term,'' he said.
 The city has already lost business because of the dispute. The American Anthropological Association, for example, decided to move its November conference to Atlanta in support of the union, a decision that has cost the city $3.2 million, according to the San Francisco Convention and Visitors Bureau. 
 With hotel management and the unions so far apart on several issues, the two sides are not expected to reach a contract agreement soon. 
 The union late last week heard that workers would be eligible for unemployment benefits, which the union said could allow workers to withstand the lockout for up to six months.
 Locked out workers from the Sheraton Palace flew to Waikiki on Friday to set up picket lines and a one-day action at two other Sheraton hotels there, ''to deliver the message that we won't be isolated to San Francisco,'' said Mr. Casey of Local 2. And San Francisco has received a show of support from hotel unions negotiating in Los Angeles and Washington, D.C., where strikes have been authorized but not initiated. 
 ''The point is to get everyone together,'' Ms. James-Frye said. ''There's strength in numbers.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Locked-out workers jeered last week as a doorman crossed the picket line at the Intercontinental Mark Hopkins Hotel in San Francisco. The lockout at 14 of the city's most famed hotels is in its fifth week. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); STRIKES (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); TOURISM (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%) Hotels and Motels; Labor; Travel and Vacations; Lockouts

ORGANIZATION: UNITE HERE (54%)

PERSON: Carolyn Marshall

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



18 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Tiptoeing Leftward: Uruguayan Victor's Moment of Truth

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
After a 33-year struggle, the left has finally gained power here. But if the experience of a neighboring country like Brazil is any guide, Tabare Vazquez and his Broad Front, narrow winners in the election on Sunday, are more likely to tinker around the edges of Uruguay's problems than carry out the profound social transformation they have been promising.
 Dr. Vazquez's coalition is a rather ungainly beast, ranging from Communists to Christian Democrats, and he has sought to keep its various components happy with declarations that can be interpreted in many different ways. But his victory has awakened expectations of immediate change that are likely to be fanned by those on the left, which includes former Tupamaro guerrillas. 
 At the same time, Dr. Vazquez lacks the financial resources he needs to fulfill those promises, which in turn constrains his political maneuverability. So what will he turn out to be: an unpredictable populist like Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, or a fiscal disciplinarian like Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil?
 ''As they say at bullfights, this is the hour of truth,'' said Luis Eduardo Gonzalez, a pollster and prominent political commentator. ''There has been a lot of dubious rhetoric'' about a social revolution, he said, but if Dr. Vazquez and other Front leaders knuckle under to the harsh realities facing this country of 3.5 million, ''they will have to deny their own past history.''
 One change clearly in the offing, because it has no political cost, is in relations with Washington and Wall Street. The current president, Jorge Batlle, has been widely criticized for pursuing closer ties with the United States in response to the economic collapse that hit neighboring Argentina three years ago and quickly spilled over here, nearly bringing down a financial system that had, following American advice, opened itself up to the outside world.
 ''It was a costly error to think that this country could ever be a kind of Luxembourg on the River Plata,'' said Senator Jose Mujica, leader of the Front's dominant Tupamaro faction. ''That can never work, because our neighbors are Brazil and Argentina, not France and Germany.''
 A week ago, the deputy United States trade negotiator, Peter Allgeier, was here to sign an investment treaty with Uruguay. But with Dr. Vazquez's victory, doubts about the future of the accord, which needs approval by a Congress in which the Front will have a majority in both houses, are suddenly being raised.
 ''We are not familiar with this treaty,'' Dr. Vazquez said when asked at a news conference here on Friday whether he supported the agreement. ''We will only be able to respond after we have had a chance to see and analyze it.''
 And while the Front has backed away from its support of an Argentine-style default on the country's foreign debt, Dr. Vazquez has said he will insist that the International Monetary Fund ease up on Uruguay. Everyone, he said last week, needs to show ''profound social sensibility to deal with the social emergency the country faces,'' including the international community.
 For the most part, though, the new government is likely to follow a program of economic orthodoxy. In recent interviews, Sen. Danilo Astori, a moderate whom Dr. Vazquez has designated as his economy minister, has repeatedly said he plans to ''follow the example of Lula,'' a reference to President da Silva of Brazil and the market-friendly policies he has pursued.
 ''It won't be a copy of Brazil, but we also think it is possible to change the country while being prudent in managing public accounts and maintaining stability in monetary and foreign exchange policy,'' Senator Astori said in an interview here late last week. ''Uruguay is much more vulnerable than Brazil and has a much weaker economy, so we will have to be much more cautious than Brazil.''
 The promise to follow Brazil's conservative fiscal example has reassured many of the money managers who feared the worst when Mr. da Silva was elected two years ago. ''Everything is normal,'' one banker said. ''Nobody is nervous, and money isn't leaving the country.''
 But Mr. da Silva's example also illustrates the pitfalls of promising profound, almost immediate, change and then failing to deliver. In municipal elections on Sunday, his Workers' Party lost not only in Sao Paulo, Brazil's largest city and the party's birthplace, but also in Porto Alegre, a onetime stronghold where the Workers' Party had been in power for 16 years. 
 ''The front has to carry out the program it promised us,'' said Maria Antonia Bello, 66, a widow who has seen the value of her pension reduced drastically by the economic crisis. ''If not, the people will protest, and when it comes time to vote again, we will throw them out. We're not going to accept another neoliberal government, indifferent to people's social needs.''
 But it is precisely the restoration of those health, education and housing benefits cut by past governments that will be most difficult to carry out. ''We have criticized things that we are going to have to carry out ourselves,'' Mr. Astori acknowledged. ''It's going to be just like in Brazil.''
 No need to worry; the situation is manageable, argues Mr. Mujica, who is expected to be appointed production minister, overseeing activities ranging from agriculture to industry. After waiting a generation for the front to assume power, he said, most of its supporters on the traditional left do not expect miracles and can be persuaded to be patient.
 ''This supposed dichotomy is a bit puerile and simplistic,'' he said. ''What people outside our coalition don't understand is that even though we have built a culture of diversity of opinion over the past 30 years, when we make a decision, we carry it out. If the day comes when there is something I can't accept, then I will go home.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tabare Vazquez, left, and his running mate, Rodolfo Nin Novoa, claimed victory Sunday night in Uruguay's presidential election. (Photo by Pablo Porciuncula/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%) Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (52%) Larry Rohter; Tabare Vazquez

GEOGRAPHIC: URUGUAY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (77%) Uruguay

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



19 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; MARATHON; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Field of 36,000 Has Its Local Critics

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

 BODY:
Now that twice as many people attempt to enter the New York City Marathon as are accepted through a lottery system, some local runners have begun to feel squeezed out of autumn's pre-eminent 26.2-mile race.
 Some 78,000 runners applied for a spot in Sunday's field of 36,000, according to organizers, who say they try to split the race into equal parts international, national and local.
 The race's popularity has brought an inevitable clash of perspectives. Organizers say they want to accommodate New Yorkers, but they also want the race to reflect the city's diversity and to serve as a postcard for tourism. 
 Meanwhile, some local runners say they feel excluded from a race that courses through the place where they live and train and pay taxes.
 ''New York is the most diverse, multicultural city in the world,'' said Mary Wittenberg, associate director of the marathon. ''We shouldn't have an event of this magnitude that does anything but reflect the city. Our tag line has been, 'Where the world comes to run.'''
 The race pumps about $150 million into the local economy; national and international runners stay in the city's hotels, eat in its restaurants and visit Broadway and other attractions, race organizers said.
 Most of the approximately 12,000 international runners who enter do so through tour-group packages, not through the lottery. These runners pay $110 to $200 for guaranteed entry, organizers said. Members of the New York Road Runners, the club that organizes the race, pay a $70 entry fee, while other American runners pay $80.
 Some New Yorkers say outsiders are given preferential treatment. Those critics are seeking greater access to the marathon because, they say, it is a local race and their taxes help pay for the thousands of police, fire, emergency and custodial personnel employed on race day.
 ''This is not a private race,'' Richard Wright, 31, of Manhattan, said in a telephone interview. ''It's like universities, who give preference to people who live in-state. Why? Because they pay taxes.''
 Wright said he ran the New York City Marathon last year, gaining a lottery entry after two earlier failures. He has started a Web site -- rrny.org -- and is asking runners to sign an online petition in an attempt to ensure better opportunities for local participants.
 One who signed the petition is Maxine Joyner, 52, of Manhattan, who works as a volunteer at the marathon.
 ''I know a lot of New Yorkers who can't get a space; it's sad,'' Joyner said in a telephone interview. ''It's not the New York City Marathon; it's only held here.''
 Being a New York City taxpayer doesn't guarantee entry into the marathon any more than it guarantees entry into Yankee Stadium, said Allan Steinfeld, director of the marathon and president of the road runners club. Still, organizers say they are sensitive to the concerns of locals and have implemented several ways to facilitate entry. One, athletes can join the New York Road Runners and run nine club-sponsored races -- from 1 mile to 26.2 miles in a calendar year -- and gain automatic entry into the New York City Marathon the next year. About 4,500 runners have entered the marathon through this method in each of the past two years, Wittenberg, the associate race director, said.
 Two, runners can gain automatic entry by meeting time standards posted on the club's Web site, nyrrc.org. For instance, a man between 40 and 49 who runs any marathon in three hours or any half-marathon in 1 hour 24 minutes this year gets a guaranteed spot in the 2005 New York City Marathon.
 Three, any runner who fails to get into the race via the lottery for three consecutive years is guaranteed a spot in the fourth year. Also, runners who cancel before his year's race -- as late as the night before -- are entered next year. Those who have completed 15 or more New York City Marathons are also given automatic entry.
 ''If you are a committed New Yorker and plan one and a half years in advance, you get in the race,'' Wittenberg said. ''That's not true anywhere else.''
 Of the 30,000 entrants from the New York City/New Jersey/Connecticut region, about 17,000 were accepted this year, with expectations that several thousand of them would not show up for the race, organizers said.
 Some locals believe the time standards are too stringent for many recreational runners. Others say they don't have the time or the money to join New York Road Runners, which charges $35 for a membership and $11 to $22 to run in each of nine club-sponsored races, just for a chance to enter the marathon.
 Others accuse race officials of profiteering, but organizers note that New York Road Runners is a nonprofit organization.
 The New York City Marathon accounted for $13.5 million of the running club's $22 million in revenue for 2003, club officials said. Any profit is reinvested to help finance the more than 60 other races the club sponsors yearly, as well as exercise classes, nutrition lectures and walking classes that the club manages as part of its larger mission to promote health and fitness in the city, club officials said.
 One way to include more local runners in the marathon would be to increase the size of the field to, say, 50,000 entrants. But organizers say this would exacerbate crowding -- at the staging area at Fort Wadsworth on Staten Island, at the start of the race on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and at the finish line in Central Park -- and could lead to jostling of runners at water stations and narrower spots along the course.
 The lottery system was introduced in the early 1980's, as the field continued to swell annually from the inaugural entry of 127 runners in 1970. The New York Road Runners does not hire an outside auditor to conduct the lottery, but rather uses a computerized system that attempts to fairly select a broad-based field of entrants, organizers said.
 The Web site started by Wright has provoked vigorous debate. Some who think the system works just fine accuse supposedly sophisticated locals of being parochial whiners.
 ''What are you New Yorkers going to hog next? Poetry?'' wrote one person under the alias Killertomato. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARATHONS (92%); RUNNING (92%); INTERVIEWS (88%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); RESTAURANTS (65%); PETITIONS (63%) Running; New York City Marathon; Marathon Running

PERSON: Jere Longman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



20 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Japan Issues New Currency To Foil Forgers

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
For the first time in 20 years, Japan has redesigned its bank notes, issuing a pretty new series of bills on Monday that feature rabbit-ear irises, the first formal portrait of a woman on a Japanese bank note, and, of course, the requisite image of a snow-capped Mount Fuji, framed in cherry blossoms.
 Unlike the currency changes once common in South America's inflationary economies, no zeros were lopped off the notes of deflationary Japan. With one United States dollar now worth 106 yen, the new 1,000-yen note is worth $9.45, the new 5,000-yen bill is worth $47.27, and the new 10,000-yen note is worth $94.50.
 Ostensibly, the newly designed notes that will flood into A.T.M.'s this week were introduced to foil counterfeiters. In 1998, only 800 cases of forged yen notes were detected. But with home computers, printers and copiers becoming increasingly sophisticated, 14,000 fake bills were found in the first half of this year, the National Police Agency said. 
 ''The main reason for issuing new bank notes is the prevention of bank note counterfeits,'' Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, said Monday at the Bank of Japan, the first visit there by a prime minister since 1986. 
 ''This must make counterfeits difficult,'' he said after inspecting the new bills, which have holograms, watermarks and special inks.
 Counterfeiting probably costs Japan only $1 million a year in direct losses. Most fake bills, generally 1,000-yen notes, are swallowed by vending machines, Japan's ubiquitous mechanical purveyors of drinks and cigarettes. Introducing the new currency will cost hundreds of millions of dollars, partly to issue 10 billion new bank notes, and partly to modify the 1.8 million vending machines in Japan.
 The high cost suggests another agenda, which appears to be flushing out hidden money. The currency shift is an attempt to bring into the economy trillions of yen that Japan's elderly keep stashed at home.
 ''The trick in Japan is to unlock the mattress money, the futon money,'' Jesper Koll, chief economist for Merrill Lynch Japan, said. ''In Japan, coins and notes account for about 15 percent of national income, which compares to 6 percent in Germany and 3 to 3.5 percent in America.''
 Until Japan's banking crisis hit a decade ago, 7 percent of the national income was held in cash. Now, with the banks increasingly stable, the government hopes to lure some of the $700 billion in mattress money into banks, or better yet into consumer spending and investments.
 The new 1,000-yen bill features Hideyo Noguchi, a scientist credited with isolating the bacteria that causes syphilis. The 5,000-yen bill has the portrait of Higuchi Ichiyo, a novelist of the late 19th century who wrote of the unhappy, restricted lives of Japanese women. She died of tuberculosis at age 24. The 10,000-yen note continues to use the image of Yukichi Fukuzawa, a 19th-century educator known as the founder of Keio University.
 Kyodo News said the new bills benefited from ''the world's most advanced printing technologies to prevent counterfeiting.'' But forgers may already be at work. Earlier this month, a stolen test print of the new 1,000-yen bill was briefly put up for auction on an Internet site. 
 Although the old notes are to be withdrawn from circulation two years from now, there is no fixed date for their sunset as legal tender.
 Even so, Japanese authorities evidently hope that the prime minister's visit to the Bank of Japan will send a signal to people hoarding cash that they should turn in their money. About two-thirds of cash in Japan is held by people over 65 years old. The act of bringing cash to a bank may prompt some to spend it.
 ''I hope it will help put the economy on a firm recovery path,'' Mr. Koizumi said at the central bank Monday.
 Standing nearby, Toshihiko Fukui, the central bank governor, told reporters: ''I believe the new bank notes will lift people's spirits and contribute to forming a new, dynamic Japanese economic society.''
 On Friday, the Bank of Japan predicted that prices would inch higher in 2005, ending the deflation that began in May 1998. But not all of Japan's cash hoarders are little old ladies who might be tempted to buy kimonos for their granddaughters.
 About 5 percent of the economy is believed to be operated off the books, either by tax evaders or by members of yakuza, or criminal mobs, to hide ill-gotten gains.
 ''Because there is so much cash out there in the underground economy, they may not want to trade it in for cash, they may want to buy things,'' Robert Alan Feldman, chief economist for Morgan Stanley Japan, said of the criminal cash hoarders. ''The problem is that there is no particular deadline to turn in your cash.''
 Mr. Koll, another skeptic, said: ''You can play around with changing notes. But will the cash actually go into the economy or back into the mattress? That is the million-dollar question.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The new bank notes issued yesterday were the first in 20 years, and one is the first to bear the image of a woman, the novelist Higuchi Ichiyo. (Photo by Koji Sasahara/Associated Press)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (95%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); VENDING MACHINES (86%); US DOLLAR (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TRENDS (71%); DEFLATION (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (68%); POLICE FORCES (67%); BACTERIA (50%) Currency; Counterfeit Money and Financial Instruments; Economic Conditions and Trends; Aged

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (55%); MERRILL LYNCH JAPAN SECURITIES CO LTD (52%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%)

PERSON: Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi; James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (91%); GERMANY (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



21 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Inmate Convicted in '86 Prison Murder Gets New Trial

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: PLATTSBURGH, N.Y., Nov. 1 

 BODY:
A county judge on Monday penciled in a Dec. 6 date for a new trial in the case of an illegal Chinese immigrant whose conviction for the murder of a fellow inmate in 1986 was overturned by a state appellate court last month. 
 The immigrant, David Wong, was convicted of fatally stabbing Tyrone Julius at the Clinton state prison in Dannemora, about 17 miles west of here . 
 Despite the lack of physical evidence or obvious motive, Mr. Wong, who was already serving time for armed robbery, was found guilty based on the testimony of two witnesses, and sentenced to 25 years to life in prison. 
 Mr. Wong's first significant victory came on Oct. 21, when five New York State appellate judges overturned the murder conviction and returned the case to Clinton County Court. The decision was the culmination of a long campaign for Mr. Wong, whose cause was first taken up by Asian-American advocates shortly after his 1987 conviction. Articles in The New York Times and inquiries by a Manhattan private investigator, coupled with the reversal of testimony by a crucial witness, raised doubts about Mr. Wong's guilt. 
 Judge Timothy J. Lawliss announced on Monday that jury selection for Mr. Wong would start Dec. 6. Since Mr. Wong, 42, has fulfilled his sentence for the robbery conviction, he is now being held at the county jail on $100,000 bail, awaiting the next phase, be it trial, deportation or freedom.
 In an interview after the 15-minute proceeding, Richard E. Cantwell, the Clinton County district attorney, who did not handle the original trial, said his office was taking the prospect of a new trial ''quite seriously.'' But he added, ''what bothered me was the physical evidence. There are so many things that I have to be satisfied with before I go to trial.''
 In an interview outside the courthouse, Jaykumar A. Menon, a lawyer for Mr. Wong, promised to file a motion soon to dismiss what he called a ''farce'' of a case. ''All the evidence is clearly on our side,'' he said, surrounded by local supporters and relatives of Mr. Wong from New York City. But even if the charges are dismissed, Mr. Wong faces another legal hurdle: He could be immediately deported to China upon his release.
 ''His situation is not great,'' Mr. Menon said. ''We're working hard, but I think it's likely that he'll go back.'' 
 To prosecutors and correction officials, the case has been straightforward, resting on the witness who did not recant -- a well-regarded correction officer named Richard LaPierre. At the first trial, he testified that he saw the stabbing from an 80-foot tower 120 yards away.
 To critics, though, Mr. Wong has been a scapegoat in a criminal justice system biased against poor immigrants. And given the economic importance of the prison industry in northern New York, and the fact that Judge Lawliss and Mr. Cantwell used to be law partners, these critics are now worried whether Mr. Wong will be able to get a fair trial. But in a recent interview with The New York Law Journal, Mr. Cantwell said his professional relationship with Judge Lawliss ended almost four years ago, and that most lawyers in this upstate city know each other. 
 The odyssey for Mr. Wong, a former Chinatown bus boy who was serving 81/3. to 25 years for his part in the robbery of his boss's home on Long Island, began on a snowy afternoon in March 1986, when someone buried a 5-inch shank in Mr. Julius's neck. Of the 70 to 100 inmates in the area, only Mr. Wong and an inmate from Hong Kong, Tse Kin Cheung, were searched. Investigators found neither blood nor a weapon on either man. Still, Mr. Wong was convicted, on the basis of testimony from Mr. LaPierre and Peter DellFava, another inmate.
 After Mr. Cheung began writing letters to Asian-American community leaders, protesting that Mr. Wong had been framed, a group of New York City activists formed the David Wong Support Committee. Eventually, fresh anecdotal evidence emerged, including statements from Mr. Julius's widow supporting Mr. Wong's arguments, and from former inmates saying that Mr. Julius was murdered by a rival, Nelson Gutierrez, who died in 2000.
 Last October, Judge Lawliss rejected a motion for a new trial, saying that Mr. DellFava, who had since been released from prison, seemed insincere and the inmates' testimony ''preposterous.'' But Mr. Wong's lawyers appealed. In a five-page order, the judges, while acknowledging that county judges are ''generally accorded great deference,'' said that Mr. DellFava's reversal came across as credible, given ''his apparent belief that he could be prosecuted for perjury.'' They questioned the accuracy of Mr. LaPierre's testimony. And they said the stab wound to Mr. Julius should have ''created a sufficient amount of blood to have splattered over the perpetrator.''
 Since the decision, Mr. Wong's lawyers have been unable to track down Mr. DellFava. But if he does surface, he may be subject to a perjury charge, Mr. Cantwell said.
 Mr. Wong did not say anything at the proceeding, but smiled at the two dozen supporters who packed the courtroom. These included Fei Yeung, Mr. Wong's niece, who lives in Bushwick, Brooklyn, and is an engineering student at City College.
 Ms. Yeung had a lot of things to say to Mr. Wong. But later, when she saw him outside the courthouse, her eyes moistened, and her voice cracked. The only thing she could say was ''uncle,'' in their native Fuzhou dialect.


GRAPHIC: Photo: David Wong's case has been a rallying cry for many activists. (Photo by Michael J. Okoniewski)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (92%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (91%); JUDGES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); WITNESSES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); APPEALS (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); JURY DUTY (73%); BAIL (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ROBBERY (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



22 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise as Oil Drops To Lowest Price in 4 Weeks

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday after oil prices tumbled to a four-week low. Doubts about the outcome of the presidential election weighed on benchmark indexes.
 ''We are very much tied to the oil market,'' said Bob O'Brien, head of equity trading at Evergreen Investment Management in Boston. ''The election may not be clear-cut and could drag on for a period of time -- that's the primary concern.'' 
 Companies most sensitive to economic growth, like United Technologies, were the biggest contributors to the gain in the Dow Jones industrial average. Merck slumped, leaving the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index little changed, after The Wall Street Journal reported that the company fought for years to keep selling its Vioxx painkiller as safety risks surfaced.
 The Dow average rose 26.92 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,054.39. The index gained for a fifth day -- its longest rally since Aug. 2. The S.&P. 500 added 0.31 point, to 1,130.51. The Nasdaq composite index increased 4.88, or 0.3 percent, to 1,979.87, led by shares of PeopleSoft.
 Seven stocks advanced for every five that declined on the New York Exchange, and some 1.4 billion shares changed hands there, 5 percent more than the three-month daily average.
 Crude oil for December delivery dropped $1.63, to $50.13, in New York on speculation that growth in demand will ease as supplies increase. 
 So-called cyclical shares climbed as oil's drop eased concern that higher fuel costs would slow the economy. United Technologies, the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet engines, added $1.98, to $94.80. Honeywell International, the world's biggest maker of cockpit electronics, rose $1.36, to $35.04. The two stocks made up almost all of the Dow average's gain.
 Benchmark indexes traded in a narrow range on the day before the election. The S.&P. 500's gains and losses spanned a 5.90-point range, almost half its average daily range this year.
 Stocks may eventually gain once a winner is chosen, said Benjamin Pace, chief investment officer at Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management. 
 ''Getting through the uncertainty is going to be so important,'' Mr. Pace said. ''We are calling for a year-end rally, regardless of who wins.''
 The Dow average reached its low for the day after an industry report showed manufacturing expanded at a slower pace than forecast in October. The Institute for Supply Management's index declined to 56.8 from 58.5 in September. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey expected 58.5.
 Merck, the No.2 drug maker, fell $3.03, to $28.28. The Wall Street Journal cited internal Merck documents and marketing materials that tie Vioxx to heart risks, including a 2000 e-mail message from Edward Scolnick, then the company's research chief. A Merck spokesman, Tony Plohoros, said the materials might have been taken out of context. 
 PeopleSoft jumped $2.16, or 10 percent, to $22.93. Oracle raised its offer for the company to $24 a share from $21, increasing the pressure on PeopleSoft to give up its 17-month fight against the bid. Oracle added 9 cents, to $12.75.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 12/32, to a price of 101 14/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.07 percent from 4.02 percent on Friday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.507	98.918	High Rate	1.950	2.140	Investment Rate	1.987	2.193	Low Rate	1.910	2.100	Median Rate	1.930	2.130	Total applied for	$45,374,713	$42,686,507	Accepted	$27,918,733	$25,663,282	Noncompetitive	$1,533,846	$1,085,312	

Both issues are dated Nov. 04, 2004. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 03, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on May 05, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills from July through October.(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (89%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTS MFG (63%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); WELLS FARGO & CO (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); PRATT & WHITNEY (53%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (53%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (58%); UTX (NYSE) (57%); HON (NYSE) (53%); HON (LSE) (53%); DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (53%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (53%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



23 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1921 words

HEADLINE: Textile Quotas to End Soon, Punishing Carolina Mill Towns

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: KANNAPOLIS, N.C. 

 BODY:
Leann Harrington's experience losing her job has an all-too-familiar ring, one that is soon likely to be heard with even greater frequency.
 The textile plant where she was employed shut down last year, a victim of fierce foreign competition. After scrambling, she was lucky to land a job as manager and waitress at the Towel City Junction Cafe, earning $3 an hour plus tips, a fraction of her factory wages.
 For many years, textile and clothing factories in the mill towns of the Carolinas -- originally drawn from New York and New England decades ago by the prospect of inexpensive nonunion workers -- have been closing one after another as the industry migrated abroad in search of ever-cheaper labor. Now, this gradual loss may be about to turn into a rout. 
 On Jan. 1, the global system of country-by-country quotas regulating the $495 billion international trade in textiles and apparel is scheduled to be eliminated. That will transform the vast business in ways that were barely glimpsed a decade ago, when the newly created World Trade Organization went along with the demands of developing countries and agreed to phase out the quotas imposed by advanced nations to protect their own industries.
 Today, though, poor countries at the bottom of the economic ladder, like Cambodia and Bangladesh, have a new fear: China. It is the colossus in the field, home to a seemingly endless supply of workers available to feed vast numbers of suppliers operating with high efficiency and low costs in ways that threaten to overwhelm competition from developing countries except India, Pakistan and Brazil.
 For China and other big developing nations with expanding apparel industries, the end of the quotas will mean tens of millions of new factory jobs for people without work or barely scraping out a living.
 But for dozens of even poorer Asian and African countries now relying on their clothing exports to gain a foothold in the global economy, it could be still another bitter pill to swallow. The quotas they fought so hard to eliminate had ensured that their products would have at least a narrow opening in American and European markets. 
 Without rules, though, restricting how much fabric or how many garments they can buy from any country, name brands and merchants like Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren, J.C. Penney and the Gap will purchase most of what they want from five or six countries, not the 50-plus countries that are now part of their networks. 
 Meanwhile, here in the slowly beating heart of the remaining American textile industry, workers and owners of factories still operating along a stretch of Interstate 85 from Charlotte to Greensboro see the dawning of 2005 as a death sentence. More companies, they fear, will go bankrupt. More communities will wither like Kannapolis, and thousands more workers will be desperate for training, employment and health insurance.
 In hopes of staving off the worst, politicians in the Southeast from both parties are taking advantage of the close outlook for the presidential election to win last-minute concessions from the White House that could slow the flood of imports from China.
 And, seriously weakened as it is, the American textile and apparel industry is still flexing its political muscles. [On Oct. 29, days before the election, the Bush administration accepted the industry's petition seeking relief, promising to consider special steps to limit Chinese exports.]
 Most experts expect that China, left unimpeded, will gain almost half the global apparel market. Its factories now make about 20 percent of the clothing and textiles sold in the United States; China is expected to capture as much as 70 percent of that market, potentially leading to the closing of half the surviving American mills and layoffs for tens of thousands more workers.
 Fashion executives say that those fears are exaggerated and that American manufacturers have already weathered the worst.
 ''Yes, China will benefit because of the quality of its goods,'' said Robert J. Zane, senior vice president for sourcing, manufacturing, logistics and distribution at Liz Claiborne in New York. ''But it will be more at the expense of other Asian countries than at the expense of the American industry.''
 And lost in the swirl of anxiety are the benefits that the change will bring to tens of millions of consumers. Americans alone are expected to save an estimated $6 billion in lower-cost goods once the quotas are gone, allowing clothing makers and designers from New York to Milan the freedom to choose factories based on cost and quality rather than a complicated system of 1,300 categories for every nation.
 But that is little consolation to this Carolina community of 36,000, which was reduced to an economic ghost town in little more than a year once Pillowtex, Ms. Harrington's former employer, fell into bankruptcy. The residents have remained, but the factories are being dismantled and the stores and shops shuttered on Main Street after this one-industry town lost its industry.
 ''I think the middle class is pretty much gone here,'' Ms. Harrington said as she cleared tables in the classic cafe of black-and-white-tile floor and red leather booths. ''In one year our receipts in the cafe have been cut in half. People are starting to lose their unemployment benefits, and then there will be nothing left.''
 She had to compete for a job against more than 4,000 other workers who lost work when the mills that once made Cannon towels and sheets closed in July 2003.
 While American consumers' household budgets will benefit from lower prices for blouses and pillowcases, the shock to the affected workers and communities will be immediate and gut-wrenching. 
 ''The end of the textile quotas will act like the tipping point on trade,'' said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International in New York. ''If we want to continue to enjoy public support toward moving toward more open trade, we have to do a lot more to help people dislocated by trade.''
 Dislocation is an understatement for what has happened to the people in this town.
 ''For generations, everyone worked in textiles -- your mama or your daddy or your granddaddy,'' said Audrey Beaver, whose mother worked at the old Cannon mills until the bitter end.
 Kannapolis grew up around the mills built in 1906 by James William Cannon. Identical row houses line the streets radiating from the empty factories that once employed 20,000. The cold smokestacks still rise above the town, but teams of machines and men in hard hats are tearing down the mills, with the machinery, scrap wood and metal being sold to the highest bidders.
 Despite the grim employment picture, families have refused to move away from aging parents or new grandchildren. So fathers and mothers are searching for jobs in Charlotte and Greensboro, growing white-collar cities with service industries, and accepting long commuting times.
 The United States, unlike other wealthy nations, provides little support for companies and workers who lose out in the global marketplace. Current trade adjustment assistance, largely aimed at training workers for new jobs, was denounced by factory owners and union officials in this region as too little and too difficult.
 ''The high-tech jobs never came to our town,'' said Delores Gambrell, 52, who is a former union organizer at the mill, ''and the only good jobs are going to young people under 45 years of age. We've had to refinance our home. We're penny-pinching as much as we can, and I still don't know if we'll make it.''
 Her family's savings are gone and so, too, are the college plans of her youngest son, who was the first in the family to win acceptance at the University of North Carolina. 
 Union members and managers who were at each other's throats over organizing drives now agree that their common enemy is whichever administration is in Washington. In their opinion, neither President Bill Clinton nor President Bush fully understood the effect trade agreements would have on American industry.
 ''All I hear from Washington is that trade is a win-win proposition,'' said John A. Emrich, chief executive of Guilford Mills in Greensboro. ''Then I look at our growing trade deficit and think about the 3,400 good people in our good factories that we had to let go, and I want someone to show me where we have won. We're talked to by Washington as if we hadn't a brain in our heads.''
 To stay afloat, Mr. Emrich shut seven factories and shifted the emphasis from producing apparel to making fabric for automobiles and for technical uses. His company's revenue fell to $500 million last year from $900 million in 1997.
 During the presidential debates, trade was barely mentioned, but it is a major topic in the closely fought Senate race in North Carolina. Erskine B. Bowles, the Democratic candidate, is the husband of Crandall C. Bowles, chief executive of Springs Industries, a surviving Carolina household textile company. He jokes in his stump speeches that he ''sleeps with the industry'' and then promises to fight against the full lifting of quotas to save jobs and factories.
 ''We have to start enforcing the trade deals we've signed before we negotiate any new ones,'' Mr. Bowles said at a visit to Guilford Technical Community College in Jamestown, N.C. ''We've lost too many jobs already.''
 His Republican opponent, Representative Richard M. Burr, is just as vocal about the pitfalls of trade agreements for the textile industry. But he argues that he has a proven record of voting against deals with China while Mr. Bowles, as chief of staff for President Clinton, promoted them.
 While such political arguments go on in the cities and towns of North Carolina, a dozen poor Asian and Pacific nations are pressing for tariff legislation in Congress that would offer them some support.
 ''This is a very crucial moment for us,'' said Roland Eng, Cambodia's ambassador to the United States. ''If we lose half of our share of the U.S. market to China, it will have a cascading effect on our economy and we would be on the brink of devastation again.''
 His fears are not exaggerated. By the end of 2005, according to a World Bank study, China is expected to control 47 percent of the world's apparel market.
 But economists argue that ultimately, the elimination of quotas will advance global growth. 
 ''The textile quota system violated all the principles of trade that prohibits discrimination against suppliers,'' said Will Martin, lead economist of the development research group at the World Bank. ''If you want a market economy, you have to allow things to change. Textiles moved from England to New England and to the Carolinas. It's hard to blame China for using the same market forces to build its own industry.''
 Some residents of Kannapolis have accepted the end of their textile industry and are looking to the popularity of stock-car racing for redemption. The town has built the Dale Earnhardt Plaza to celebrate its native son and has erected a statue of him that stands sentry over the doomed factories.
 ''Now the only people visiting here come to look at the Dale Earnhardt statue,'' Ms. Beaver said. But then, fondly recalling the son of the mill's founder, she added: ''I think it should have been a statue of Charlie Cannon. Charlie's the one who built up the mill and gave us jobs and houses, not Dale. It's not Charlie's fault what's happening now.''

Made Elsewhere
 This article is the first of a periodic series that will examine the global clothing business.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Leann Harrington, a former textile worker who these days works as a waitress in Kannapolis, N.C., said she thought that ''the middle class is pretty much gone here.'' (Photo by Neil Redmond for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Robert and Delores Gambrell, former employees, outside a closed Pillowtex factory in Kannapolis, N.C., that had produced Cannon towels. (Photo by Neil Redmond for The New York Times)(pg. C10)Chart: ''Clothing the World''China's share of worldwide exports of textiles and clothing has grown steadily for years. But that share is expected to jump next year with the end of an international quota system.Graph tracks China's global share of textile and clothing exports from 1980 through 2003.Graph tracks global share of China's textiles and clothing exports in 1995 and 2005. (2005 figures are projections)Textiles1995: 8.4%2005: 10.6%Clothing1995: 19.6%2005: 47.1%(Source by World Bank)(pg. C10)Map of North Carolina highlighting Kannapolis: More textile mill towns like Kannapolis, N.C., risk further economic atrophy in coming months. (pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); TEXTILES (90%); TEXTILE MILLS (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); PROTECTIONISM (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Apparel; International Trade and World Market; Quotas; Surveys and Series; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Shutdowns (Institutional); Apparel; Third World and Developing Countries; Protectionism (Trade)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (55%) Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (77%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%) North Carolina; South Carolina; China

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



24 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Letting Haiti Down

 BODY:
The House of Representatives is on the verge of killing a trade measure that by some accounts would create at least 100,000 new jobs in poverty-stricken Haiti in the next 18 months. The forces behind this disgrace are, as usual, textile interests in the South, along with organized labor and the lawmakers who coddle those constituencies.
 A strong Senate bill, which would give Haiti preferential access to the United States clothing and textile market, passed unanimously this summer. Clothing manufacturers, including J.C. Penney, then told members of the House Ways and Means Committee that the measure would allow them to build factories across Haiti that would employ thousands of workers making T-shirts and sweatshirts. 
 But when the measure got to the House, lawmakers misnamed it HOPE and promptly took out the main inducement to American importers and retailers: an allowance that would permit them to take lower-priced foreign fabric to be assembled in Haiti. Having effectively watered the bill down, Ways and Means Committee members headed out of town to campaign for re-election. With much left on their plate for the upcoming lame-duck session, chances are dim for fixing this measure.
 Bush administration officials said back in February that this time around, they would do the right thing in a country where per capita income barely hits $300, the unemployment rate is 80 percent and people actually make food out of mud. But the administration has remained quiet on the Haiti trade bill. Meanwhile, with rampant corruption and endemic poverty crippling Haiti, most of the country's few textile factories have shut down. American troops are long gone, and an anemic United Nations force has done little to restore hope. Haiti's apparel industry, which employed some 60,000 people in the 1980's, has shrunk to 20,000 jobs.
 A few lawmakers, including Representative Charles Rangel, indicate that they may try to revive the bill in the lame-duck session. We hope they do and that their colleagues do the right thing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TEXTILES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEXTILE MFG (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); TEXTILE MILLS (77%); FABRIC MILLS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); RETAILERS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (70%) Textiles; Editorials; International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Organized Labor

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (94%) Haiti; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



25 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Venture Firms Say Billions Were Raised In 3rd Quarter

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
Venture capital firms raised $5.54 billion in the third quarter, a 78 percent spike in fund-raising over the second quarter.
 That huge increase is already stirring worries that venture capitalists will soon be rushing to finance start-ups with dubious business prospects simply because the money is there. 
 The data, released on Monday by the National Venture Capital Association and Thomson Venture Economics, drew a mixed reaction from the association's president, Mark G. Heesen. 
 While Mr. Heesen praised venture investing as consistently providing strong returns, he warned venture capitalists to avoid the temptation of raising ever-larger funds in the coming months. 
 ''If the industry begins to take more money than can be invested successfully, performance will suffer,'' Mr. Heesen said. Steven Dow, a venture capitalist with Sevin Rosen in Palo Alto, Calif., was not so circumspect. 
 ''I think it's horrible news,'' Mr. Dow said of the increase in dollars raised. ''I think it's going to be very hard for the industry as a whole to make good returns when the committed capital in a given year exceeds $10 billion to $12 billion. And we're on a pace roughly double that.'' 
 Mr. Dow's own firm raised a new $300 million fund in July. 
 ''I think at the macro level it's obvious to everyone that there's too much money in this asset class,'' Mr. Dow said. ''But at the micro level of course every firm thinks it's different.''
 The growth in venture fund-raising came as no surprise to Catherine A. Crockett, a managing director at Grove Street Advisors, a firm in Wellesley, Mass., that invests in venture capital funds on behalf of wealthy clients.
 ''Fund-raising in venture has been way off for the last several years, which is a good thing,'' Ms. Crockett said. ''So everyone was expecting that there was going to be some uptick taking place around now.''
 ''I think if we continue to see these high numbers, that would be a trend that concerned me,'' she added.
 Steven P. Bird, a partner at Focus Ventures in Palo Alto, also expected a bump in venture fund-raising given that the venture industry raised only $3.66 billion in 2002, according to Thomson Venture Economics and the National Venture Capital Association, and $10.53 billion in 2003. That follows $38.06 billion raised in 2001, and $106.03 billion raised in 2000 -- sums so large that venture firms collectively still have tens of billions of extra cash on hand. 
 ''The industry was investing a lot more than it had been raising for two and a half years,'' Mr. Bird said. 
 Now the opposite is starting to happen. The news dominating the venture industry last week was a pair of reports showing that investments in start-ups had fallen sharply in the third quarter. 
 Thomson Venture Economics and the venture capitalists' association, along with PricewaterhouseCoopers, reported that venture capitalists invested $4.3 billion in the third quarter, which means the industry raised $1.2 billion more than it spent in the quarter. 
 ''We shouldn't get too carried away based on one quarter's numbers,'' Mr. Bird said. ''But if you call back in a few quarters and tell me fund-raising's up another 78 percent, then we'll have a real problem.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (97%); FUNDRAISING (89%); TRENDS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BONDS (70%) Stocks and Bonds; Venture Capital

ORGANIZATION: National Venture Capital Assn; Thomson Venture Economics

PERSON: Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



26 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: The Netherlands: Bank's Profit Rises

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Dutch bank ABN Amro Holding said profit rose 26 percent in the third quarter as a gain from the sale of a stake in the Bank of Asia made up for a decline in mortgage lending in the United States. Net income increased to 1.05 billion euros ($1.34 billion), or 62 euro cents a share, from 832 million euros, or 51 cents a share, a year earlier, the company said. The chief executive, Rijkman Groenink, said operating profit this year would fall as higher interest rates lead to a slump in mortgage lending and refinancing in the United States. Total banking revenue decreased 1.8 percent to 4.74 billion euros, mainly from a drop of 287 million euros in mortgage revenue in the United States, ABN Amro said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (94%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Abn Amro Holding Nv

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (94%); BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



27 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Ovitz Defends Costs of Gifts Dispensed by Him at Disney

BYLINE: By RITA K. FARRELL

DATELINE: GEORGETOWN, Del., Nov. 1 

 BODY:
Michael S. Ovitz, the ousted president of the Walt Disney Company, ended five days of testimony on Monday by defending the hundreds of thousands of dollars he spent on gifts, entertainment and charitable contributions as a way to give employees a pat on the back, generate good will and soften Disney's image with power brokers.
 ''The entertainment business is very much about favors,'' Mr. Ovitz said when questioned by a lawyer for the shareholders, Steven Schulman, about the Disney character toys he handed out, and about more elaborate gifts like the $601 in jewelry and food he gave to the talk-show host David Letterman. 
 Lunch with people like Variety's editor, Peter Bart, helped ''to keep good relationships with the trades,'' Mr. Ovitz said, and a $25,000 contribution to the Museum of Modern Art, where he is a trustee, helped Disney's visibility in New York, where rivals like Time Warner donate millions. 
 In January 1997, shareholders sued Disney directors; Mr. Ovitz; and the chief executive, Michael D. Eisner, asserting that Mr. Ovitz should have been fired for gross negligence rather than being terminated without cause. They want the defendants to return Mr. Ovitz's $140 million severance package plus interest, and they say that they should have been better informed about the decision to hire Mr. Ovitz and the terms of his contract.
 In pretrial testimony, Mr. Eisner said he had been trying to hire his friend, Mr. Ovitz, for 20 years. ''I had been trying to get him on my side because I couldn't do business with him because he was too tough, so I thought he would be better to be on our side.''
 Mr. Ovitz said on Monday that he finally agreed to join Disney in August 1995, two months after his negotiations to join MCA fell through. His partner at Creative Artists Agency, Ron Meyer, got that job, just as Newsweek came out with a cover article anticipating Mr. Ovitz's move to MCA and calling him the most powerful man in Hollywood. 
 Mr. Ovitz attributed the problems of his 14 months at Disney to Mr. Eisner's failure to act when two senior executives told Mr. Ovitz on the day he was hired that they would never report to him. 
 ''I was very unhappy,'' he said, but he trusted Mr. Eisner ''1,000 percent because he said he would work it out.''
 After his testimony, Mr. Ovitz told reporters outside the courthouse that he would not know how he felt until the chancellor, William B. Chandler III, ruled.
 ''But I couldn't be happier that I had the opportunity to give my side,'' he said. ''I have been waiting for seven years to get this out and what better condition than under oath.'' 
 He said he was self-employed, working as a consultant and in investment, and making some deals.
 ''I've lost seven years of my business life and coming out of that Disney thing I was tainted,'' he said, adding that people have begun calling him after reading accounts of the trial. 
 ''My side came out,'' he said. His hope is that the ''company gets off, I get off and that verdict will allow me to move on.'' 
 Before leaving, he repeated statements that he believed that Mr. Eisner was the ''best executive in the business, but as a friend, that was not the most positive way to end a relationship of 25 years.'' 
 When asked about Mr. Eisner's statement in a deposition that they had had dinner twice in recent years, Mr. Ovitz said they had really happened to be at the same event.
 He was followed on the witness stand by Irwin Russell, a retired Disney director who was Mr. Eisner's lawyer and was instrumental in negotiating Mr. Ovitz's contract.
 Mr. Russell said that the first time he heard Mr. Ovitz speak in the 1970's he was ''very impressed'' with his intelligence and straightforwardness.
 In 1995, he drafted Mr. Ovitz's compensation package to make it consistent with the Disney compensation policies. He said the base salary of $1 million was at the lower end of the market; bonuses were awarded to make up for that; and stock options were seen as an efficient and economical way to reward employees because the company did not have to account for them as costs and the employee could deduct them from taxes.
 ''There was some dilution of shareholder equity,'' he said. ''But Wall Street and all other people seemed to accept that. Executives made substantial gains with them.'' 
 Lawyers said they expected Mr. Russell to testify the rest of a week shortened by two court holidays: Election Day on Tuesday and in Georgetown, Del., an event known since 1792 as Return Day, when rival candidates sit together in a parade intended to bury the election hatchet.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about testimony in a lawsuit by shareholders in the Walt Disney Company over the severance pay of Michael S. Ovitz, a former president, paraphrased incorrectly from remarks by Irwin Russell, a retired Disney director. He said stock options were seen as an efficient and economical way to reward employees in part because the company could deduct them from taxes; he did not say the employee could.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Irwin Russell is a former member of the board of Disney. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); LITIGATION (76%); LAWYERS (74%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); TOYS & GAMES (73%); NEGLIGENCE (67%) Suits and Litigation; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Philanthropy; Gifts

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (53%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: RON MEYER (58%); DAVID LETTERMAN (57%) Michael S Ovitz; Michael D Eisner; Rita K Farrell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%); DELAWARE, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



28 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Tired of Being in the Shadow of Citigroup, HSBC Pushes Harder Into Investment Banking

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
HSBC is emerging from the shadow of Citigroup. 
 Like Citigroup, HSBC is a global consumer and commercial banking giant. But while Citigroup has had a series of regulatory setbacks, resulting in the ouster last month of three top executives in the aftermath of the shutdown of its private banking operations in Japan, HSBC, with a strong, long-established franchise in Asia, has been running smoothly on all cylinders. HSBC's stock price and earnings growth have outpaced Citigroup's in the last year.
 Still, HSBC wants to expand in a business where it has been dwarfed by Citigroup -- investment banking. In the last two years, despite fierce competition and a lackluster market for deals, HSBC has been spending millions to hire bankers and build its merger and acquisition advisory business. 
 That strategy is a shift for HSBC. For years, its chairman, Sir John Bond, shunned the high corporate salaries commanded by the bankers specializing in these businesses and criticized the aggressive culture that came with them. 
 Now the strategy may be bearing fruit. HSBC recently scored its first big investment banking victory when it was named an adviser on a deal involving two big South African mining companies, Harmony Gold's $8.2 billion hostile bid for Gold Fields. But partly because HSBC does not have a big enough operation to sell the deal to investors in the United States, Merrill Lynch was brought in as another adviser. Last week, Harmony hired yet another adviser, Morgan Stanley. Some bankers in London said some Harmony executives were concerned that HSBC did not have enough deal experience.
 Harmony Gold's all-stock bid could be a tough sale. It is being fought by Gold Fields and it has been criticized by some Harmony shareholders, putting HSBC in just the type of pressure cooker situation that Sir John has generally tried to avoid.
 The banker hired by Sir John to build HSBC's deal-making business is no stranger to pressure. John J. Studzinski, a former Morgan Stanley banker, was hired in 2002, with a mandate to bring in enough bankers to create a deal-making dynamo. Mr. Studzinski, 48, came to London from the United States two decades ago and he made his reputation at Morgan Stanley as an adviser on deals like Unilever's successful $24.7 billion battle for Best Foods.
 Mr. Studzinski is well known for his donations to charity, his work with the homeless and his acquaintances with royalty and pop stars. He brought his preference for traveling to work in a chauffer-driven sports utility vehicle with him from Morgan Stanley, a vivid contrast with HSBC's longstanding culture of thrift. Sir John travels economy class on short flights and requires his employees to do the same. 
 When it hired Mr. Studzinski, HSBC appointed a veteran to be co-head of investment and corporate banking. Stuart Gulliver, 45, built up the bank's highly successful Asian trading operations before being called back to London. Colleagues and former employees call him the quintessential trader, with sharp wits and an equally sharp tongue.
 The unlikely pair have bypassed some of the typical pitfalls of sharing a top job by splitting their responsibilities, colleagues said. Mr. Studzinski is responsible for corporate and investment banking and Mr. Gulliver for setting up the equities and trading departments. Together, they have hired 700 bankers, and fired another 700, spending more than $400 million to build HSBC's investment banking business. 
 So far, it is hard to see major progress. HSBC is making some gains in global underwriting and ranks No.14 to date this year, up from No.16 in 2002, according to Thomson Financial. 
 Corporate and investment banking, which includes an already strong trading arm, debt issuance and transaction banking, accounted for about 27 percent of HSBC's first-half 2004 profits, bringing in $2.76 billion. That is up 27 percent from a year earlier, but much of that increase came from longstanding derivatives and foreign exchange operations.
 HSBC has advised on $18.3 billion in completed deals in the first three quarters of 2004, putting the bank at No.24 globally, down from No.16 a year ago.
 Mr. Studzinski and Mr. Gulliver declined requests for interviews.
 The company's investment banking plans are part of a three- to five-year strategy, said a spokesman, who added that they should be evaluated as such, rather than this early in the game. 
 Rival bankers are happy to note that despite Mr. Studzinski's renown and his connections, HSBC has so far not won huge debt, equity and merger deals. 
 HSBC dabbled in investment banking before, but when big bonuses were not forthcoming, its bankers left. 
 Sir John has told investors and journalists several times in the last year that he thinks there is a role for a bank that is providing straightforward advice. 
 Some experts say SBC's underlying strategic shift is sound. 
 ''If you want to play with major corporate customers, I don't know how you do it without'' having an investment bank, said H. Rodgin Cohen, chairman of the Wall Street law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell.
 Some investors still question the way the bank is approaching the business, and its commitment in the long term.
 ''You would look for an acquisition if you really want to get into that space,'' said Guy de Blonay, fund manager at New Star Asset Management, which has $100 million in global financial funds under management.
 A big investment banking acquisition is one thing that HSBC executives, including Sir John, swear they will not do. Stephen Green, HSBC's chief executive, said on Oct. 6 that HSBC does ''not need to make an investment banking acquisition to put ourselves into a highly competitive position with our clients.'' 
 His remarks came after the share price of Bear Stearns rose for several days on rumors that HSBC could be a buyer. Merrill Lynch was also considered a possible match because of the strength of its United States brokerage business. UBS was mentioned because it could be a better cultural fit than an American investment bank. 
 It is a tough time to try to become an investment bank, particularly in London, where most of Europe's financial transactions are conducted. About 10 big American and European investment banks are vying for the top spots, as well as small boutiques like Cazenove and Rothschild.
 ''Fees are going down, margins are going down, none of the eight top banks are quitting, and HSBC is saying 'We want to have a top-ranked investment banking franchise,''' a rival London banker said. ''They picked a bad time to decide this.''
 Marc Thomas, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in London, said: ''On the debt side, there's no doubt, with HSBC's corporate relations and balance sheet, it could work exceptionally. On the equity side, you have to ask if they have the advantage.''
 HSBC has won some deals besides the Harmony transaction. In June, HSBC was co-manager of the 16.5 billion Hong Kong dollar ($2.1 billion) initial public offering of Ping An Insurance of China; HSBC owned a minority stake in the company. In September, HSBC was co-manager of a $1.5 billion bond sale for Petroleos Mexicanos, Mexico's state-owned oil company. It is currently a co-adviser to the French food company Picard Surgeles, which is selling itself in an auction.
 But HSBC's long history of corporate banking got in the way of at least one other transaction. Mr. Studzinski was eager to negotiate Philip Green's planned takeover of the British retailer Marks & Spencer, but Sir John rejected the idea because HSBC is a lender to Marks & Spencer, Mr. Green said. The entrepreneur, who ultimately did not win Marks & Spencer, said that experience did not mean that he would not call on HSBC for a deal in the future.
 ''They're interested in doing business with us, and we're interested in doing business with them,'' Mr. Green said. ''They've got a big balance sheet, and they're a big bank. You'd be crazy to ignore them.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir John Bond, HSBC chairman, right, hired John J. Studzinski and gave him a mandate to build HSBC's investment banking business. (Photo by Paul Hilton/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MERGERS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); CHARITABLE GIVING (69%); CHARITIES (69%); PRIVATE BANKING (57%); MINES & MINING (51%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Banks and Banking; Wages and Salaries; Investment Banking; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Hsbc Holdings; Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (54%); UNIA (AMS) (51%); UNA (BIT) (51%); UNA (AMS) (51%); UN (NYSE) (51%); ULVR (LSE) (51%); UL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (51%)

PERSON: JOHN BOND (92%) Heather Timmons; John (Sir) Bond

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (73%); SOUTH AFRICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



29 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 938 words

PERSON: WILLIAM JOSEPHSON

HEADLINE: For Expert on Electoral College, Calls Never Stop

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
WILLIAM JOSEPHSON officially retired from his position as New York's top charity watchdog -- some would say pit bull -- last summer, but his phones are still ringing off the hook. ''How is it that I can go to lunch for an hour and come back and have nine voice mails waiting for me?'' he says grumpily. ''Doesn't anyone eat anymore?''
 His expertise on the arcane law and history of the Electoral College, coupled with his refusal to maintain an e-mail address or carry a cellphone, has fueled a telephone onslaught. Mr. Josephson, 70, had hoped to be working on long-delayed writing projects and playing the baritone horn, which he does with one arm, having lost the other to bone cancer as a teenager. 
 The calls have come from legal scholars hired by the campaigns and the parties that are preparing for a potential post-election battle and are seeking his counsel.
 Mr. Josephson's work at the New York attorney general's office, overseeing the state's vast and high-profile nonprofit sector, was supposed to have been his last job in his public life, which began when he helped found the Peace Corps.
 That pulled him into the constellation of bright, dedicated young men surrounding Sargent Shriver, the first director of the Peace Corps. ''Sarge has a remarkable knack for creating institutions that survive and somehow work,'' Mr. Josephson says. ''He made it easy to believe in the potential of public service.''
 As a corporate lawyer at Mr. Shriver's Manhattan law firm, Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson, Mr. Josephson stepped into the public arena for a variety of tasks. Victor Gotbaum, the leader of the city's largest municipal union, hired him to represent workers during New York's financial crisis in the 1970's, and for roughly four decades he helped the City University of New York issue billions of dollars in bonds to renovate its campuses. 
 In 1994, tired of straddling public and private careers, he was looking for a purely public service job to cap his career. ''I wanted to be head of the National Archives, which is one of these fabulous, neglected institutions,'' he says. He made it as far as an interview at the White House. But as the process dragged on, he eventually withdrew from contention, even though, Mr. Josephson says, ''it was my dream job.'' 
 He knew nothing about Eliot Spitzer, the New York State attorney general, when Michele Hirshman, an old and respected legal adversary who is first deputy for Mr. Spitzer, called him a few years later and asked whether he would be interested in leading the charities bureau.
 He was, and thus Mr. Josephson presided over New York's charities at a time when scrutiny of the nonprofit sector by donors and federal and state regulators increased dramatically. His first task was to protect the charitable assets of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield when it converted from a nonprofit insurer to a profit-making business, matching wits with his friend Ira Millstein, a lawyer who represented Empire. 
 His biggest challenge came after Sept. 11, 2001, when he and Mr. Spitzer forced the charities clamoring for some of the billions of dollars donated to help victims' families to collaborate. One writing project he is eager to start is the story of the attack from the point of view of state and local law enforcement officials. ''It really hasn't been told that way, and it's a great story,'' says Mr. Josephson, who watched from Mr. Spitzer's office as the twin towers fell.
 THESE days, a priority for Mr. Josephson is finishing a series of articles on Electoral College law. He started them in 1980 when the Democratic National Committee hired him to look at the issues posed by the presence of a third-party presidential candidate, John B. Anderson, which raised the possibility of disputed race. 
 In the end, Mr. Anderson won no electoral votes, but Mr. Josephson saw a law review article in his work and joined with Beverly J. Ross, then an associate at Fried, Frank, to write it. They were still working on it in 1988 -- ''I'm a very slow writer,'' Mr. Josephson says -- when he was summoned by the allies of Michael S. Dukakis, the Democratic presidential contender, who were seeking advice on the electoral college. When Ross Perot ran as an independent in 1992, he also sought the advice of Mr. Josephson, who said he had to decline because of other commitments. 
 Mr. Josephson and Ms. Ross finally wrote two articles that were used by Laurence H. Tribe, the Harvard law professor, to prepare his case before the Supreme Court on behalf of Al Gore after the 2000 election. They were cited by Justice John Paul Stevens in his dissent against the majority decision to stop the recount in Florida.
 Another close contest expected today may keep stoking the controversy over the Electoral College, but Mr. Stephenson says he doesn't expect the system to be abolished or overhauled. 
 ''We're stuck with it because it's advantageous for both big and small states, so neither would vote for a constitutional amendment to get rid of it,'' he said. ''The best we can hope for is to make the few small changes that are possible.''
 He had hoped to have a third article finished by now, but he took a detour to help Senator John Kerry's campaign in a hotly contested Wisconsin district, where Mr. Josephson and his wife, Barbara Haws, the archivist for the New York Philharmonic, have registered voters and will transport them to the polls.
 ''I'm on the 17th draft,'' says Mr. Josephson, who lives in Brooklyn Heights and still has an office at Fried, Frank. 
 ''But if my phone is any indication, this isn't a topic that's going away anytime soon.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: WILLIAM JOSEPHSON (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES LAW (90%); CHARITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); CANCER (54%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FRIED FRANK HARRIS SHRIVER & JACOBSON LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (82%); NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



30 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: City Spending Up Almost 6% in Fiscal Year

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Spending by New York City increased almost 6 percent in the fiscal year that ended in June, according to a report by the city comptroller, a pace more than twice the rate of inflation and one that puts New York's budget on track to soon top $50 billion for the first time.
 Much of the increase last year came from employee pension costs, Medicaid and interest on the city's debt, areas that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has long complained are largely beyond his administration's control. In addition, spending on education increased to $13.1 billion from $12.7 billion, according to the annual financial report, released yesterday.
 The city's contributions to its employee pension funds totaled $2.4 billion last year, up from $1.7 billion in fiscal 2003. Payments on the city's debt increased to $4.2 billion from $2.5 billion, although much of that was due to early, discretionary payments intended to reduce interest costs over the long term. 
 The report by the comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., represents the final word on the city's finances in fiscal 2004 and is the most comprehensive look back on the factors that drove municipal spending to the $47.3 billion mark. It shows that rising costs are pushing the budget closer to $50 billion, a milestone that may be reached more quickly than the city had anticipated.
 Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor, said spending on Medicaid increased to $4.3 billion from $3.9 billion. In addition, he said, some of the rise in spending was due to collective bargaining agreements with municipal labor unions that resulted in increased wages.
 ''Medicaid, pensions and other nondiscretionary spending are spiraling out of control,'' Mr. Barowitz said, adding that the rising costs ''threaten New York's ability to fund schools, cops, parks and other vital services.''
 The budget for the current fiscal year, which began in July, was projected to be $46.9 billion when Mr. Bloomberg proposed it. But in a midyear update sent to state fiscal monitors late last month, the city disclosed that it appeared more likely that spending would exceed $49 billion this year.
 The city is still forecasting a $49 billion budget for the next fiscal year. However, the Independent Budget Office, the city's nonpartisan fiscal monitor, is projecting that the actual spending totals next year will be closer to $51 billion, and even if spending increased at just the rate of inflation, currently around 2.5 percent nationally, the 2006 budget would top $50 billion.
 ''The really important thing is not that expenditures are growing, but which expenditures are growing, and why,'' said Doug Turetsky, a spokesman for the Independent Budget Office. ''It's the same things we've seen before: pensions, Medicaid and debt service.''
 While Mr. Thompson's 300-page report, full of financial tables and dry text, is not a political document, the way in which the comptroller releases it sometimes has partisan overtones.
 In November 2003, the mayor's office became irritated when Mr. Thompson pointed out, in the first sentence of a news release that accompanied that year's report, that spending on Mr. Bloomberg's watch had increased 8.5 percent the previous year. Mr. Thompson, a Democrat, is considered a potential rival of Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican, in the 2005 mayoral election.
 Yesterday's announcement had a more muted reference to the spending increase. It said that while total spending went up 6.7 percent, a more meaningful figure was 5.7 percent, which the report said took into account transfers of money to pay down debt in future years.
 ''The city crafted credible solutions to the fiscal year 2004 budget,'' Mr. Thompson said in a statement. ''To adequately prepare for projected future-year gaps, the city must adopt a similar sense of urgency in devising solutions.''
 Elsewhere in the report, Mr. Thompson offered a guarded prediction of economic growth, saying the city's outlook for 2005 ''is positive, but not very strong.'' He said continued federal aid related to the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attack was essential to help the city economy recover.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has long complained that many areas of the New York City budget are beyond his administration's control. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (79%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



31 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: OHIO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. in Ohio Can Challenge Voters at Polls

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO and ADAM LIPTAK; James Dao reported from Columbus for this article, and Adam Liptak from New York.

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, Tuesday, Nov. 2 

 BODY:
In a day of see-sawing court rulings, a Federal appeals court ruled early Tuesday morning that the Republican Party could place thousands of people inside polling places to challenge the eligibility of voters, a blow to Democrats who argued those challengers will intimidate minority voters. 
 The ruling, by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, reversed two lower courts that had blocked the challenges just a day before. It also came as squadrons of lawyers from both parties in Ohio and other swing states from Pennsylvania to Florida to New Mexico were preparing for Election Day skirmishes that will include using arcane laws that allow challenges at the polls. 
 The lawyer for a pair of Cincinnati civil rights activists who had challenged the Republican plans to challenge voters said he would appeal Tuesday morning's decision to the United State Supreme Court. 
 But it appeared likely that when Ohio polls open, the Republicans would be able to put 3,500 challengers inside polling places around the state. Democrats also planned to send more than 2,000 monitors to the polls, though they said those people would not challenge voters. 
 The cases may foreshadow lawsuits that are likely to be filed if the election is close in any state crucial to the Electoral College calculus. Lawyers for both sides are already examining disparities in election policies, nuances in court rulings and potential irregularities at polling places for material that may be used to challenge results in places where margins are paper thin.
 The battle over Election Day challenges has been most intense in Ohio, not only because the race here is so close and so vital to President Bush and Senator John Kerry, but also because the Republican Party has announced larger and more aggressive plans to challenge voters here than in other states. 
 The Republicans contend that challenging -- a practice that has been allowed under state law for decades but rarely used -- will weed out fraud often missed by election workers. Democrats assert that the challenges would disproportionately single out low-income and minority voters, which Republicans deny. 
 In their separate rulings in the lower courts, Judge Susan J. Dlott of Federal District Court in Cincinnati and Judge John R. Adams in Akron agreed that procedures already existed to prevent fraud at the voting place. And they said aggressive, time-consuming challenges inside polling stations might create chaos and delays that could intimidate voters or rob them of the chance to vote. 
 In seeking the delicate balance between preventing fraud and upholding voting rights, the judges said, the scales should tip toward voting rights. 
 ''Voter intimidation severely burdens the right to vote, and prevention of such intimidation is a compelling state interest,'' wrote Judge Dlott, who was appointed by President Bill Clinton. Judge Adams was appointed by President Bush.
 Mark Weaver, counsel to the state's Republican Party, said: ''The goal of the Ohio Republican Party is to guarantee a fair election for everyone. Each time the Democrats remove an additional safeguard, the potential for voter fraud increases.''
 Mr. Weaver argued that even if voters had been successfully challenged at the polls, they would have been allowed to cast provisional ballots, which are reviewed after Election Day to ensure that the voter is eligible. Democrats and many experts in election law say the rules for counting provisional ballots are varied and unclear, which could lead to valid ballots being rejected.
 The Ohio Republicans have repeatedly argued that the Democratic Party and allied groups have engaged in widespread fraud. On Monday, they filed a motion in state court asserting that the Democrats and an independent group, America Coming Together, which supports Senator Kerry, have been contacting Republicans and giving them incorrect information about polling locations and other Election Day issues.
 Democrats and the group denied the assertion.
 In a similar and perhaps redundant decision in New Jersey, a federal judge, Dickinson R. Debevoise, ruled Monday that the Republican National Committee and people under its control may not challenge Ohio voters using a list of 35,000 people prepared by local Republicans here. The list is based on mail returned as undeliverable.
 Judge Debevoise, ruling on a challenge filed by minority voters in Federal District Court in Newark, based his order Monday on a 1982 decision that prohibited the Republican National Committee from using so-called ballot security measures to frustrate efforts by members of minorities to vote. Judge Debevoise ruled that the 1982 decision, a consent order entered as part of a settlement in New Jersey, was national in scope and continued to be in effect.
 Lawyers for the Republicans filed an immediate appeal to the federal appeals court in Philadelphia.
 Even as the Ohio dispute was working its way through the courts, lawyers in other states were gearing up for Election Day challenges. 
 In Philadelphia, Republicans have said they plan to challenge 10,000 voters in the heavily black West Philadelphia section because of what they say are concerns of registration fraud. Democratic Party lawyers are expected to ask judges to remove the challengers if they are overly aggressive. 
 In Florida, Republicans have said they will challenge 1,700 people with felons convictions if they show up to vote. Democrats have mustered thousands of poll watchers whose job will be to ensure that voters are not intimidated. 
 In New Mexico, officials in both parties said they were placing hundreds of lawyers in polling places as monitors. Democrats have said they will not challenge voters, but Republicans have held out the possibility of doing so. 
 And in Wisconsin, a dispute over Election Day challenges was resolved amicably over the weekend when the two parties agreed to prepare a list of 5,512 people with questionable registrations, like those with discrepancies in their addresses. If those people attempt to vote, they will be asked to produce documentation showing their address. If they have no such proof, they will be allowed to vote, but their ballot will be tagged as challenged, meaning they might be rejected during a recount, officials said. 
 As the parties geared up for Election Day and beyond, it was clear both had marshaled impressive forces, though the Democrats claimed to have the edge in troop strength.
 Robert F. Bauer, the Democratic National Committee's national counsel for voter protection, said the party had assembled the biggest collection of volunteer lawyers ever.
 ''It is the largest law firm in the United States,'' Mr. Bauer said of his team. ''If we paid everyone at the prevailing market rate, it would rank among the more robust economies in the world.''
 Mindy Tucker Fletcher, a senior adviser to the Republican party in Florida, said she was unimpressed. ''Why is that something to be proud of?'' she asked, adding that ''we have lawyers in every county, and at the state level.''
 Daniel J. Hoffheimer, the state legal counsel for the Kerry campaign in Ohio, said he had recruited lead lawyers in virtually every one of the state's 88 counties. He said three issues could ripen into postelection lawsuits if the vote was close in Ohio: provisional ballots, challenges to voters and absentee ballots.
 Both sides agreed that no one knew where significant trouble would break out or what specific legal issues would be involved. But all concerned said they had tried to learn from the litigation chaos in Florida in 2000.
 ''Last time everybody was entirely unprepared,'' said Barry Richard, who represented the Bush campaign in Florida in 2000. ''We had to organize very quickly. Nobody expected it to begin with and nobody expected the magnitude of it or the length of it. We suddenly found ourselves facing three trials, any one of which could have made the difference in the election.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Nicholes, a member of a voters group, helped Tahira Mujahid familiarize herself with the voting process in Cleveland yesterday. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. A22)Chart: ''Legal Challenges on the Horizon''The results of Tuesday's election could be contested for a variety of reasons in states where the vote is very close. Here are some of the circumstances that could give rise to such challenges.NATIONWIDEProvisional ballots, required of all states for the first time, are issued to voters whose registration status is unclear when they go to the polls. Many states will not count provisional ballots cast in the wrong precinct
Democrats say minorities, who tend to move more often, may be disproportionately affected.In addition to the nonpartisan monitors sent to some jurisdictions by the Justice Department, both parties will try to station poll watchers in or around voting places. This could lead to voting delays or charges of voter intimidation, according to the Election Reform Information Project, a nonpartisan clearinghouse for election information.COLORADOVoters will decide on Election Day whether the state should divide its electoral votes in proportion to the popular vote
 if the proposal passes, opponents may take it to court, according to the Election Reform Information Project.FLORIDARepublicans contend that nearly a thousand felons without voting rights have voted already or have requested absentee ballots. Use of electronic, touchscreen voting machines in 10 counties would leave no paper trail to be used in case of a recount. On Saturday, Broward and Palm Beach County officials mailed copies of 8,000 absentee ballots that had not reached voters who had requested them. The ballots must be returned by Tuesday in order to count.MINNESOTAAfter a challenge by the American Civil Liberties Union and American Indian groups, a federal judge overturned a voter registration requirement that did not accept tribal identification cards unless the citizen lived on a reservation. An appeal is possible.OHIOTwo federal judges in separate cities ruled that party-sponsored challengers will not be allowed to question the eligibility of voters inside polling places. State Republicans have appealed both rulings.PENNSYLVANIARalph Nader's unsuccessful court battle to be included on the ballot held up the printing of absentee ballots for several weeks, leading Republicans to argue that military personnel overseas no longer had sufficient time to vote.WISCONSINPolling places will have a list of 5,500 voters whose addresses are questionable, according to the Wisconsin Republican Party. People on the list who cannot verify their addresses will have their ballots marked as being challenged and may not be counted if there is a recount.(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); APPEALS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); APPOINTMENTS (87%); CRIME PREVENTION (85%); VERDICTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ELECTION MONITORING (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%) Presidential Election of 2004; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Electoral College; Presidential Election of 2004; States (US); Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%) James Dao; Adam Liptak; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (93%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Ohio; Colorado; Florida; Minnesota; Pennsylvania; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



32 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2216 words

HEADLINE: The Revolution Will Be Posted

 BODY:
Every four years, by journalistic if not political tradition, the presidential election must be accompanied by a ''revolution.'' So what transformed politics this time around? The rise of the Web log, or blog. The commentary of bloggers -- individuals or groups posting daily, hourly or second-by-second observations of and opinions on the campaign on their own Web sites -- helped shape the 2004 race. The Op-Ed page asked bloggers from all points on the political spectrum to say what they thought was the most important event or moment of the campaign that, we hope, comes to an end today.

MICKEY KAUS,
www.kausfiles.com:
 John Kerry has been surprisingly successful running as a hawkish fighter against terrorism. Given this strategy, the most important moment of the campaign was President Bush's failure in the first debate to take Mr. Kerry's embarrassing vote against the 1991 gulf war and hang it firmly around his neck. Something like: ''Mr. Kerry, you say you want an international coalition. In 1991, we had an international coalition. You say you want United Nations support. We had United Nations support. Saddam had invaded a neighbor, unprovoked, across an internationally recognized border. And yet even then you voted against using force. Al Gore voted for the war. But you did not. If you wouldn't use force then'' etc., etc. It writes itself!
 Mr. Bush might also have pointed out that without the 1991 war, the inspection regime Mr. Kerry later valued so highly wouldn't have been installed. And if we hadn't dismantled Saddam Hussein's nuclear program in 1991, he might have been able to build the bomb. (Mr. Bush finally brought up the 1991 vote in the third debate, but still didn't make a big enough deal of it.)
 I'm for John Kerry, but George Bush let him skate past his biggest vulnerability and get back into the race.

LORIE BYRD,
www.polipundit.com:
 An important event in the 2004 campaign was the Democratic convention. My analysis of the convention, written just hours after it ended, still holds true: ''In addition to the mistake Kerry made by placing too much emphasis on Vietnam, which will give extra importance to the opposition of Kerry by vet groups, he also messed up by not addressing his two-decade-long Senate record. Not only can Bush-Cheney now point out the record of votes Kerry didn't take the opportunity to explain or defend, but they can show that Kerry is trying to hide his Senate record.''
 The convention set the stage for the advertisements from the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth and the Bush-Cheney attack on Mr. Kerry's voting record. The convention produced little momentum for Mr. Kerry, and it wasn't until his strong debate performance on Sept. 30 that he finally got back into the running. If he loses, much of the blame can be traced back to that one week in July.

JOHN HINDERAKER and SCOTT JOHNSON,
www.powerlineblog.com:
 The most important event of the campaign was the exposure of documents cited by ''60 Minutes'' in its report on President Bush's Air National Guard service as fraudulent. We participated in this exposure by asking our readers for information relevant to the documents' authenticity, and then by organizing and disseminating the information we received on topics like the typewriters of the early 1970's and arcane points of military protocol in the same era.
 We posted our observations about the ''60 Minutes'' documents on the morning of Sept. 9, the day after Dan Rather's report was broadcast. We updated the posting through the day as new information came in from readers. Within 12 hours, more than 500 other Web sites had linked to ours, millions of people were aware of the serious questions that had been raised about CBS's documents, and CBS News executives were on the defensive.
 When it became clear within a few days that the documents were indeed fake, it was widely recognized that journalism had changed forever. Never again will the mainstream news media be able to dictate the flow of information to the American people.

Ana Marie Cox,
www.wonkette.com:
 I was all set to vote for George Bush even after finding out that he wouldn't let me marry Mary Cheney if I wanted to. And when he made the pronunciation of ''Lambeau Field'' a campaign issue? It seemed fair. After all, he's proved that not knowing the names of foreign leaders is much less important than correctly pronouncing the homes of popular sports teams. Of course, he totally sold me with the debates: any man who explains a mystery bulge as bad tailoring is more than confident enough to take on the Euroweenies. But in the end, with the fate of the free world at stake and all, I've got to go with the guy who would admit that sending thousands of American soldiers and Iraqi civilians to their deaths to protect us from imaginary weapons was, in fact, a mistake.

JOANNE JACOBS,
www.joannejacobs.com:
 ''The terrorists laughed at the suffering of children, who'd gone for days without water, food or sleep, said a survivor of the Russian school seized by what A.P. calls 'rebels.'''
 That's how I started a Sept. 3 post on the Beslan massacre that killed at least 331 hostages. On Sept. 14, I linked to an Israeli newspaper article translated by another blogger about a 74-year-old teacher who died with his students: ''The terrorist allowed the teacher to wet one of the bibs of the children and pass it around to dampen the mouths of the little ones who were choking from thirst.''
 The children wore bibs. The Beslan massacre was a brutal reminder of the ruthlessness of 21st century terrorists. I'm into nuance -- till terrorists shoot fleeing children in the back. Then I want a stubborn, single-minded president who's at war with evildoers. They're at war with us.

DAVID ADESNIK,
www.oxblog.com:
 There was no single moment when America came to know for sure that Saddam Hussein didn't have weapons of mass destruction. Yet after the C.I.A.'s top weapons inspector, David Kay, told Congress in October 2003 that his team had failed to find any illegal weapons, the widespread conviction that we would find the weapons stockpiles disintegrated. From that point on, George Bush became profoundly vulnerable and a Democratic victory today became a serious possibility.
 John Kerry has not been able to capitalize on this vulnerability fully and effectively because he shared George Bush's mistaken belief. Yet imagine for a moment that Mr. Kay had found abundant stockpiles of outlawed weapons in Iraq. Would Mr. Kerry be able to insist that Mr. Bush started ''the wrong war in the wrong place and at the wrong time''? Would he be able to insist that alliances are a powerful weapon in the war on terrorism rather than a dangerous restraint on American power?
 I don't hold it against George Bush that he was wrong about Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction, since Bill Clinton and John Kerry were just as wrong. But if Mr. Bush had been right about Iraq, it would have counted strongly in his favor and I would probably be voting for him today instead of John Kerry.

GREG DJEREJIAN,
www.belgraviadispatch.com:
 One of the most important events in the campaign occurred in September during the visit to the United States of Prime Minister Ayad Allawi of Iraq.
 Until then, while I was leaning toward George Bush (despite my anger over Abu Ghraib), I remained open to the possibility of voting for John Kerry. But, as I wrote that day, I found the Kerry campaign's handling of Mr. Allawi's visit disgraceful. Joe Lockhart, a Kerry adviser, denigrated Mr. Allawi as a ''puppet.'' And Mr. Kerry himself all but called Mr. Allawi a liar during a press conference. I had hoped that instead of such sniping from the sidelines, Mr. Kerry would deign to attend Mr. Allawi's moving address to a joint session of Congress and even seek a private meeting with him. Mr. Kerry could have assured Mr. Allawi that whoever won in November, America would stand shoulder to shoulder with Iraq.
 In place of such statesmanship, however, Mr. Kerry chose to belittle Mr. Allawi.
 Aside from playing right into the handbook of Iraqi insurgents by reinforcing the notion that Mr. Allawi's government was a quisling regime, Mr. Kerry's conduct signaled a lack of real interest in Iraqi democratization. After all, Mr. Allawi embodied the beginning of Iraq's perilous journey toward genuine sovereignty. Mr. Kerry's irresponsible attacks spoke volumes.

ANN ALTHOUSE,
www.althouse.blogspot.com:
 I'd grown used to waiting for John Kerry to reveal what he would do in Iraq. Though I'd voted for Al Gore and Bill Clinton, respectively, in the last two presidential elections, I needed to hear Mr. Kerry commit to success in the war. On April 14, at an event at the City College of New York, a man challenged Mr. Kerry to explain how his plan for Iraq differed from President Bush's. Mr. Kerry responded testily, ''You're not listening.''
 I wrote on my blog at the time, ''If you still don't know what he would do differently from Bush, do you deserve to be snapped at for 'not listening'?'' After that, as I heard Mr. Kerry wriggle his way around the Iraq question one way and then another, I never forgot his willingness to blame the listener for not already seeing his answer, and my mistrust of John Kerry hardened into support for George Bush.

KEVIN DRUM,
www.washingtonmonthly.com:
 Four years ago, Vice President Al Gore bungled his first presidential debate with George Bush. He sighed theatrically, he rolled his eyes heavenward and periodically crossed the stage to loom over Mr. Bush like an impatient schoolmarm. America was not amused, and four weeks later George Bush was elected president.
 Mr. Bush, of all people, should have learned an obvious lesson from this: don't treat John Kerry the way Al Gore treated you. And yet, inexplicably, on Sept. 30 that's exactly what he did. He looked bored. He rolled his head weakly. He sounded defensive and exasperated.
 And John Kerry, who had been a steady six or seven percentage points behind in the polls, suddenly closed to within two or three points. And then kept gaining. And maybe even gained enough to win. All because Mr. Kerry looked calm and presidential during the first debate while Mr. Bush looked vaguely affronted at the mere idea of having to share a stage with him.

TOM BURKA,
www.tomburka.com:
 Even before he started his campaign in earnest this year, President Bush made a crucial and perhaps fatal misstep when he announced a manned mission to Mars in January -- and then abandoned the initiative as hastily as he had adopted it. In doing so, the president alienated the increasingly important group of voters who have given up and ''just want to get off Earth.''
 ''Bush misunderestimated the importance of the 'Get me out of here' bloc,'' said Dr. Herb Flaggellum, a former thyroid doctor-turned-pundit.
 Exit polling will almost certainly show that in a sea of issues baffling undecided voters, Mr. Bush's lack of commitment to expensive space exploration was a deciding factor in the election today. That, and his failure to wear a receiver and earpiece in the first debate.

J. Bradford DeLong,
www.j-bradford-delong.net:
 Last winter a small group of moderate Republicans tried to dislodge Vice President Dick Cheney from the ticket. Reporters for The National Journal found senior Republicans trying to generate groundswells for Mr. Cheney's replacement by former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani of New York; Secretary of State Colin Powell; Secretary of Homeland Security Tom Ridge; the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice; or Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader.
 The hope, I think, was that with Mr. Cheney out of the picture, Mr. Powell could then be the grand vizier for a ''reality-based'' security policy, and somebody like the United States trade representative, Robert Zoellick, could then be the grand vizier for a ''reality-based'' economic policy. Something similar had been accomplished in the 1980's, when James Baker, Howard Baker and George Shultz were given new responsibilities midway through the Reagan administration.
 In the 1980's the moderate Republicans tried and succeeded. In 2004 they tried and failed. And with their failure died the chance to drag the Bush administration out of incompetence and ideology.

GLENN REYNOLDS,
www.instapundit.com:
 The biggest story of this campaign was the candid admission in July by Evan Thomas, assistant managing editor of Newsweek, that the press ''wants Kerry to win.'' Though this seemed significant at the time, it was only later -- with things like CBS's bogus-document scandal, and the attempted late hit about the alleged missing explosives -- that it became clear just how right Mr. Thomas was. Mr. Thomas has since suggested that press bias is probably not as influential as he first thought, but it has been abundantly clear that the press has been in the tank for Kerry/Edwards for several months.
 People have noticed. As I wrote in August: ''Elections come and go, politicians come and go, and pretty much all of them turn out to be disappointments one way or another. But the 'Fourth Estate' is a big part of the unelected permanent government that in many ways does more to run the country than the politicians. And it's unraveling before our very eyes, which I think is the biggest story of the election so far.'' It still is.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article yesterday about the presidential campaign included an incorrect reference to the 2000 debates. Al Gore crossed the stage and approached George W. Bush in the third debate, not the first.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); DESERT STORM (72%); VETERANS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); TERRORISM (69%) Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (89%); AL GORE (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%) Mickey Kaus; Lorie Byrd; John Hinderaker; Scott Johnson; Ana Marie Cox; Joanne Jacobs; David Adesnik; Greg Djerejian; Ann Althouse; Kevin Drum; Tom Burka; J Bradford (Prof) Delong; Glenn Reynolds

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004



33 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Fearing a Vicious Circle Of Weak Finances and Low Morale

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH; Reporting for this article was contributed by Jeremy W. Peters in Detroit, Eric L. Dash in Pittsburgh and New York and Kristen A. Lee in Washington.

 BODY:
It is a management truism that low morale among workers inevitably results in low productivity, low quality, erosion of customer loyalty, and ultimately, lower profits. And US Airways employees, who have seen their pay cut by more than 20 percent and their health insurance and pension plans shrink, are certainly an unhappy lot.
 ''People are still giving 110 percent, but they are being totally beaten down,'' said Francis I. Smith, 53, a 24-year employee who handles spare-parts inventories in Pittsburgh.
 Even if they were slouching on the job, would it matter? These days, passengers are more likely to comb the Internet for cheap, convenient flights than to patronize a favorite airline. Thus, if smiling employees and squeaky-clean planes no longer woo repeat business, would scowling employees and dirty planes drive it away? 
 ''I'm not sure that employee morale is so important anymore,'' said Timothy M. Ghriskey, chief investment officer of Solaris Asset Management. ''Air travel has become a commodity, and passengers make their decisions on who's got the cheapest fare, not on whose employees are the friendliest.''
 Still, management experts say the miasma of gloom will probably take a toll, not just at US Airways, but at Delta, United and at most other airlines.
 ''Passengers can sense the attitudes, the emotion, the stress, and it carries over to their tangible impression of the company,'' said John D. Kasarda, a professor of management who specializes in airlines at the Kenan-Flagler Business School of the University of North Carolina.
 The biggest question for US Airways is whether it can survive the bad morale before the bad morale helps do it in. Company executives say they are taking steps that will improve working conditions and profitability. 
 For now, the airline seems to be hanging on. On a recent Monday afternoon, for example, Barry S. Levy flew the US Airways shuttle from Boston to La Guardia. The flight, he said, was remarkable for its unremarkability. It took off on time, flight attendants were pleasant, and customer service representatives in New York helped him book a contingency return flight on Delta, in case he missed the last shuttle home.
 ''Everyone was professional, everyone was courteous,'' Dr. Levy said. ''You would never have known the airline was in bankruptcy.'' 
 Indeed, US Airways employees seem almost proud that they are keeping their personal woes from the outside world. Dianne Fogarty, a US Airways flight attendant with 33 years of service, has lost pay and vacation days and said she was resentful that, in her view, management sees her as only ''a dollar sign.'' Nonetheless, she said, ''they will not take my work ethic, my sense of humor or my smile.'' 
 While service may not be slipping, worker productivity may be a thornier issue. It is difficult to quantify -- flight times and schedules are out of employee control, as are delays at congested airports. Still, there is anecdotal evidence that some pilots have slowed their planes and that some employees have been calling in sick more often, either out of anger or a practical desire to use up sick days before they lose them. 
 Moreover, pilots, flight attendants and tarmac workers express a mounting anger at a management they say blames employees for the company's woes at the same time that it hampers their productivity by scheduling flights that keep them waiting for hours, often without pay.
 Some contend that the airline left the field open to low-cost competitors when it eliminated direct flights from La Guardia to Florida in 2002 -- flights the airline may reinstate.
 Kevin Cogley, a maintenance mechanic in Pittsburgh with 15 years service, argued that programs US Airways has installed to reorder parts automatically, keep track of employee time and outsource maintenance have all served to reduce efficiency, not enhance it.
 ''The hourly employees have told management for years that there was waste, but management has always taken the attitude that 'father knows best,''' he said.
 US Airways officers vigorously dispute that. Christopher L. Chiames, senior vice president for corporate affairs, said management had used employee meetings, newsletters, Web casts and intranet chats to keep employees informed and to solicit suggestions. 
 ''I go out in the field, and I hear employees saying, The company never tells us anything,'' Mr. Chiames said. ''Well, we try, in every way, to explain that we're not just looking to employee pay cuts as the answer.''
 Still, airline experts say employee complaints are not totally unfounded. Many note that even though labor costs at Southwest Airlines are a high percentage of operating costs, the airline is solidly profitable. 
 These experts say that Southwest employees are generally younger, less demanding on compensation or on the privileges of seniority, and most important, more willing to accept management work rules, largely because they do not feel that management is clamping down on employee freedom to cover up its own incompetence or on compensation to pad its own pockets. ''Southwest treats its employees as a source of value, not of cost, so they work to turn planes around faster and are flexible,'' said Jody Hoffer Gittell, an assistant professor of management at the Heller School for Social Policy and Management at Brandeis University, who has written extensively about airlines. ''US Airways' biggest mistake is to view employee costs as the reason for its current troubles and the primary method to extricate itself from them.''
 With airlines cutting jobs, many US Airways employees say they see few alternatives to picking up the slack for those who have quit or call in sick. For example, US Airways has been shuttling members of a slimmed-down maintenance staff among airports. Employees are angry, but acquiescent. 
 ''It was either take the layoff or go where your seniority will hold,'' said Norbert Schwartzmiller, 31, a maintenance worker from Pittsburgh who is now assigned to the Philadelphia airport. 
 Few employees have the luxury of quitting. Take Mary Blosser, who has spent 19 years as a US Airways flight attendant. Without much technology training, Ms. Blosser said, changing careers is not easy. ''We still enjoy the job,'' she said, ''but everything has made it more difficult.''
 For others, the enjoyment is long gone, along with the high pay. ''Management is real bad,'' said Eyob Gebremedhin, 29, a ramp worker at Reagan National Airport with six years of service. ''They don't do nothing.''
 Some things, of course, are out of management's control. In addition to soaring fuel costs, US Airways and the other airlines are also facing fare-shopping passengers who fly low-cost start-ups like JetBlue. Moreover, greater congestion at hub airports like O'Hare in Chicago and La Guardia has forced planes to waste fuel in taxiing and circling and has slowed the turnaround of planes. 
 US Airways also has problems beyond those of its rivals. It concentrates on short domestic flights, rather than more profitable international routes. Four years ago, when other airlines were installing electronic passenger counters and other upgraded systems, US Airways was pursuing a merger with United Airlines; when that merger fell apart, US Airways was left with antiquated systems that it never replaced. The airline also gave up some lucrative routes to assure the government that the merger would not reduce competition. 
 In fact, some employees say that their concessions to management have made things worse. Without ''the economic sword of Damocles'' hanging over them, ''management will rise to the lowest level of performance and not schedule efficiently,'' said Eddie Hoffman, 50, a pilot who has worked at US Airways since 1978. He said his time was ''not carefully husbanded but carelessly wasted.'' 
 Mr. Hoffman acknowledges that the airline is trying new strategies, like adding profitable Caribbean routes. But he remains angry. He says his questions for management is, What took you so long? 
 Management experts say US Airways apparently has done a poor job of internal communications. ''It would help if they say, 'Here's what we've done to improve things before cutting pay, do you have ideas for what else we can do?''' said Austan D. Goolsbee, professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. 
 US Airways insists it has been doing just that. Mr. Chiames said the airline had reworked its schedules to add 200 daily flights in February without adding more planes and had identified more than $100 million in ticket distribution savings, by replacing travel agents and sales clerks with Web-based ticket sales. 
 He said that US Airways was asking only for things that employees at low-cost rivals provide. ''We'd be crazy not to acknowledge that our employees are frustrated and angry, and that their jobs aren't as glamorous anymore,'' he said. ''But they have to understand, JetBlue hires ticket agents for $9 an hour while many of ours already make $20.05, and Southwest's flight attendants have always cleaned planes between flights.'' 
 In interviews, employees often complained about what they saw as gaping discrepancies between their paychecks and those of management, even after a recent 20 percent pay cut for managers. Although business experts say US Airways needs to maintain current levels of executive salaries to attract and keep talent, employees are not mollified. They are particularly angry that Bruce R. Lakefield, the chief executive, is keeping his $425,000 salary. 
 ''I can't handle someone who makes $400,000 telling me to take a 21 percent pay cut,'' said a flight attendant who said she made about $24,000 last year and now lives paycheck to paycheck.
 Not all employees blame management exclusively for their plight. Kirk Conners, 57, a customer service representative in Detroit with 36 years seniority, say he is also mad at President Bush for not dipping into the strategic petroleum reserves to curb fuel prices, and at the industry as a whole for not raising ticket prices. 
 ''The price of airline fuel has gone up, but the price of tickets has not,'' he said. ''How much can they cut employees' wages to subsidize fuel costs? When does it end?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: US Airways employees have seen a 20 percent cut in their wages, but company executives say they are trying to improve working conditions. (Photo by Lisa Kyle for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Squeezing Labor Costs''Under pressure from their low-cost competitors, the higher-cost traditional airlines are cutting wages for mechanics, gate agents and other workers.Average annual salaryExcluding pilots and flight attendantsNorthwest++: $57,994Delta*+: 52,709US Airways: 50,226 (BEFORE 21 PERCENT WAGE REDUCTION)United++: 48,367American: 44,235Continental: 43,133JetBlue$S: 39,808US Airways+: 39,678 (AFTER 21 PERCENT WAGE REDUCTION)Southwest$S: 36,871Spirit$S: 36,664America West$S: 29,313AirTran$S: 28,189*Announced reductions of up to 10 percent for most nonunion employees, not shown++Seeking pay reductions+Have reduced pay$SLow-cost carrier(Sources by www.darinlee.net
 Department of Transportation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); WORKPLACE MORALE (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); ETHICS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); AIR SERVICE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (57%) Airlines and Airplanes; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Fringe Benefits; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: US Airways; Delta Air Lines; United Airlines 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsche

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



34 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: IN THE STATES -- THE HOUSE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: With Texas Redistricting as a Backdrop, Republicans Retain Their Majority in the House

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

 BODY:
Helped by the ouster of several incumbents in Texas, House Republicans maintained their majority yesterday as Democrats came up short in their drive to break their opponents' decade-old hold on the chamber.
 In addition to the gains achieved in Texas under a disputed redistricting plan, Republicans picked up a seat in Kentucky and successfully defended most of their threatened incumbents.
 Democrats turned out some Republicans as well, including Representative Philip M. Crane of Illinois, the longest-serving Republican in the House, who lost to a Democratic businesswoman, Melissa Bean. In Georgia, Max Burns, a freshman Republican, lost to John Barrow, a Democratic county commissioner. 
 But the Republican-engineered redistricting in Texas provided a strong buffer against those losses, with returns compiled by The Associated Press showing that most of the five Democratic incumbents thrust into new districts there would not survive.
 At midnight, Representative Thomas M. Reynolds of New York, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said he was confident his party would again control the speaker's gavel.
 ''It's been a good night for us so far,'' Mr. Reynolds said. ''Despite Democrats' claims to the contrary, Republicans will be in the majority in the 109th Congress. The only thing left to determine is how big our majority will be.''
 Among the Democrats defeated in Texas was Representative Martin Frost, a former party leader known for his political skills, who lost to Representative Pete Sessions, a Republican. In another Texas contest pitting two incumbents, Representative Charles W. Stenholm, a leading Democratic voice on fiscal issues, lost to Representative Randy Neugebauer.
 Democrats needed a net gain of 12 seats to end Republican control of the House, and with most incumbent lawmakers running without competitive opposition, that was a formidable task. A vast majority of incumbents were easily re-elected.
 In Kentucky, Democrats lost a seat when Nick Clooney, a former television newscaster who is the father of the actor George Clooney, was defeated by a Republican, Geoff Davis, returns compiled by The A.P. indicated. The seat is now held by Representative Ken Lucas, a Democrat, who is retiring.
 Anne M. Northup, a Kentucky Republican whose seat the Democrats had believed was vulnerable, won handily, defeating her Democratic challenger, Tony Miller.
 Democratic leaders had poured time and money into those contests in Kentucky as part of their strategy to recapture the House.
 Connie Mack, the son of the former senator with the same name, held the Republican seat in southwest Florida that was vacated this year when Porter J. Goss became director of central intelligence. 
 Several prominent Florida lawmakers were re-elected, including Representative C.W. Bill Young, a Republican who is chairman of the Appropriations Committee.
 Some prominent lawmakers won re-election in Ohio as well, among them Michael Oxley, chairman of the Financial Services Committee, and Bob Ney, chairman of the Committee on House Administration, both Republicans, and Dennis J. Kucinich, the last Democratic presidential candidate to keep campaigning against Senator John Kerry. 
 In Illinois, Daniel Lipinski, a Democrat, was elected to replace his father, William, who retired.
 But in a race for a vacant seat in Virginia that Democrats had hoped to win, Thelma Drake, a Republican member of the state's House of Delegates, defeated the Democrat, David Ashe, a former Marine officer and veteran of the war in Iraq. The seat is in the Tidewater area, which has a concentration of naval bases and retirees from the Navy. Representative Edward L. Schrock, a Republican, is retiring there.
 The House has become an especially partisan institution in recent years, and the party in control has managed to develop legislation without real consultation with the opposition. For the last 10 years, this has been frustrating for Democrats, who, except for a brief break in the 1950's, ran the House from the 1930's through 1994.
 Not all the races for Congress are finished, because those in some Louisiana districts are headed for runoffs in December. But Bobby Jindal, who lost a runoff for governor last year, won outright yesterday in a suburban New Orleans district. He is a former federal health official and a son of Indian immigrants.
 In trying to hold on to the House, Republicans had a big advantage, given the scarcity of truly competitive races and the Congressional redistricting in Texas that put a half-dozen Democratic seats in jeopardy in that state alone. 
 That redistricting by the State Legislature brought months of political acrimony. Democratic lawmakers fled the state for a time to deny the Republican majority a quorum and so temporarily block the redrawing of the lines, and the new map was challenged all the way to the Supreme Court. The justices, in a decision that effectively kept the new districts in place for this election, sent the matter back to a lower court last month for review. 
 Five Democratic incumbents ultimately chose to run in their new Texas districts, but just one was given a better-than-even chance of retaining his seat. All told, Republicans hoped to gain as many as seven seats in Texas, offsetting possible Northeastern and Midwestern gains by Democrats in districts with large numbers of Democratic voters where moderate Republicans held seats.
 Democrats took aim at incumbents and open seats in areas where they believed President Bush's popularity was lagging, including Connecticut, Pennsylvania, New York, Illinois, Minnesota and urban districts in and around Louisville, Ky., and Albuquerque.
 In a handful of districts, they ran advertisements tying the incumbents to Mr. Bush and his administration's policies on health care and the economy. The idea was to halt ticket splitting by voters who were opposed to Mr. Bush but might be inclined to back their local member of Congress.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Martin Frost, with his wife, Kathy, was one of the Texas Democratic incumbents who lost. (Photo by Tony Gutierrez/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REDISTRICTING (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); COUNTIES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%) Elections; Reapportionment

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (56%) House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: THOMAS M REYNOLDS (73%); JOHN BARROW (58%); MELISSA L BEAN (58%); RANDY NEUGEBAUER (58%); PETE SESSIONS (58%); CONNIE MACK (58%); C W BILL YOUNG (58%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%); GEOFF DAVIS (58%); GEORGE CLOONEY (56%) Carl Hulse; David E Rosenbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (95%); KENTUCKY, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; Texas; Kentucky; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



35 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 332 words

PERSON: Paul F. Iams

HEADLINE: Paul F. Iams, 89, Developer Of a Line of Premium Pet Foods

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
Paul F. Iams, a self-taught animal nutritionist whose pet foods bearing his name are sold in 70 countries, died Oct. 26 in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Sun City West, Ariz. The cause was complications of a broken hip, said his daughter Barbara Iams Korein.
 Mr. Iams started the Iams Food Company, now a division of Procter & Gamble, in 1946, having once worked as a dog food salesman during the Depression. Not even severe economic hardship, he learned, could deter pet owners from paying the price to feed their companions. 
 Over the course of three decades, Mr. Iams introduced Iams Plus, one of the first meat-based, high-protein dog diets; Iams Chunks, designed for adult dogs; and Eukanuba, a high-end line made with fresh meat and named after an expression of the singer Hoagy Carmichael. 
 Paul Falknor Iams was born on Aug. 11, 1915, in Dayton, Ohio, and graduated from Ohio State University in 1937. 
 After a stint selling dog food for a grain company where his father also worked, Mr. Iams sold specialty soap for Procter & Gamble. He joined the Navy during World War II and afterward opened an orange-soda franchise in Minneapolis. 
 In 1946, Mr. Iams rented a feed mill in Tipp City, Ohio, and began producing pet food for Kentucky Chemical, a large grain concern that provided him a recipe. By 1950, Mr. Iams was creating his own recipes in his own plant in Dayton.
 Upon retiring in 1982, Mr. Iams sold his stake in the Iams Food Company to his business partner, Clay Mathile, whom Mr. Iams hired in 1970. In 1999, Mr. Mathile sold the company to Procter & Gamble.
 In 1987, the Iams Company, as it is now known, opened the Paul F. Iams Technical Center, a nutritional research center in Lewisburg, Ohio. Mr. Iams's wife, the former Jane Landrum, died in 1996. He is survived by a sister, Nancy Egbert, of Sun City West; a son, Paul Iams Jr., of Wilmette, Ill.; two daughters, Barbara Iams Korein, of Chappaqua, and Carrie Terada, of Phoenix; and seven grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PET FOODS (92%); NUTRITION (90%); ANIMALS (90%); DOGS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); PET FOOD MFG (78%); PETS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); DOGFOOD & CATFOOD MFG (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); WORLD WAR II (66%); LIVESTOCK FEED MFG (65%); BONE FRACTURES (57%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: IAMS CO (65%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (65%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%)

Jennifer Bayot

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (69%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



36 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: Insurgents Blow Up an Iraqi Oil Pipeline

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Richard A. Oppel Jr. contributed reporting from Ramadi for this article, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Baghdad and Mosul.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Wednesday, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
Insurgents blew up a northern oil export pipeline on Tuesday, dealing a severe blow to the national economy, even as car bombs and gun battles across the country left at least 12 Iraqis dead, Iraqi officials said. 
 The sabotage of the northern oil pipeline forced a shutdown of crude oil exports to a port in Turkey, Iraqi officials said. The pipeline pumps out 400,000 barrels a day of crude oil and is the frequent target of sabotage.
 Hours after the explosion, firefighters were still battling the pipeline blaze near the city of Kirkuk, where pipelines run from oil fields west to the country's largest refinery in Bayji and north to Turkey. 
 An Iraqi oil official in Baghdad told The Associated Press that the amount of crude oil in storage at the port of Ceyhan in Turkey was down to four million barrels, half of the port's storage capacity. 
 The attacks on oil pipelines near Kirkuk and around Basra in the south, where the oil fields are much more extensive, have sharply cut into Iraq's main economic hope. American and Iraqi officials are relying on steady oil exports to help revive the stagnant economy in a country where the unemployment rate hovers at 60 percent.
 The Arab news network Al Jazeera reported Tuesday night that it had received a new videotape in which the kidnappers of a British-Iraqi aid official, Margaret Hassan, threaten to turn her over to the group led by the Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi within 48 hours if Britain does not withdraw its troops from Iraq.
 In the first of the bombings on Tuesday, insurgents drove a car bomb up to the Ministry of Education offices in northwestern Baghdad in the morning, killing at least six people and wounding dozens more, said Col. Adnan Abdul-Rahman, an Interior Ministry spokesman. 
 The blast took place in the Adhamiya neighborhood a Sunni-dominated area generally hostile to the Americans. People at the scene said two ministry guards in the parking lot, a father and his son, died immediately in the blast.
 In the volatile northern city of Mosul, a car bomb aimed at a military convoy near the police academy killed one person and wounded at least seven security officers, hospital officials said. The target appeared to be Maj. Gen. Rashid Flayeh, the commander of a special security force who had arrived in the city just days ago to assist the local police. He was unhurt in the blast, police officials said.
 At 1 p.m., another car bomb exploded by a convoy of Iraqi National Guardsmen in Mosul, killing two civilians and wounding seven others, hospital officials said. Clashes between insurgents and Iraqi guardsmen in the city's Widha neighborhood left three civilians dead, the officials said.
 The latest attacks came about halfway through the Islamic fasting month of Ramadan. During the holiday, the number of attacks in Iraq per day has spiked by 30 percent, and suicide car bombs appear to be an increasingly common weapon, American military officials say.
 Since April, when a two-front uprising convulsed the country, American-led forces have been unable to dampen what appears to be a growing insurgency, much of it led by disenfranchised Sunni Muslims ousted from power with the toppling of Saddam Hussein. 
 In recent weeks, American military officials have been gathering their troops for a planned invasion of the insurgent stronghold of Falluja, 35 miles west of the capital, in the hopes that crushing that sanctuary will break the backbone of the insurgency. Thousands of rebels are believed to have dug into positions in the city, awaiting the assault. 
 Prime Minister Ayad Allawi has said he is ready to call for a sweeping offensive in order to bring Falluja into his fold before elections scheduled for January. But Iraq's president, Sheik Ghazi al-Yawar, a leader of one of the largest Sunni tribes in the country, said in an interview with a Kuwaiti newspaper on Monday that he absolutely opposed any military action. 
 The break between the two strong-willed men suggests that there could be enormous political fallout in Iraq if an invasion led by the American marines goes forward.
 Marines are now engaged in some of the most intense urban combat in the country in the provincial capital of Ramadi, 30 miles west of Falluja. There, insurgents have been ambushing Marine convoys that race daily through the downtown area.
 On Monday, a freelance cameraman working for Reuters, Dhia Najim, was shot and killed while covering the fighting in the area. The American military said in a statement on Tuesday that Mr. Najim had been killed during a battle between American marines and insurgents.
 Military officials said in interviews that the cameraman had been killed by the marines as they took fire from the insurgents. One official said marines had inspected Mr. Najim's camera after the battle and found footage that showed insurgents attacking convoys. By Tuesday night, the marines had opened an investigation, the official said.
 ''We did kill him,'' he said. ''He was out with the bad guys. He was there with them, they attacked, and we fired back and hit him.''
 Reuters reported that its global managing editor, David Schlesinger, was strongly urging the American military to conduct a proper investigation and was dissatisfied with the military's statement. ''We reject the clear implication in the Marines' statement that Dhia was part of an insurgent group,'' he said.
 Mr. Najim's death brought to 36 the number of journalists who have been killed in Iraq, at least eight by American fire, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists, based in New York. Nineteen have died from insurgent actions. 
 Early Wednesday, Al Jazeera showed a short segment of a videotape of Ms. Hassan, the kidnapped aid worker, who was born in Dublin. The network said it was not broadcasting the complete tape because parts of it were too emotionally intense. Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland said in the Irish Parliament that he had read a text of the video and that it appeared ''distressing.''
 In the part shown, an insurgent wearing a dark track suit and a white cloth around his head was speaking while he held a Kalashnikov rifle. The network reported that he had said the group would turn Ms. Hassan over to Mr. Zarqawi's group within 48 hours if Britain did not withdraw its troops. 
 The Press Association, a British news agency, quoted Mr. Ahern as saying that as in two previous videos, the new tape showed Ms. Hassan pleading for her life. She faints, and then a bucketful of water is thrown over her head, and she gets up and begins crying. 
 News agencies reported Tuesday that two Iraqi guards kidnapped from an office on Monday in the affluent Baghdad neighborhood of Mansour had been released. Still missing are an unidentified American, a Nepalese and two other Iraqi guards, said Col. Abdul-Rahman, the Interior Ministry spokesman. The two released Iraqi guards were from the Falluja area, The A.P. reported. All work for a Saudi Arabian food supply company. 
 More than 160 foreigners have been kidnapped this year in Iraq, most by bandits seeking ransom. More than 30 have been killed, some in grisly videotaped beheadings posted on the Internet.
 Mr. Zarqawi's militant group posted such a video on Tuesday showing the decapitation of Shosei Koda, a 24-year-old Japanese backpacker whose body was discovered in Baghdad on Saturday. Mr. Koda's body was wrapped in an American flag, and the video showed insurgents shoving him down on that flag and slicing off his head. 
 In a separate Internet statement, the group, Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, said the Japanese government had offered a ransom of ''millions of dollars'' but had refused to withdraw its 550 troops in Iraq, prompting the group to kill Mr. Koda.
 Also on Tuesday, a supervisor in the Iraqi electoral commission, Adel al-Lami, said voter registration lists had been distributed on Monday in parts of several cities, including Baghdad, Amara and Basra. Though Monday was the first day that Iraqis collecting their food rations could receive registration lists for verification, the distribution of such lists apparently did not take place at all 540 or so food centers around the country, Mr. Lami said. The commission still has until the end of November to complete its voter rolls.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The scene in Baghdad yesterday after a car bombing at the Education Ministry offices killed six people. (Photo by Ceerwan Aziz/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (94%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); RAMADAN (67%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (63%); RELIGION (62%); HOSPITALS (60%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%) Bombs and Explosives; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Kidnapping; Hostages; News and News Media; Pipelines; Terrorism; Recordings (Video)

ORGANIZATION: Reuters Plc 

PERSON: Abu Musab Al- Zarqawi; Margaret Hassan; Dhia Najim; Edward Wong

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (99%); TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Mosul (Iraq); Ramadi (Iraq); Iraq; Turkey

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



37 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Recovery Hinges on Oil Prices

BYLINE: By TODD ZAUN

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 2 

 BODY:
Like a Japanese compact car, the nation's economy is built to go a long way on a little gas. And so, Japan should be one of the best-prepared countries in the world to deal with rising oil prices. But as oil prices linger around $50 a barrel, economists now say Japan may be among the hardest hit. 
 The Japanese economy depends less on oil than almost any nation, requiring only about half as much oil to generate $1 worth of economic growth as the United States. But while the surge in oil prices has had relatively little impact so far on corporate profits or consumer spending, the increase is beginning to take a toll on the economy by contributing to a decline in Japanese exports, the main engine of the recovery that began last year. 
 As a result, the pace of economic growth in Japan has slowed sharply from earlier this year raising concerns about the durability of the recovery.
 ''We are seeing the obvious impact of higher oil prices, which are pushing down the trade surplus,'' said Shuji Shirota, an economist at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in Tokyo. ''The rise is already affecting the Japanese economy.'' 
 Mr. Shirota recently cut his forecast for growth in Japan's gross domestic for 2005 to 0.9 percent from an earlier estimate of 1.1 percent, mostly because of the damage he expects higher oil prices will do to exports. The oil prices have not yet shown up in overall growth figures for 2004. 
 The situation highlights the extent to which Japan's recovery continues to rely on overseas markets and remains vulnerable to economic conditions abroad. Exports account for less than 15 percent of the economy. But consumer spending, which accounts for about 60 percent of the Japanese economy, has been flat or falling amid a steady decline in incomes, and many economists do not expect a rebound in incomes or consumption anytime soon. 
 Japan's economy grew at an annual pace of 1.3 percent for the second quarter of this year after expanding at a robust 6.4 percent in the first quarter, largely because of strong growth in exports of everything from cars and computers to DVD players and digital cameras. 
 But more recently, economists say, demand for many of those goods appears to be softening. Experts cite a variety of reasons, including some slowing in China, but at the top of their lists is the rise in oil prices. Japanese exports have fallen in three of the last four months, in seasonally adjusted terms. Figures released in late October showed that exports sank a seasonally adjusted 2.3 percent in September from August while the oil price increase pushed the value of imports up 2.5 percent. 
 Over all, Japan's trade surplus sank a seasonally adjusted 21.8 percent in September from a month earlier, to 816.4 billion yen ($7.7 billion). After months of largely dismissing the threat of rising fuel prices, Japan's policy makers are now warning that they consider the increase a threat to the recovery.
 The economics minister, Heizo Takenaka, said recently that a prolonged rise in oil prices was now the ''biggest risk'' facing the Japanese economy.
 With few natural resources, Japan imports nearly all of its oil. But the country has also worked hard to reduce its oil consumption, especially after supply shocks in the 1970's raised worries about the country's near total reliance on foreign oil. 
 Now, about one-third of Japan's electricity is generated by nuclear reactors, and the country hopes to raise that ratio to 40 percent by 2010. At the same time, the popularity of small fuel-efficient cars and a well-developed and widely used public transportation network mean that spending on gasoline accounts for only about 1.2 percent of the average Japanese consumer's budget, compared with about 3 percent for the average American, according to Mizuho Securities. So, even though prices at the pump have risen in Japan this year just as they have in the United States, the rise does not have as big an impact on Japanese spending habits.
 And because of the heavy concentration of high-technology companies, like Canon, Sharp and Sony, Japan's manufacturers depend less on oil than do those in its Asian neighbors, like South Korea, where shipbuilding and other heavy manufacturing make up a relatively large part of the economy. 
 ''The dynamics of the Japanese recovery are still such that it begins with export growth,'' says Ryo Hino, an economist at J.P. Morgan Chase. Mr. Hino recently cut his forecast for growth in the Japanese economy in 2005 to 2.2 percent from 2.5 percent because of the rise in oil prices.
 Despite Japan's efficient use of oil, he said, the country will not be immune from the effect of rising prices. ''You're clearly seeing signs of softness in global demand growth, and Japan seems to be the one that's really slowing the most,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A refinery near Yokohama, Japan. The nation's economics minister said that the rise in oil prices posed risks for the economy. (Photo by Torin Boyd/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CD & DVD DRIVES (68%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Gross Domestic Product

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (82%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%)

PERSON: Todd Zaun

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) KANTO, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



38 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Russian Gal Seeking Comrade? No, It's an Internet Scam

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 2 

 BODY:
As she sends e-mail with her photograph to men around the world, Nadezhda Medvedeva calls to the lonely in just the right voice. 
 If circumstances were different she might make a fine wife. She is young, brown-eyed and curvy, a pediatric dentist who quotes 19th-century poetry and cooks delicious meals. She lives near the Caspian Sea in southern Russia but is eager to travel. Her Russian is fluent; her English, not bad.
 Ms. Medvedeva is also cautious, even demure. It is only after she grows comfortable with a suitor that she will reveal the depth of her longing. Then nothing can hold her back. 
 ''Hi, my Lion!'' she wrote to Steven Rammer of Denver, Pa., as they planned a passionate rendezvous at his home. ''Hi, my soul!''
 That rendezvous never happened. Nor did another she arranged for two days later with George Palin, who waited in vain in Montana. 
 No matter how long the trail of the jilted, Nadezhda (''call me Nadia'') Medvedeva is neither a tease prone to second thoughts nor an overbooked online tramp. She is not even a person. She is bait. 
 Ms. Medvedeva is one of scores, perhaps hundreds, of fictional characters in a resurgent Internet hustle that has become a Russian boom industry this year. Using fake names, forged visas and snapshots of young Russian women, a new crop of on-line swindlers is luring Western victims into highly successful confidence games.
 Each is an escalating flirtation between an unsuspecting man and a Russian grifter masquerading as a young woman. It typically ends when the victim wires money to Russia to pay for visas and airfare for a consummation of the affair. Then the beloved disappears.
 The con first surfaced in 2001 but then subsided, Russian authorities say. It has recently returned with vigor and new sophistication. The targets are men in the United States, Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand who have posted personal advertisements on the Internet. 
 The crime has become so widespread that the United States Embassy here is receiving between 5 and 10 inquiries from American citizens about it every day, an American diplomat said. ''Some of these guys were literally left waiting at the airport with roses,'' she said. 
 Most victims lose from $300 to a few thousand dollars, although one man was defrauded of $11,000, the diplomat said. The number of men duped is at least in the hundreds, but it may be much larger. ''We only know about the victims who are willing to talk about it,'' she said. 
 Modern Russia is in many ways an incubator for such crimes. It has a highly literate population that suffers from low wages and soaring unemployment, conditions that can breed hustlers. It offers them an environment in which they can work, including uneven law enforcement and barriers to outsiders -- a language many find impenetrable, strict visa rules and vast geographical spaces -- that all but ensure that few fooled Americans could ever find the people who tricked them. 
 Mr. Rammer and Mr. Palin both gave The New York Times the correspondence they had received from the person pretending to be Ms. Medvedeva. The string of e-mail messages provides an example of how the game works.
 In June the correspondent sent an e-mail message to Mr. Rammer, replying to a personal advertisement he had posted on match.com, an online dating service. 
 It seemed a normal query, offering basic personal information -- I'm 29, 5 feet 6 inches tall, a dentist -- and then following the rituals of new acquaintance. Do you like your job? What is your favorite film? 
 A long-distance conversation began. More e-mail followed, each message with an attached photograph. 
 The character of Ms. Medvedeva was slowly revealed. She is educated but of limited means. She knows popular Western films and classical Russian music. She provides dental care to orphans. She had a boyfriend, but he beat her. Now she is alone.
 As the exchange intensified the grifter accepted pictures from Mr. Rammer, sent back compliments and answered questions he had posed. Two e-mail messages included pictures of Ms. Medvedeva in a bikini.
 On July 13 Ms. Medvedeva's character admitted it: she had fallen in love. ''In my soul, I feel contentment and joy when I think of you,'' she wrote. 
 Two days later the plot took its essential twist: her boss notified her that she had a vacation due. She wanted to visit her new man. The July 16 message began, in imperfect English, ''I with trembling heart waited your letter.'' 
 Then came the rub. Can you help with travel costs? 
 Anatoly Platonov, the spokesman for the K Department of Russia's Ministry of Internal Affairs, which investigates Internet crimes, said that the criminals who send these messages were almost always men and that they used the same scripts to correspond with hundreds, even thousands, of foreign men at once. 
 The person posing as Ms. Medvedeva was simultaneously flirting with Mr. Palin, having found his personal advertisement on yahoo.com. He received virtually identical e-mail, the only changes being his name and short answers to questions he had posed in previous exchanges. (''I with trembling heart waited your letter'' arrived on July 27.) 
 To lead the men into the trap, the poser sent them e-mail about a nervous wait for an American visa, and then a copy of the visa after it was approved. 
 The visa was a forgery, made from a scan of an authentic visa, retouched by computer to include a new face and personal data. A trace of its number found that the original had been reported lost or stolen in August of last year, the American diplomat said.
 The ruse worked. Both Mr. Rammer and Mr. Palin wired Ms. Medvedeva money to help with costs. Mr. Rammer sent $300; Mr. Palin $720.
 The identity of the person who duped them remains unknown, although whoever it was has been active: Ms. Medvedeva is listed as a phony bride-to-be on Internet blacklists, which are regularly updated by bilked men. Her picture has also been used under the name Tatyana Kuzminyh and Anna Kruglova.
 Mr. Platonov said Ms. Medvedeva's ever changing character fit a type. The fictional women are like Legos, assembled by joining random photographs, vignettes and seductive scripts. The men who create them often have female accomplices who provide their passports for scanning or pick up money at Western Union counters or banks. 
 The first ring the authorities broke up, in 2002, consisted of two young men and a woman who sent e-mail from the city of Yoshkar-Ola, in the Ural Mountains. ''We arrested the fat girl and she gave evidence,'' Mr. Platonov said, referring to the woman in the group. ''It turned out that all this effort was organized by a 21-year-old boy.''
 In the most recent case, prosecuted this year, a husband-and-wife team in Chelyabinsk bilked foreign men out of several hundred thousand dollars, Mr. Platonov said. The wife posed as the bait. The man was found guilty of fraud, but his case is on appeal, a spokesman at the local Internal Affairs office said.
 The American diplomat says the swindle appears to have been picked up by copycats who have grown more sophisticated of late. 
 The scripts have become more patient and include story lines that show a character's honesty or kindness. (Ms. Medvedeva described treating an orphan's toothache during a blackout -- by flashlight.) The visa forgeries have also become more convincing.
 Moreover, some swindlers have created Web sites that purport to represent travel agencies and back them up with ''employees'' who take calls from foreign men asking about their date's airfare and reservations. Others have turned to new classes of victims. 
 Three weeks ago, the diplomat said, the first gay victims began to complain.


GRAPHIC: Photo: These photographs were sent from Russia by e-mail to men in the United States, supposedly from a woman named Nadezhda Medvedeva. After exchanging romantic messages, she asks for money, then evaporates. (Photo by James Hill for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET CRIME (90%); MEN (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); WOMEN (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); POETRY (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); AIR FARES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (66%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%) Dating (Social); Frauds and Swindling; Hoaxes; Computers and the Internet; Dating (Social)

PERSON: C J Chivers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%) CASPIAN SEA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CANADA (77%); AUSTRALIA (77%) Russia; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



39 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; THE POUR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: In Love Again With Chardonnay

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov

 BODY:
EVERY field has its polarizing forces. Merely mentioning, say, a particular writer, a designer or even a car can set the best of friends at each other's throats. In wine, all you have to do is say, ''California chardonnay,'' and lips are curled and lines are drawn.
 It is no mystery why chardonnay has been so divisive. For years the popularity of fat, buttery, oak-bomb American chardonnays has been both undeniable and, for some, unfathomable. The same wines that inspired California vintners to plant chardonnay vines anywhere they could find a clear patch of earth also drove a small but ardent group of wine professionals to urge people to drink Anything But Chardonnay. I know. I was a fellow A.B.C. traveler.
 But I have a confession. For about a year I have been drinking a lot of California chardonnay. Not just drinking it, but also liking it. 
 I have not changed; it's the wine. In small but sure ways, California chardonnay is inching back from an extravagant, overwhelming style that was as subtle as a two-by-four over the head. Instead, a small group of winemakers are moving toward leaner, purer styles that emphasize the more delicate flavors of the chardonnay fruit and the fine-spun qualities of the vineyards from which the grapes came, rather than the brass-band sound effects that can be layered onto a wine in the cellar.
 Sometimes you can just happen upon wines like this. I found a 2002 Arcadia Vineyard chardonnay from Stag's Leap Wine Cellars that was lean, crisp and dry, with pure flavors of minerals, flowers, pear and anise, and not a trace of new oak flavor. Unlike many American chardonnays, it was invigorating rather than fatiguing. It makes you want to open another bottle, as the French say. Similarly, I tasted a 2001 Carneros chardonnay from Robert Mondavi that was so lively I wanted to smack my lips. 
 Several winemakers are marketing chardonnays somewhat subversively as antiheroes. Mayo Family Winery in Sonoma County and Martin & Weyrich Winery in Paso Robles both make a chardonnay called Unwooded, a strategy that would have been unthinkable just a few years ago, when oak seemed to be crucial in selling a wine. Astoundingly, these bottles turn California winemaking on its head. The Mayo in particular is as fresh, bright and citrusy as a good sauvignon blanc, a grape that California winemakers for years gave the chardonnay treatment, burdening it with heavy oak flavors. Now chardonnay is following in sauvignon blanc's path.
 In a more direct approach, Morgan Winery in Monterey County labels a chardonnay Metallico, indicating that the wine is fermented in steel tanks. Melville Vineyards and Winery in the western Santa Ynez Valley makes the same point in a more obscure way, calling its tank-fermented chardonnay Inox, which is French for stainless steel. Roshambo Winery in Dry Creek Valley makes a chardonnay called Imago, and while I am not sure what that means, the 2002 is acidic and fresh, closer in spirit to a glistening Sancerre than a florid California chardonnay. Tablas Creek calls its chardonnay Antithesis, and though the name refers to the fact that chardonnay is the antithesis of the winery's speciality Rhone-style wines, it could also refer to the angular rather than round style, with good acidity and balance. 
 For some winemakers, the move away from oaky chardonnays is like a religious conversion. Warren Winiarski, the owner of Stag's Leap Wine Cellars, recalls the moment in 1998 when he stood in the Arcadia Vineyard in the Combsville area in southeastern Napa Valley. He bit into some chardonnay grapes and tasted flavors that reminded him of freshly cut pears and apricots. ''I saw the beauty of the fruit and decided I did not want to alter that beauty after fermentation or remove those distinctive characteristics,'' he said. 
 So Mr. Winiarski wondered if it was really necessary to cloak chardonnay in oak flavors. And he reconsidered malolactic fermentation, in which the wine undergoes a second fermentation that converts tart malic acid in it into milder, softer lactic acid, which often imparts a buttery flavor. In the early days of California chardonnay making, nobody knew about malolactic fermentation, but in the 1970's winemakers started visiting Burgundy, where malolactic was standard procedure. By the 80's everybody in California, save for a small band of contrarians, had adopted malolactic.
 ''I was attracted like everyone else to the richness that the oak imparted,'' Mr. Winiarski said. ''Only slowly did I see how this was cloaking the reality, the distinctiveness that chardonnay could produce.''
WHILE he was drawn to what he calls the ''leaner, high cheekbones'' style of chardonnay, others considered it good business. Dan Lee, the owner of Morgan Winery, had been making rich chardonnays for two decades when his sales manager suggested there might be a market for a crisper version. So they produced a wine fermented in steel tanks and then aged in older oak barrels, which are neutral in character. With the 2001 vintage, the first, they sold 800 cases of Metallico. In 2002 they sold 1,200 and in 2003, 1,500. This year they are planning to produce 2,500 cases.
 ''We just didn't realize that there were that many people wanting a no-oak chard,'' Mr. Lee said. 
 A cynic might suggest that changes in California chardonnay have little to do with public tastes and everything to do with the economy. It is cheaper to ferment and age wine in steel tanks, which are usable year after year, than in new oak barrels, which might cost $800 each and have to be replaced annually. You have to charge more for a wine like that, and when the economy is not humming, people want to spend less for wine. No doubt there is some truth to this. When the economy went downhill some years ago, said Jeffrey Mayo, the president of Mayo Family Winery, he had to find ways to charge less for Mayo wines.
 ''We had to see how we could save,'' he said. ''The only thing that I could think of was let's not use any oak.'' And so the Mayo Unwooded chardonnay was born. So far it has been a big hit with his customers.
 Personally, the idea of leaner, more austere chardonnays is appealing, even at the expense of some of the complexity that comes with new oak and malolactic fermentation. Creating a wine that tastes like buttered popcorn with pineapple and vanilla sauce may be a great achievement, but when the grapes and their provenance become unrecognizable under a mask of complexity, something important is lost.
 ''There are two schools,'' Mr. Winiarski said. ''People who love the richness and weight, and people who prefer the more attenuated and lean and palate-stimulating characters. Rather than weighting them down, they want them enlivening.''
 There have always been great California chardonnays. Like top white Burgundies, they are built around a spine of laserlike acidity strong enough to handle muscular fruit, mineral flavors and even oak. In the last year I have loved vastly different chardonnays: old school, nonmalolactic, no-new-oak Stony Hill and nonmalolactic new-oak Forman Vineyards, both from Napa Valley, as well as full malolactic, new-oak wines like a Kistler Vine Hill Road Vineyard in the Russian River Valley and a Neyers Thieriot Vineyard from the Sonoma Coast. These are great wines that recognize balance and subtlety over flamboyance.
 That California chardonnay producers are reining in some excesses may not result in great wines, but it is likely to mean more good ones.


GRAPHIC: Photos: UNBURDENED -- Several California winemakers no longer use oak barrels for chardonnay. (Photo by Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times)(pg. F8)
 (Photo by Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINERIES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

PERSON: Eric Asimov

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



40 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE VOTERS -- THE BALLOTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1858 words

HEADLINE: Voters Find Long Lines and Short Tempers, but Little Chaos at Polls

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN; Reporting for this article was contributed by Rick Lyman in Milwaukee; Diane Cardwell in St. Louis; Ralph Blumenthal and Katie Reckdahl in New Orleans; Abby Goodnough in Miami; William Yardley in Jacksonville, Fla.; Kirk Johnson in Denver; Nick Madigan in Las Vegas; Tom Zeller Jr. in Albuquerque; Stephen Kinzer in Minneapolis; Ford Fessenden in Cleveland; Michael Moss in Des Moines; Matthew L. Wald in Allentown, Pa.; Kate Zernike in Philadelphia; and Brian McDonald, Thomas J. Lueck, John Schwartz and Michelle O'Donnell in New York.

 BODY:
Lines were long, tempers were short, some voting machines malfunctioned and a few polling places briefly replaced electronic wizardry with cardboard ballot boxes. But America's national election seemed to run smoothly yesterday, with no widespread reports of chaos, fraud or legal challenges that might affect the outcome.
 Caught in a huge turnout generated by a bitter campaign and polls showing a down-to-the-wire dead heat, voters across the country often stood for hours to cast ballots, determined to have a say in what many regarded as a turning point for a nation at the crossroads of war and a struggling economy.
 ''This year a lot of people will stand in line no matter how long,'' James Richmond said after a three-hour wait at a polling place in a Denver bookstore, where the line ran conveniently past a poetry section into the history aisle. ''America is pretty emotionally and politically charged,'' Mr. Richmond added. 
 Beyond books and magazines, there were cellphones and quiet conversations to pass the time in a slow-moving line outside St. Anthony's Church in Greenwich Village, in New York City. Volunteers provided umbrellas for voters in lines on a rainy day in Cleveland. And Kerry supporters in Philadelphia cooked hamburgers on a sidewalk grill for those trapped in one polling place line. 
 Still, patience ran thin and there were thousands of complaints across the country: of confusion and incompetence among election workers, of difficulty finding polling places, of polls opening late or shutting down early, of touch-screen machines that seemed to record votes incorrectly or not at all, of decades-old machines that jammed up, of partisan appeals being made inside the 100-foot no-electioneering zone.
 There was only one report of election-related violence. Two Bush supporters in Florida filed a lawsuit, seeking damages, claiming that they had been punched, pushed and spat upon by Democrats. 
 In Madison, Wis., a man trying to vote found that his identity had already been used to cast a ballot.
 And there were other serious problems. Disputes over absentee ballots arose in at least two states. Pennsylvania Republicans filed suit in federal court in Philadelphia seeking to prevent absentee ballots from being counted before Friday, when names could be compared to registration rolls. And in Florida, many Palm Beach County residents who never received absentee ballots were having a hard time casting regular ballots. They were only required to sign oaths swearing they had not yet voted, but some poll workers were insisting on checking with a supervisor whose line was constantly busy.
 The Election Protection Coalition, a nonpartisan group that tracked problems in polling places, said it had received 23,000 reports of problems at the polls nationwide, including 1,100 about voting machines that malfunctioned and 8,900 incidents of voters not appearing on registration rolls. Thousands more involved problems with absentee ballots. 
 Some disabled Florida voters who failed to receive absentee ballots were turned away when they tried to vote in person. Elsewhere in Florida, some Hispanic voters said they were falsely told the polls had closed early, and in New Mexico some voters said callers had given them phony information about changed polling places.
 In Nevada, election officials said calls had been made to some registered Democrats telling falsely of changes in the time and place of balloting. Others reported visits from strangers with ballots, which were to be filled out and handed back. 
 More confusion surrounded the use of provisional ballots in many states. They were being used for the first time by voters whose names did not appear on official voter rolls. Some states counted them yesterday, others said they would do so only if a recount became necessary. 
 Partisan poll watchers monitored balloting in Florida, Ohio, Iowa, Colorado and other swing states, many of them lawyers watching for chicanery. But fears that they would challenge and perhaps disenfranchise tens of thousands of voters in perilously close races, tipping the balance, were not borne out. Many were challenged, but survived examination of their qualifications and had voted by day's end.
 In Florida, 5,000 Republican poll watchers had been instructed to challenge anyone whose name did not appear on the rolls, who might have voted early or by absentee ballot and people convicted of felonies who had not received clemency. But such challenges appeared to be infrequent, and Allie Merzer, a spokeswoman for the Florida Democratic Party, said there had been no egregious cases.
 In closely contested Ohio, thousands of lawyers and other election monitors for the Republicans and the Democrats appeared at polling places across the state after being authorized by federal judges to challenge the eligibility of voters with questionable qualifications. The challengers appeared to be keeping an eye on each other, as well as the voters, and there were no reports that large numbers of voters were being challenged or denied a ballot.
 Republicans had contended that they wanted to exercise challenges to cut down on fraud, weeding out unregistered or ineligible voters, or anyone who tried to vote more than once. They said that they wanted only to guarantee a fair election for all. Democrats, who said they did not intend to challenge any voters, charged that the Republican challengers were really out to intimidate voters, especially low-income and minority voters, who might be singled out disproportionately.
 Making this argument in court, Democrats had won orders from federal judges in Cincinnati and Akron barring challengers from polling places. The judges held that fraud-prevention measures were already in place and that aggressive challenges might cause chaos and intimidate some voters. But the Republicans appealed, and an appellate court in Cincinnati overturned the rulings early yesterday. Justice John Paul Stevens of the Supreme Court agreed, clearing the way for the challengers. 
 In Iowa, election officials and voters were congratulating themselves by late afternoon for having a smooth Election Day, despite what was expected to be a record turnout of 1.4 million voters. Thousands of lawyers had volunteered to help if trouble arose, but most were ''sitting around twiddling their thumbs,'' said Jean Hessburg, executive director of the Iowa Democratic Party. 
 There were no reports of major problems at polling places in Minnesota, although there were scattered complaints of malfunctioning voting machines and electioneering too close to the polls. 
 There were similar complaints in New Mexico, but no major disruptions were reported at the state's 1,400 polling places 
 The voting in New York City's 6,090 election districts went slowly but smoothly for the most part. There were long lines at nearly all the polling places, and it often took more than an hour to cast a ballot. Some polling places opened late. There were scattered voting-machine breakdowns, and in some cases election workers seemed more confused than the voters.
 At a polling place at 45 Wall Street in Lower Manhattan, things got off to a shaky start. Voters began lining up at 6 a.m., but the poll did not open until 7 a.m., an hour late, according to Jim Jordan, 34, who works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. By then, the lines snaked down Wall Street to the to the statue of George Washington outside Federal Hall.
 Five election workers finally appeared, but seemed not to know what to do, said Louise Burley, an inspector for the Board of Elections. She gave them a quick tutorial. Then, as things got started, one of the two voting machines -- devices that dated from the early 1960's -- broke down. Frustrations mounted. ''People were a little upset,'' Ms. Burley said. 
 For two hours, until technicians fixed the broken machine, the election workers resorted to another, older technology: paper ballots stuffed through a slit in a cardboard box marked: ''Official Ballot Box.'' Sharon Felder, 46, who lives in the neighborhood, waited only a half-hour in line. ''This is the most important election of my lifetime,'' Ms. Felder said. ''It's worth the wait.'' 
 By early afternoon, the New York Public Interest Research Group reported 1,500 calls from voters seeking information on polling locations or complaining about long lines, late openings, ill-trained election officials and voting machine malfunctions. The Board of Elections had 75 technicians to repair machines in all five boroughs. 
 In Newark, 200 people were turned away by election officials at one polling place in the morning, mostly because their names were not on voter registration lists. The 200 went to an Election Day law clinic where five Superior Court judges heard their cases and issued orders that permitted nearly all of them to cast their ballots. 
 There were also false alarms. In Philadelphia, Republican poll monitors looking for any sign of irregularities complained that voting machines already had thousands of votes on them when the polls opened at 7 a.m. Election officials and prosecutors rushed to investigate, but discovered that the Republican operatives had mistakenly read numbers from a counter that records every vote ever cast on a machine -- not the one that was to record yesterday's tally.
 And in Mount Laurel, N.J., a polling place at the Fleetwood School was closed by the police for two hours after election officials found a white powder on the floor. The unsolved anthrax attacks of 2001, which killed five people and injured 17 others, leaped to mind. But the suspicious substance turned out to be common table salt, the police said, and voting resumed at 11 a.m.

How Election Day Polls Were Conducted
 The Election Day polls were based on questionnaires completed by voters as they left voting stations throughout the country.
 The polls were conducted by Edison Media Research of Somerville, N.J., and Mitofsky International of New York City for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News.
 The national results are based on 13,047 voters in 250 precincts across the United States. These include 500 absentee voters and early voters interviewed by telephone.
 The state results are based on 872 to 2,846 voters in 28 to 51 randomly selected precincts across each of 18 states analyzed by The Times. In certain states some interviews were also conducted by telephone with absentee voters and early voters.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by no more than plus or minus one to two percentage points nationally, and three to five points in each state, from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters who cast ballots in each of these elections.
 Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on Election Day, like the reluctance of some voters to take time to fill out the questionnaire, may introduce other sources of error into the poll.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fred Marz had coffee in a Krispy Kreme in Philadelphia yesterday while voting went on behind him. (Photo by William Thomas Cain/Getty Images)
Maria Velasquez shared laundry space in Chicago yesterday with voters in the presidential race. (Photo by John Gress/Reuters)
 Sandy Wedel waiting to vote yesterday at a polling place in the Lazy Doe Bar in Monarch, Mont. (Photo by Krystal Kinnunen/Great Falls Tribune via Associated Press)Chart: ''Survey of Voters''Did you vote in the 2000 election?Yes: 83%No: 17Do you consider the war in Iraq part of the war on terrorism or separate from it?Separate: 43Part of it: 54%(Source by Edison/Mitofsky)Chart: ''Where Candidates Found Support''PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 46%SEX: MaleKERRY VOTERS: 42%BUSH VOTERS: 50%PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 54SEX: FemaleKERRY VOTERS: 58BUSH VOTERS: 50PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 77RACE/ETHNICITY: WhiteKERRY VOTERS: 66BUSH VOTERS: 88PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 11RACE/ETHNICITY: BlackKERRY VOTERS: 20BUSH VOTERS: 2PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 9RACE/ETHNICITY: Hispanic/LatinoKERRY VOTERS: 10BUSH VOTERS: 7PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 2RACE/ETHNICITY: AsianKERRY VOTERS: 2BUSH VOTERS: 1PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 37PARTY IDENTIFICATION: RepublicanKERRY VOTERS: 5BUSH VOTERS: 68PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 26PARTY IDENTIFICATION: IndependentKERRY VOTERS: 27BUSH VOTERS: 24PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 37PARTY IDENTIFICATION: DemocratKERRY VOTERS: 68BUSH VOTERS: 8PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 63MARITAL STATUS: MarriedKERRY VOTERS: 55BUSH VOTERS: 70PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 37MARITAL STATUS: Not marriedKERRY VOTERS: 45BUSH VOTERS: 30(Source by Edison/Mitofsky nationwide surveys of voters leaving the polls. Those who voted for other candidates or had other answers are not shown.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BALLOTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DAMAGES (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); COUNTIES (73%); BOOKSTORES (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Voting Machines ; Voting Requirements and Voters; Public Opinion; Frauds and Swindling; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: Robert D Mcfadden; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (78%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



41 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Atlanta Shutting Off Water as It Tries to Collect $35 Million Overdue

BYLINE: By ARIEL HART

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 2 

 BODY:
Dorothy Chandler is used to fielding calls at the Midtown Assistance Center from people who are looking for help on their gas or electric bill. But on Tuesday, as news spread that a quarter of the city's water customers faced shutoff, it was suddenly the water bill that prompted several panicked calls.
 ''It is a huge concern,'' Ms. Chandler said. ''The calls that I've had today, the people are $600 behind, $800 behind. They're huge amounts, much more than we could possibly help with.'' 
 On the heels of hard-won water rate and sales tax increases to pay for $3 billion in sewer improvements, the Atlanta Department of Watershed Management has decided to rein in its debtors. On Thursday, two dozen workers began turning off the water of customers who were more than 30 days delinquent, estimated to be about a quarter of the city's 134,000 active accounts.
 A spokeswoman for the department, Janet Ward, said that the delinquency period was nothing new but that strict enforcement was. Ms. Ward said that anyone who contested their bill would probably be able to keep their water on until the dispute was concluded. ''We understand how important water is, and we will bend over backwards to work with people who should not have their water cut off,'' she said.
 But she said the debt could not be ignored. ''We have passed these incredible rate increases that took effect in January, and then the people voted overwhelmingly to pass a municipal rate increase of a 1 percent sales tax,'' Ms. Ward said. In January, the City Council approved yearly rate increases until 2008, on a sliding scale that will eventually triple rates for the biggest water users. 
 ''We're asking the people to step up to the plate, and they have done that,'' she said. ''Now we need to make sure and make them understand that we are doing everything we can to keep their rates down and do the work that has to be done. Recovering money that is by rights ours and that is out there is one of the best ways to do that.''
 It is unclear how much of the $35 million that those customers owe will be recovered, but at least it will stop the bleeding, she said. The department will shut off about 400 to 500 delinquents a day until the backlog is eliminated.
 The logic is little comfort to those who fear they will be cut off. Elaine Isles, 44, is an unemployed security guard who lives with her husband, Glenn, and their three sons, ages 17, 10 and 7, and their water bill is past due. Ms. Isles received assistance for last month, but carried a balance forward and now has the next month's bill as well. ''Now I owe $238.34,'' Ms. Isles said. ''I don't have a way to give them $238.34. I don't have any way to give them one dollar.'' The family has been trying to cut down, flushing the toilet less.
 ''They already knew people weren't going to be able to pay their water bill when they increased it,'' she said. ''Then they threaten the people of Atlanta and say if you're 30 days past due we're going to cut your water off. I think it's ridiculous.''
 Reflecting an irony of the city's water politics, Ms. Isles and her family are the very people the increase was designed to help. The sewer system is notoriously broken in places, in heavy rains dumping sewage into the Chattahoochee River and backing up plumbing in neighborhoods like the Isleses'. A federal judge had threatened a moratorium on new sewer hookups if it was not fixed.
 The plumbing backups have ''been hard on me and my family,'' Ms. Isles said. ''The plumber said it's not in our property but in the street. I called the city but the city doesn't do anything.''
 She would appreciate it being fixed, she said, but is unhappy that she should be told to pay so much. ''How can they say that when I can't pay for it?'' she said. ''I can't pay.'' 
 Many customers were caught off guard by the news, said Ms. Chandler of the assistance center, not only because enforcement had been lax but also because the utility just changed from a two-month billing cycle to once a month. ''Also, a lot of landlords who previously did not charge tenants for water now are charging,'' she said. ''That's a whole new thing.''
 Councilman C.T. Martin said elderly and low-income people had been severely affected by the rate increase, which began in January. Mr. Martin had a colleague propose a resolution for him on Monday night that would protect those groups from immediate shutoffs. 
 ''It's going to cause some people to have to move out of the city,'' Mr. Martin said. ''It's just kind of the way the whole thing was done. There hadn't been adequate notification and education.''
 The water department is beginning a notification program with phone calls and bill inserts, Ms. Ward said. She said they would start cutoffs with ''the worst of the worst.''
 ''They're the ones who've owed the most, and they've owed it the longest time,'' Ms. Ward said. That includes people who are anywhere from 60 or 90 days overdue to years, she said.
 ''I've seen some numbers, in the thousands of dollars, $8,000, $9,000 for individual residential accounts,'' she said. ''These are people who have never paid a bill, or some people who move or something and we don't catch up with them.''
 For now, that is what people like Irene Gorman, 42, are counting on. Ms. Gorman is a single mother of four and a pharmacy technician at a CVS store who lives in Vine City, a low-income neighborhood in central Atlanta. Ms. Gorman has been paying down a past due water bill at $80 a week. She has trimmed it to $282, but she is struggling to make the payments.
 Ms. Gorman said she did not know what would happen if she could not pay and received a cutoff notice. ''It's hard to pay my bills right now,'' she said. ''The only way I make it is through the grace of God.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Elaine Isles washed vegetables while making dinner at her home in Atlanta. The family owes $238.34 on its water bill and is trying to cut back. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UTILITY RATES (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX INCREASES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (72%); CITIES (72%); APPROVALS (69%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (69%); SALES TAX (69%); TAX LAW (69%) Water

PERSON: Ariel Hart

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%) GEORGIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Atlanta (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



42 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Give Until It Stops Hurting

 BODY:
For many of us New Yorkers, the past three years have, understandably, drawn our view outward, to threats and problems emanating from elsewhere. The election, cast as it was between competing visions of how the United States should be in the world, has only intensified the psychic pull: away, over there. 
 Meanwhile, here at home, another force has gained momentum, resulting in a growing number of working families who have been derailed by a relentlessly slack job market, stagnant wages and out-of-control health care costs. The New York City economy started to come back to life within a year of 9/11. But since then, the benefits of economic growth have, perversely, flowed up the income scale, creating buyers for ''average'' million-dollar apartments and sushi dinners for $350 per person. Meanwhile, 20 percent of residents live below the poverty line -- barely $18,000 for a family of four -- and two-thirds of those in poverty work for an average hourly wage of $6.77, far too meager to meet their basic needs. 
 Economic despair leads to social and spiritual crises, as seen in soup kitchens and homeless shelters that are strained beyond capacity and families racked by discord and deprivation. Those most in need are single mothers, who head 24 percent of the families in New York City, and low-income families who have been struck by disaster in any of its unwelcome forms. Once someone's down, it is hard to come back: according to a recent survey, the biggest problem facing New Yorkers is simply finding and keeping a job.
 To make it through trying times, the neediest New Yorkers need the help of their fellow New Yorkers. A proven way to give is through The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Since 1912, caring donors have contributed hundreds of millions of dollars to the fund. The Times pays all administrative costs while funneling every cent that is donated to seven local charities: the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service; the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York; the Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens; the Children's Aid Society; the Community Service Society of New York; the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies; and the UJA-Federation of New York.
 Please send your check to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. You may also contribute with a credit card by telephone at (212)556-5851 (Extension 7), or online at www.nytimes.com/neediest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); RELIGION (89%); CHARITIES (88%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); CHILDREN (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); POVERTY RATES (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (71%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (51%); SINGLE PARENTS (51%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund; Editorials

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



43 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: The Omnicom Group's secret weapon may not be infallible, but he just scored again.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
THE ''secret weapon'' of the Omnicom Group, Peter Arnell, has done it again. His Arnell Group has landed an important project from a company that regularly works with an Omnicom competitor.
 The Arnell Group, based in New York, planned to announce today that it is being awarded a global assignment from Electrolux, the world's biggest maker of home and outdoor appliances, which uses as its global agency of record Lowe & Partners Worldwide, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. 
 Mr. Arnell, the chairman and chief executive of the Arnell Group, is to oversee a broad effort -- everything from product design to in-store marketing to traditional advertising -- to help Electrolux introduce a line of small domestic appliances, tentatively scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2005. 
 Mr. Arnell, who sold the Arnell Group to Omnicom in June 2001, is known for wooing chief executives and other senior managers of large advertisers, who assign his agency projects and consulting chores; current clients include DaimlerChrysler, Diageo, Mars, Reebok International and Unilever. Often his strategic advice leads the advertisers to hire the Arnell Group or other Omnicom agencies. Hence, the recent description of Mr. Arnell by the trade publication Advertising Age as the secret weapon of John D. Wren, the Omnicom president and chief executive.
 Needless to say, Mr. Arnell is not infallible. His most-publicized flop involved an extensive, and expensive, campaign for Chrysler that was centered on the singer Celine Dion. The campaign, originally scheduled to run three years, lasted not much more than one, and its failure contributed to the resignation last year of its most ardent fan, James C. Schroer, executive vice president for global sales, marketing and service at the Chrysler Group division of DaimlerChrysler.
 But it is a different matter when Mr. Arnell can do the voodoo that he does so well. For instance, last month Unilever shifted the account of its Lipton tea products in the United States to an Omnicom agency, DDB Worldwide in New York, from an agency owned by the WPP Group, J. Walter Thompson in New York. Mr. Arnell has been providing Unilever with ideas on reintroducing the Lipton brand to American consumers in 2005, Advertising Age reported. 
 Lars Goran Johansson, senior vice president for corporate communications at Electrolux in Stockholm, said Electrolux was attracted to Mr. Arnell by his reputation for thinking beyond the boundaries of conventional advertising and venturing into realms like graphic design, retail marketing and branded entertainment.
 For example, for a previous client, Samsung, Mr. Arnell recognized the appeal to young adult consumers of photographs of a shirtless man holding a Samsung microwave oven, which were originally shot for print ads. The images were subsequently used on oversized outdoor signs in big cities and the cardboard boxes in which the ovens were packaged. Some buyers even displayed the empty boxes on their kitchen shelves, above the ovens.
 ''This is a different kind of business, an interesting mixture of design, creativity and technology,'' Mr. Johansson said.
 The experience consumers have with brands, in stores and at home, is becoming just as important in shaping their perceptions of those brands as traditional ads, if not more so, Mr. Johansson said. So Mr. Arnell's reputation for ''doing something different, something cool,'' he added, played a large part in awarding the Arnell Group the assignment, for which spending has not been determined.
 Mr. Arnell said he welcomed the assignment because ''the brand positioning and strategy will be embedded in the product development and design.''
 ''In this iPod economy, clearly design has become one of the most important differentiating tools for brands,'' Mr. Arnell said. ''It's a powerful place to be these days.''
 Mr. Arnell said he was also designing a store being opened in Midtown Manhattan by Jacob the Jeweler, the purveyor to the stars of diamond-encrusted watches and other jewelry, so that it evokes the interior of a gem mine, as well as a store in Philadelphia that will serve as a showcase for the Rbk line of clothing and footwear sold by Reebok.
 Also on the Arnell Group's list of tasks, Mr. Arnell said, is the introduction of a line of fire extinguishers and other home-safety products for a company called Home Hero, owned by Thomas Von Essen, the former New York City fire commissioner. 
 The typical fire extinguisher could stand to be redesigned because ''it's so ugly, nobody wants to leave it on a counter,'' Mr. Arnell said. ''We need a product like what Braun did with coffee makers.''
 Mr. Arnell described the products he will help design and develop for Electrolux as ''small-task domestic appliances,'' like coffee makers, toasters and blenders. Mr. Johansson described them as ''an entry point for consumers to our bigger products,'' like ovens, refrigerators, dishwashers and vacuums.
 The new Electrolux line, still unnamed, will be branded differently from Electrolux floor-care products and other brands the company sells under names like Eureka and Frigidaire.
 This week Electrolux is introducing a campaign by Lowe in the United States to promote a new, higher-priced line of major appliances, called Electrolux Icon, which were first sold in Europe. The campaign, with a budget estimated at $70 million over the next three years, is separate from ads for the regularly priced line of Electrolux appliances.
 Electrolux hired the London, New York and Stockholm offices of Lowe in January 2003 to develop brand campaigns. Asked what effect the hiring of the Arnell Group and Mr. Arnell would have on Lowe, Mr. Johansson replied, ''I don't see this as competition,'' adding that Lowe remained the company's global agency of record.
 The new line is ''a way to show Electrolux is interesting,'' Mr. Johansson said, by having the products be ''different in function and design'' from what is now sold in the small-appliance market.
 ''We want consumers to say, 'Wow, I didn't know I needed that,''' he added.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Arnell is chief of the Arnell Group, which not only creates advertising and marketing but also designs products and stores for its clients. (Photo by Diane Bondareff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (89%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (77%); TEA (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (76%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (74%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); COFFEE & TEA (73%); POINT OF PURCHASE ADVERTISING (69%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (69%) Advertising and Marketing; Advertising (Times Column)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (98%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); JWT (63%); WPP PLC (58%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (57%); DIAGEO PLC (55%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (55%); REEBOK INTERNATIONAL LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Electrolux Ab; Arnell Group; Lowe & Partners

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (98%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); DGE (PAR) (55%); DGE (LSE) (55%); DEO (NYSE) (55%); UNIA (AMS) (55%); UNA (BIT) (55%); UNA (AMS) (55%); UN (NYSE) (55%); ULVR (LSE) (55%); UL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (55%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (55%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (55%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (55%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (55%)

PERSON: JOHN D WREN (58%); CELINE DION (56%) Stuart Elliott; Peter Arnell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



44 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: China and Japan Jockey For Share of Russian Gas

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 2 

 BODY:
In the latest jousting between China and Japan over Russia's energy riches, China is talking with the Exxon Mobil Corporation about buying gas from the Sakhalin Island field, which many Japanese assumed would power their nation for decades to come.
 The gas talks come as China rues its loss of a Siberian oil pipeline that was once promised to run to Manchuria. Instead, Russian officials made clear this fall that the pipeline would go to a Russian port on the Sea of Japan. Russian leaders changed their minds after Japan's government offered billions of dollars to help finance the pipeline, which could be a $12 billion, 2,500-mile oil project running from Lake Baikal to Nakhodka. 
 On a third energy front, a stalemate emerged last week in Beijing after two days of talks between China and Japan over a Chinese gas exploration project in the East China Sea. With China drilling near an area claimed by Japan, Japan fears that the Chinese gas wells will suck up Japanese gas from a reservoir that straddles the border.
 While these hydrocarbons have been around for millions of years, disputes are suddenly coming into sharp focus with oil selling at $50 a barrel and China's oil imports leaping. In the first half of this year, oil imports by China, the world's second-largest oil consumer after the United States, jumped 40 percent.
 Asia is witnessing ''an increasingly fierce competition between the two countries for access to energy supplies,'' John E. Carbaugh Jr., a Washington consultant who was once chief of staff to Senator Jesse Helms, wrote in his newsletter, Daily Report. ''Japan, the world's second-largest economy, has long been dependent on foreign supplies of energy while China's own appetite has surged in recent years along with its economy,'' he wrote last week from Washington. ''Both countries also have their gaze fixed on the resource-rich hinterlands of Russia as an important new source of energy and are currently locked in a high-stakes rivalry to secure access.''
 On Tuesday, many Japanese were shocked to learn that Lee R. Raymond, Exxon Mobil's chairman, sketched out the Chinese option during a meeting here Monday with Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and Shoichi Nakagawa, minister of economy, trade and industry.
 Nihon Keizai Shimbun reported Tuesday that Exxon Mobil, which owns 30 percent of the project and is its lead investor, was in talks to sell ''the total volume'' to the China Natural Gas Public Corporation. Hoping for a deal by next spring, Exxon Mobil would send the gas by pipeline to Russia's mainland and from there to China.
 Japanese companies own 30 percent of the Sakhalin 1 project and Japanese officials long assumed that the gas would eventually make its way here. With reserves estimated at 485 billion cubic meters, the Exxon Mobil gas reserves are the equivalent of six years of Japan's total gas demand.
 Selling the gas to China would represent a radical turn for the project, and Mr. Nakagawa assured reporters at a news conference Tuesday that the talks did ''not mean Exxon Mobil picked China.'' 
 But with the consortium planning to ship gas in 2008, Exxon Mobil officials have complained that Japan has not taken steps toward building a 930-mile undersea pipeline from Sakhalin to Japan. The Tokyo Electric Power Company, Japan's biggest buyer of liquefied natural gas, has been noncommittal about locking itself into a long-term fixed contract for piped gas. 
 A pipeline along the seabed is not expected to create much environmental damage, but every Japanese fishermen's union along the route has made clear that it expects advance compensation payments.
 ''Most of the problems have been on the Japan side, the problem of getting a customer for such large volumes, the fishermen issue,'' Philip Vorobyov, a Russian energy expert for Cambridge Energy Research Associates, said Tuesday by telephone from Moscow. ''Hardly anything has been done on the Japanese side to get this gas. It is natural to talk to another consumer if the one you are talking to is not budging.''
 The Chinese alternative has its pluses and minuses. By bringing gas through the Russian Far East, Transneft, the Russian pipeline monopoly, would follow President Vladimir V. Putin's policy of stressing internal development over exports of raw materials. Some gas could be used for fertilizer production or to generate electricity. The rest could be exported to Manchuria. Northeast China, however, is currently the nation's rust belt, a region with an energy surplus and virtually no capacity for handling piped gas.
 A third option would be to send the gas by pipeline down the length of Sakhalin Island to Prigorodnoye, where the Sakhalin energy consortium is building a liquefied natural gas processing plant. Space is being put aside to build a section to handle gas from Exxon's field, creating a product that could be inserted into Japan's distribution system. The projects have attracted a total of $22 billion in investment.
 A gas pipeline to China may provide a way for Russia to soften the blow of building an oil pipeline that would roughly follow the Trans-Siberian Railroad, bypassing China.
 After years of talk, ''a decision on construction of the eastern pipeline'' will come by Dec. 15, Arkady Dvorkor, an adviser to President Putin, told Reuters in Moscow on Tuesday. The decision about building the pipeline should be taken in the shortest possible time.
 With China expected to surpass Japan in a few years as the world's second-largest oil importer, after the United States, more bruising battles over energy are expected. China is building 23 gas-fired power plants, with 16 more planned.
 ''China's quest for energy security is indeed beyond its borders,'' Wenran Jiang, a professor at the University of Alberta, wrote in a recent article published by the Jamestown Foundation. ''Beijing's growing prominence and its competition for energy has alarmed Washington and Tokyo and caused long-term strategic adjustments in all the three capitals.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: An oil platform off Sakhalin Island. With oil around $50 a barrel, competition for Russian energy sources has heated up. (Photo by Ursula Hyzy/Agence France-Presse)Map of Russia highlighting Sakhalin Island: A liquefied natural gas plant is being built at Prigorodnoye.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LAKES (77%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel); International Trade and World Market; Reserves (Natural Resources); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pipelines

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Exxonmobil Corp

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); NORTHEAST CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA SEA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); JAPAN (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%) China; Japan; Russia; Siberia; Sakhalin Island (Russia); Manchuria (China); East China Sea

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



45 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE VOTING PROCESS -- THE MINORITY VOTE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Energized Black Voters Flock to Polls to Back Kerry

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY; Diane Cardwell contributed reporting from St. Louis for this article, Albert Salvato from Cincinnati, and Kate Zernike from Philadelphia.

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Nov. 2 

 BODY:
Lynn Roberts needed no encouragement from the get-out-the-vote workers in her neighborhood at midmorning on Election Day.
 ''I want Bush out!'' she yelled across shady Huron Street before the workers, promoting Democratic candidates, could reach her. ''I already voted. I don't play around. This morning I was No.87.'' 
 Ms. Roberts, who said she had checked the digital reader on the optical-scanning voting machine to see that hers was the 87th ballot cast at her precinct in Jacksonville on Tuesday, was just one of thousands of newly energized and mobilized blacks who voted here and across the country, including many in Florida who felt they had waited four years to have their votes counted at last.
 ''I'm satisfied,'' Ms. Roberts said. ''I saw my vote count.''
 Nationwide, blacks went to the polls in large numbers and voted overwhelmingly for Senator John Kerry. They were prompted by vast get-out-the-vote drives, big increases in minority voter registration, new early voting periods and political passions kindled by issues from war to tax cuts. And still others saw themselves as part of a new crest in a civil rights struggle not yet complete four decades after federal voting rights laws were passed.
 ''I don't know why God chose Jacksonville to be a fighting ground, but this is about a movement,'' the Rev. R.L. Gundy told a group of voting rights workers crowded into a black church here on the eve of the election. ''It's not about abortion. It's not about gay rights. It's about human rights. It's about civil rights.''
 Surveys by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International showed that nationally, blacks made up about 10 percent of voters at the polls. About 9 in 10 voted for Senator John Kerry, an overwhelming number that roughly mirrored the black turnout for Al Gore in 2000. 
 The numbers for blacks appeared similar in Florida, where Election Day get-out-the-vote efforts in black neighborhoods sometimes found few people who needed getting out.
 ''A lot of people have already voted,'' said Maria Velazquez, a get-out-the-vote worker.
 To be sure, Florida and indeed much of the nation had fretted over the 2000 election. But for Jacksonville, a city aching to raise its national stature and recast itself as a culturally and economically sophisticated community, the lessons of 2000 included a reminder that it had not yet escaped its old Southern stratifications between blacks and whites.
 Four years ago, about 27,000 punch-card ballots were discarded here in Duval County, most because people had ''overvoted'' -- that is, voted for more than one candidate in the same race. About 40 percent of the ballots thrown out were cast in heavily black Democratic areas, a circumstance generating suspicion and accusations of racial bias that persisted until Tuesday. 
 Some people here suggested that this Election Day could prove a measure of the city's ability to bridge its divides. 
 ''The Super Bowl for football is in February,'' the interim Duval County elections supervisor, William Scheu, noting that the game would be played here in three months, said at a news conference on the eve of the election. ''The Super Bowl for our community coming together is tomorrow. And we hope and pray that will be the case.''
 One crucial step toward easing tension may have been a technical one. In 2000, the names of presidential candidates were spread across two pages on the ballot, confusing some people who overvoted. But on Tuesday, with optical scanning, voters' ballots were instantly returned to them if they voted for two candidates in the same race.
 ''Overvotes can't happen,'' said Erin Moody, spokeswoman for the county elections office.
 Elsewhere across the country, the taint from 2000 may not have been as intense, but sentiment against President Bush was strong among blacks.
 In Pennsylvania, Dawn Hampton, 33, a temporary employee who works as an administrative assistant in North Philadelphia, said she felt misled by on the war in Iraq.
 ''Bush lied too much,'' Ms. Hampton said. ''I thought we were going in there because they had plans to kill us. They didn't find those weapons.''
 She also took issue with the president on domestic issues. ''I thought he wanted to help everybody, talking about tax rebates the way he did,'' she said. ''It was all for the rich people.''
 Keith Evans, a 34-year-old engineer with a large bakery in Philadelphia, said: ''Most black voters are going to respond to the loss of jobs. Look how many millions of jobs have been lost with Bush, how many jobs have been sent overseas. Companies are closing up. People don't have money to pay the bills.''
 Some African-American voters in Cincinnati felt so passionate about the candidates and the issues in this election that many remained outside the polls for hours after voting. ''I could watch the results on TV,'' said Reginald Lucas, ''but I feel closer to things here.''
 Denise Kelly, 45, said Senator Kerry offered the best plans for health care and job growth, the two issues she said most affected her family. ''I know too many people looking for jobs who are out of options,'' she said. ''The Republicans put them there. I want change.'' 
 Al Cummings, a semiretired St. Louisian who said he tended to vote Democratic but did not do so exclusively, voted for Mr. Kerry on Tuesday because of the senator's positions on issues ranging from the war in Iraq to prescription drug costs.
 ''In fact,'' he said, ''I can't find one reason why one would vote for Bush.''
 Though some polls had suggested that Mr. Bush might fare better with blacks, Ms. Roberts said the president had not earned their votes. Even as she praised the president for ''moral clarity,'' she dismissed the idea that Republicans could win black votes on the basis of social issues like abortion and same-sex marriage.
 ''That's not how you find them,'' Ms. Roberts said. ''You have to go into the community and talk to the people.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Across the nation, black volunteers helped get out the vote yesterday for the Kerry-Edwards ticket. One was Martha Wallace, in Miami. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (96%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); RACE & RACISM (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TAX LAW (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); LGBT RIGHTS (65%); ABORTION (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; Blacks; Voting Requirements and Voters; Registration of Voters

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); AL GORE (58%) Jim Yardley; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



46 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE PRESIDENCY -- THE CONTEST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1917 words

HEADLINE: BUSH HOLDS LEAD

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
President Bush swept to an apparent popular-vote victory over Senator John Kerry last night, and seemed headed toward winning enough Electoral College votes to assure his re-election.
 But in what was shaping up as a Midwest replay of 2000, Mr. Kerry's campaign challenged the results in Ohio and said it would not abandon the campaign until all the votes in that critical state were counted.
 Mr. Bush's aides said early this morning that they were convinced that he had won Ohio which, combined with his victory in Florida, would guarantee him a second term. But at 2:30 this morning, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, Mr. Kerry's running mate, made a brief and dramatic appearance in front of a huge crowd of supporters at Copley Square in Boston to announce that he and Mr. Kerry would not concede. 
 ''It's been a long time -- but we've waited four years for this victory,'' he said to thousands of people who earlier had been expecting Mr. Kerry to be delivering a victory speech on that very spot. ''We can wait one more night.''
 In what sounded like a hint of concerted legal action ahead, Mr. Edwards added tersely: ''John Kerry and I made a promise to the American people that in this election, every vote would count and every vote would be counted. Tonight, we are keeping our word.''
 As of 2 a.m. this morning, Mr. Bush had 2,685,059 votes, compared with 2,564,047 for Mr. Kerry, or an edge of 121,012 votes. Mr. Kerry's aides said that they believed the vote could be turned around once provisional ballots -- those submitted by people who were unable to vote because their names not on registration rolls -- had been tallied.
 ''The vote count in Ohio has not been completed,'' said Mary Beth Cahill, Mr. Kerry's campaign manager. ''There are more than 250,000 remaining votes to be counted. We believe when they are, John Kerry will win Ohio.''
 The dispute provided a chaotic conclusion to a long gyrating night of counting that vividly recalled the turmoil of four years ago. In addition to the problem in Ohio, Iowa officials said that they would do a recount in that state, where Mr. Bush had a lead of 11,000 with 94 percent of the vote counted.
 An evening of confusion -- and deflation for Mr. Kerry's aides and Democrats across the country -- caused in no small part by surveys of voters leaving the polls, which showed Mr. Kerry leading Mr. Bush by as much as 3 percentage points nationally. With 86 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Bush was leading Mr. Kerry 51 percent to 48 percent.
 Americans turned out in big numbers to vote, according to officials from both parties, lining up at polling places across the country -- from Ohio to Florida, from New York to Minnesota -- in an evocative conclusion to one of the most emotionally charged campaigns in a century. 
 Polls taken up to the eve of the election showed Mr. Bush tied with Mr. Kerry, and party officials suggested that the turnout in this hard-fought election could match the modern-day record of 63 percent set in 1960. In Ohio, lines were so long that some polling places stayed open past the 7:30 p.m. closing time.
 One in seven people who voted yesterday did not participate in the 2000 election, and 60 percent of those voters said they supported Mr. Kerry, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls. And throughout the day, Republicans appeared concerned by the images of long lines of Americans waiting to vote, particularly in cities and in areas with large numbers of minority voters. A survey of voters leaving the polls suggested that the turnout was at least partly inspired by anger among Democrats lingering from Mr. Bush's disputed victory in 2000.
 But White House officials said they remained confident that the Republicans' own turnout effort -- aimed at evangelical Christians who Mr. Bush's advisers believed had failed to vote in 2000 -- would counter the opposition to Mr. Bush, and prevent him from facing the fate of his father, who lost re-election to Bill Clinton in 1992.
 Mr. Bush won Florida, seizing one of the big three states that have become the focus of both parties for much of the year and the state that was at the emotional fulcrum of the battle of 2000. Mr. Kerry won the second of those three states, Pennsylvania, and the two men were engaged in what could well prove to be a climactic fight in Ohio.
 For all the concern before the voting about irregularities at the polls, there were few reports of problems as night fell across the country, even in states where Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush had dispatched squads of lawyers, all briefed up but with no courts to go to. Late last night -- even before the polls had closed in Nevada and Iowa, two particularly competitive states -- Mr. Bush summoned reporters and photographers to White House residence where he was watching election results with his family, including his father, the former president.
 ''We're very upbeat, thank you,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I believe I will win.''
 A little while later, a senior Kerry adviser, Joe Lockhart, appeared before reporters to say much the same thing. ''The first state that we believe will flip is New Hampshire,'' Mr. Lockhart said, referring to a state that Mr. Bush won in 2000 and that Democrats are confident of winning this time.
 But as the night churned on, facing excruciatingly close tallies in Ohio, Wisconsin, New Mexico and Iowa, aides to Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry were contemplating another inconclusive election night, though none suggested they were facing a repeat of the 36-day count of 2000.
 ''We're counting all the votes,'' said Mike McCurry, Mr. Kerry's chief spokesman. ''At the end of the day, we win. I'm not sure what day, but we win.'' 
 Ralph Nader, the independent candidate who many Democrats believe effectively handed the White House to Mr. Bush in 2000 by drawing votes from Al Gore, was winning a minimal number of votes and did not appear to be a factor in the outcome of the race.
 It was an appropriately chaotic end -- or near-end -- of the 2004 campaign in many ways began the night in December 2000 when the United States Supreme Court effectively declared Mr. Bush the nation's 43rd president. It took place during one of the most difficult periods of the nation's history, framed by the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon that took place less than one year into Mr. Bush's term. The attacks shaped not only Mr. Bush's first term as president, but also his re-election campaign against Mr. Kerry.
 In a sign of the intensity of the contest, both Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry took the unusual step of campaigning right through Election Day. Mr. Kerry began his day visiting a campaign office in LaCrosse, Wis., while Mr. Bush brought Air Force One into Columbus, Ohio, for one last visit to a state he won in 2000, but where he was struggling for victory again. No Republican has won the presidency without winning Ohio.
 Mr. Bush flew to Ohio from Texas, and he dropped in on the state's Bush-Cheney headquarters in Columbus to thank campaign workers. 
 At one point Mr. Bush took the phone from a volunteer, Mick Turner, who was making calls urging voters to get to the polls, and said: ''Julie. This is President Bush calling. How are you? No, I promise you it's me.''
 Mr. Bush then put one finger in his other ear to hear her better and said: ''I'm proud to have your support. I appreciate you taking my phone call. Thank you so very much.'' Mr. Bush then hung up and said to reporters, ''1 to 0.''
 Mr. Bush voted in Crawford, Tex., at 8 a.m. with his wife and twin daughters. The president's eyes were puffy from a 19-hour, seven-stop, six-state campaign swing the day before, and he appeared calm if wistful as he talked to reporters.
 ''This election is in the hands of the people, and I feel very comfortable about that,'' he said. ''The people know where I stand. I've enjoyed this campaign. It's been a fantastic experience traveling our country, talking about what I believe and where I'm going to lead this country for four more years.''
 Asked if he had any words for Mr. Kerry, the president responded: ''I wish him all the best. You know, he and I are in the exact same position. We've given it our all and I'm -- I'm sure he is happy, like I am, that the campaign has come to a conclusion.''
 In Wisconsin, which Al Gore won in 2000, Mr. Kerry went to an office to pump up supporters before heading home to Boston, where he cast his ballot with his daughters before lunching, as he has every Election Day he has run for office since his first victory in 1982, at the Union Oyster House.
 ''This campaign has been an amazing journey, a wonderful journey,'' he told reporters after emerging from the polling place at the historic Statehouse downtown. ''The American people have put their homes, their hearts to us.''
 Mr. Kerry, at once nostalgic and exuberant, said that he was ''very confident that we made the case for change,'' but that ''what's really important is that the president and I both love this country.''
 ''Whatever the outcome tonight,'' he added, ''I know one thing that is already an outcome -- our country will be stronger, our country will be united, and we will move forward, no matter what, because that's who we are as Americans. And that's what we need to do.''
 This campaign came to a conclusion -- even an uncertain one -- shaped by the three forces that had formed it from the beginning: the attacks of Sept. 11, the disputed election of 2000 and the war in Iraq. 
 From the start of this contest, Mr. Kerry presented himself as the Democrat best able to take on Mr. Bush because of his record as a Vietnam veteran which, he said, would allow him to hold his own with the president on security issues, and turn the campaign to what he argued would be strong ground for Democrats: domestic issues.
 With the economy struggling and the war in Iraq going off course, Mr. Bush increasingly built his campaign around the threat of terrorism, invoking the symbols of the attack on the World Trade Center and portraying Mr. Kerry as not having the strength to stand up to terrorist attacks.
 The survey of voters leaving the polls found that Mr. Bush did indeed enjoy a big advantage over Mr. Kerry on the issue of terrorism. But it also showed that a majority now believed that the war had gone badly off course, and had jeopardized the long-term security of the United States.
 And while Mr. Bush was seen as much better able to protect the nation from terrorist attacks than Mr. Kerry was, the survey suggested that in the end, domestic issues -- like health care and job creation -- were critical factors in the choices of many Americans, and many of those voters were going to Mr. Kerry.
 Both parties had identified get-out-the-vote efforts as critical to victory in an election where poll after poll showed Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush evenly matched. For Democrats, it was a matter of building on the anger still burning from 2000.
 For Mr. Bush's chief strategist, Karl Rove, it was a matter of motivating what he said was four million evangelicals who had not been there for Mr. Bush in 2000, and who would respond to a campaign appeal that was built to a large extent by trying to paint cultural differences with Mr. Kerry on such issues as gay marriage and abortion rights.
 Mr. Rove appears to have had at least some success on that count. The surveys found that voters cited three issues as central in making their decision: the economy, terrorism and moral issues, and Mr. Bush won among voters who cited moral issues.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush with his family yesterday after voting in Crawford, Tex., and Senator John Kerry with his family after voting in Boston. Both candidates took the unusual step of campaigning on Election Day. (Photos by Top, Doug Mills/The New York Times
above, Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Molly Hester, a supporter of Senator John Kerry, watched the ballot results nervously at Copley Square in Boston. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. P2)Chart: ''RESULTS: The Race for President''Results as of 1:29 a.m.States won by BushTexasPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 83%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 3,991,616 (61%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 2,502,446 (38%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +232000 margin -- BUSH: +21ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 34Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0FloridaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 3,759,531 (52%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 3,396,085 (47%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 31,506 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +52000 margin -- BUSH: -1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 27Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0GeorgiaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,767,532 (59%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,225,186 (41%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +182000 margin -- BUSH: +12ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 15Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0North CarolinaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 96%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,802,441 (56%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,391,532 (43%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +132000 margin -- BUSH: +13ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 15Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0VirginiaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,648,541 (54%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,397,500 (46%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +82000 margin -- BUSH: +8ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 13Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0IndianaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 96%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,401,842 (60%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 909,526 (39%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +212000 margin -- BUSH: +16ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 11Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0MissouriPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 87%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,224,172 (53%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,054,644 (46%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +72000 margin -- BUSH: +3ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 11Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0TennesseePOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 98%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,375,255 (57%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,029,555 (43%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 8,801 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +142000 margin -- BUSH: +4ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 11Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0ArizonaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 92%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 853,174 (55%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 681,141 (44%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +112000 margin -- BUSH: +6ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 10Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0AlabamaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,158,386 (62%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 683,406 (37%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 6,616 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +252000 margin -- BUSH: +15ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 9Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0ColoradoPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 81%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 879,511 (53%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 754,918 (46%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 9,552 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +72000 margin -- BUSH: +8ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 9Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0LouisianaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,082,219 (57%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 791,487 (42%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 6,864 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +152000 margin -- BUSH: +8ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 9Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0KentuckyPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,061,608 (60%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 706,503 (40%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 8,779 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +202000 margin -- BUSH: +15ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 8Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0South CarolinaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 97%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 886,357 (58%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 615,864 (41%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 5,210 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +172000 margin -- BUSH: +16ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 8Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0OklahomaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 940,314 (66%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 492,305 (34%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +322000 margin -- BUSH: +22ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 7Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0KansasPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 89%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 644,129 (63%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 367,952 (36%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 7,787 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +272000 margin -- BUSH: +21ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 6Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0MississippiPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 87%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 582,477 (60%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 387,967 (40%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 2,670 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +202000 margin -- BUSH: +17ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 6Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0ArkansasPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 83%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 468,027 (54%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 386,891 (45%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 5,015 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +92000 margin -- BUSH: +5ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 6Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0NebraskaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 70%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 347,311 (67%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 164,474 (32%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 3,619 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +352000 margin -- BUSH: +29ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 5Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0UtahPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 31%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 145,203 (72%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 50,587 (25%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 2,240 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +472000 margin -- BUSH: +40ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 5Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0West VirginiaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 85%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 366,414 (56%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 287,432 (44%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 3,440 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +122000 margin -- BUSH: +6ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 5Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0IdahoPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 53%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 197,249 (70%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 82,369 (29%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +412000 margin -- BUSH: +40ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 4Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0MontanaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 48%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 122,018 (57%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 87,918 (41%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 2,909 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +162000 margin -- BUSH: +25ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 3Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0South DakotaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 87%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 182,798 (61%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 112,147 (37%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 3,373 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +242000 margin -- BUSH: +23ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 3Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0North DakotaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 91%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 164,204 (63%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 90,540 (35%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 3,164 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +282000 margin -- BUSH: +28ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 3Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0WyomingPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 82%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 139,877 (68%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 61,986 (30%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 2,302 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +382000 margin -- BUSH: +40ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 3Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0States won by KerryCaliforniaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 32%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,544,024 (45%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,840,221 (54%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +92000 margin -- GORE: +12ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 55Not assigned: 0New YorkPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 2,763,506 (40%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 3,945,432 (58%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 104,129 ( 2%)2004 winning margin: +182000 margin -- GORE: +25ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 31Not assigned: 0IllinoisPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 93%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 2,083,443 (44%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 2,620,345 (55%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +112000 margin -- GORE: +12ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 21Not assigned: 0PennsylvaniaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 94%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 2,435,803 (48%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 2,655,955 (52%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +42000 margin -- GORE: +4ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 21Not assigned: 0New JerseyPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,587,494 (46%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,799,320 (53%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 18,614 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +72000 margin -- GORE: +16ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 15Not assigned: 0MassachusettsPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 98%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,045,178 (37%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,739,489 (62%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +252000 margin -- GORE: +27ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 12Not assigned: 0WashingtonPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 42%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 646,006 (47%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 724,334 (52%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 9,904 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +52000 margin -- GORE: +6ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 11Not assigned: 0MarylandPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 96%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 911,987 (44%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,142,074 (55%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 10,191 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +112000 margin -- GORE: +16ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 10Not assigned: 0OregonPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 71%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 579,906 (46%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 675,011 (53%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +72000 margin -- GORE: -1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 7Not assigned: 0ConnecticutPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 92%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 635,209 (45%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 764,684 (54%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 11,906 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +92000 margin -- GORE: +17ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 7Not assigned: 0MainePOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 78%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 237,795 (45%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 283,262 (53%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 5,880 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +82000 margin -- GORE: +5ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 4Not assigned: 0Rhode IslandPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 161,238 (39%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 246,981 (60%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 3,971 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +212000 margin -- GORE: +29ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 4Not assigned: 0D.C.POPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 19,007 ( 9%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 183,876 (90%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 1,318 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +812000 margin -- GORE: +76ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 3Not assigned: 0VermontPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 97%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 116,781 (39%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 177,035 (59%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 4,304 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +202000 margin -- GORE: +10ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 3Not assigned: 0DelawarePOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 95%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 164,807 (46%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 191,870 (53%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 2,050 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +72000 margin -- GORE: +13ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 3Not assigned: 0States with incomplete resultsOhioPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 91%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 2,544,215 (51%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 2,438,411 (49%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: N.A.2000 margin -- BUSH: +4ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 20MichiganPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 67%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,432,562 (47%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,559,185 (52%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 15,048 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: N.A.2000 margin -- GORE: +5ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 17MinnesotaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 65%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 926,290 (47%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,038,552 (52%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 12,730 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +52000 margin -- GORE: +2ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 10WisconsinPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 76%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 1,051,267 (49%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 1,069,314 (50%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 11,583 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: N.A.2000 margin -- GORE: -1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 10IowaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 91%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 695,973 (50%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 688,956 (49%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 5,309 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: N.A.2000 margin -- GORE: -1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 7New MexicoPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 86%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 250,875 (52%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 227,809 (47%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 2,675 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: N.A.2000 margin -- GORE: -1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 5NevadaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 41%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 244,506 (49%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 246,905 (49%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 2,700 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: N.A.2000 margin -- BUSH: +4ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 5HawaiiPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 0%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 55,372 (44%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 69,298 (55%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: N.A.2000 margin -- GORE: +18ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 4New HampshirePOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 91%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 288,750 (49%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 300,089 (51%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 3,944 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +22000 margin -- BUSH: +1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 4AlaskaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 51%George W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 112,780 (63%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 62,032 (34%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 2,911 ( 2%)2004 winning margin: +292000 margin -- BUSH: +31ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 3TOTALPOPULAR VOTEGeorge W. Bush (REPUBLICAN): 49,726,980 (51%)John Kerry (DEMOCRAT): 46,402,801 (48%)Ralph Nader (GREEN): 343,014 ( 0%)2000 margin -- GORE: +1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 246Kerry: 207Not assigned: 85Popular voteIn millionsBUSH: 52KERRY: 48Electoral votes85 not assignedBUSH: 246KERRY: 85270 neededMap of United States highlighting states won by Bush and Kerry and states with incomplete results.(pg. P2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Results; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2000; Electoral College; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (98%); GEORGE W BUSH (97%); RALPH NADER (94%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); AL GORE (79%) John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Adam Nagourney; John (Sen) Edwards; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Ohio; Florida; Pennsylvania; Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



47 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Insurgents Hit Pipeline And Strike Across Iraq
Insurgents blew up a northern oil export pipeline, dealing a blow to the national economy, as car bombs and gun battles across the country left at least 12 Iraqis dead, Iraqi officials said. It was reported that kidnappers of an aid official, Margaret Hassan, threaten in a videotape to turn her over to the Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. A6

Pvt. Megan M. Ambuhl, one of the first seven American soldiers charged in connection with the abuses at Abu Ghraib prison, will be spared jail time under an agreement approved by a military judge. She pleaded guilty to a charge of dereliction of duty and was sentenced to a reduction in rank and the forfeiture of a half-month's salary. A16

Terrorism Trial in Canada
The trial to finally resolve what happened to an Air India Boeing 747 nearly 20 years after it exploded in the air entered its climactic phase as prosecutors began final arguments. Two Canadian Sikh activists are accused of plotting the bombing, which killed all 329 people on board. A8

Love Scams in Russia
Online swindlers using fake names, forged visas and snapshots of young Russian women are luring Western victims into highly successful confidence games that have become one of Russia's boom industries. A3

Aid Relief Blocked in Sudan
Kidnappings, land mines and, most recently, a government crackdown on a camp for displaced people, have created new pockets of no-go areas on the ground and made it impossible to deliver relief to tens of thousands of people in western Sudan, aid groups said. A9

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

Smarty Jones Comparisons
The gray colt Rockport Harbor easily won the Nashua Stakes at Aqueduct. The horse is drawing comparisons to Smarty Jones, who had the same trainer and jockey and a similar string of early victories. D6

NATIONAL A12-16; P1-16

Kerry Refuses to Concede As Bush Wins Popular Vote
President Bush swept to an apparent popular vote victory over Senator John Kerry, and seemed to have won enough Electoral College votes to assure his re-election. But Mr. Kerry challenged the results in Ohio, and said he would not abandon his campaign until all the votes in that critical state are counted. A1

Many precincts in Ohio continued to accept voters long after they were supposed to close, delaying the count and leaving the state's critical electoral votes up in the air. P1

Republicans made significant gains in Senate races in the South, picking up seats in the Carolinas, Georgia and Louisiana and beating back a strong challenge in Kentucky, which left them well-positioned to retain their majority control. A1

House Republicans, helped by the ouster of several incumbents in Texas, maintained their majority as Democrats came up short in their drive to break their opponents' decade-old hold on the chamber. P11

The balance of the party representation of state governors was not expected to change by more than one or two seats, voting results and projections indicated. P11

President Bush spent an increasingly optimistic evening watching election returns in his family's private quarters at the White House. P3

Sadness among Kerry supporters came suddenly and stubbornly. All day, Mr. Kerry and his aides had seemed calm and confident, with whispers of transition talk pervading the air. P3

Ralph Nader lashed out at Democrats who had opposed his presidential bid. P2

World leaders closely monitored news coverage of the American presidential election. P2

Prison Race Policy Argued
A California prison policy of temporarily segregating new inmates by race came under attack at the Supreme Court. A12

Atlanta Pursues Debtors
The Atlanta Department of Watershed Management's decision to rein in its debtors to pay for sewer improvements has resulted in a deluge of panicked calls from homeowners who have fallen behind. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Schumer Wins 2nd Term By a Large Margin
United States Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat from Brooklyn, won re-election to a second term by an enormous margin, outpolling the former top vote-getter in the state, the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, and fueling talk that he may soon become a candidate for governor. P15

United States Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut won a fifth term, overwhelming his Republican challenger, Jack Orchulli, a former fashion executive with no previous political experience. P15

Democrats captured at least two seats from Republicans in the New York State Senate and ran close in two other races, putting them nearly halfway toward their long-term goal of wresting control after decades of G.O.P. dominance. P14

Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut beat back a ferocious challenge by his Democratic opponent. P15

Jerramiah Healy, a former municipal court judge, led a field of 10 other candidates in a race to replace Glenn D. Cunningham, the city's first black mayor, who died in May. P15

Breslin Says He's Retiring
Jimmy Breslin, possibly the city's most famous living columnist, announced his resignation in the headline of his final newspaper column for Newsday, stating: ''I'm right again. So I quit. Beautiful.'' A20

Neediest Cases A20

EDUCATION A17

DINING OUT F1-16

OBITUARIES C15

ARTS E1-12

Dutch Filmmaker Murdered
Theo van Gogh, a Dutch filmmaker and writer who had recently made a controversial film critical of Islam, was shot and stabbed to death on an Amsterdam street. The police arrested a 26-year-old Dutchman of Moroccan descent. A5

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

SEC Seeks Monitor for AIG
The Securities and Exchange Commission is pushing for an independent monitor to scrutinize the books of American International Group as the company seeks to settle an investigation into the sale of a product that helped a financial company manipulate its earnings, according to people briefed on the negotiations. C1

Major Changes at Viacom
Tom Freston, co-president of Viacom, Inc., is preparing changes for the company's movie divisions, including the possible acquisition of an independent film company. C1

Retailers Focus on Teens
Retailers are rushing to take advantage of what has become a $17 billion market for room furnishings meant to appeal to young people from third grade through high school. C1

E.D.S.'s Woes Not Isolated
Analysts say the dispute between Electronic Data Systems and its auditors over the company's computer services contract with the Navy is a symptom of the larger challenges confronting the $400 billion-a-year computer services business. C1

Low Morale at Airlines
Low morale among airline workers, who have seen their pay cut and their health insurance and pension plans shrink, will probably take a toll on profits, management experts say. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Waiting for a president; giving till it stops hurting; Helene Cooper on Far Eastern Economic Review.

Column: Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E8
Public Lives B4
TV Listings E9
Weather D2


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY OFFENSES (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); SENTENCING (75%); MILITARY COURTS (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); APPROVALS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); JUDGES (69%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (68%); HORSES (68%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (66%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (65%); DISPLACED PERSONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CANADA (92%); SUDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



48 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- West; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Shades of 2000: For the most part, the red states stay red and blue states stay blue.

BYLINE: Elissa Gootman, Patrick Healy, Michael Janofsky, Michael Luo, Jennifer Medina, Robert Pear, Richard Prez- Pea, Marc Santora, Stephanie Strom and Daniel J. Wakin contributed to this report.

 BODY:

ALASKA
 With control of the United States Senate at stake in this year's election, the race in Alaska between the incumbent Republican, Lisa Murkowski, 47, and the Democratic challenger, Tony Knowles, 61, was too close to call with nearly half the votes counted.
 Ms. Murkowski, who was appointed to the Senate after her father was elected governor of Alaska in 2002, contended with accusations that she got her job by way of nepotism. Mr. Knowles, governor from 1994 to 2002, emphasized his willingness to break from the national Democratic Party, particularly on issues involving development. For instance, Mr. Knowles, like Ms. Murkowski, supports opening the Arctic National Wildlife Reserve for oil exploration, despite his party's staunch opposition to the proposal. 

ARIZONA
 President Bush won Arizona's 10 electoral votes, and Senator John McCain, the Republican, easily won a fourth term over Stuart Starky, an eighth-grade math teacher.
 Mr. Starky was never given much chance of defeating Mr. McCain. 
 While expressing personal admiration for Mr. McCain, Mr. Starky said his opponent was more interested in gaining national popularity than in serving Arizonans. 
 Voters also approved a measure to tighten immigrant controls in a state with a large Hispanic population. It requires proof of citizenship to register to vote, photo identification to vote and proof of eligibility to receive local welfare benefits. Another measure that was approved requires anyone proposing a public initiative to specify a financing source other than the state's general fund.

CALIFORNIA
 Senator Barbara Boxer, a Democrat, held onto her seat with a sweeping victory over the Republican candidate, Bill Jones, a former secretary of state. Even in this solidly blue state, the two-term senator is often viewed as being more liberal than most Californians, but according to voter surveys, she did well in all parts of the states. As with her Republican opponents in the past, Ms. Boxer outspent her challenger by millions of dollars. 
 Voters seemed poised to approve the most controversial ballot measure, which would allow for a $3 billion bond sale over the next decade to create the largest state-financed embryonic stem cell research program in the nation. Sixty percent of voters favored the measure, with 14 percent of the precincts reporting.

COLORADO
 Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell's decision to retire gave Democrats a chance to pick up a Republican-held Senate seat, and with most of the vote counted, Ken Salazar, the Democratic state attorney general, was running narrowly ahead of Pete Coors, chairman of the beer company that bears his family name.
 Mr. Salazar's popularity helped Senator Kerry run better than expected, though President Bush carried the state by a safe margin.
 Only one change was certain in the House delegation, a replacement for Scott McInnis, a six-term Republican, who is retiring. With more than half the votes counted, Greg Walcher, a Republican state official, was narrowly leading Mr. Salazar's brother John, a Democratic state senator.
 Voters rejected a measure to change the state Constitution to allocate Colorado's nine electoral votes based on the popular vote, rather than winner-take-all.

HAWAII
 In seeking an eighth term, Senator Daniel K. Inouye, a Democrat who turned 80 two months ago, encountered little trouble against Cam Cavasso, a Republican and a former state representative.
 Mr. Kerry held a firm lead over Mr. Bush, and polls suggested that Representatives Neil Abercrombie and Ed Case, both Democrats, would be re-elected.

IDAHO
 This Republican state sent its incumbent senator and two Republican representatives back to Congress and gave its electoral votes to President Bush. Senator Michael D. Crapo was opposed by Scott McClure, a Democratic write-in candidate. 
 Nicole LeFavour was poised to become the first openly gay member of Idaho's Legislature. She was leading her Republican opponent by 30 percentage points in partial results. 

MONTANA
 For the first time in 16 years, a Democrat was elected governor of Montana, as Brian Schweitzer defeated Republican Bob Brown. The two were competing for the office held by Gov. Judy Martz, a Republican, who decided not to seek re-election. 
 Mr. Schweitzer narrowly lost a bid for the Senate in 2000. In the days before the election, his campaign worried about the impact a large turnout for President Bush would have, because presidential candidates have long coattails in Montana. Not in this case, it turned out.

NEVADA
 Senator Harry Reid, a Democrat and the minority whip, easily defeated his Republican challenger, Richard Ziser, a Las Vegas businessman. 
 Mr. Ziser, who was running for political office for the first time, helped campaign for Nevada's constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage and had hoped to use that network of voters to rally conservatives. 
 In the state's House races, Shelley Berkley and Jim Gibbons, the incumbents, coasted to victory. Jon Porter, the other incumbent, led his opponent with 11 percent of the precincts reporting. 
 With both presidential candidates campaigning hard for the state, surveys of voters showed Senator Kerry with a slight edge. Many singled out his promise to block a proposal to build a nuclear waste dump northwest of Las Vegas as an important issue. President Bush had approved the plan. With 17 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Kerry had a small lead in the actual vote.

NEW MEXICO
 The campaigns of President Bush and Senator Kerry made immense efforts to win this state, which President Bush lost by 366 votes in 2000.
 Gov. Bill Richardson, a Democrat whose mother was born in Mexico, helped round up support for Mr. Kerry, especially among Hispanic voters. 
 Mr. Bush also made overtures to Hispanics, who account for 42 percent of the state's population.
 In the Albuquerque metropolitan area, Representative Heather A. Wilson, a former Air Force officer and frequent spokeswoman for the Republicans on military issues, faced a strong challenge from State Senator Richard Romero, a Democrat who is a former schoolteacher.

OREGON
 Senator Kerry defeated President Bush in Oregon, which has the country's only all-mail-in balloting system. Leading up to the election, Republicans had hoped that a ballot measure to ban same-sex marriage would draw out the state's conservative voters. That measure passed, while voters rejected a measure to expand the state's medical marijuana law. 
 In one of the country's most costly and contentious Congressional races, Representative David Wu, a Democrat, held onto his seat, defeating Goli Ameri, a Republican. The race centered on foreign and economic policy until recent weeks, when reports surfaced that a former girlfriend had accused Mr. Wu of sexual assault when they were in college. 
 Representative Darlene Hooley, a Democrat, fought back a challenge by Jim Zupancic, who accused her of being too liberal to represent her Republican-leaning district. With 69 percent of precincts reporting, Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat, seemed poised for re-election. 

UTAH
 Jon Huntsman Jr., a Republican, held a wide lead over Scott Matheson, a Democrat, in early returns in the race for governor.
 Neither candidate holds elected office, but they have two of the state's best-known names. Mr. Huntsman is a former ambassador who heads the chemical company in Salt Lake City that bears his family's name. Mr. Matheson, a former United States attorney, is the son of a former governor, and the brother of a congressman. 
 The two ran fairly staid campaigns, though late Democratic advertisements called Mr. Huntsman a polluter.
 Senator Robert F. Bennett, a Republican, was comfortably ahead of former state attorney general, Paul Van Dam, a Democrat, in early returns. Voters also gave overwhelming approval to a ban on same-sex marriage.

WASHINGTON
 With the polls closing at 11 p.m. Eastern time, complete results were not immediately available, but Senator Kerry appeared to have an early edge with a quarter of the precincts reporting. 
 Senator Patty Murray, a former preschool teacher and a two-term Democrat, was favored against Representative George Nethercutt, who in 1994 defeated Representative Tom Foley, the speaker of the House.
 In the governor's race, the Democrat, Christine Gregoire, the three-term attorney general, was favored over Dino Rossi, a Republican former chairman of the State Senate Budget Committee. Gov. Gary Locke, a Democrat, did not run.
 Voters rejected a 1 percent sales tax increase for education and a move to overturn the charter schools law, but approved a ban on dumping nuclear waste and a change in the primary system so that the top two vote-getters in primaries would advance to the general election.

WYOMING
 Wyoming had a quiet political year. It was not a presidential swing state, and the Senate seats and governor's office were not on the ballot.
 Voters decided on two ballot measures to curb medical malpractice judgments, but with most precincts reporting, the contests were too close to call.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Polls in Colorado''The issue that mattered most to:Moral valuesKERRY VOTERS: 9%BUSH VOTERS: 39%TerrorismKERRY VOTERS: 5BUSH VOTERS: 31IraqKERRY VOTERS: 36BUSH VOTERS: 11Economy/JobsKERRY VOTERS: 32BUSH VOTERS: 6TaxesKERRY VOTERS: 2BUSH VOTERS: 5Heath careKERRY VOTERS: 9BUSH VOTERS: 2EducationKERRY VOTERS: 4BUSH VOTERS: 1On the decision to go to war with Iraq:ApproveKERRY VOTERS: 11BUSH VOTERS: 91DisapproveKERRY VOTERS: 87BUSH VOTERS: 7Whom they trust to handle the economy:BushKERRY VOTERS: 1BUSH VOTERS: 79KerryKERRY VOTERS: 77BUSH VOTERS: 1BothKERRY VOTERS: 8BUSH VOTERS: 10NeitherKERRY VOTERS: 14BUSH VOTERS: 10(Source by Edison/Mitofsky surveys of 2,515 Colorado voters leaving the polls. Those with other answers are not shown.)Map of the continental U.S. highlighting the Western states as well as Hawaii and Alaska.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPROVALS (88%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); BALLOTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); BONDS (70%); WILDLIFE (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); BIOETHICS (66%); BREWERIES (60%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (55%); CITIZENSHIP (54%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (54%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) Election Results; Election Issues; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); KEN SALAZAR (78%); BARBARA BOXER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (98%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (79%); ARCTIC (74%) United States; Montana; Nevada; New Mexico; Oregon; Utah; Washington (State); Wyoming; Western States (US) ; Northwestern States (US); United States; Alaska; Arizona; California; Colorado; Hawaii; Idaho

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



49 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- Midwest; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: In a region sharply divided, Ohio and Wisconsin went down to the wire.

BYLINE: Elissa Gootman, Patrick Healy, Michael Janofsky, Michael Luo, Jennifer Medina, Robert Pear, Richard Prez- Pea, Marc Santora, Stephanie Strom and Daniel J. Wakin contributed to this report.

 BODY:

ILLINOIS
 The Democrats gained a Senate seat in Illinois, as the bright young star of the Democratic Party, Barack Obama, won convincingly. Mr. Obama, 43, gained national attention in Boston at the Democratic National Convention, delivering a keynote address that was widely praised by members of his party. 
 Mr. Obama was facing Alan Keyes, 54, who joined the race late, after another Republican, Jack Ryan, dropped out when embarrassing allegations were raised in his divorce papers. The candidates were competing to replace Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, a Republican, who is retiring.

INDIANA
 President Bush captured Indiana's 11 electoral votes and helped propel Mitch Daniels, his former director of the Office of Management and Budget, into the governor's mansion. 
 Mr. Daniels, who had 54 percent of the vote with more than 90 percent of the state's precincts reporting, defeated the incumbent Democrat, Joseph E. Kernan, who took office last year after the sudden death of Gov. Frank L. O'Bannon.
 Senator Evan Bayh, a fiscally conservative Democrat who accumulated a $7 million campaign war chest, easily defeated Marvin Scott, a sociology professor who was a featured speaker at the Republican National Convention.
 John Hostettler, the Republican congressman who grabbed headlines this year when he was caught with a loaded gun at an airport checkpoint, emerged victorious over Jon Jennings, a Democrat, in a district known for tight races.
 Julia Carson, the Democrat who represents the Seventh District in the House, held on to her seat, but her fellow Democratic incumbent, Baron P. Hill, was in a dead heat in his race against Mike Sodrel, his Republican challenger.

IOWA
 Charles E. Grassley, a Republican, won a fifth term in the Senate, easily defeating the Democratic challenger, Arthur Small, a lawyer and former state legislator. 
 Mr. Grassley, who shapes the nation's tax laws as chairman of the Finance Committee, won about two-thirds of the vote, as he did in 1992 and 1998.
 The state's five House members also won re-election.
 Iowa, which has only seven electoral votes, was a favorite destination for President Bush and Senator Kerry in the final days of the presidential race. Mr. Bush lost Iowa by less than half a percentage point in 2000, and he tried to win it this year by focusing on counties that he had lost to Al Gore.
 Mr. Kerry's victory in the Iowa caucuses in January set him on the path to the Democratic presidential nomination, and he returned often, hoping Iowa would give him the margin to win the White House.

KANSAS
 Senator Sam Brownback, a Republican, won re-election by an overwhelming margin.
 National and state Republican leaders were again hoping to defeat Representative Dennis Moore, the Democrat in the Third District who has been an anomaly in this solidly Republican state. But Mr. Moore, the only Democrat in the Congressional delegation, defeated Kris Kobach, a law professor and former Justice Department official. 
 In a race that proved closer than initially forecast several months ago, Representative Jim Ryun, the former Olympic middle-distance runner and a Republican, beat his Democratic challenger, Nancy Boyda, a political unknown who worked in the pharmaceutical industry and waged a hard-fought campaign.

MICHIGAN
 With 60 percent of precincts reporting last night, Senator Kerry was poised to win a slim victory in Michigan, thanks to strong support from unions, first-time voters and dominant concerns about the economy.
 With neither its Democratic governor nor its two Democratic senators up for re-election and no House seats expected to switch parties, the major campaigns in Michigan involved ballot proposals to ban same-sex marriage and limit Indian gambling.
 The gay-marriage ban, known as Proposal 2, passed with 60 percent of voter support. The gambling proposal also passed with 60 percent support.

MINNESOTA
 Senator Kerry was leading in the race for Minnesota's 10 electoral votes. With no Senate seat up for grabs, no race for governor and a series of Congressional races where the incumbents all held their seats, the focus was on which way the state would vote for president.
 Although Bill Clinton won the state by a wide margin in 1996, Al Gore barely took it in 2000, winning by two percentage points.

MISSOURI
 In one of the country's most hotly contested governor's races, Secretary of State Matt Blunt held a slight edge over State Auditor Claire McCaskill with about 80 percent of the state's precincts counted.
 Ms. McCaskill, 51, who boasts a long political resume, wrested the Democratic nomination away from the incumbent, Bob Holden. Mr. Blunt is just 33 but comes from a three-generation political family. His father, Representative Roy Blunt, the third-ranking House Republican, won his re-election race easily. Senator Christopher S. Bond, the three-term Republican incumbent, defeated State Treasurer Nancy Farmer.
 The departure of Representatives Richard A. Gephardt and Karen McCarthy, both Democrats, left two open Congressional seats. For Ms. McCarthy's seat, the Democrat, Emanuel Cleaver, a former Kansas City mayor, defeated the Republican, Jeanne Patterson, a political newcomer. In the race for Mr. Gephardt's seat, Russ Carnahan, the son of former Senator Jean Carnahan and the late Gov. Mel Carnahan, was leading his Republican opponent, Bill Federer.

NEBRASKA
 President Bush was leading in this staunchly Republican state, garnering two-thirds of the vote with roughly half of the precincts reporting.
 Jeff Fortenberry, the publishing executive who was the Republican candidate for the House seat vacated by Doug Bereuter, beat the Democrat, State Senator Matt Connealy.

NORTH DAKOTA
 President Bush trounced Senator Kerry in North Dakota, winning more than 60 percent of the vote. 
 Senator Byron Dorgan, a Democrat, retained his seat, easily dispatching his Republican opponent, Mike Liffrig, a lawyer who had tried to make an issue of Mr. Dorgan's brief appearance in the controversial documentary ''Fahrenheit 9/11.''
 Another Democrat, Representative Earl Pomeroy, overcame a challenge from Duane Sand, a Republican. 
 Gov. John Hoeven, a Democrat-turned-Republican, steamrolled over his Democratic opponent, Joe Satrom, a former state senator.
 Mr. Hoeven had to overcome the anger of traditionally conservative members of hunting groups who objected to the governor's decision to change the pheasant hunting season.
 Measure 1, a constitutional amendment that defines marriage as legal only when between a man and a woman and does not recognize any other type of domestic union, won wide support from voters.

OHIO
 Ohio and its 20 electoral votes were proving critical in the presidential race, but it was still too close to call early Wednesday despite a small edge for President Bush. In a statewide race, Sen. George V. Voinovich, a Republican who had also served as governor and mayor of Cleveland, won a second term with an easy victory over Eric Fingerhut, a Democratic state senator. Mr. Voinovich had held strong leads in the polls and a huge advantage in money. 
 Ohioans also voted strongly in favor of a state constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriages. Ohio was one of 11 states with the issue on the ballot, but its version was tougher: The state also sought to rule out civil unions. The measures on the ballot were considered a potential boost for Mr. Bush. But the proportion of the ''no'' vote that went for Senator Kerry was greater than the proportion of the ''yes'' vote that went to Mr. Bush.
 Opponents of the measure promised to consider a legal challenge.

SOUTH DAKOTA
 In a race that could throw out the most powerful Democrat in the Senate, the former Representative John Thune was locked in a near-dead heat against Tom Daschle, the Senate minority leader. Mr. Thune had 51 percent of the vote and Mr. Daschle had 49 percent, with 81 percent of the precincts reporting. 
 Mr. Daschle, who has represented South Dakota on Capitol Hill since 1978, was elected party leader in 1994.
 Critics, including Mr. Thune, say Mr. Daschle is more closely aligned with the national Democratic Party than the state.
 Since leaving the House, Mr. Thune has headed a lobbying group in Washington, which has prompted some to say that he is just as tied to Washington as Mr. Daschle.
 When Mr. Thune ran against Senator Tim Johnson in 2002, Mr. Johnson won by only 524 votes. 
 President Bush easily won the state, as he did in 2000. Analysts had said the outcome of the Senate race could be determined by who showed up at the polls for the presidential election.

WISCONSIN
 In Wisconsin, where Al Gore narrowly defeated George W. Bush in 2000, there was no decisive winner as of last night. The state was the scene of fierce campaigning, and with 75 percent of precincts reporting, the presidential race was neck and neck.
 Also with 75 percent of the precincts reporting, Senator Russell D. Feingold, a Democrat perhaps best known for championing campaign finance reform, was leading, with 56 percent of the vote in his race against Tim Michels, a construction company executive and former Army ranger who ran as a Republican. 
 The candidates clashed over a host of issues, including the war in Iraq and antiterrorism legislation, which Mr. Feingold was the lone senator to vote against, saying he feared that it would infringe on civil liberties. 
 The state's incumbent representatives, four Republicans and three Democrats, were re-elected. Gwen Moore, a Democrat, won the one open seat.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Polls in Ohio''The issue that mattered most to:Moral valuesKERRY VOTERS: 7%BUSH VOTERS: 38%TerrorismKERRY VOTERS: 4BUSH VOTERS: 29Economy/JobsKERRY VOTERS: 42BUSH VOTERS: 8TaxesKERRY VOTERS: 5BUSH VOTERS: 8IraqKERRY VOTERS: 19BUSH VOTERS: 7EducationKERRY VOTERS: 7BUSH VOTERS: 4Heath careKERRY VOTERS: 8BUSH VOTERS: 2On the decision to go to war with Iraq:ApproveKERRY VOTERS: 17BUSH VOTERS: 87DisapproveKERRY VOTERS: 77BUSH VOTERS: 8How confident they are that votes in their state will be counted accurately:Very or somewhatKERRY VOTERS: 74BUSH VOTERS: 90Not very or not at allKERRY VOTERS: 20BUSH VOTERS: 4(Source by Edison/Mitofsky surveys of 1,963 Ohio voters leaving the polls. Those with other answers are not shown.)Map of the U.S. highlighting the Midwestern states.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); IRAQ WAR (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); TAX LAW (62%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (56%) Election Results; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); EVAN BAYH (58%); AL GORE (58%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (58%); BARON P HILL (58%); DENNIS MOORE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) United States; Illinois; Midwestern States (US); Indiana; Iowa; Kansas; Michigan; Minnesota; United States; Missouri; Nebraska; North Dakota; Ohio; South Dakota; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



50 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Stadium Vote Linked to Olympics Bid and West Side's Future

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The state's economic development authority is expected to approve a plan tomorrow to build the most expensive football stadium in the country on the far West Side of Manhattan, beginning an approval process that could decide the fates of New York's 2012 Olympics bid, the redevelopment of the West Side and the legacy of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 The approval would by no means ensure that construction on the hotly contested stadium project for the Jets, with an estimated cost of $1.4 billion, will begin next spring, as the team hopes. Several obscure government boards must still weigh in on the project, which must also survive votes in the State Legislature and the City Council, as well as an almost inevitable lawsuit. But it could lend a sense of momentum to the plan as both the city's Olympic bid and the Bloomberg administration's plans for redevelopment of the West Side enter a critical stage.
 ''The holiday season of 2004 is in some ways the make-or-break moment for this stadium,'' said Councilwoman Christine Quinn, who represents the West Side and opposes the stadium. ''You have a series of governmental actions that'll keep the project moving forward, stop it, slow it down, or force changes that will send proponents back to the drawing board.'' 
 Mayor Bloomberg and Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff, the architect of the city's Olympic bid, have said that the West Side plan is vitally important to the city's continuing ability to grow and prosper. And they have tied the fortunes of the city's bid for the Olympics to the beginning of the stadium's construction by next spring, before the International Olympic Committee meets in July to select a site for the 2012 Summer Games.
 ''The coming weeks are crucial for New York city's future,'' said Mayor Bloomberg. ''Not only is the Olympic bid at stake, but so is our entire tourism industry. People have to remember that long term, this project is not about sports. It's about a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to create jobs, housing and parks for New Yorkers.''
 The vote by the Empire State Development Corporation tomorrow will come only 11 days before the city and its bid committee, NYC2012, have to submit their voluminous proposal for the 2012 Games to the international committee in Switzerland. New York is in a race against London, Madrid, Moscow and the widely acknowledged front-runner, Paris.
 The city's Planning Commission is expected to release the final environmental review on the West Side redevelopment plan, also called the Hudson Yards plan, next week. It will outline the effects of the $3.7 billion plan to rezone a 59-block area for large-scale development, including office towers, 12,000 apartments, parks, new streets and a $1.8 billion extension of the No. 7 subway line from Times Square to 11th Avenue and 34th Street.
 The plan would go in December to the City Council, where there are sharply divergent views on how much development can reasonably take place in the neighborhood, and how the city can pay for the project. A final vote is scheduled for January.
 The debate between the city and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority over the value of the development rights over the West Side rail yards, where the stadium would be built, is also expected to heat up around Thanksgiving. The city and the Jets have maintained that the rights are worthless today. But the transit agency, which is proposing a fare increase and is in desperate need of cash for its capital plan, wants about $700 million. Any deal would have to be approved by the transit agency's board, and possibly, the State Legislature.
 ''This is a great economic development project,'' said Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation. ''Whatever the ground rent the Jets ultimately pay the M.T.A., it will be a windfall for the agency, with no cost obligations.''
 State legislators say that in late November they may finally address a third element of the West Side transformation: the $1.4 billion expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. Although there is widespread support for the project, legislation authorizing the expansion has been bogged down since June in the Legislature, where stadium opponents sought to strip the bill of any links to the far more controversial stadium. Now, the Democratic-controlled Assembly and the Republican-controlled Senate appear close to an agreement on the Javits Center.
 ''We're guardedly optimistic that this is going forward,'' said Joseph Spinnato, president of the Hotel Association of New York City. ''We've been assured there's agreement on the language of a bill.''
 But even Martin J. Golden, a Republican state senator who represents part of Brooklyn, acknowledged that there was no such consensus on the stadium, which he supports. Complicating the issue is the traditional upstate-downstate rivalry, in which the Senate demands that upstate projects receive an amount of money equal to what New York City gets. 
 ''I don't think the Senate and the Assembly could agree on the stadium by the end of the year,'' Mr. Golden said. ''Some of my colleagues are very much against it. They think New York City is getting too much.''
 City and state officials contend that the stadium, which would double as an exhibition hall with links to the nearby Javits Center, would serve as a catalyst for more development in the area and would generate jobs and tax revenues. The state and city plan to contribute $300 million each to the stadium, with the Jets putting up $800 million and covering any cost overruns. The team has worked hard to line up political support in the City Council and the State Legislature.
 ''It's crunch time,'' said James Whelan, executive director of the Hudson Yards Coalition, an alliance of business and labor groups that support the stadium plans. ''The Olympic bid is severely hampered if we cannot show credible progress on the New York Sports and Convention Center. The intense race for the 2012 Games is probably unparalleled in Olympic history.''
 Opponents, however, say that the stadium will repel development and are skeptical that it will benefit anyone other than the Jets. They worry about traffic and pollution on game days. The Independent Budget Office and the city comptroller have complained that the Bloomberg administration has designed a stadium plan that avoids normal reviews by the City Council.
 Under the general project plan before the Empire State Development Corporation, the city and the state would form a development corporation that would go to the bond market to borrow money for the stadium, ultimately issuing a total of $600 million in bonds. In addition, the city plans to issue about $400 million in tax-exempt bonds on behalf of the Jets, which the team would then repay. The team would put up the remaining money in cash.
 The Jets, in turn, would use the money saved by borrowing tax-free to pay for a bridge over the West Side Highway and a mall in front of the stadium between 33rd and 34th Streets, and half the cost of a pedestrian bridge over the West Side Highway at 38th Street, near the ferry terminal.
 If the Empire State board approves the project tomorrow, it will set a date for a hearing 30 days later, followed by a 30-day comment period, before granting final approval sometime in January.
 The project would also have to be approved by the three-member Public Authorities Control Board, a fiscal monitor for independent state agencies. Gov. George E. Pataki; the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver; the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, each appoint one member. The board's decision must be unanimous, but so far, Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno have not taken a formal position on the stadium, though they have expressed some misgivings.
 The state would also need legislative approval for an appropriation to pay its half of the $44 million in annual debt service on the bonds, at a time when the state is facing multibillion-dollar budget gaps.
 But even if the stadium does not run into political opposition in the Legislature or competition for public dollars, opponents say there will be lawsuits against the city's rezoning plan, and state officials concede that suits could delay construction of the stadium. 
 Deputy Mayor Doctoroff has dismissed the threat of lawsuits, saying the city has a good track record in fending off legal challenges. But Councilwoman Quinn said the suits only had to delay the stadium from moving forward to be successful. Some critics believe that the stadium project will lose all momentum if New York fails to win its bid for the 2012 Olympics in July.
 ''As certain as I am that Christmas will follow Thanksgiving,'' Ms. Quinn said, ''I am equally certain that there will be numerous lawsuits leveled against the stadium that will, at a minimum, slow down the process. ''By the mayor's own account, that would be a major setback for the proponents.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The site on the far West Side of Manhattan where a $1.4 billion stadium for the Jets is proposed. It would also serve as an exhibition center. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); APPROVALS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ZONING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); TOURISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (83%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



51 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Three Women Caught in the Wake of Welfare Reform

BYLINE: By PAUL STARR. 
Paul Starr, co-editor of the American Prospect, is professor of sociology at Princeton University and author of ''The Creation of the Media.''

 BODY:

American Dream
Three Women, Ten Kids and a Nation's Drive to End Welfare
By Jason DeParle
422 pages. Viking. $25.95.
 No one spoke much about welfare and the poor during this election season, and that's a mixed blessing. The reforms passed by the Republican Congress and signed by President Bill Clinton in 1996 were successful enough in moving recipients into the work force so that welfare dependency has ceased to be a political issue. 
 But if it is a tribute to reform that politicians no longer run against welfare, it is testimony to the nation's limited concern about poverty that they are also silent about improving what has emerged in the last eight years. For as Jason DeParle shows in this nuanced and compelling book, welfare reform has done a lot less than its backers expected to transform the lives of the poor and to give them, in Mr. Clinton's words, ''a shot at the American Dream.'' 
 Mr. DeParle, a reporter for The New York Times who began covering the urban poor in the 1980's, takes us inside the upheaval in welfare by switching back and forth between two narratives. One is the story of three related black women who move with their children from Chicago to Milwaukee in search of lower rents and higher welfare benefits but then find themselves caught up in the crusade to bring welfare to an end. The other is the story of the politics of welfare reform, featuring Mr. Clinton, Newt Gingrich, Daniel Patrick Moynihan and a supporting cast of policy experts. 
 Mr. DeParle tells both stories in rich detail, mixing in relevant historical background and social research with his own reporting and acknowledging his views without appearing to let them distort his account. Despite initial misgivings about the 1996 legislation, he concludes it brought about important positive changes. And despite evident sympathy for the Milwaukee women, he makes no excuses for their failings. Indeed, he is so even-handed that some readers may miss a unifying message, but the book is as complex as the subject warrants. 
 Of course, the experience of three welfare recipients could never capture the full complexity of the impact of welfare reform. The women's journey, however, has an archetypal character, from their family origins in Mississippi (where the ancestors of two of the three women were slaves on a plantation owned by the forebears of the notorious opponent of civil-rights laws, Senator James O. Eastland) to Chicago (where their hard-working mothers struggled to bring them up, only to see them drop out of school, give birth, and become ''prison widows'' when their babies' fathers went to jail) and finally to Milwaukee, where they help one another as they try to make new lives. 
 Mr. DeParle says he chose Milwaukee as his site for observing the impact of reform because Wisconsin was the epicenter of the welfare-reform earthquake. Sixty-six percent of recipients left welfare in the two years after Tommy G. Thompson, the governor of Wisconsin at the time, established a work requirement under a federal waiver in 1996. Of Mr. DeParle's subjects, two make the transition to low-paid jobs, while an inept system of privatized welfare agencies continues to send checks to the third as she slips deeper into crack addiction. 
 Nationally, the central drama in welfare reform was the antagonistic collaboration of Mr. Clinton and congressional Republicans in enacting the 1996 law. But Mr. Clinton had actually laid the groundwork for an alternative to welfare three years earlier through the expansion of the earned income tax credit, which became the nation's largest -- albeit nearly invisible -- antipoverty program. 
 It was the combination of that credit and new welfare rules that brought about the welfare revolution. Traditionally, only the nonworking poor had received cash assistance, but the money often wasn't enough to live on and many recipients had held jobs they didn't report. Under the new regime, the poor are expected to work, and when they do, they receive a supplement to their wages -- the earned income tax credit -- that is 100 percent federally financed and more substantial than welfare in some states ever provided. 
 In other words, the poor can now do exactly what the old system prohibited: work and receive additional public support to get them out of poverty. What is missing, besides stability of employment, is chiefly health insurance and child care for working mothers in low-paid jobs. 
 The picture that emerges from Mr. DeParle's account is of a reform that was necessary and successful but incomplete. In the four years of high prosperity after 1996, the welfare rolls dropped by 60 percent, while the number of Americans in poverty also fell. In the sluggish economy since 2000, poverty rates have increased, and median family incomes have fallen. 
 Still, there has been no resurgence in welfare, and the poor have done better during an economic downturn than many experts feared. In Mr. DeParle's narrative, the grinding pressures of poverty remain undiminished for the two Milwaukee women who get low-paid jobs. Even small reverses can push them into total destitution, the men in their lives experience little progress, and some of their children seem headed for trouble.
 Yet Mr. DeParle leaves little doubt that welfare reform, for all its limitations, was the right thing to do. It wasn't only the poor who were stuck on welfare; so were liberals who wanted to reduce poverty but found themselves defending an unpopular program of cash handouts. A new system of work support will not only offer the poor better hope of progress but also be more consonant with American values. 
 But if that system is to be built, the problems of the poor need to get back on the public agenda. Mr. DeParle's book may help focus the discussion.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jason DeParle (Photo by Diana Walker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WOMEN (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); WORKING MOTHERS (76%); LITERATURE (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%) Paul Starr; Jason Deparle

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



52 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Estate Taxes Show Fewer Modest Fortunes but More Big Ones

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
The number of Americans who left modest fortunes when they died declined in 2003 from 2001, while the number who left large fortunes increased, government data posted on the Internet showed yesterday.
 The data, from the Internal Revenue Service, provide the first glimpse of how the reductions in the estate tax championed by President Bush, which took effect in 2002, have reduced the taxes on the wealthy. 
 The estate tax now applies only to estates greater than $1 million, up from $675,000 when Mr. Bush took office. Those figures double for married couples. 
 The estate tax applies to all assets -- after deducting debts and expenses like funerals and legal fees -- in excess of $1 million a person. Mr. Bush and others, who call this tax the ''death tax,'' assert that it represents second, third or even fourth taxation of the same dollar. In most estates, however, some or all of the dollars have never been taxed because the person held unrealized capital gains or the wealth grew from a tax-free gift.
 The number of moderately rich estates-- those with taxable fortunes at death of $1 million to $2.5 million -- fell to 21,635 in 2003 from 24,591 in 2001, a decline of 12 percent, the I.R.S. report showed.
 The value of publicly traded stocks held by these individuals declined 34 percent, to $7.2 billion in 2003 from $10.8 billion in 2001. The figures suggest that the drop in stock prices pushed the wealth of many people below the threshold for the estate tax, explaining why fewer people were in this category.
 Despite the decline in the value of stocks since 2000, the average wealth of those in this category rose $92,000, or almost 6 percent, to just under $1.6 million, as the value of homes and other real estate rose sharply and the value of bonds grew. This partly reflected falling interest rates, which make real estate and bonds paying higher than current interest rates more valuable.
 Over the same period, the number of taxable estates valued at $20 million or more, the highest category in I.R.S. reports, increased nearly 8 percent, to 505 from 469. More significant, the average value of these estates grew to $62 million, a 10 percent increase from 2001, when their average value was $56.4 million.
 The values reported on estate tax returns can be based on the date of death or six months after death if the value of the assets has declined. Estate tax returns are typically filed nine months after death. Thus the figures on wealth holding tend to reflect conditions stretching over parts of two years.
 The estate tax produced 9.5 percent less revenue for the federal government in 2003 from estates of $1 million or more than in 2001, despite a 1.4 percent increase in total value of such estates, the data show. 
 Total estate tax revenue fell to just under $20.7 billion, a decline of more than 12 percent from 2001, because the threshold was raised to $1 million. Taxes from estates valued at less than $1 million were zero in 2003; the 2001 figure was almost $711 million. 
 Over all, the share of estates paid in estate taxes fell slightly, to 18.8 percent from 19 percent. Among estates valued at $1 million to $2.5 million, the moderately rich, the average tax rate fell to 11.2 percent from 15.2 percent, reducing the effective tax rate more than a fourth. For the superrich, those leaving estates of $20 million or more, the average tax rate fell to 16.5 percent from 18.4 percent. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 4, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about changes in the size of fortunes left by Americans when they die misstated the amount of wealth exempt from estate tax. While the figure was $1 million for the year 2003, the latest year for which data is available, it is $1.5 million for 2004.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BONDS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); HOME PRICES (65%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); MARRIAGE (55%) United States Economy; Income; Millionaires and Billionaires; Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%) Internal Revenue Service

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%) David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



53 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE SENATE -- NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: All About the President

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
From beginning to end, this election was about George W. Bush, and he can claim that an apparently insurmountable lead in the popular vote vindicated his policies, his persistence, his personal qualities and his political strategy. He bet that voters who had shared a traumatic terrorist attack and two wars on his watch would stand by him, and they appeared to.
 A president who won by a whisker four years ago, then governed as if he had a landslide, was within striking distance of an electoral vote mandate for a second term. He picked up Republican, and conservative, seats in a still-divided Senate, and support for his stance against gay marriage in states where ballot measures banning it won approval. 
 In an election marked by divisiveness to the bitter end, much remained clouded early this morning: John Kerry's camp maintained that he could yet win pivotal Ohio and close the gap, and that uncertainties in Iowa and New Mexico might be resolved in his favor.
 But in sweet redemption, Mr. Bush exorcised the ghost of the Florida recount by winning a decisive victory in that state where his brother is governor and bid fair to become the only son of an American president ever to be elected president himself, then win a second term, and thus escape the curse of John and John Quincy Adams. 
 ''I've given it my all,'' Mr. Bush said after voting yesterday morning, and millions of Republican voters returned the favor, outperforming the party's past margins in crucial counties and states from Florida to Ohio. Divided as the nation was and remains, Democrats apparently failed to realize their highest hopes that tens of millions of dollars and anger at Mr. Bush could galvanize enough voters to defeat him.
 So what next? If even a one-vote margin is a mandate, as John F. Kennedy once said, what might a real mandate look like for Mr. Bush? Will he pursue his course undaunted, whatever the opposition may do? Or once again seek, as he promised four years ago, to ''change the tone'' in Washington, and reach out to the one-quarter of voters in the electorate who described themselves as angry at his administration?
 The evidence is mixed, and second terms are notoriously unpredictable -- and disappointing. But Mr. Bush has never been a man to shrink from a fight, and he may well have a hot one on his hands soon enough, if there is a confirmation battle in the Senate to replace the ailing Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist.
 Perhaps no issue is more important than the judiciary to Mr. Bush's conservative base, including the 2 in 10 voters who yesterday told pollsters that ''moral issues'' mattered to them more than any other. And because victory would mean that the president would have a chance to nominate a clear conservative majority to the Supreme Court, no issue would be more contentious among Mr. Bush's liberal opponents, and Democrats seem all but certain to filibuster any choice they see as too extreme.
 Mr. Bush would become the 12th of the 17 incumbent presidents who have sought re-election since 1900 to win a second term. Already, through his aggressive handling of terrorism and foreign policy, he has made himself not only the most polarizing president since Richard M. Nixon but also guaranteed himself a prominent place in the history books ,and historical debate, for years to come.
 ''This is a latter-day Wilson presidency,'' said Richard Norton Smith, a scholar of the presidency and director of the Abraham Lincoln presidential library in Springfield, Ill., invoking Woodrow Wilson's impassioned intervention in World War I to make the world ''safe for democracy.'' ''It's going to matter, it's going to be pointed to -- pro and con -- for a long time.''
 But any success for Mr. Bush was also very much Mr. Kerry's failure. If Mr. Bush struggled all year to post job approval ratings of 50 percent or better, a classic danger sign for an incumbent, Mr. Kerry failed all year to open a clear lead in the national polls. 
 Mr. Kerry was counting on millions of first-time Democratic voters to carry him through, and millions apparently did turn out, but probably not enough to make the difference. Many of those who chose Mr. Kerry said they considered their vote to be against Mr. Bush, not for their candidate, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls.
 Only about half the voters yesterday had a favorable view of Mr. Kerry, about the same as for Mr. Bush, and he dueled Mr. Bush only to a draw on who would best handle the economy -- an issue that Mr. Kerry had once hoped to make his signature. Voters who cited honesty as the most important quality in a candidate broke 2 to 1 in Mr. Bush's favor, despite Mr. Kerry's relentless accusations that Mr. Bush had misled the public into war.
 Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, Karl Rove, had long believed that if he could draw out conservative and evangelical voters who stayed home four years ago, he could ''make the pie higher,'' as Mr. Bush once memorably said of his goals for economic growth. Differences in the wording of exit-poll questions between this year and 2000 made a definitive early assessment of how well that succeeded difficult, but a third of all voters yesterday identified themselves as evangelicals, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls. 
 There were at least some signs that state ballot measures on gay marriage had helped boost conservative turnout. 
 While domestic issues like health care seemed to resonate with voters more than questions of foreign policy, the war in Iraq was a drag on Mr. Bush's support, as it has been all year. While a bare majority of voters said the decision to go to war against Saddam Hussein was correct, a majority also said that it was going badly and had jeopardized the nation's long-term security.
 ''It's not Vietnam, but it stands in the shadow of Vietnam, and as a consequence, people see this as similar,'' said Robert Dallek, a presidential historian and biographer of Lyndon B. Johnson. ''There is no question Bush could have rallied the whole country to his side in the wake of Sept. 11, and kept it there. But he has been divisive and this is a knock on him.''
 Mr. Bush's last presidential election may be over, but the first election in the post-Saddam Hussein Iraq has yet to be held. In his convention acceptance speech this summer, Mr. Bush himself acknowledged that when he campaigned four years ago, ''none of us could have envisioned what these years would bring.'' 
 Once again, Mr. Bush and a divided nation may well have a chance to find out.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of President Bush gathered yesterday in Washington, D.C. President Bush was leading in the popular vote in the early morning. (Photo by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)(pg. P10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TERRORISM (77%); HIJACKING (77%); REFERENDUMS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); APPROVALS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%); MARRIAGE (55%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Results; United States Politics and Government; Election Issues; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Presidents and Presidency (US); Airlines and Airplanes; World Trade Center (NYC); Presidential Election of 2004; Hijacking; Presidential Election of 2000

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); AL GORE (58%) Todd S Purdum; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Ohio; Iowa; New Mexico; Florida; Iraq; Afghanistan; New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



54 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: IN THE STATES -- GOVERNORS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Budget Chief Unseats Democrat in Indiana; Democrats Retain North Carolina

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
Mitch Daniels, the White House budget director under President Bush, won the Indiana governor's race last night, defeating the Democratic incumbent, Joseph E. Kernan.
 Mr. Daniels, who also served in the Reagan White House and as a top executive at Eli Lilly & Company, deposed Mr. Kernan, who became governor in September 2003 after Gov. Frank O'Bannon died of a stroke. Mr. Kernan, a prisoner of war in Vietnam and the former mayor of South Bend, had made Mr. Daniels's service in the Bush White House a campaign issue, criticizing his opponent in speeches and advertisements. But he could not overcome Mr. Daniels's money or name recognition in a state won by Mr. Bush in 2000 and again this year. 
 The national Republican party poured $2.6 million into the Indiana race on Mr. Daniels's behalf.
 Incumbent governors in Delaware, North Dakota, Vermont and North Carolina won re-election last night. The Democratic candidate in West Virginia kept the governor's office in the party's hands.
 Gov. Ruth Ann Minner of Delaware, a Democrat and the state's first female governor, held onto her office in an unexpectedly close race, while Gov. John Hoeven of North Dakota, a Republican, easily won a second term.
 Jim Douglas, the moderate Republican governor of Vermont who first won the office in 2002 after Gov. Howard Dean left the job to run for president, won another two-year term. He has held elective office in Vermont for most of the last 30 years.
 Michael Easley, the Democratic governor of North Carolina, also won re-election, keeping the seat in his party's hands, even as President Bush carried his state. He succeeded Jim Hunt, the popular Democrat who served two terms as governor in the 1990's.
 In West Virginia, Joseph Manchin, the secretary of state and long a familiar figure in state politics, will become the next governor. The office opened unexpectedly this year after the incumbent, Bob Wise, also a Democrat, admitted an extramarital affair and bowed out of the race.
 Eleven states were picking governors yesterday, five of them with no incumbent on the ballot. Before the elections, Republicans held 28 governors' offices and Democrats 22. Despite a number of competitive races this year and some probable party shifts, voting results and projections indicated that that overall balance of statehouse power would change by no more than one or two seats.
 The issues on which these races were decided were intensely local. Several states that went decisively for President Bush or Senator John Kerry appeared poised to elect a governor of the other party. Tight budgets and their effects on public services across the board were the main motivating factors for voters, although several states also presented candidates with sharply different styles and personal stories.
 There was no single marquee race for governor this year, but Indiana, Missouri, Montana, New Hampshire, Utah and Washington had closely fought contests. Races in Delaware, North Carolina, North Dakota, Vermont and West Virginia were less competitive by Election Day.
 Among the most closely-watched governors' elections was the race in Missouri, where the state auditor, Claire McCaskill, a Democrat, faced Matt Blunt, the Republican secretary of state and son of Representative Roy Blunt, the third-ranking Republican in the House. The race was close all fall. Ms. McCaskill defeated the incumbent, Bob Holden, in the Democratic primary. 
 Ms. McCaskill and Mr. Blunt attacked each other's records and accused each other of changing positions. Ms. McCaskill would be the state's first female governor. Mr. Blunt generally hewed to Republican party positions, including opposition to some forms of stem cell research and support for a state constitutional amendment banning gay marriage.
 New Hampshire's incumbent governor, Craig Benson, was being challenged by John Lynch, a businessman who specializes in turning around troubled companies and who is a former chairman of the University of New Hampshire Board of Trustees. Mr. Benson, a wealthy technology entrepreneur, campaigned as a fiscal conservative, supporter of the death penalty and opponent of gay marriage.
 New Hampshire elects a governor every two years.
 The governor's race in Utah pitted two respected political families against each other in a race for an open seat, but the Republican prevailed in this reliably Republican state. John Huntsman Jr., the Republican scion of a wealthy chemical manufacturing family, a former ambassador to Singapore and a former deputy trade representative, defeated Scott Matheson, a Democrat from a prominent political family. Mr. Matheson is the son of a former governor and brother of a member of Congress from Utah, Jim. Like most other governor's races around the nation, the debate focused on jobs and the economy.
 Governor Minner, 69, who rose to the state's top office from an impoverished background, is a fiscal conservative but a moderate on social issues. Among her first acts on taking office in 2001 was to order broad cuts in state spending. She has tried to improve the state's health programs and helped push through a tough ban on indoor smoking. She has also tried to limit the expansion of gambling in Delaware.
 She defeated Bill Lee, 68, a Republican who is former Superior Court judge.
 In North Dakota, Governor Hoeven, a former banker and a onetime Democrat, won the office as a Republican in 2000 in his first political campaign. This year he pointed to improvements in the state economy, including a modest increase in employment and incomes in the state.
 Mr. Douglas, the Republican who was re-elected governor of Vermont, has engaged in virtually nonstop campaigning for the past 25 years. He served 12 years as secretary of state and 8 years as treasurer before winning the governor's office in 2002. His Democratic opponent, Peter Clavelle, first won office as a Progressive, becoming the mayor of left-leaning Burlington in 1989. He was defeated four year later by a Republican, then won back the office in 1995Mr. Manchin, West Virginia's new governor, defeated Monty Warner, a Republican who is a former Army officer and is now a real estate developer. Mr. Manchin served in both houses of the state legislature and as secretary of state. He managed to unite business and labor interests and has talked about making the state more attractive to businesses and tourists.
 Two other incumbents, Judy Martz of Montana, Republican, and Gary Locke of Washington, a Democrat, also choose not to seek re-election.The Democratic candidate in Montana, Brian Schweitzer, and the Republican, Secretary of State Bob Brown, traded accusations of unethical conduct throughout the fall.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mitch Daniels, left, and his wife, Cheri, celebrated yesterday with supporters in Indianapolis after he was elected governor of Indiana. (Photo by Darron Cummings/Associated Press)Chart: ''RESULTS: The Races for Governor''Results as of 12:19 a.m.Key:+Winner++Winner and change in party*IncumbentDelawareReporting: 95%+Ruth Ann Minner, D*: 177,848 -- 51%Bill Lee, R: 160,215 -- 46%Frank Infante, LT: 11,913 -- 3%IndianaReporting: 92%Joe Kernan, D*: 989,504 -- 45%++Mitch Daniels, R: 1,177,641 -- 54%Kenn Gividen, LT: 28,555 -- 1%MissouriReporting: 67%Claire McCaskill, D: 887,587 -- 48%Matt Blunt, R: 929,314 -- 50%John Swenson, LT: 16,028 -- 1%Robert Wells, CO: 7,580 -- 0%MontanaReporting: 29%Brian Schweitzer, D: 77,354 -- 55%Bob Brown, R: 59,766 -- 42%Stan Jones, LT: 1,948 -- 1%Bob Kelleher, G: 2,455 -- 2%New HampshireReporting: 82%John Lynch, D: 266,589 -- 51%Craig Benson, R*: 253,888 -- 49%North CarolinaReporting: 83%+Mike Easley, D*: 1,521,579 -- 55%Patrick Ballantine, R: 1,200,685 -- 43%Barbara Howe, LT: 42,453 -- 2%North DakotaReporting: 72%Joseph Satrom, D: 53,182 -- 27%+John Hoeven, R*: 140,341 -- 72%Roland Riemers, I: 2,639 -- 1%UtahReporting: 8%Scott Matheson, D: 16,488 -- 36%+Jon Huntsman, R: 28,904 -- 63%Ken Larsen, PCH: 394 -- 1%VermontReporting: 87%Peter Clavelle, D: 99,413 -- 38%+Jim Douglas, R*: 151,550 -- 58%Peter Diamondstone, LUn: 1,145 -- 0%Cris Ericson, MJP: 3,669 -- 1%Patricia Hejny, I: 2,080 -- 1%Hardy Machia, LT: 2,013 -- 1%WashingtonReporting: 12%Christine Gregoire, D: 516,304 -- 50%Dino Rossi, R: 493,261 -- 48%Ruth Bennett, LT: 20,415 -- 2%West VirginiaReporting: 70%+Joe Manchin, D: 329,731 -- 64%Monty Warner, R: 172,932 -- 34%Jesse Johnson, MN: 12,221 -- 2%Map of the United States divides the states between Democrats and Republicans, highlighting the winners and those who gained. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); STROKES (56%) 

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (72%)

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (72%); LLY (NYSE) (72%); LEL (LSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (72%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RUTH ANN MINNER (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN HOEVEN (73%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); JOE MANCHIN (58%); MATT BLUNT (58%); JOHN LYNCH (58%); BRIAN SCHWEITZER (58%); CHRISTINE GREGOIRE (58%) Mitch Daniels; Joseph E (Gov) Kernan; John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (58%) INDIANA, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (91%); UTAH, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); VIET NAM (72%) United States; Indiana; Delaware; North Dakota; Vermont; North Carolina; New Hampshire; United States; Utah; Montana; Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



55 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Living Poor, Voting Rich

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In the aftermath of this civil war that our nation has just fought, one result is clear: the Democratic Party's first priority should be to reconnect with the American heartland.
 I'm writing this on tenterhooks on Tuesday, without knowing the election results. But whether John Kerry's supporters are now celebrating or seeking asylum abroad, they should be feeling wretched about the millions of farmers, factory workers and waitresses who ended up voting -- utterly against their own interests -- for Republican candidates.
 One of the Republican Party's major successes over the last few decades has been to persuade many of the working poor to vote for tax breaks for billionaires. Democrats are still effective on bread-and-butter issues like health care, but they come across in much of America as arrogant and out of touch the moment the discussion shifts to values. 
 ''On values, they are really noncompetitive in the heartland,'' noted Mike Johanns, a Republican who is governor of Nebraska. ''This kind of elitist, Eastern approach to the party is just devastating in the Midwest and Western states. It's very difficult for senatorial, Congressional and even local candidates to survive.''
 In the summer, I was home -- too briefly -- in Yamhill, Ore., a rural, working-class area where most people would benefit from Democratic policies on taxes and health care. But many of those people disdain Democrats as elitists who empathize with spotted owls rather than loggers.
 One problem is the yuppification of the Democratic Party. Thomas Frank, author of the best political book of the year, ''What's the Matter With Kansas: How Conservatives Won the Heart of America,'' says that Democratic leaders have been so eager to win over suburban professionals that they have lost touch with blue-collar America.
 ''There is a very upper-middle-class flavor to liberalism, and that's just bound to rub average people the wrong way,'' Mr. Frank said. He notes that Republicans have used ''culturally powerful but content-free issues'' to connect to ordinary voters.
 To put it another way, Democrats peddle issues, and Republicans sell values. Consider the four G's: God, guns, gays and grizzlies.
 One-third of Americans are evangelical Christians, and many of them perceive Democrats as often contemptuous of their faith. And, frankly, they're often right. Some evangelicals take revenge by smiting Democratic candidates.
 Then we have guns, which are such an emotive issue that Idaho's Democratic candidate for the Senate two years ago, Alan Blinken, felt obliged to declare that he owned 24 guns ''and I use them all.'' He still lost.
 As for gays, that's a rare wedge issue that Democrats have managed to neutralize in part, along with abortion. Most Americans disapprove of gay marriage but do support some kind of civil unions (just as they oppose ''partial birth'' abortions but don't want teenage girls to die from coat-hanger abortions). 
 Finally, grizzlies -- a metaphor for the way environmentalism is often perceived in the West as high-handed. When I visited Idaho, people were still enraged over a Clinton proposal to introduce 25 grizzly bears into the wild. It wasn't worth antagonizing most of Idaho over 25 bears.
 ''The Republicans are smarter,'' mused Oregon's governor, Ted Kulongoski, a Democrat. ''They've created ... these social issues to get the public to stop looking at what's happening to them economically.''
 ''What we once thought -- that people would vote in their economic self-interest -- is not true, and we Democrats haven't figured out how to deal with that.''
 Bill Clinton intuitively understood the challenge, and John Edwards seems to as well, perhaps because of their own working-class origins. But the party as a whole is mostly in denial.
 To appeal to middle America, Democratic leaders don't need to carry guns to church services and shoot grizzlies on the way. But a starting point would be to shed their inhibitions about talking about faith, and to work more with religious groups.
 Otherwise, the Democratic Party's efforts to improve the lives of working-class Americans in the long run will be blocked by the very people the Democrats aim to help.

William Safire appears on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); RELIGION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); WRITERS (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); FIREARMS (64%); SPORT HUNTING (64%); GUN CONTROL (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Homosexuality; Environment; Firearms; Hunting and Trapping; Religion and Churches; Gun Control ; United States Economy; Taxation; Election Issues; Medicine and Health

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); MIKE JOHANNS (58%) John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



56 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE PRESIDENCY -- OHIO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Ohio Remains A Battleground As Late Voting Delays Count

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN and JAMES DAO; James Dao reported from Columbus for this article, and Ford Fessenden from Cleveland. Albert Salvato contributed reporting from Cincinnati.

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Wednesday, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
For the second straight time, the state of the presidential election rested in the hands of a single state as election officials in Ohio worked well into Wednesday morning counting ballots after a frenzy of late voting kept the polls open late.
 President Bush seemed to hold a strong lead with 51 percent of the vote at 2 a.m., but Senator John Kerry's campaign refused to concede the state. 
 ''It's been a long night, but we've waited four years for this victory,'' Senator John Edwards, the Democratic vice presidential nominee, said. ''We can wait one more night.'' 
 Portending a Florida-like battle over each vote, Mr. Edwards said, ''John Kerry and I made a promise to the American people that in this election, every vote would count, every vote would be counted.''
 Mr. Kerry's campaign manager, Mary Beth Cahill, sent an e-mail message to reporters about 1:30 a.m. saying that 250,000 votes had yet to be counted in Ohio.
 ''We believe when they are, John Kerry will win Ohio,'' she said.
 The uncertainty came at the end of a long day in which hundreds of thousands of voters waited in long lines, and polls were kept open well beyond closing times. The prospect of a drawn-out battle over provisional votes, absentee ballots and even a return to a recount of chads on punch-card voting machines loomed. 
 As other states fell into familiar places, Ohio became the battleground of battlegrounds that it was billed to be throughout the election season. At the end of a long night of uncertainty, George Bush's issues and his ground game gave him a solid, if not quite decisive, lead.
 The candidates spent more time in the state than any other. Mr. Bush talked security, and Mr. Kerry hammered the economy. Mr. Bush sent an army of volunteers into suburban areas to turn out believers, and Mr. Kerry and his allies sent paid workers into the inner city to find new voters.
 In the end, both parties improved on their 2000 performance. Mr. Bush ran better in suburban areas in the southwest part of the state, and he picked up more votes in the rural areas that he had won decisively in 2000. Mr. Kerry reaped more votes than his strategists had hoped for in Cleveland, but did not get enough new voters in the big cities to overcome Mr. Bush's margins elsewhere.
 Democrats still hoped to overcome the lead and had begun to talk about provisional ballots, votes that are cast in the event of a dispute over registration. It was unclear how many provisional ballots were cast, but estimates ranged high enough to make a difference in the margin between the candidates.
 Turnout was strong everywhere. In spite of widespread rain and long lines, the secretary of state said turnout would be 5.8 million, or 73 percent, the highest since 1992. It was so heavy in parts of Columbus, Akron, Cleveland and even rural Knox County -- where hundreds of Kenyon College students waited six hours to vote -- that Democrats ordered volunteers to abandon phone banks and rush food, hot chocolate, chairs, umbrellas and radios to voters who had been waiting in the drenching rain. 
 Republicans, who had proclaimed the superiority of their 72-hour strategy of intensive face-to-face contact in the last three days of the election, were deeply pleased with the results in their most important counties in the southwest part of the state and in the suburbs of Columbus.
 ''We've seen cases across the state where turnout may approach or even surpass records,'' said Jason Mauk, a spokesman for Ohio Republican Party.
 Even in the suburban areas of Cleveland, Republican turnout was high, party officials said. ''We had many precincts where we got every single one of our voters to vote,'' said Jeff Flint, a spokesman for the Cuyahoga County Republican Party.
 Democrats said their turnout strategy worked as well.
 ''In the major counties, we're hitting all our numbers,'' said Dan Trevas, a party spokesman. ''I can't figure out where the uncounted numbers are coming from.''
 Mr. Kerry did extremely well in his political base in the Cleveland area, holding a lead of about 200,000 votes there, significantly better than Vice President Al Gore did in 2000. Mr. Kerry also performed well in Franklin County, which includes the state capital, Columbus.
 But the Democrats' improved performance in those two counties was not enough to close the gap with Mr. Bush, in large part because the Republicans squeezed additional votes out of their traditional political base in the northwest part of the state, the rural western border with Indiana and the conservative suburbs around Cincinnati, Republican strategists said.
 Many tiny rural counties, where Mr. Bush had won 65 percent or more of the vote in 2000, gave him even larger margins this year. Analysts attributed that improved turnout among conservatives in part to a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage that was on the ballot.
 ''The Republicans really galvanized their base with their get-out-the-vote operation, and they did so in large part by taking advantage of cultural issues that were important to Republicans voters,'' said Eric Rademacher, the director of the Ohio Poll at the University of Cincinnati. ''Clearly one of those issues was the constitutional amendment.''
 Mr. Rademacher and other analysts said Mr. Bush's strong showing showed the Republicans had succeeded in moving the debate away from Mr. Kerry's strong suit: the weak economy and the high cost of health care.
 Early on Wednesday morning, Democrats declined to concede the race, arguing that there might be enough provisional ballots outstanding to tip the election to Mr. Kerry. Democrats contend, and many analysts agree, that the majority of those ballots were probably cast by Democrats, who tend to move more often than Republicans, and provisional ballots are more likely to be used by people whose addresses have changed.
 The question was: How many provisional ballots were cast? Secretary of State J. Kenneth Blackwell estimated that the number might be between 130,000 and 150,000. But Democrats asserted it could be as high as 250,000. 
 Provisional ballots are held for 10 days after the election while election workers determine whether the person who cast them is eligible to vote.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Cleveland at 6 a.m., workers gathered in the rain before going door to door to help people get to the polls. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. P2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BALLOTS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); SUBURBS (61%); CITY LIFE (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Results; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%) Ford Fessenden; James Dao; John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Ohio

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



57 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Election Dominates Markets; Shares Dip Late in Session

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks retreated in late trading amid speculation that surveys of voters leaving the polls were showing Senator John Kerry ahead in the presidential election. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index erased most of its advance and the Dow Jones industrial average snapped a five-day rally. 
 ''There's the old saying that the market favors Republicans and incumbents,'' said Brian Pears, head of equity trading at Victory Capital Management in Cleveland. ''It looks like Kerry is doing better than expected and that caused a sell-off.'' 
 The Dow average fell 18.66 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,035.73, and the S.&P. 500 was little changed, up 0.05 point at 1,130.56. The Nasdaq composite index added 4.92 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,984.79.
 Ten stocks fell for every nine that rose on the New York Stock Exchange, and 1.67 billion shares changed hands, 25 percent above the three-month daily average.
 The Dow average had risen as much as 0.8 percent, while the S.&P. 500 climbed 0.9 percent on declining oil prices and the prospect that the election results would produce a market rally. Speculation that Senator Kerry was leading President Bush in some swing states prompted the sell-off.
 Mr. Kerry led Mr. Bush by 18.1 percentage points in trading on the Iowa Electronic Markets, a nonprofit political betting system run by the University of Iowa, as of 4 p.m. New York time. Two hours earlier, Mr. Bush had a 3.8 percentage point advantage over Mr. Kerry.
 ''There is some concern about change,'' said Wayne Reisner, who helps manage $1.8 billion at Carret Asset Management in New York. ''It's fear of the unknown.''
 Some investors said stocks might decline if the challenger won. ''With Kerry there's the possibility of higher taxes next year,'' said Jon Goebel, chief investment officer at SouthTrust Bank of Alabama. ''You'd like to think this is already reflected in the market, but I think it isn't.''
 Pfizer, the world's biggest drug maker, fell 10 cents, to $28.70, while Merck lost $1.48, to $26.80. A Standard & Poor's index of drug makers dropped 1.1 percent on concern that Senator Kerry would allow health plans to negotiate lower prices with drug companies.
 An index of utility companies fell 1.7 percent, the biggest decline among the S.&P. 500's 24 industry groups. Investors fear that a Kerry administration may seek to roll back President Bush's tax reduction on dividends. Duke Energy, the No. 1 utility owner in the United States, slid 56 cents, to $24.32. TXU, owner of Texas's largest power company, shed $1.43, to $59.60. 
 Energy companies, which would stand to gain from Mr. Bush's efforts to increase oil production and exploration, also fell. Nabors Industries, the world's largest onshore oil and natural gas driller, dropped 96 cents, to $47.55. A drop in oil prices also sent the group lower. Crude oil for December delivery fell 1 percent, to $49.62 a barrel in New York. 
 Shares of gold miners retreated as gold prices in New York showed the biggest drop in more than two months. Gold for December delivery fell 1.7 percent, to $420.80 an ounce, the steepest decline since Aug. 24. Gold futures last week closed at a 15-year high as some investors bought gold on concern about the election's outcome. Newmont Mining, the world's biggest gold producer, lost $1.01, to $45.81. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note gained 5/32, to a price of 101 19/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.05 percent from 4.07 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's aucton of four-week bills.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.857
High Rate: 1.835
Coupon Yield: 1.863
Low Rate: 1.800
Median Rate: 1.825
Total applied for: $48,581,250
Accepted: $22,027,855
Noncompetitive: $72,111
The four-week bills mature Dec. 02, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks the yields of selected Treasury securities yesterday and one month ago.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (84%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DRUG PRICES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (62%); TAX LAW (61%); TAX RELIEF (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Dow Jones Stock Average; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (85%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); PFIZER INC (52%); WELLS FARGO & CO (52%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (54%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFEB (BRU) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%); WFC (NYSE) (52%); DUK (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (57%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



58 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE PRESIDENCY -- SECURITY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: On Alert for Terror Activity Timed to Disrupt Election, Agencies Find Little Reason to Worry

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2 

 BODY:
Terrorism command centers were activated in dozens of states and cities throughout the country on Tuesday because of fears of an election-year attack. Security authorities said emergency personnel were on standby alert, but there were no reports of any incidents.
 In the capital, officials at the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency were stationed at their emergency command posts, but even there officials reported little activity beyond routine reports from their field units, which indicated no sign of terror activity.
 The relative tranquillity of Election Day contrasted with the high anxiety of the preceding months when counterterrorism officials had repeatedly warned of a potentially catastrophic attack by Al Qaeda inside the United States timed to disrupt the electoral process. In recent days, these officials said they had uncovered no evidence of such an operation, after thousands of interviews in the United States and a global effort to track down anti-American extremists. 
 In May, July and August, senior law enforcement and intelligence authorities made urgent public announcements about the terror threat warning that Al Qaeda was almost ready to strike. At the same time, they issued dozens of bulletins to state and local officials advising them to be increasingly vigilant.
 Some officials said they suspected that an attack of some kind might still be coming. They said the period of concern should be extended from the election through the presidential inauguration in January. 
 But over all, it seemed apparent from interviews among counterterrorism officials on Tuesday that the mood of feverish concern had ebbed as the election appeared to have taken place without incident.
 Some hinted that the government might soon downshift its terror warnings. ''Following the election, we will assess the threat environment and the alert status to determine what security posture we will need to have in place based on intelligence assessments,'' said Brian Roehrkasse, the spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security.
 At the Justice Department, Mark Corallo, the spokesman, said: ''We're still working overtime. The F.B.I. and all of our partners at the state and local level are pounding the pavement, pressing sources for information, staying on top of it. We're doing everything we can to detect and disrupt the terrorist threat. And if nothing happens, we're going to be out there tomorrow doing the same thing.''
 Officials said that absence of any tangible sign of an attack had led them to a fresh assessment of the possible significance of a recent videotape by Osama bin Laden, which was first broadcast Friday by the Arab-language satellite network Al Jazeera and transmitted by television outlets around the world.
 On the videotape, Mr. bin Laden directly addressed Americans in an unusually formal statement in which he said: ''Your security is not the hands of Kerry or Bush or Al Qaeda. Your security is in your own hands.''
 It was possible, the officials theorized, that Mr. bin Laden, while he remained a worrisome threat, lacked the resources and personnel to direct an attack in the United States. Instead, they said, he may have decided to resort to a statement in an effort to disrupt the election. 
 Within counterterrorism circles in the government, officials are still debating why they have found so little evidence of an election-year attack, a concern that seemed credible enough to impose extraordinary security measures at the two national political conventions in Boston and New York and other government events, like the Group of 8 economic summit in Georgia this past summer.
 Some counterterrorism officials said they doubted that there was ever a solid basis for believing that Al Qaeda would strike in the United States this year, although others disputed that assessment and said the intelligence about an attack was specific and persuasive.
 Some officials suggested that intensive disruption and detection efforts might have caused Al Qaeda to postpone or cancel its plans, which could still be activated any time the terror network gauged that it had a good chance of successfully carrying them out.
 The most significant threat discovered by the authorities this year, a Qaeda surveillance operation directed at five American financial institutions, has led the authorities to what they now say is a dead end. The detailed reconnaissance plans alarmed the authorities and caused them to elevate the alert level in New York, Newark and Washington.
 The investigation led to a group of eight Qaeda suspects in Britain, including a man who officials said actually carried out the surveillance operation. But the investigation yielded no evidence that the group had been planning to attack the financial institutions or any other targets in the United States, as was initially suspected. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; States (US); Urban Areas; Elections

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (58%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (59%) David Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004



59 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Dropped Again In September

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Orders at factories in the United States dropped in September for a second month, evidence that companies may be growing wary about the strength of demand amid high energy prices. Orders for military equipment surged.
 Reduced orders for automobiles, civilian aircraft and nondurable goods like chemicals, food and textiles led to a 0.4 percent decline for September, the Commerce Department said yesterday. Orders fell 0.3 percent in August. For goods besides transportation equipment, a less volatile measure, orders rose 0.3 percent in September after rising 1.2 percent in August. 
The Federal Reserve's ''beige book'' survey, published last week, found evidence that the cost of fuel held back consumer and business purchases in September and early October. Orders for equipment rose in September, today's report showed, suggesting companies were still investing inproductioncapacity even as other spending may have cooled.
 ''The key still is that there's strong capital goods orders in these numbers, which may still be a rush to buy equipment ahead of the expiration of tax incentives,'' said Avery Shenfeld, an economist with CIBC World Markets in Toronto. 
 Hurricanes also delayed shipments of goods, causing orders to fall, economists said.
 A report yesterday from the Institute for Supply Management found that services, the largest share of the economy, at 85 percent, expanded at an accelerated pace in October. The group's index jumped to 59.8 from 56.7; a reading higher than 50 indicates expansion. Services have been expanding since March 2003. 
 The back-to-back declines in factory orders, which brought them to $368.3 billion, were the first since November and December of 2002. Economists expected orders to rise 0.4 percent, the median of 58 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. 
 Through September, factory orders were up 11.6 percent for the year compared with theperiod in 2003, the Commerce Department said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Factory Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.Sept.: -0.4%Aug.: -0.3July: +1.7Graph tracks manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted from April 2003 to September 2004.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (74%); SHIPMENTS (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (52%) United States Economy; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (67%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



60 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: He Gave Her His Kidney, And Also Stole Her Heart

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Aurelia Dawson-Alleyne should have met the tall man with the dreadlocks in her native country, Belize, where the Caribbean Sea inspires romance and the warm, wet air feels full of possibility. But as Ms. Dawson-Alleyne found, you cannot choose the setting of your love story. 
 This one begins with a premonition. 
 ''I have this type of gift,'' Ms. Dawson-Alleyne, 33, said. ''I know things ahead of time.'' 
 She was 14 years old, relaxing on a porch in Belize City, Belize, when she suddenly knew that one day, there would be a problem with her kidneys. She does not wonder how she knew. She believes in powers greater than herself. 
 Her first husband used to call her Prophetess. Ms. Dawson-Alleyne was pregnant with their third daughter when the marriage collapsed. 
 Devastated, Ms. Dawson-Alleyne moved out and took a job at a restaurant to support herself and her children. A year later, in 1994, her body began breaking down. 
 Some days she would vomit; other days she had diarrhea. Her breath was redolent of ammonia. Still, she continued to work. 
 It was not until 1995, when the entire right side of her body suddenly stiffened, that she went to a hospital.
 There, she found that her premonition had become a reality. Doctors discovered that Ms. Dawson-Alleyne had been born with only one kidney and made a diagnosis of end-stage renal disease. She was flown to a better-equipped hospital in Mexico, where she was told that she was close to death. 
 Ms. Dawson-Alleyne was indignant. ''My dad, he always told me, never give up,'' she said. ''Never think anything is impossible.''
 And so Ms. Dawson-Alleyne, who was too ill to speak, scrawled, ''Please try anything,'' on a slip of paper, and handed it to a doctor. 
 He performed dialysis without a machine, draining fluid from Ms. Dawson-Alleyne's body through a tube inserted in a slit just below her navel.
 The procedure saved her life, but at a cost: thereafter, she would have to live near a dialysis center. That meant coming to the United States and leaving her two oldest daughters in Belize. 
 She did not know then that one day, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund would help pay the immigration fees for those daughters to move to the United States. 
 Ms. Dawson-Alleyne moved to Harlem with her baby, Samantha, in 1995, where she spent 12 hours hooked up to a dialysis machine and the other 12 working as a cashier for $5 an hour. This routine was interrupted only when she was hospitalized for infections. Her skin is dappled with scars, reminders of what she says happened for a reason: to strengthen her. 
 ''I love that chapter in the Bible, the Book of Job,'' Ms. Dawson-Alleyne said. 
 Her next chapter, however, was more like the Song of Songs.
 She was in a treatment room at the Life Care Dialysis Center in Manhattan in 1998 when a technician called Adrian Alleyne introduced himself. It was not love at first sight. 
 She did not like his dreadlocks. But over time she fell for Mr. Alleyne. 
 One day she told him, ''I have a crush on you.''
 ''I have a girlfriend,'' Mr. Alleyne replied shyly.
 They became friends instead, watching the Discovery Channel during her thrice-weekly dialysis and going out for hot chocolate. 
 Ms. Dawson-Alleyne said that she grinned like a Cheshire cat whenever Mr. Alleyne was around. And like the cat in ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland,'' Mr. Alleyne's girlfriend soon disappeared. 
 About five months into their relationship, Mr. Alleyne told Ms. Dawson-Alleyne that he wanted to give her one of his kidneys.
 ''I was shocked,'' she said. 
 After much consideration, she accepted his offer and underwent a successful kidney transplant in 1999. ''We're a perfect match,'' Mr. Alleyne told her. They married in 2002, two years after her daughters, Stephanie, now 13, and Sheryl, now 17, came to live with them. Samantha is 10 years old.
 The only damper on the reunion was the $2,640 in immigration fees that the family owed. 
 Ms. Dawson-Alleyne is presently unemployed and looking for work. Mr. Alleyne is a computer technician, but he is a temporary worker and receives no health benefits.
 Ms. Dawson-Alleyne went in search of assistance on the Internet, where she found Catholic Charities, Brooklyn and Queens, one of seven local charities supported by the Neediest Cases.
 She hoped that Catholic Charities would provide her with food stamps so that she could save money and pay the immigration fees. But she never dreamed that she would actually receive help paying those fees from the Neediest Cases, which provided the Alleynes with $1,320 -- half of what they owed. 
 Raising the other half is especially important to Ms. Dawson-Alleyne, who wants her daughters to attend college. It is how she envisions their futures. The Prophetess failed, however, to forecast something in her own life: she never thought that she would become the caretaker of her husband's dreadlocks which, through the years, have inched slowly down his back, measuring the length of their love story.

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Aurelia Dawson-Alleyne at the Catholic Charities Community Center in Astoria, Queens. The agency helped her pay immigration fees. (Photo by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIALYSIS (89%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (74%); KIDNEY DISEASE (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); DIALYSIS CENTERS (70%); CHRONIC DISEASES (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

PERSON: Stephanie Rosenbloom; Aurelia Dawson-Alleyne

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) CARIBBEAN SEA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); BELIZE (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%) New York City; Belize

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



61 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1876 words

HEADLINE: The Address Says Rockefeller, But the School Says No

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS

DATELINE: TARRYTOWN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
WHEN Leeann and Nick Cerrito went house hunting, they used the common calculus that drives such decisions in the suburbs: the quality of education, the value of real estate and the ways the two are inextricably bound.
 The first step was choosing the best schools for their children, Sophia, 7, Carson, 5, and Lila, 6 months. The second was finding the most house their money could buy, which depended not only on its price but also on real estate taxes, mortgage rates and the value of their Upper East Side apartment.
 After two years of looking, the Cerritos thought they had hit the jackpot.
 They picked the coveted Pocantico Hills school district, desirable not only for its test scores and small classes but for having the lowest taxes in Westchester County, an enviable anomaly resulting from Rockefeller landholdings there. Then they settled on a custom-built home on a bluff overlooking the Hudson River, which would have been unaffordable in a high-tax district. 
 ''You couldn't find a better set of circumstances,'' said Robert W. Balog, a member of the Pocantico Hills Board of Education and a property assessor by profession. ''That's why my family moved here. It's the best deal around.''
 It would have been the best deal around if the Cerritos and nine other families who were buying in the same development had not discovered, after signing contracts for houses costing $1.5 million to $2.9 million, that they might not be in the Pocantico Hills district after all, but rather in neighboring Tarrytown.
 That is Tarrytown's claim, and Pocantico Hills has joined the adjacent district in a lawsuit in State Supreme Court in White Plains that pits the developer and the prospective homeowners against the two school districts, and also in administrative proceedings before the State Education Department. A ruling from the court is expected by Nov. 5. But appeals are likely, and Albany could challenge the court's jurisdiction.
 ''This is not what we bargained for,'' said Mr. Cerrito, a lawyer. It was a careful understatement that did not disguise his anger and frustration.
 ''All I wanted was to drink my coffee on the patio and watch my kids play,'' Leeann Cerrito said. ''I had no plans to be the Norma Rae of Westchester.''
 The Cerrito family, awaiting resolution of the case, is currently crammed into a two-bedroom cooperative apartment. The baby is in the master bedroom, and the living room is clogged with bicycles. The older children are back in private school.
 The Cerritos recently sold their apartment for less than they would have gotten last spring, when the market was more robust. They will shortly move into a bigger rental apartment, which will cost triple what they are paying now. If interest rates climb, the jumbo mortgage for the new house will be more expensive.
 Tarrytown, with its bustling commercial strip, is a far cry from the bucolic Pocantico Hills district, not that these families thought they were choosing between the two. ''Our choice wasn't Pocantico versus Tarrytown,'' Mr. Cerrito said. ''It was Pocantico versus every other district in the area.''
 Cindy Kief, one of the home buyers and herself a real estate agent, said every client who walks into her office chooses where to live after asking two questions: ''What about the schools?'' and ''Is there a house I can afford?'' Ms. Kief sees this as perfectly reasonable. ''We have the right to decide where we want to live, in what house and in which school district,'' she said.
 The attractions of Pocantico, home to the Rockefeller family since the 19th century and beneficiary of its largess, are obvious.
 The quaint Tudor schoolhouse was built by the Rockefellers in 1932, for prekindergarten to eighth grade only, with an Olympic-size swimming pool, lighted tennis courts and a vast nature preserve at its backdoors. There is no commerce in the hamlet, just a historic church, a firehouse, the school and 900 acres of woodland, horse trails, pastures and streams, all deeded to the state by the Rockefellers.
 Revenue from the Rockefellers' holdings lifts the tax burden on others. Homes in the district are taxed $379.40 for each $1,000 in assessed value, which would come to $11,500 to $22,000 a year for those in the new development if they are determined to be in Pocantico Hills. The district is by far the smallest in the county, with 330 students, 83 percent of them white. Per-pupil expenditures are more than $20,000 a year.
 Tarrytown, by contrast, has a tax rate of $986.44 per $1,000, nearly three times as high, and the same houses there would yield $22,500 to $50,000 each in annual school taxes. Tarrytown has 2,350 students, more than half of them members of minorities. The district spends $15,000 a year per pupil.
 The disputed land was passed back and forth between the two school districts several times in the early 1950's, as Tarrytown sought voter approval to build a new high school. When a bond issue passed, part of the land was used for that purpose. The rest, as far as anyone knew, was returned to Pocantico. Since then, all property taxes have been paid to Pocantico.
 When the developer, Mitchell C. Hochberg of Spectrum Communities, bought the land, the first step was to establish that it was in the school district. Spectrum checked tax records, title reports and appraisals and spoke with the superintendent at the time, Peter M. Lisi, who later gave sworn testimony that the new houses were in the Pocantico district. Spectrum named the new enclave the Legends of Pocantico Hills.
 But at the 11th hour, after 10 of 11 houses were already in contract, the Tarrytown district claimed the property. Tarrytown's tax base has eroded in recent years, and the new houses, under the higher tax rate, would bring in $400,000 a year for the district. The prospective buyers were aghast, not sure who was to blame.
 Spectrum took the dispute to the State Education Department, where the official with jurisdiction discovered that paperwork returning the land to Pocantico had never been filed with the state.
 In his ruling the education department official, Ronald L. Smalls, said that the ''intent and inferences'' of the two districts were not the issue. All that mattered was that ''no further boundary line alteration was entered or filed.'' The homes were in Tarrytown, even if on a technicality.
 At that point, with Spectrum insisting that the two districts formally adjust the boundary to meet the ''wholly justified expectations of the many innocent purchasers,'' the Pocantico Hills Board of Education joined forces with Tarrytown, explaining that it was required to honor Mr. Smalls's ruling.
 That was in March. Since then the families have been in limbo. Three of them, including Craig and Jessica Benson and their two children, have already settled into their new homes, fingers crossed. Others have decided to await the outcome elsewhere, like the Cerritos. A few are betwixt and between.
 The Bensons, both lawyers, moved in August with their children, Lucas, 5, and Noah, 3. Their house in White Plains was already sold, so where else could they go? With court intervention, Lucas is in kindergarten in Pocantico, which the judge considered the status quo until a final resolution.
 Mr. and Ms. Benson have frequent arguments about whether they did the right thing. The latest issue is window treatments. She does not want to buy them until she knows that Lucas can remain in school in Pocantico. He would probably take the chance now, as he did in lobbying to move in.
 Cindy and Steven Kief were on the fence until recently, when they listed their 1936 Mediterranean-style house in nearby Irvington. Everyone has a story, but none quite like theirs. The Kiefs, in addition to 18-month-old Anna, have twin 6-year-old sons, Jake and Jesse, who have multiple disabilities, including cerebral palsy and mental retardation. Neither can speak, both are in wheelchairs, and one is also blind.
 The family was not house hunting. But Ms. Kief said she looked at the development for a client and saw a chance to build a house with an elevator, making it unnecessary for her, her husband and the round-the-clock nurses to carry 60-pound children up stairs ever again. They will move into the house, which has all kinds of adaptations for their handicapped sons, in December.
 A ''for sale'' sign is on the Kiefs' lawn in Irvington, and the house is spruced up to sell. ''We hit the wall trying to take care of the kids here,'' Ms. Kief said. ''We can't live in limbo anymore. We have to trust this is going to go the way it should go.''
 The families have become friends during the long period of uncertainty. Ms. Kief and Ms. Cerrito talk frequently, sharing their worries and their choices in paint colors. Carson Cerrito thinks it is cool that Jake and Jesse Kief will have their own elevator and has asked to be the operator.
 But confusion breeds confusion, and many people here question Pocantico's motivation. What role, if any, did the enormous potential expense of educating the Kief children play in the district's decision to support Tarrytown? Each district has so far spent $150,000 in legal fees, according to documents received in response to a freedom of information request by Thacher Proffitt & Wood, the law firm representing the developer.
 One lawyer on the case said he heard another discussing the ''handicapped kids'' in the courthouse hallway. A homeowner in the development said she was shocked when someone in town, out of the blue, denied that the Kief children were the issue. Such vague remarks jelled when Charles S. Minton, president of the Pocantico Hills Board of Education, was asked at a recent meeting why the district was turning its back on the tax revenue for 11 houses when the number of school-age children, 13 at the moment, would not overcrowd the school.
 Mr. Minton replied it was not clear that the new revenue would actually be a benefit. His remark, he said later, had nothing to do with the Kief twins, who under federal law must be educated at the expense of their local district. Instead, he said, he was referring to a back-of-the-envelope calculation that at any given time the development could have enough school-age children to cost the district far more than the $150,000 a year in new taxes.
 Mr. Minton was quick to add that he was not speaking for the board, which had not used budget concerns to drive its decision. Rather he said that Pocantico does not have the authority to overrule the state education department.
 Only one of five board members, Mr. Balog, sided with the families on the disputed land. First, he said, the school financing system in New York State is built around the notion that an entire school district bears the cost of educating its children, not one house or block or neighborhood, and that expanding the tax base is always good in the long run. In addition, he said, it is the ''essence of America'' that people have the right to choose where to live and educate their children, as the Cerritos, Bensons and Kiefs did.
 Ms. Kief said she wondered what would happen if every suburban home buyer had to worry that he was not, in fact, in the school district he had chosen.
 ''There'd be anarchy,'' she said. ''There'd be rioting in the streets.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: LIVING IN LIMBO -- The Kiefs, right, bought in a Westchester development, center right, believing their children would attend a school, below left, built by the Rockefellers. But because of a dispute over district lines, they may end up at school in Tarrytown, bottom right. (Photographs by Paxton for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
NEWCOMERS -- The Bensons, right, do not know if their children will be schooled in bustling Tarrytown, top left, or in a school with a nature preserve at its backdoor, top right.
 IN SUSPENSE -- A house that may or may not be in the Pocantico Hills district. Buyers are awaiting resolution of the dispute. (Photographs by Paxton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); ZONING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SUBURBS (78%); TAX LAW (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (69%); JURISDICTION (68%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (62%) Education and Schools; Suits and Litigation; Property Taxes; Zoning; Taxation; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: Spectrum Communities (Co)

PERSON: Mitchell C Hochberg; Jane Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Tarrytown (NY); Pocantico Hills (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



62 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: Uncle Sam Wants You (to Apply for a Grant)

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
As just about every entrepreneur with a bright idea knows, it can be a long and painful journey from the time the light bulb goes on to the day the revenue starts rolling in. 
 And perhaps the most frustrating experience of building a start-up is the never-ending quest for financing. A business owner who hits up family, friends, wealthy investors, banks or venture capitalists is likely to discover that they open their wallets reluctantly and become impatient for results once they do hand over the cash.
 But for high-technology entrepreneurs, there is another source of financing that can be as generous as it is little known: grants from the federal government's Small Business Innovative Research Program.
 The biggest fund, by far, is run by the Defense Department, which parcels out some $1 billion a year to independent companies with fewer than 500 employees. The goal is to stimulate research into novel technologies that can benefit military operations, but with a twist. The department is not paying for exclusivity for the ideas it finances; rather, it wants those ideas to go commercial as quickly as possible to assure a stream of reliable and cost-effective suppliers. 
 Martin Klein is one of its emerging success stories -- at least that is what he hopes. A chemical engineer by training, Mr. Klein has spent 40 years in the battery and fuel-cell business. In 1970, he founded the Energy Research Corporation, since renamed Fuel Cell Energy Inc., and later sold his stake in it. Today, it employs 500 people.
 Then, in 1992, he founded Electro Energy Inc. to develop batteries for the military, and that same year submitted a proposal for a grant for research into what he calls a rechargeable bipolar nickel-metal-hydride battery. What sets it apart from traditional batteries, Mr. Klein says, is its design, which stacks thin flat wafer cells atop one another to improve the flow of current while taking up less space. His eventual aim, he says, is to produce a battery that is 30 percent smaller and cheaper than conventional batteries yet provides 50 percent more power.
 The Defense Department, which is always on the prowl for better batteries, particularly for its communications equipment and aircraft, liked his idea. It awarded him $50,000.
 Mr. Klein went to work in the basement of his Brookfield, Conn., home, hiring a part-time technician, putting up four workbenches to create a small laboratory and starting work on creating prototypes. Six months later, he presented his test data to the Defense Department and won $750,000 for a second phase of work. He then moved out of the basement and into an office park and hired two full-time technicians and a secretary.
 Mr. Klein, 68, said that small-business innovation funds are ''why we are here today,'' but it is not blind governmental largess that kept him and his firm going. When Congress created the program 20 years ago, it was purposely planned not as a handout, but for directed research that would turn into viable commercial products.
 The Defense Department says its main criterion for choosing recipients is their determination to become a commercial business, not just a research house. It also selects companies active in areas where there is an ''actual need,'' it says, notably improvements in aircraft, satellites, military hardware, communications systems and logistical systems. 
 ''It's paramount that we have a feel for where they are going,'' said Dean Hudson, program manager for the Army Research Laboratory, one of the Defense Department agencies that reviews research applications from entrepreneurs. ''We evaluate their commercial market potential from the very beginning.''
 A handful of other government agencies have similar programs, including the National Institutes of Health, which has a $574 million annual budget and is the largest small-business innovation program after the Defense Department's. The Environmental Protection Agency, the National Science Foundation and the Departments of Energy, Commerce, Health and Human Services, Education and Agriculture have much smaller programs. Like the Defense Department's programs, they are based on a fixed percentage of their annual outside research budgets and thus the amounts vary year to year. All told, the agencies award about $2 billion annually.
 The departments and agencies once sent around ''idea books'' seeking high-tech innovators who could address the biggest needs. Now the information is posted on Web sites. Typically, one in eight bidders wins a Phase 1 contract from the Defense Department, and one in three of those wins the deeper-pocket Phase 2 funding. And entrepreneurs can keep going back for more.
 So, what does the Defense Department get out of its investment? It has landed some high-profile products; for example, Savi Technology Inc. of California developed a radio computer tag that could be attached to military cargo containers to track their location and contents.
 The SaviTag took $2.5 million, or three awards, of small-business innovation money before it went into production. The military is using it in Bosnia and other locations. Commercially, the tag is being used in the trucking, rail and shipping industries, bringing in some $20 million annually in revenue. 
 Another West Coast company, Silicon Designs Inc., developed the ''accelerometer,'' a sensor that tells a missile to arm itself when it reaches a specified acceleration. For its $1.2 million investment, the Defense Department got a replacement for a mechanical switch used in earlier missile systems that was less reliable and five times as expensive.
 The accelerometer is now being put in American-made Ford and Chrysler automobiles to cause air bags to inflate when a car decelerates abruptly during an accident. This commercial application is earning Silicon Designs some $40 million a year.
 Sometimes, the Defense Department also seeks out people to pursue commercial applications of technology it owns. That is what happened to Peter Amico, president of Airtrax Inc., when the Navy transferred its omnidirectional technology to his company in 1996. With an infusion of $850,000 in innovation research money, the company, based in Hammonton, N.J., invented a wheel that can turn in any direction: forward, laterally, diagonally and rotationally. 
 The Navy will be using Airtrax's forklifts and other lifts to reduce the amount of manpower needed to move objects. Mr. Amico said that Airtrax was now moving ahead to sell its Sidewinder omnidirectional lift trucks commercially to reap some profit from its years of research and development. 
 In Mr. Klein's case, the Defense Department ''got a battery that it didn't have that meets its needs,'' a spokeswoman said, ''and when the product is commercialized, it gets the economies of scale of a mass-produced product -- faster, cheaper and better.''
 It has been a long slog for Mr. Klein and others, who typically, according to the Defense Department, underestimate the time between developing a prototype and mass-producing a product.
 Mr. Klein went back to the Defense Department more than a dozen times for money, winding up with $5 million. He also got some grants from the Energy Department and landed some regular government contracts, raising a total of $18 million over the last dozen years.
 It was not easy. ''We had to replay the whole song each time we asked for money,'' he said. ''You can't count on anything coming through automatically.'' Going back for multiple grants is not unusual, the Defense Department says, as taking a high-technology product from the idea stage to the market can require 8 to 10 years.
 Mr. Klein's company, based in Danbury, Conn., projects $7 million in sales of test units to the military this year. It is starting a major advertising campaign to open the way for commercial use of its battery, including hybrid electric cars, electric bicycles and scooters and cordless power tools and laptops.
 Mr. Klein has rivals -- Panasonic in the electric-car market and Sanyo in the power tool market -- but he is confident about his business's future, he says, ''because we have a better mousetrap.''
 Today, his company has a stock market value of $100 million, he said, ''but none of the money has created anything in my pocket.'' Still, he is confident about the future, he said, ''because everyone wants a battery that is smaller, lighter and runs longer.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Martin Klein founded Electro Energy to develop batteries for the military. His aim, he says, is to make a smaller battery with more power. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (88%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (75%); ENERGY RESEARCH (74%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%) Small Business; Research; Computers and the Internet; Entrepreneurship; Small Business

COMPANY: ELECTRO ENERGY INC (84%); FUELCELL ENERGY INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%) Defense Department; National Institutes of Health

TICKER: FCEL (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC5064 ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES (54%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Olson

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



63 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Why are Americans so divided over religious issues? Maybe it's those extreme messages.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel (www.dynamist.com) is the author of '''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness,'' just published in paperback by Perennial.

 BODY:
HAVE religious issues become more important in politics because too few Americans go to church? 
 That is the surprising suggestion of a new working paper by the Harvard economist Edward L. Glaeser and two doctoral students, Jesse M. Shapiro and Giacomo A.M. Ponzetto. (The paper, ''Strategic Extremism: Why Republicans and Democrats Divide on Religious Values,'' is online at http://post.economics.harvard.edu/faculty/glaeser/papers.html.)
 The paper starts with a puzzle: In a majoritarian system like ours, political economists generally predict that candidates will converge toward the center of the spectrum, so as to attract as many votes as possible. This is the ''median voter theory.'' But it doesn't seem to describe what's happened in American politics. On divisive religious issues like abortion, the two parties aren't hugging the center. They're abandoning it.
 While most people know that the Republican Party has taken an increasingly strong anti-abortion position, the authors note that the Democratic Party has simultaneously moved in the opposite direction.
 In 1976, the Democratic platform said, ''We fully recognize the religious and ethical nature of the concerns which many Americans have on the subject of abortion,'' while terming a constitutional amendment overturning Roe v. Wade merely ''undesirable.'' In this year's platform, by contrast, Democrats declared that they ''stand proudly'' for a woman's right to an abortion, ''regardless of her ability to pay.''
 Conventional theory doesn't explain this shift. Even if voters were getting more religiously polarized -- splitting into secular and fundamentalist camps -- candidates would still have an incentive to split the difference.
 ''If some people are religious and some not, and voters simply choose the politician with views closest to their own, then a right-wing politician would want to take a stand on religious matters that is only just barely to the right of his opponent's position,'' Mr. Shapiro explained in an e-mail message. ''That way, he captures the entire religious vote, but also avoids leaving the middle ground open for his opponent to invade.''
 So what's going on?
 The economists propose a two-part answer.
 First, there are actually two important voting decisions -- not just whom to pick but whether to vote at all. Candidates need to get their voters excited enough to come to the polls (or possibly to give money). Extreme positions can do that.
 But positions that energize your base may also encourage the opposition to come out against you. That's where the second part of the model comes in. Candidates need a way to target their messages so their supporters are more likely to respond than their opponents.
 That's where social groups like churches and unions come in. These groups provide friendly forums for candidates' direct or indirect messages. While outsiders may know something about a candidate's more extreme positions, group members know more -- because the messages are aimed specifically at them.
 ''When I go out and say, 'I want to tax all the rich and I want to end outsourcing,' I can give that message to an economically left-wing audience without the economically right-wing audience hearing it with exactly the same probability,'' Professor Glaeser said. ''All you need is some ability to target your message, and then you're going to go to extremes.''
 Those in-group forums work, however, only if the groups are just the right size. They have to be small enough to be homogeneous and big enough to be influential. ''The model has this very odd prediction that the power of social groups is most when they're roughly 50 percent of the population,'' Professor Glaeser said.
 If a group is too small, it's not worth courting. But if it's too big, it includes too many of your opponent's supporters, making targeted messages impossible. If everybody goes to church or belongs to a union, membership in either group will not predict voting behavior.
 ''This is exactly what you see in the data,'' Professor Glaeser said. ''The degree of polarization around religious issues is greatest in the places that are in the middle. It's not the Philippines, which are 100 percent religious, and not Scandinavia, where no one has attended a church in 40 years except for a wedding or a funeral. It's really these places like the U.S. that are in the middle.''
 Similarly, in states like South Carolina where most people go to church regularly, whether someone attends church does not predict how he or she will vote.
 During the period studied, about 62 percent of South Carolina voters attended church at least once a month, but the churchgoers were only 4 percent more likely to vote Republican. In California, by contrast, only 38 percent reported monthly church attendance, and they were about 11 percent more likely to vote Republican.
 The same is true for changing church attendance over time. In the 1970's, 57 percent of Minnesotans attended church at least monthly, and churchgoers and nonchurchgoers split their votes about the same way. By the 1990's, only about 45 percent of Minnesotans were regular churchgoers. About 40 percent of them voted Republican, versus 23 percent of nonchurchgoers.
 Over the past several decades, the nation's church attendance has shrunk to the political sweet spot, while union membership has become too rare to reward sharp tilts to the economic left. Political platforms have diverged on religious issues and converged on economic issues.
 Yet abortion rates show no significant change with the party in office, while tax rates rise significantly under Democrats -- the opposite of what the political rhetoric promises. This result suggests that politicians move away from the social center mostly to get votes (''strategic extremism'') and diverge from the economic center because they actually prefer those policies (''nonstrategic extremism'').
 Since the success of extreme messages depends on keeping your supporters better informed than your opponents, the model suggests that changing news media could be as important as changing social groupings.
 ''If every time you say something in private to a religious group or a feminist group, it ends up on Drudge within three minutes in screaming headlines,'' Professor Glaeser said. ''It's going to stop people from going to extremes.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Will its members' regular attendance at this church in Newport Beach, Calif., affect their votes? (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); ETHICS (78%); CHURCH & STATE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%) United States Politics and Government; Church-State Relations; Economic Scene (Times Column); Election Issues; Religion and Churches; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: Virginia Postrel; Jesse M Shapiro; Giacomo A M Ponzetto

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



64 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Jets May Sell Rights to Seats, Then Tickets To Sit in Them

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Jets fans had better hold on to their seats.
 With the team planning to build what would easily be the most expensive stadium in the National Football League, the Jets are looking for new ways to raise money to pay for it.
 Many fans already expect ticket prices to go up when and if the proposed $1.4 billion stadium opens on the West Side of Manhattan. And the team has said the cost of luxury boxes would double, to more than $200,000 a year. But now the Jets are seriously considering something that would be new to the New York area: personal seat licenses. 
 That would mean that the Jets' 20,000 season-ticket holders would have to pay a one-time fee that could range from $250 a seat to $10,000 for the license, or guaranteed right, to buy season tickets. The tickets now cost an average of $720 a season. That does not include the $15 parking fee, hot dogs, beer or a team jersey.
 The team has not made a final decision and declined to discuss how much it would charge or how many seats would be licensed. But state officials say the Jets are now exploring seat licenses as a hedge against the rising cost of the project. 
 ''We remain committed to keeping the experience as affordable as possible,'' said Matthew Higgins, a Jets vice president.
 He said the use of seat licenses would be determined by how well the ''corporate market'' responded to the sale of luxury boxes, naming rights and advertising. 
 Team owners across the country have increasingly used the licenses as a way of raising cash to cover construction costs as public subsidies have declined. But even L. Jay Cross, the Jets' president, acknowledged that they have not been popular with fans.
 Fans in Chicago got angry a couple years ago when their beloved Bears sold licenses for 45 percent of the stadium's 61,000 seats to raise about $70 million for the $600 million renovation of Soldier Field. Depending on the location of the seats, the licenses cost $900 to $10,000. 
 ''It's certainly something that fans don't like to hear,'' said Rob Bressler, editor of Inside the Ownership of Pro Sports Teams. ''They generally don't like the idea of being charged a user's fee for a seat you have to buy anyway. But that's the way it is in today's N.F.L. economy.''
 The Jets are not alone in considering seat licenses. The New York area is undergoing a $5 billion sports construction frenzy, with the Jets, Yankees, Nets, Giants, Mets, Islanders, Devils, Rangers and Knicks all planning to build or renovate their stadiums or arenas. 
 The new owners of the Nets are also likely to require seat licenses for their proposed $435 million, 19,000-seat arena in Brooklyn.
 But the Jets' project -- a $1.4 billion, 75,000-seat stadium with a retractable roof -- is in another financial universe. Under the proposal, the city and state would contribute $300 million each, while the team would put up $800 million and cover any cost overruns. 
 The project was scheduled to go before the Empire State Development Corporation today for approval. Documents indicate that if the Jets decided to use seat licenses, the state would sell them tax-free and put the money toward cost overruns.
 ''Inevitably, there are complaints,'' said Marc Ganis, the president of Sportscorp Ltd. in Chicago, a sports and stadium consultant, ''but it should go relatively smoothly. In Chicago, there was some sticker shock. But people in New York are more sophisticated. They know that if you want great seats you have to pay for them.''
 Seat licenses are a product of the popularity of the team and the depth of the market, Mr. Ganis said. The Jets sell out every year, and there is a long list of people waiting for the opportunity to buy season tickets. The team recently charged a $50 fee just to be on the list. 
 Just as New York teams are considering seat licenses for new projects, they are also looking to build more high-priced luxury boxes to increase revenues. The Giants may increase the number of boxes at their home in the Meadowlands to about 130, from 117. The Nets are planning more than 125 luxury suites at their Brooklyn arena, and the Jets have designed a stadium with 240.
 But the owners of Madison Square Garden, where a $300 million renovation is planned, are worried that all those new suites would be more luxury than the market could bear. And so are the Yankees, who have proposed a new $750 million stadium in the Bronx. The team had initially wanted to build about 100 boxes, up from the current 18, but it has now cut back to 50 or 60.
 Mr. Ganis, however, thinks that there is nothing like the New York market.
 ''You're likely to have 900 or so luxury suites come on the market within a relatively short period of time,'' he said. ''But if there's any market in the country that could support them, it's New York. That doesn't mean there won't be some pricing pressure on the teams. But I believe the suites will get absorbed.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); TICKET SALES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (64%) Football; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stadiums and Arenas; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%) New York Jets

PERSON: Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; West Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



65 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Russians and Britons Battle Over Vodka

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
A trademark dispute over a Russian vodka landed in the unlikeliest of places last week -- a federal court in Manhattan. Understanding how it got there takes some background in Balzac, a fondness for Russian conspiracy theories and a stiff shot of the stuff that started the fight.
 The battle's origins may seem remote. A company owned by Russia, the country, filed suit in Federal District Court last Thursday against several companies owned by Russians and a food distributor based in Britain, claiming it was the rightful owner of the trademark for Stolichnaya, more popularly known as Stoli. 
 But for New Yorkers with a fondness for nipping, the suit hits close to home. The British distributor, Allied Domecq, says it sells 20 million one-liter bottles of Stolichnaya annually in the United States, or about 120 million martinis' worth of one of this country's most popular vodkas. 
 This is the latest front in legal proceedings over the trademark that date back to its transfer from the Russian government more than a decade ago.
 In the suit, lawyers representing the state-owned company, whose name is a barely pronounceable Soviet-era moniker -- Soyuzplodoimport -- charge that the companies it is suing acquired the Stolichnaya trademark illegally. It was spirited away, the lawyers charged, after the Soviet Union broke apart in 1991.
 ''The trademark was unlawfully misappropriated when the Soviet Union broke up,'' said David Quinto, one of the lawyers. The suit is ''an effort to recover for Russia trademarks that are part of its national patrimony.'' 
 Allied Domecq, which bought the rights to the trademark in the United States in 2001 from Russian partners whose companies are registered in Cyprus and the Netherlands, said in a statement that they are ''incontestable'' and that it will ''vigorously defend'' them. A lawyer for the companies declined to comment.
 This case is typical of the economic confusion that ensued after the fall of the Soviet Union. Through a series of legal maneuvers, Soyuzplodoimport's state-appointed manager transformed it into a private firm, which he controlled, lawyers for the company say. The label, which was first registered in the 1960's and is to Russia what the hamburger is to America, later changed hands again.
 Then, in a smarting blow, production of the vodka was moved to Russia's sometimes bristly Baltic neighbor Latvia, after legal battles between the Russian state and Russian businessmen who owned the trademark began in 2000.
 Lawyers for Russia invoked the 19th-century French writer Honore de Balzac to describe the process of state asset sales, saying wily managers had made off with valuable enterprises, while the weak state, working frantically to keep the economy afloat, was not looking.
 ''Russia's privatization process is perhaps the best modern example,'' they wrote of Balzac's observation that ''behind every great wealth there is a crime.''
 They also employed a flow chart in the suit to show the complicated ownership transfers.
 Whether crime or legal purchase (and in Russia in the 1990's, the line between them was quite fine), both sides launched a flurry of legal proceedings. 
 Both pointed to Russian court rulings in their favor. The battle spilled over into other countries. It has been heard in a court in the Netherlands, where one of the companies is registered. 
 The bickering went further. Companies that the Russian government is now suing claimed to have a letter from a Russian deputy minister verifying the purchase as legal, but lawyers for the state argued that the letter and its letterhead were fake. 
 The companies have said they had nothing to hide, and they did not even bother changing the company's name, dropping only one of the O's to make it Soyuzplodimport. 
 Deeper into the suit, the accusations get darker. One of the companies was registered using the lost passport of an alcoholic woman, lawyers claimed. One of the Russian owners was accused by relatives of a dead business rival of poisoning him, lawyers for the government said. 
 It is still not clear whether the suit will proceed in the American courts, and what the effect would be on drinkers if it did. Would the vodka have a different taste if the Russian state took back production? What about an interruption in the supply?
 Jake Pendleton, a bartender at Zablozki's, a bar in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, was not worried. ''There's no shortage,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADEMARKS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TRADEMARK INFRINGEMENT (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); TRADEMARK LAW (90%); LAWYERS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (70%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); MISAPPROPRIATION (64%) Alcoholic Beverages; Suits and Litigation; Vodka; Trademarks and Trade Names

COMPANY: ALLIED DOMECQ PLC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Allied Domecq Spirits; Stolichnaya; Soyuzplodimport (Co)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (91%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (91%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (91%); SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (91%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (91%)

PERSON: Sabrina Tavernise

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (75%); LATVIA (75%) New York City; Russia; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



66 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Ford and G.M. Lose Ground to Imports

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
General Motors and the Ford Motor Company continued to lose ground to import brands last month, despite heavy levels of incentive spending, according to sales results released Wednesday. The numbers show that Chrysler is the only Big Three automaker on course to retain market share this year.
 Sales growth continued to slow for the largest sport utility vehicles, but large pickup trucks continued to gain market share. Over all, auto sales rose 2.2 percent last month over October 2003, to a strong seasonally adjusted sales rate of 16.9 million cars and trucks, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. 
 ''We are seeing demand and sales hold up better than some people expected,'' said Paul Ballew, the chief industry sales analyst at G.M., referring to industrywide sales. But he still saw room for improvement. At G.M., he said, ''As we look at our performance through 10 months, we're still not where we would like or expect to be.'' 
 Sales declined about 5 percent last month at G.M., the nation's largest automaker, and Ford, the second-largest. Consumers continued to leave G.M. and Ford, even though American automakers spent much more on incentives than companies like Toyota Motor and Honda Motor. 
 Automakers are spending more on rebates and other enticements for the biggest S.U.V.'s than for any other vehicles, according to the most recent data from Edmunds.com. And yet market share for those S.U.V.'s has been tailing off.
 Last month, large sport utilities were 5.9 percent of the auto market, down from 6.4 percent a year earlier, according to Ward's. 
 ''Even with strong customer incentives increased, truck-based S.U.V.'s were down 5.1 percent over last year's October performance,'' said Paul Taylor, chief economist for the National Automobile Dealers Association. ''Sales of these vehicles are likely to be essentially flat for the entire year.'' Much of that is tied to the industry's transition to lighter-weight sport utility vehicles, called crossovers, which combine features of cars and sport utilities, he said. There is a debate in the industry over the role of volatile gas prices in the sales decline for large S.U.V.'s.
 Analysts and economists said strong auto sales had been helped by incentive spending but that future results would be tied to oil prices and the progress of economic recovery. 
 ''The wild card will be energy prices,'' said David Littmann, senior economist at Comerica Bank, who expects them to decline. ''I think consumers will be bolstered by the fourth consecutive year of expansion, not wildly but steadily.''
 Jarlath Costello, Ford's chief economist, said, ''We will be looking at energy prices and job growth as important factors determining the outlook.''
 ''Despite high oil prices and tepid job growth, consumer spending was remarkably resilient in the third quarter, growing at an annual rate of 4.6 percent,'' he added. ''However, household income grew by just 1.4 percent. On this basis, it is fair to say that the spending pace of the last few months is unlikely to be sustained unless we see improvement in the labor market and some stability in oil prices.''
 Officials at Ford said they hoped that a new wave of products, including a redesigned Mustang and a large sedan called the Ford 500, would increase sales.
 ''We're very encouraged by the early dealer and consumer response to our new products,'' said Jim O'Connor, Ford's group vice president of North American sales, service and marketing. ''We have our sights set on stronger retail sales in the months ahead.'' 
 David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities, said, ''The Big Three had a terrible month. Only Chrysler was able to have a gain and maintain their market share.'' 
 Sales at Chrysler, buoyed this year by a revamped product lineup, were up 2.3 percent. The automaker's new Chrysler 300C sedan has been a rarity among American sedans -- it is a talked-about car that appears in rap videos and is hard to miss on the road. On the other hand, the company has a large inventory of unsold vehicles, a concern to some analysts. 
 Toyota Motor sales rose 13 percent last month, and the company supplanted Chrysler as the third-largest auto seller in the United States. Toyota still ranks behind Chrysler's parent, DaimlerChrysler, which includes Mercedes-Benz, and is behind Chrysler for the year. 
 Will the Big Three soon include Toyota?
 ''I don't think they'll do it for the year, but I wonder about that comparison next year,'' Mr. Healy said.
 Not all import brands are flying off dealer lots. A new package of warranty and service offers made by Mitsubishi does not appear to have helped the struggling brand's sales, down 43.7 percent, from continuing their collapse. The company has grappled this year with a series of financial setbacks and scandals.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Auto Sales in October''ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks (includes minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States.Graph tracks sales for light trucks and cars, seasonally adjusted, from May 2003 to October 2004.INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States.Cars2004: 584,8422003: 573,743CHANGE*: +1.9%Light trucks2004: 746,1922003: 728,822CHANGE*: +2.4Total2004: 1,331,0342003: 1,302,565CHANGE*: +2.2CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 134,355CHANGE: -5.8%MARKET SHARE: 23.0%ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 94,840CHANGE: +20.3MARKET SHARE: 16.2Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 76,405CHANGE: -19.6MARKET SHARE: 13.1HondaNUMBER SOLD: 61,309CHANGE: +5.1MARKET SHARE: 10.5Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 52,251CHANGE: +12.9MARKET SHARE: 8.9NissanNUMBER SOLD: 45,157CHANGE: +13.9MARKET SHARE: 7.7TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe most popular vehicles and changes from a year earlier.Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 79,704CHANGE: +15.8%Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 48,096CHANGE: -6.8Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 35,887CHANGE: +7.2Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 34,717CHANGE: -15.7Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 29,842CHANGE: -0.9Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 27,855CHANGE: +23.2Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 27,489CHANGE: -4.8Chevrolet TrailblazerNUMBER SOLD: 26,489CHANGE: +31.6Chevrolet MalibuNUMBER SOLD: 23,030CHANGE: +81.3Chevrolet ImpalaNUMBER SOLD: 22,939CHANGE: +52.1Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 21,778CHANGE: +13.8Nissan AltimaNUMBER SOLD: 18,819CHANGE: +10.6LIGHT TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 208,086CHANGE: -4.3%MARKET SHARE: 27.9%Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 186,950CHANGE: +2.2MARKET SHARE: 25.1Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 136,264CHANGE: -2.1MARKET SHARE: 18.3ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 75,975CHANGE: +5.0MARKET SHARE: 10.2HondaNUMBER SOLD: 49,193CHANGE: +17.3MARKET SHARE: 6.6NissanNUMBER SOLD: 41,469CHANGE: +45.8MARKET SHARE: 5.6*Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. +Includes Volvo and Land Rover sales. SIncludes$ Mercedes-Benz sales.(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (84%); GASOLINE PRICES (84%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); NAVIES (74%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (74%); PICKUP TRUCKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%) United States Armament and Defense; Navies; Defense Contracts; Computers and the Internet; Accounting and Accountants; Automobiles; Sales; Trucks and Trucking; Rebates; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; International Trade and World Market; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (91%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (90%); COMERICA INC (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: Electronic Data Systems; Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); HNDA (LSE) (91%); HMC (NYSE) (91%); 7267 (TSE) (91%); TYT (LSE) (90%); TM (NYSE) (90%); 7203 (TSE) (90%); CMA (NYSE) (60%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (60%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



67 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: ISSUES -- KERRY SUPPORTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: On the Avowed Left Coast, A Feeling of Being Left Out

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY; Sarah Kershaw contributed reporting from Portland, Ore., for this article, and Charlie LeDuff from Santa Monica, Calif.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
They were feeling the blues here on Wednesday, a city so deep in the blue that President Bush managed just 15 percent of the vote in an election he won nationally by more than 3.5 million votes.
 While the American heartland found great comfort in the president's re-election, there was melancholy and stunned disbelief in San Francisco and other cities along the avowedly left West Coast.
 ''There is a sense of helplessness that we couldn't tip the election in any way,'' said Mayor Gavin Newsom, a Democrat, who helped to push gay marriage into the national spotlight. ''We couldn't do it rhetorically or in an actual vote. You feel powerless.'' 
 Across the San Francisco Bay in Berkeley, the liberal First Congregational Church held an evening of prayer, meditation and reflection. The invitations said the intention was ''either to celebrate or soberly reflect on how to best go forward from the election results.''
 In Portland, Ore., a city so staunchly liberal that it is sometimes called the People's Republic of Portland, the outcome of the presidential race was absorbed with the levity of a mass funeral.
 Given the gravity of things, there was really only one thing that Wilder Schmaltz, a 25-year-old Portland artist who had refused to remove the anti-Bush button from his lapel, felt he could do. He called a friend and headed straight to the Red and Black Cafe, an all-organic, wheat-free, vegetarian coffee and food shop, which is run as a collective and is a popular hangout of the Socialist Party USA's candidate for president, Walt Brown. 
 ''I figured that in this place we wouldn't run the risk of being around any cheering Republicans,'' Mr. Schmaltz said. 
 Upon entering the cafe, Mr. Schmaltz, who is Jewish, grabbed off the cafe's bookshelf ''A Beggar in Jerusalem,'' by Elie Wiesel, and read it glumly over a bowl of vegetarian chili. ''Something Jewish will do me good right now,'' he said. 
 At the next table, Tchula Z, 33, an artist and part-time barista at her sister's coffee shop, who uses only Z as a last name, said she woke up Wednesday, learned that Mr. Bush had won and ''smoked a cigarette and freaked out.''
 She added, ''You know, as Janis Joplin said, 'Freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose.' I think people should start using that line again.''
 Her friend Tracy Conklin, 45, a freelance writer and photographer, was equally dark, concluding that there was no hope and only isolation for those on the left. 
 ''I am prepared to keep my head down, possibly for the rest of my life, under a totalitarian regime,'' Mr. Conklin said.
 If the gay weddings this year in San Francisco and Portland made the rest of the country think the West Coast had gone the way of Sodom and Gomorrah, the victory for Mr. Bush invoked in return another biblical reference, Armageddon.
 ''We have been getting calls all morning from people who are angry and devastated and want to know where we will be,'' said Raeanne Young, 20, a volunteer with Direct Action to Stop the War, a San Francisco advocacy group.
 Some protesters did take to the streets, but many of the bleary-eyed dissenters looked like dazed zombies from ''Night of the Living Dead,'' and more or less numb on the inside. Scores of them gathered in the light rain on the street outside the federal building in San Francisco, taking turns at a microphone to complain about things they had complained about before, including the USA Patriot Act, civilian casualties in Iraq and Vice President Dick Cheney's ties to the corporate world.
 ''It just made me cry,'' Terry Mitchell, 54, an audiologist in Oakland, said of Mr. Bush's re-election. ''I am sad that America is asleep at the wheel.'' 
 For Ohioans living in on the West Coast, it was a particularly tough day. Jennifer Sloan, 29, was so incensed about Ohio's support of Mr. Bush that she had considered canceling her mother's visit. Ms. Sloan's mother was arriving in San Francisco on Wednesday from Alliance, Ohio, where she lives and where she voted for Mr. Bush.
 ''I am depressed, but I am also just really angry at the rest of the country's ignorance,'' Ms. Sloan said.
 Down the coast in Santa Monica, another place often referred to as a people's republic, the mood was no better. A man named Jerry Peace Activist Rubin sat in his stockings in his dark apartment, flummoxed and disoriented, taking condolence calls from well-wishers and rank-and-file left-wingers.
 Mr. Rubin is the real-deal California liberal -- part-time vegetarian, cat lover, sensitive to cigarette smoke. He says he has never owned a car, never had a credit card or a driver's license; he lists peace activist as his occupation.
 Mr. Rubin had been convinced that after four years of the Bush presidency, the country would come around and see things as he and other far-left coasters see them. 
 Instead, he admitted with bitterness, the election appeared not to be a repudiation of Mr. Bush's foreign and economic policies, but rather values associated with hippies, gay activists, atheists and double-latte liberals who populate his city and many others on the lip of the Pacific Ocean.
 ''Maybe I'm on the wrong side of the culture war,'' Mr. Rubin said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (88%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); MEAT FREE DIETS (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); MARRIAGE (55%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (55%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Dean E Murphy; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (93%); OREGON, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (72%) West Coast (US) ; San Francisco (Calif); California

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



68 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: The Red Zone

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD. 
E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With the Democratic Party splattered at his feet in little blue puddles, John Kerry told the crushed crowd at Faneuil Hall in Boston about his concession call to President Bush.
 ''We had a good conversation,'' the senator said. ''And we talked about the danger of division in our country and the need, the desperate need, for unity, for finding the common ground, coming together. Today I hope that we can begin the healing.''
 Democrat: Heal thyself. 
 W. doesn't see division as a danger. He sees it as a wingman. 
 The president got re-elected by dividing the country along fault lines of fear, intolerance, ignorance and religious rule. He doesn't want to heal rifts; he wants to bring any riffraff who disagree to heel. 
 W. ran a jihad in America so he can fight one in Iraq -- drawing a devoted flock of evangelicals, or ''values voters,'' as they call themselves, to the polls by opposing abortion, suffocating stem cell research and supporting a constitutional amendment against gay marriage.
 Mr. Bush, whose administration drummed up fake evidence to trick us into war with Iraq, sticking our troops in an immoral position with no exit strategy, won on ''moral issues.''
 The president says he's ''humbled'' and wants to reach out to the whole country. What humbug. The Bushes are always gracious until they don't get their way. If W. didn't reach out after the last election, which he barely grabbed, why would he reach out now that he has what Dick Cheney calls a ''broad, nationwide victory''?
 While Mr. Bush was making his little speech about reaching out, Republicans said they had ''the green light'' to pursue their conservative agenda, like drilling in Alaska's wilderness and rewriting the tax code.
 ''He'll be a lot more aggressive in Iraq now,'' one Bush insider predicts. ''He'll raze Falluja if he has to. He feels that the election results endorsed his version of the war.'' Never mind that the more insurgents American troops kill, the more they create.
 Just listen to Dick (Oh, lordy, is this cuckoo clock still vice president?) Cheney, introducing the Man for his victory speech: ''This has been a consequential presidency which has revitalized our economy and reasserted a confident American role in the world.'' Well, it has revitalized the Halliburton segment of the economy, anyhow. And ''confident'' is not the first word that comes to mind for the foreign policy of a country that has alienated everyone except Fiji.
 Vice continued, ''Now we move forward to serve and to guard the country we love.'' Only Dick Cheney can make ''to serve and to guard'' sound like ''to rape and to pillage.''
 He's creating the sort of ''democracy'' he likes. One party controls all power in the country. One network serves as state TV. One nation dominates the world as a hyperpower. One firm controls contracts in Iraq. 
 Just as Zell Miller was so over the top at the G.O.P. convention that he made Mr. Cheney seem reasonable, so several new members of Congress will make W. seem moderate.
 Tom Coburn, the new senator from Oklahoma, has advocated the death penalty for doctors who perform abortions and warned that ''the gay agenda'' would undermine the country. He also characterized his race as a choice between ''good and evil'' and said he had heard there was ''rampant lesbianism'' in Oklahoma schools.
 Jim DeMint, the new senator from South Carolina, said during his campaign that he supported a state G.O.P. platform plank banning gays from teaching in public schools. He explained, ''I would have given the same answer when asked if a single woman who was pregnant and living with her boyfriend should be hired to teach my third-grade children.''
 John Thune, who toppled Tom Daschle, is an anti-abortion Christian conservative -- or ''servant leader,'' as he was hailed in a campaign ad -- who supports constitutional amendments banning flag burning and gay marriage. 
 Seeing the exit polls, the Democrats immediately started talking about values and religion. Their sudden passion for wooing Southern white Christian soldiers may put a crimp in Hillary's 2008 campaign (nothing but a wooden stake would stop it). Meanwhile, the blue puddle is comforting itself with the expectation that this loony bunch will fatally overreach, just as Newt Gingrich did in the 90's.
 But with this crowd, it's hard to imagine what would constitute overreaching.
 Invading France? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); BIOETHICS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); RELIGION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ABORTION (67%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (53%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (52%); MARRIAGE (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%); TAX LAW (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Presidential Election of 2000; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (89%) Maureen Dowd; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



69 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Deficits and Tax System Changes In Bush's Second-Term Economy

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
Even as President Bush was celebrating his election victory on Wednesday, his Treasury Department provided an ominous reminder about the economic challenges ahead.
 After four years of rapidly rising budget deficits, the Treasury announced on Wednesday morning that the government will borrow $147 billion in the first three months of 2005 -- a new quarterly record, but one that is likely to be eclipsed before that year is out. 
 Empowered by his own victory and stronger Republican majorities in Congress, Mr. Bush has pledged to push an economic agenda that could be more ambitious than the $1.9 trillion worth of tax cuts over 10 years that he signed in his first term. 
 The new economic agenda will focus on two big goals. One is expected to aim for a fundamental overhaul of the income tax, very likely in the direction of a system that lessens even further the taxation of investment income; the other to push for a partial privatization of Social Security that could eventually reduce costs but require borrowing more than $2 trillion over the next two decades.
 The challenge ahead can be seen in the fiscal decline that took place between Mr. Bush's first inauguration in 2001 and his second one on Jan. 20, 2005. Federal tax revenue was $100 billion lower this year than when Mr. Bush took office, but spending is $400 billion higher.
 The ballooning budget deficits, which could total $5 trillion over the next 10 years if Mr. Bush succeeds in making his tax cuts permanent, could constrain the president's choices far more than they have in the first term. 
 Foreign investors have thus far been willing to finance the United States' borrowing, but most of that has come from central banks of Asian nations rather than private investors. If foreign appetite for Treasury securities wanes, interest rates would have to rise to make such investments attractive enough to keep money flowing into this country.
 ''The U.S. bond markets are likely to react very badly,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight, an economic forecasting company, ''as investors begin to worry about the impact of these large deficits on U.S. interest rates, the U.S. current account deficit and the dollar.''
 Making the job more difficult, politically as well as economically, is that higher oil prices have slowed American growth even as job creation continues to languish. Consumer and business confidence have slipped markedly in the last few months. And while oil prices declined modestly over several days until a $1.26-a-barrel rise on Wednesday, most forecasters are expecting economic growth to slow to 3 percent in 2005 from about 4 percent this year.
 Slower growth would aggravate Mr. Bush's budget problems. The war in Iraq and the continued occupation of Afghanistan could exceed $100 billion next year, according to a Republican analyst. None of that has been included in an administration plan for reducing the budget deficit by half over five years. 
 Mr. Bush has also promised to make his tax cuts permanent, which would add nearly $1 trillion to federal debt by 2014. And to avoid a huge tax increase for the upper middle class, he hopes to re-engineer the alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax that was created to prevent wealthy people from overusing tax deductions but that is expected to engulf as many as 30 million families by the end of this decade. That could cost more than $500 billion.
 The biggest problem of all is the one that begins at the end of this decade: the looming retirement of 76 million baby boomers, which is expected to add trillions of dollars in new costs for Social Security and Medicare benefits. 
 Budget analysts say Mr. Bush can no longer blame slower economic growth or a weak stock market for the budget deficit, as he has in much of his first term, and he cannot count on faster economic growth to close the gap over the next four years.
 "Policy choices will determine where we go,'' said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. "We will not grow our way out of this. It is no longer the case that we can blame everything on the economy.'' 
 During his first term, President Bush never vetoed a spending bill, including measures that greatly increased farm subsidies and added more than $140 billion in new corporate tax breaks. But even though Republicans have now expanded their control over both houses of Congress, Mr. Bush is likely to face bruising new conflicts as soon as lawmakers return for a lame-duck session to pass spending bills for the coming year.
 He has threatened to veto a three-year bill for highways and mass transportation, which would spend tens of billions more than he wants. Meanwhile, to save money, Republican lawmakers have pared back a number of Mr. Bush's proposals for higher spending on favored programs like space exploration and foreign development assistance. 
 Mr. Bush could face his first test this month, when Congress tries to pass spending bills covering most areas outside the military and homeland security. The Senate proposals would run $8 billion higher than the House bills, and they include some of Mr. Bush's priorities in education. 
 William Gale and Peter Orszag, budget analysts at the Brookings Institution, estimated that budget deficits would remain at today's levels -- equivalent to roughly 3.5 percent of the gross domestic product -- for the next 10 years if Mr. Bush's tax cuts are extended and if Congress extends other tax cuts that have generally been renewed in the past.
 And that does not count the $500 billion for repairing the alternative minimum tax. Mr. Bush ordered the Treasury to come up with a comprehensive solution by early next year, and that proposal could form the basis of a broader plan to overhaul the income-tax system. Even if the costs of repairing the tax are submerged in a larger plan, they will be difficult to avoid.
 More ominiously, said Mr. Holtz-Eakin, who worked in the Bush White House before becoming head of the Congressional Budget Office, there is little room for error. Almost any unexpected shock -- a new recession, or a new military crisis -- could push budget shortages higher than the gloomiest forecasters are predicting now.
 And even if Washington gets through the current uncertainties, only four years remain until the oldest baby boomers start to retire and the costs of Social Security and Medicare benefits gradually eclipse those of every other part of the federal government.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A job seeker searching for work possibilities at an employment and training center in Arlington Heights, Ill., outside Chicago. Monthly figures from the Labor Department are showing that job creation has tapered off. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); BONDS (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); BOND MARKETS (62%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (61%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%) United States Economy; Taxation; Social Security (US); Privatization; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (50%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



70 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE PRESIDENCY -- THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1790 words

HEADLINE: BUSH CELEBRATES VICTORY

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
George W. Bush declared victory yesterday in the race for president after a decisive national election that bolstered Republican strength in Congress and led the White House to proclaim that Mr. Bush had won a mandate from the American public for a second term.
 Mr. Bush beamed as he stood with Vice President Dick Cheney at a rally in Washington four hours after accepting a concession call at the White House from Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who waged a fierce challenge to unseat him. 
 ''We had a long night -- and a great night,'' Mr. Bush said. ''The voters turned out in record numbers and delivered an historic victory.'' 
 ''America has spoken, and I'm humbled by the trust and the confidence of my fellow citizens,'' he said. ''With that trust comes a duty to serve all Americans, and I will do my best to fulfill that duty every day as your president.'' [Transcript, Page P2.]
 In calling the president, Mr. Kerry abandoned a threat to contest the election result in Ohio in deference to a decisive popular vote victory by a man who four years ago won the presidency with less than 50 percent of the popular vote. 
 ''We cannot win this election,'' Mr. Kerry said somberly to supporters at Faneuil Hall in Boston.
 The victory by Mr. Bush amounted to a striking turn in fortunes for the nation's 43rd president, who had at times this year seemed destined to repeat his father's fate of losing a second term because of a weak economy. Instead, he won about 8.7 million more popular votes than he did in 2000 and positioned himself and his party to push through a conservative agenda in Washington over the next four years.
 Mr. Bush won 274 electoral votes, 3 more than in 2000, with Iowa (7 votes) and New Mexico (5 votes) not yet officially in his column. Mr. Kerry had 252 votes. Mr. Bush became the first incumbent Republican president since Calvin Coolidge to win a presidential race while gaining seats in the House and in the Senate. The Republicans picked up at least two seats in the House and four in the Senate. While not enough to provide Mr. Bush a veto-proof Congress, the party's surge did result in the defeat of Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader and one of the most familiar Democratic faces in Washington.
 Republican leaders were promising to renew efforts to pass bills that Democrats had blocked, like one permitting drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and another placing caps on awards in liability lawsuits.
 Mr. Bush spoke only in the broad terms of what he might do in a second term. But he strongly signaled that he was looking to stabilize the governments of Afghanistan and Iraq to allow American soldiers to return home.
 ''We will help the emerging democracies of Iraq and Afghanistan so they can grow in strength and defend their freedom, and then our servicemen and women will come home with the honor they have earned,'' he said.
 Mr. Bush's victory appeared to clear the way for a reshuffling of his cabinet, with John Ashcroft, the attorney general, and Tom Ridge, the homeland security secretary, likely to leave for personal reasons, according to administration officials.
 Mr. Cheney, in introducing the president at the rally at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center less than a half-mile from the White House, left little doubt about how this White House saw the election, and what it intended to do with it. He said the president had run ''forthrightly on a clear agenda for this nation's future, and the nation responded by giving him a mandate.''
 Mr. Bush's victory was powered in no small part by a huge turnout among evangelical Christians, who may seek a bigger voice in critical White House decisions over the next four years -- in particular, Supreme Court nominations that are likely to occupy parts of Mr. Bush's second term.
 Mr. Bush, as he did when he won four years ago, made a point in his victory speech of reaching out to Democrats, saying he wanted to unify a country that had been divided not only by the contest with Mr. Kerry, but also by the circumstances of Mr. Bush's victory four years ago.
 ''I want to speak to every person who voted for my opponent,'' he said. ''To make this nation stronger and better, I will need your support and I will work to earn it. I will do all I can do to deserve your trust. A new term is a new opportunity to reach out to the whole nation. We have one country, one Constitution and one future that binds us.''
 Mr. Kerry struck a similar tone in his concession speech in Boston -- which at 16 minutes lasted 6 minutes longer than Mr. Bush's -- though it reprised, if indirectly, some of the criticisms he made of Mr. Bush during the campaign.
 ''America is in need of unity and longing for a larger measure of compassion,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''I hope President Bush will advance those values in the coming years. I pledge to do my part to try to bridge the partisan divide.
 ''I know this is a difficult time for my supporters, but I ask you -- all of you -- to join me in doing this,'' said Mr. Kerry, whose voice cracked at times in an uncharacteristic display of public emotion.
 That said, by any measure, the Bush victory rocked the political landscape in Washington. Aides to both parties said they were doubtful -- given the history of the past four years -- that the capital was headed for a period of political calm, no matter what the president and Mr. Kerry said in the aftermath of their bitter competition. 
 ''I don't think a 51-49 election is any mandate,'' Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic National Committee chairman, said in an interview. ''George Bush won, and I congratulate him on that. They ran a very effective campaign and he won. They need to be very careful that they now need to govern from the middle in a bipartisan way. This country as we saw in the election is very evenly split.''
 For much of Tuesday and into yesterday, it seemed as if the election of 2004 was turning into a reprise of the election of 2000, with a series of tight races and some confusion in counting combining to create a night of tumult and uncertainty. At 2:30 yesterday morning, Mr. Kerry's running mate, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, went to the stage in Boston where Mr. Kerry had hoped to declare victory to say that the Kerry campaign would not concede until all the outstanding votes in Ohio were counted.
 Mr. Bush nearly appeared at 4 a.m. yesterday to declare victory in the face of the Kerry campaign threat. 
 But the situation in Ohio was nowhere near as disputed as it was in Florida four years ago, and Mr. Bush's advisers decided instead to hold off in the hopes that Mr. Kerry would, upon waking, decide the cause was hopeless and concede.
 The 2004 election turned out to be different in another way as well. For all the fears of Democrats this year, Ralph Nader drew so few votes that he had no impact on the outcome in any state.
 If Republicans were ecstatic at having won a clean victory without the baggage of 2000, Democrats were bereft at what several described as a rout, and there were immediate signs that the party was facing a dark period of intramural battles.
 Several Democrats questioned Mr. Kerry's decision to concede without pressing for a full count of the votes in Ohio, warning that it would discourage first-time voters, particularly members of minorities, in future elections. ''I understand the need to put it behind him, given the math,'' said Donna Brazile, who managed Al Gore's 2000 campaign. ''But he has an obligation to allow all these votes to be counted.''
 Tellingly, associates of Mr. Edwards made a point of informing reporters that Mr. Edwards had urged Mr. Kerry not to give up in Ohio so soon, in what some Democrats described as probably the opening shot of -- yes -- the 2008 campaign. Mr. Edwards is likely to seek his party's nomination and thus is eager not to do anything in the final days of this campaign that could haunt him in 2008.
 ''He conveyed his point of view and Kerry made his own decision,'' one Edwards adviser said, adding that Mr. Edwards ''was disappointed but made peace with the result.''
 Democrats resigned themselves to having even less influence in the Senate and the House. In the Senate, Harry Reid of Nevada was moving to take over the minority leadership post being vacated by Mr. Daschle. With the four-seat gain, Republicans will have 55 senators, still 5 short of holding a filibuster-proof margin. But Republicans said they hoped that Democrats would see Mr. Daschle's defeat as a cautionary lesson that would prevent them from trying to use legislative techniques to entangle Republican initiatives.
 Mr. McAuliffe and other Democrats tried to put the best face on the defeat, saying that Mr. Kerry was facing a difficult task in trying to unseat a sitting president during wartime. He argued that Mr. Bush was helped by the emergence last weekend of a videotape featuring Osama bin Laden addressing Americans, which reminded voters of the issue -- fear of terrorism -- that had always been central to Mr. Bush's campaign.
 ''You've got to remember that he went in with a tough deck of cards,'' Mr. McAuliffe said of Mr. Kerry.
 Still, Democrats seemed as startled as Republicans were delighted by the unlikelihood of the victory. Mr. Bush prevailed despite the legacy of one of the most disputed elections in the nation's history. He overcame polls showing that voters disapproved of his job performance and of the direction in which the country was heading, two measures that typically augur defeat for an incumbent.
 Mr. Bush not only won Florida, but he won it by a comfortable margin. He also won the other of the two most contested states, Ohio. He won both states in 2000. Mr. Kerry grabbed New Hampshire from the Republican column, while Mr. Bush yanked New Mexico away from the Democrats. 
 Mr. Bush was ahead in another state Mr. Gore barely won last time -- Iowa -- though officials there were recounting the vote.
 Mr. Kerry, in his appearance in Boston, sought to erase any doubt about the vote in Ohio, and made clear that he did not want a protracted repeat of the 2000 battle that tore the country apart. ''In America, it is vital that every vote count and every vote be counted,'' he said. ''But the outcome should be decided by voters -- not a protracted legal process.''
 As his audience listened in near-silence, Mr. Kerry, who had built a campaign around the Bruce Springsteen song ''No Surrender'' and promised to fight Republicans in a way Democrats never had before, said he had no reservations about abandoning this one, and returning to his post in the United States Senate.
 ''I would not give up this fight if there was a chance that we would prevail,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Thursday about the re-election of President Bush and a front-page news analysis article that day referred incorrectly in some copies to the 1924 election of Calvin Coolidge, who, like Mr. Bush, won with a Republican majority in both houses. He became president in 1923 upon the death of President Warren G. Harding. Thus he was elected, not re-elected. The article also misstated the performance of the Republican Party in congressional elections that year. It did not gain seats; while it maintained its majority, it lost strength in both House and Senate. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and Laura Bush, with Vice President Dick Cheney and Lynne Cheney, declared victory yesterday at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington. ''We had a long night -- and a great night,'' Mr. Bush said, adding that it was ''an historic victory.'' (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
Senator John Kerry said to supporters in Boston yesterday, ''We cannot win this election.'' (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Supporters cheered yesterday as President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney proclaimed re-election victory in Washington. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. P2)Chart: ''Reaching the Finish Line''John Kerry was only able to take one state -- New Hampshire -- that George Bush had won in 2000, while Mr. Bush was leading in New Mexico and Iowa, both states that Al Gore won.THE 2004 ELECTION (270 electoral votes needed to win)BUSH ELECTORAL VOTES: 274KERRY ELECTORAL VOTES: 252Graph shows electoral votes versus margin of victory for each state. (As of 7 p.m., a winner had not been delcared in Iowa or New Mexico.)THE 2000 ELECTION (270 electoral votes needed to win)BUSH ELECTORAL VOTES: 271GORE ELECTORAL VOTES: 266Graph shows electoral votes versus margin of victory for each state along with gain since last election.Electoral votes -- shown by height of each state.Margin of victory -- percentage points shown by width of each state.Results as of 4:54 p.m.States won by BushTexasPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 4,495,797 (61%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 2,816,501 (38%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +232000 margin BUSH GORE: +21ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 34Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0FloridaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 3,836,217 (52%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 3,459,299 (47%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 32,036 ( 0%)2000 margin BUSH GORE: + 52000 margin BUSH GORE: - 1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 27Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0OhioPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 2,796,147 (51%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 2,659,664 (49%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: + 22000 margin BUSH GORE: + 4ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 20Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0GeorgiaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,867,988 (59%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 1,302,703 (41%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +182000 margin BUSH GORE: +12ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 15Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0North CarolinaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,919,903 (56%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 1,488,278 (43%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +132000 margin BUSH GORE: +13ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 15Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0VirginiaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,662,439 (54%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 1,396,233 (45%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin:+ 92000 margin BUSH GORE: + 8ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 13Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0IndianaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,474,475 (60%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 960,899 (39%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +212000 margin BUSH GORE: +16ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 11Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0MissouriPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,452,715 (53%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 1,253,879 (46%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: + 72000 margin BUSH GORE: + 3ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 11Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0TennesseePOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,381,852 (57%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 1,033,030 (42%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 8,832 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +152000 margin BUSH GORE: + 4ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 11Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0ArizonaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 97%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 879,202 (55%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 705,986 (44%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +112000 margin BUSH GORE: + 6ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 10Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0AlabamaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,174,278 (63%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 691,830 (37%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 6,777 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +262000 margin BUSH GORE: +15ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 9Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0ColoradoPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 93%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,011,378 (53%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 883,021 (46%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 11,269 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: + 72000 margin BUSH GORE: + 8ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 9Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0LouisianaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,101,710 (57%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 818,211 (42%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 7,015 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +152000 margin BUSH GORE: + 8ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 9Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0KentuckyPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,064,504 (60%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 709,072 (40%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 8,807 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +202000 margin BUSH GORE: +15ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 8Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0South CarolinaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 920,321 (58%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 647,998 (41%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 5,410 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +172000 margin BUSH GORE: +16ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 8Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0OklahomaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 959,655 (66%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 504,077 (34%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +322000 margin BUSH GORE: +22ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 7Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0ArkansasPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 566,676 (54%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 464,156 (45%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 6,031 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: + 92000 margin BUSH GORE: + 5ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 6Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0KansasPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 711,083 (62%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 416,905 (36%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 8,955 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +262000 margin BUSH GORE: +21ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 6Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0MississippiPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 98%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 657,920 (60%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 435,584 (40%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 2,995 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +202000 margin BUSH GORE: +17ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 6Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0NebraskaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 485,476 (67%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 234,150 (32%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 5,289 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +352000 margin BUSH GORE: +29ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 5Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0NevadaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 414,939 (50%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 393,372 (48%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 4,785 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: + 22000 margin BUSH GORE: + 4ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 5Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0UtahPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 98%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 600,564 (71%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 224,848 (27%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 10,742 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +442000 margin BUSH GORE: +40ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 5Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0West VirginiaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 418,151 (56%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 321,641 (43%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 3,951 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +132000 margin BUSH GORE: + 6ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 5Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0IdahoPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 408,227 (68%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 180,900 (30%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +382000 margin BUSH GORE: +40ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 4Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0AlaskaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 98%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 151,498 (62%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 85,819 (35%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 3,884 ( 2%)2004 winning margin: +272000 margin BUSH GORE: +31ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 3Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0MontanaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 260,463 (59%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 168,707 (38%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 6,035 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +212000 margin BUSH GORE: +25ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 3Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0North DakotaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 195,998 (63%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 110,662 (35%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 3,741 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +282000 margin BUSH GORE: +28ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 3Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0South DakotaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 232,545 (60%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 149,225 (38%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 4,317 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +222000 margin BUSH GORE: +23ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 3Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0WyomingPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 167,130 (69%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 70,620 (29%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 2,734 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +402000 margin BUSH GORE: +40ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 3Kerry: 0Not assigned: 0States won by KerryCaliforniaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 4,403,495 (44%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 5,427,055 (55%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +112000 margin BUSH GORE: +12ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 55Not assigned: 0New YorkPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 2,780,749 (40%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 3,967,047 (58%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 103,310 ( 2%)2004 winning margin: +182000 margin BUSH GORE: +25ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 31Not assigned: 0IllinoisPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 2,313,415 (45%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 2,826,757 (55%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +102000 margin BUSH GORE: +12ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 21Not assigned: 0PennsylvaniaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 2,748,900 (49%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 2,870,358 (51%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: + 22000 margin BUSH GORE: + 4ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 21Not assigned: 0MichiganPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 2,306,259 (48%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 2,471,402 (51%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 23,914 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: + 32000 margin BUSH GORE: + 5ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 17Not assigned: 0New JerseyPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,587,494 (46%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 1,799,320 (53%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 18,614 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: + 72000 margin BUSH GORE: +16ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 15Not assigned: 0MassachusettsPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,067,163 (37%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 1,793,916 (62%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +252000 margin BUSH GORE: +27ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 12Not assigned: 0WashingtonPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 877,796 (46%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 997,204 (52%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 13,883 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: + 62000 margin BUSH GORE: + 6ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 11Not assigned: 0MarylandPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 936,505 (43%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 1,209,827 (56%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 10,573 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: +132000 margin BUSH GORE: +16ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 10Not assigned: 0MinnesotaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,345,168 (48%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 1,443,564 (51%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 18,537 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: + 32000 margin BUSH GORE: + 2ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 10Not assigned: 0WisconsinPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 1,477,122 (49%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 1,488,935 (50%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 16,324 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: + 12000 margin BUSH GORE: - 1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 10Not assigned: 0ConnecticutPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 686,923 (44%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 847,666 (54%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 12,708 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +102000 margin BUSH GORE: +17ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 7Not assigned: 0OregonPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 98%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 808,052 (47%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 879,798 (52%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: + 52000 margin BUSH GORE: - 1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 7Not assigned: 0HawaiiPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 194,109 (45%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 231,318 (54%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 0 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: + 92000 margin BUSH GORE: +18ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 4Not assigned: 0MainePOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 95%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 308,997 (45%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 364,153 (53%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 7,476 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: + 82000 margin BUSH GORE: + 5ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 4Not assigned: 0New HampshirePOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 330,848 (49%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 340,019 (50%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 4,447 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: + 12000 margin BUSH GORE: + 1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 4Not assigned: 0Rhode IslandPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 161,345 (39%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 247,071 (60%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 3,976 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +212000 margin BUSH GORE: +29ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 4Not assigned: 0DelawarePOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 95%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 164,807 (46%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 191,870 (53%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 2,050 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: + 72000 margin BUSH GORE: +13ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 3Not assigned: 0D.C.POPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 19,007 ( 9%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 183,876 (90%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 1,318 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +812000 margin BUSH GORE: +76ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 3Not assigned: 0VermontPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 120,710 (39%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 183,621 (59%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 4,426 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: +202000 margin BUSH GORE: +10ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 3Not assigned: 0States with incomplete resultsIowaPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 100%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 745,742 (50%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 732,492 (49%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 5,811 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: N/A2000 margin BUSH GORE: - 1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 7New MexicoPOPULAR VOTEPct. of districts reporting: 99%George W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 363,525 (50%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 351,269 (49%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 3,822 ( 1%)2004 winning margin: N/A2000 margin BUSH GORE: - 1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 0Kerry: 0Not assigned: 5TOTALGeorge W. Bush -- REPUBLICAN: 59,017,382 (51%)John Kerry -- DEMOCRAT: 55,435,808 (48%)Ralph Nader -- INDEPENDENT: 394,794 ( 0%)2004 winning margin: N/A2000 margin BUSH GORE: + 1ELECTORAL VOTESBush: 274Kerry: 252Not assigned: 12(pg. P2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); VETO (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (74%); LITIGATION (60%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Christians and Christianity; Presidential Election of 2000; Elections; Presidential Election of 2004; Electoral College; United States Economy; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (59%) Congress (US); House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (97%); JOHN KERRY (96%); RALPH NADER (94%); AL GORE (93%); DICK CHENEY (90%); TOM DASCHLE (57%) Adam Nagourney; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (65%) Ohio; New Mexico; Iowa

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



71 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Two Nations Under God

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Well, as Grandma used to say, at least I still have my health. 
 I often begin writing columns by interviewing myself. I did that yesterday, asking myself this: Why didn't I feel totally depressed after George H.W. Bush defeated Michael Dukakis, or even when George W. Bush defeated Al Gore? Why did I wake up feeling deeply troubled yesterday?
 Answer: whatever differences I felt with the elder Bush were over what was the right policy. There was much he ultimately did that I ended up admiring. And when George W. Bush was elected four years ago on a platform of compassionate conservatism, after running from the middle, I assumed the same would be true with him. (Wrong.) But what troubled me yesterday was my feeling that this election was tipped because of an outpouring of support for George Bush by people who don't just favor different policies than I do -- they favor a whole different kind of America. We don't just disagree on what America should be doing; we disagree on what America is. 
 Is it a country that does not intrude into people's sexual preferences and the marriage unions they want to make? Is it a country that allows a woman to have control over her body? Is it a country where the line between church and state bequeathed to us by our Founding Fathers should be inviolate? Is it a country where religion doesn't trump science? And, most important, is it a country whose president mobilizes its deep moral energies to unite us -- instead of dividing us from one another and from the world?
 At one level this election was about nothing. None of the real problems facing the nation were really discussed. But at another level, without warning, it actually became about everything. Partly that happened because so many Supreme Court seats are at stake, and partly because Mr. Bush's base is pushing so hard to legislate social issues and extend the boundaries of religion that it felt as if we were rewriting the Constitution, not electing a president. I felt as if I registered to vote, but when I showed up the Constitutional Convention broke out.
 The election results reaffirmed that. Despite an utterly incompetent war performance in Iraq and a stagnant economy, Mr. Bush held onto the same basic core of states that he won four years ago -- as if nothing had happened. It seemed as if people were not voting on his performance. It seemed as if they were voting for what team they were on.
 This was not an election. This was station identification. I'd bet anything that if the election ballots hadn't had the names Bush and Kerry on them but simply asked instead, ''Do you watch Fox TV or read The New York Times?'' the Electoral College would have broken the exact same way.
 My problem with the Christian fundamentalists supporting Mr. Bush is not their spiritual energy or the fact that I am of a different faith. It is the way in which he and they have used that religious energy to promote divisions and intolerance at home and abroad. I respect that moral energy, but wish that Democrats could find a way to tap it for different ends.
 ''The Democrats have ceded to Republicans a monopoly on the moral and spiritual sources of American politics,'' noted the Harvard University political theorist Michael J. Sandel. ''They will not recover as a party until they again have candidates who can speak to those moral and spiritual yearnings -- but turn them to progressive purposes in domestic policy and foreign affairs.''
 I've always had a simple motto when it comes to politics: Never put yourself in a position where your party wins only if your country fails. This column will absolutely not be rooting for George Bush to fail so Democrats can make a comeback. If the Democrats make a comeback, it must not be by default, because the country has lapsed into a total mess, but because they have nominated a candidate who can win with a positive message that connects with America's heartland.
 Meanwhile, there is a lot of talk that Mr. Bush has a mandate for his far right policies. Yes, he does have a mandate, but he also has a date -- a date with history. If Mr. Bush can salvage the war in Iraq, forge a solution for dealing with our entitlements crisis -- which can be done only with a bipartisan approach and a more sane fiscal policy -- upgrade America's competitiveness, prevent Iran from going nuclear and produce a solution for our energy crunch, history will say that he used his mandate to lead to great effect. If he pushes for still more tax cuts and fails to solve our real problems, his date with history will be a very unpleasant one -- no matter what mandate he has. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CHURCH & STATE (86%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLITICS (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States Politics and Government; Church-State Relations; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); AL GORE (56%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



72 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; REACH OF WAR: INSURGENCY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Stubborn Violence Shadows Buildup to Falluja Invasion

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Khalid al-Ansary and Layla Isitfan contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
In the latest attack on Iraq's oil industry, gunmen killed a senior Oil Ministry official as he was commuting to work on Wednesday morning, a ministry spokesman said.
 The shooting came on a day punctuated by violence, as Iraqis and American soldiers followed the results of the American presidential election and braced for an expected invasion of the insurgent bastion in Falluja, 35 miles west of Baghdad. 
 In other incidents on Wednesday, a car bomb exploded at a checkpoint near Baghdad International Airport, killing a British security contractor and injuring at least nine Iraqis, Western security advisers and hospital officials said.
 In the north, at Salman Pak, a roadside bomb hit an American military patrol, killing one soldier and wounding another, military officials said. 
 Insurgents also sent a video to Al Jazeera, the Arab-language satellite news station, showing three Iraqi National Guardsmen being beheaded, and posted another on the Internet of the decapitation of an Iraqi Army officer.
 Late Tuesday, a Lebanese-American man was kidnapped from his home in an affluent neighborhood in Baghdad.
 With Senator John Kerry's concession to President Bush, many people here predicted that it was only a matter of days before Prime Minister Ayad Allawi and the American military would order an all-out assault on Falluja, a city of 300,000, in an effort to break the back of the insurgency, even though the prime minister says he is trying to hold talks with the city's leaders. American warplanes were reported to have struck at targets in the northeastern and southern parts of Falluja. 
 The killing of the Oil Ministry official, Hussein Ali al-Fatal, took place as he was leaving his home in the Yarmouk neighborhood in western Baghdad to go to the ministry, said Asim Jihad, a ministry spokesman. Mr. Fatal was the head of the Oil Product Distribution Company, a state-run enterprise. 
 His death came one day after insurgents sabotaged a northern pipeline that exports crude oil from the Kirkuk area to Ceyhan, a port in Turkey. The explosion forced a shutdown of the pipeline. Since September, the ministry has been trying to pump 200,000 to 400,000 barrels of crude oil a day through the pipeline, which is the target of frequent sabotage, said Walid Khadduri, an Iraqi oil analyst based in Cyprus.
 Mr. Jihad said that the pipeline fire had been put out and that it would take three to four days to repair the damaged area. An official with the North Oil Company, based in Kirkuk, told Agence France-Presse that repairs would probably take 10 days.
 The market price of crude oil has risen past $50 a barrel, and Iraqi and American officials are relying on exports to help revive the country's stagnant economy. The northern pipeline accounts for, at best, just under one-fifth of current exports. Saboteurs have also staged attacks on southern pipelines near the oil fields in Basra.
 Early Wednesday, the Army of Ansar al-Sunna, one of the most militant groups in Iraq, posted an video on the Internet showing the beheading of an Iraqi Army officer named Maj. Hussein Shanoon. The group said it had captured Major Shanoon near Mosul, a northern city that is quickly tumbling into chaos. ''With God's will, this will be the fate of anyone who thinks of supporting the occupying Crusader troops,'' the group said in a separate Internet message.
 Later, a group calling itself the Brigades of the Iraqi Honorables sent a video to Al Jazeera that showed militants beheading three Iraqi National Guardsmen accused of spying for the American forces, the television network reported.
 An Interior Ministry official said gunmen stormed a home in the upscale neighborhood of Mansour, in western Baghdad, late Tuesday and abducted Radim Sadiq, a Lebanese-American who was working here. The United States Embassy did not immediately confirm the abduction, and it was unclear how Mr. Sadiq was employed.
 It was the second abduction in the neighborhood this week. On Monday, an American who has yet to be identified was seized with five other men, including a Nepali, a Filipino and three Iraqi guards. Two of the guards were released on Tuesday. 
 In September, gunmen raided another home in Mansour and captured two American engineers and a Briton. Those three men soon surfaced in a video from the militant group led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. The group beheaded all three men after American officials refused to meet the group's demands.
 More than 160 foreigners have been kidnapped so far this year in Iraq. Last Saturday, the body of a Japanese backpacker who had been abducted and decapitated was found in Baghdad. On Wednesday, Japanese officials denied a statement by his captors, members of a group called Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, that the Japanese government had offered ''millions of dollars'' for his release. 
 The suicide car bomb at the Baghdad airport checkpoint exploded around 8:30 a.m., as a long line of cars was waiting to enter the airport, witnesses said. An Iraqi Airways employee, Wisam Muhammad, said he saw a sport utility vehicle try to speed up around the line of cars and ram into a group of American soldiers and Iraqi security officers at the checkpoint. Another witness, a man with a blood-streaked face in Yarmouk Hospital, said the driver was bearded and wearing traditional gray robes and a skullcap.
 A former member of the British Royal Marines who was working as a guard at the checkpoint was killed in the blast, said two Western security advisers in Baghdad who knew the man. Hospital officials said at least nine Iraqis were wounded. The American military said it had suffered no casualties.
 In preparation for the country's first democratic elections, scheduled for January, Iraqis arriving to collect their November rations at several food centers in Baghdad were handed voter registration forms. The Iraqi electoral commission began distributing the sheets on Monday and will continue doing so through sometime next month.
 ''I hope the election process will be conducted safely and in a guaranteed way,'' Abdul Zahra Muhammad, 71, said as he collected his rations and voter sheets at a center in Mansour. ''I'm worried about how people will go to the elections. I'm very worried about car bombs. And does the government have enough control over security to hold a successful election?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: American marines at a memorial service yesterday in Baghdad for eight colleagues who were killed Saturday in an ambush near Falluja. (Photo by Marco Di Lauro/Getty Images)
 G.I.'s removed a body after a car bombing yesterday in Baghdad. (Photo by Thaier al-Sudani/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); ARMIES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); ARAB AMERICANS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); AIRPORTS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (66%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (62%); HOSPITALS (55%) Bombs and Explosives; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Al Jazeera

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Edward Wong; George W (Pres) Bush; Iyad (Prime Min) Allawi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); TURKEY (79%); LEBANON (79%); CYPRUS (79%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Falluja (Iraq); Salman Pak (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



73 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally as Investors Welcome Election's End

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The stock market rallied at the opening bell yesterday as investors expressed relief that a clear election victor was in sight and that President Bush looked set to return to the White House for a second term.
 Spurred in part by expectations that Mr. Bush would continue a pro-business agenda, the three main stock market gauges moved up sharply, by 1.5 percent or more, just after trading began. But traders in government bonds -- worried that less would be done to narrow the federal budget deficit -- pushed down bond prices from the moment it became evident that Mr. Bush would win the crucial state of Ohio. 
 The rally in stocks faded some, as Mr. Kerry conceded. Bonds managed to wipe out much of their losses as investors seemed to shift their outlook from the presidential race to the usual market fundamentals like economic growth, interest rates and corporate earnings.
 Analysts warned that the election rally cannot overcome the possibility of slower-than-expected economic growth, weaker earnings and rising interest rates -- all factors that are not likely to drive stocks much higher. ''The data is good but not great and we are in an environment where earnings growth is beginning to slow down,'' said Jack Caffrey, equity strategist at J.P. Morgan Private Bank.
 Scott Gewirtz, co-head of government bond trading at Deutsche Bank, said that investors would be reminded of the worry over economic growth as soon as tomorrow, when the government is expected to release the employment report for October. The forecast of 175,000 new jobs is better than the average for the year but not robust.
 In addition, Federal Reserve policy makers meet Tuesday and are expected, as long as the jobs data is not unexpectedly weak, to raise their benchmark short-term interest rate a quarter-point, to 2 percent -- the fourth rate increase since June.
 Besides the economy and the Fed, investors will have to factor in the outlook for the record federal budget deficit, which could become a drag on the bond market if Mr. Bush cannot begin to reduce it, as he promised during the campaign.
 The sobering fact for investors is that despite the benign outlook for the economy all year, the stock market has been stuck in a trading range since February. Even with yesterday's gains, the Dow is down 3 percent for the year while the Nasdaq is up 0.05 percent, and the S.&P. 500 stock index has climbed 2.8 percent. And all three gauges are below their highs for the year. 
 The dollar fell against the euro and slipped against the yen yesterday. Because of the size of the federal budget deficit and the record current account deficit, which measures the balance of the country's trade in goods and services with the rest of the world, some analysts had predicted that the dollar would begin a long-term decline no matter who was elected president.
 The price of crude oil, after spending one day below $50 a barrel, jumped 2.5 percent, to $50.88. 
 While investors seemed certain of the election outcome yesterday, on Tuesday they appeared to be misled by the exit polls that quickly began to circulate on Web sites. The early exit polls, which put Mr. Kerry in the lead nationally and in crucial states, led to a sell-off in the afternoon that wiped out almost all of Tuesday's early gains. The stock market response yesterday to the Bush victory was easily seen in one of the market sectors that analysts said the president would favor, drug makers. The stock of Merck jumped 4 percent, while Pfizer climbed 2.6 percent.
 But the main sense yesterday morning was one of relief that election results would not be drawn out for days, if not weeks, as in 2000. That relief buoyed stocks, which had been trading sluggishly for months, and prompted selling in the bond market, where many investors had moved in anticipation of a drawn-out post-election drama.
 ''It's just that the certainty of the outcome came so quickly,'' said Ernie Ankrim, chief investment strategist at the Russell Investment Group.
 By the close of the stock market, the three market gauges had given up a third or more of their early gains. The Dow rose 101.32 points, or 1 percent, to 10,137.05, while the S.&P. 500 climbed 12.66 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,143.20. The Nasdaq rose 19.54 points, or 1 percent, to 2,004.33.
 The bond market recouped much of its overnight loss, with the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note at 4.08 percent in late trading, up from 4.05 on Tuesday, while the price, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, slipped 8/32, to 101 11/32. Overnight, the 10-year yield shot up to almost 4.20 percent, traders said.
 Mr. Gewirtz of Deutsche Bank said that one reason that Treasury yields were still so low, despite the Fed's rate increases, is that investors expect policy makers to move slowly in raising rates. In addition, the sharp rise in the price of crude oil is expected to restrain growth some, while not being too inflationary.
 As for the budget deficit, which was $413 billion in the year ended Sept. 30, Mr. Gewirtz said it should be a factor in investors' minds. ''The general view of Bush,'' he said, ''is that he doesn't worry about deficits.'' 
 But he added, right now ''the market is saying that the Fed and the economy are more important than the deficit.''
 In the foreign exchange market, the euro rose to $1.2821, from $1.2674 Tuesday. The euro's 2004 high, of $1.2926, was set in February. The dollar was at 106.15 yen, down 0.2 percent from 106.39 Tuesday.
 David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics, said that a Bush victory was seen as better for the dollar than a Kerry victory because Mr. Bush was regarded as more likely to favor business, the stock market and free trade.
 But Mr. Gilmore added that if neither the federal budget deficit nor the current account deficit begin to shrink, foreign investors will be less willing to invest here. And if foreign inflows slow, the value of the dollar will fall and interest rates will rise.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Some traders at the New York Stock Exchange watched President Bush acknowledge his victory yesterday. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C11)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C11)Graphs track closes for The Dow, Nasdaq and S.& P. 500 on Tuesday and Wednesday.THE DOWTUES.: Low -- 10,011.49WED.: High -- 10,215.51NASDAQTUES.: Low -- 1,978.64WED.: High -- 2,020.03S.& P. 500TUES.: Low -- 1,128.12WED.: High -- 1,147.60(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); BONDS (94%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); EURO (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Stocks and Bonds; Interest Rates; Currency

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) Jonathan Fuerbringer; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%) European Union; Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



74 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: An Industry in India Cheers Bush's Victory

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
India's outsourcing companies were jubilant Wednesday that the elections in the United States will return President Bush to office.
 ''This is great news for the offshoring industry,'' said Nandan M. Nilekani, chief executive of Infosys Technologies, a software services company. The trend toward outsourcing will now become even more inexorable, Mr. Nilekani said. 
 Offshore outsourcing, or the moving of work from the United States to low-cost centers like India, was an issue in the presidential election. The Democratic candidate, Senator John Kerry, blamed Mr. Bush and outsourcing for the loss of thousands of American jobs. 
 Mr. Bush, in contrast, was largely silent on the issue. But members of his team, among them N. Gregory Mankiw, the chief economic adviser, and Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, have both defended outsourcing as another form of free trade. 
 Mr. Kerry referred to ''Benedict Arnold companies and C.E.O.'s'' that sent jobs overseas. He promised that as president he would end tax deferrals for companies that send work abroad.
 The tone of some campaign comments criticizing outsourcing was noted with some concern in India. The Times of India, the country's leading newspaper, called outsourcing the ''swear word'' of the 2004 elections. Thousands of workers in India's technology centers like Bangalore and Hyderabad closely followed the campaign. India's outsourcing industry employs over 800,000.
 For more than a decade now, leading Indian outsourcing companies like Infosys Technologies and Wipro have written software applications and done back-office work for top American corporations including General Electric and Citigroup. The work can be done more cheaply here, where skilled labor is inexpensive and plentiful. The leading outsourcing companies earn as much as two-thirds of their revenue from customers from the United States. 
 India's software and back-office services industry posted $12.5 billion in export revenues in the year ended in March, a 30 percent rise over the previous year as global demand for its services grew. 
 News that Mr. Kerry had conceded the election to Mr. Bush was greeted with joy in the industry. ''We are very happy that Bush is back,'' said Kiran S. Karnik, president of the industry group Nasscom, or National Association of Software and Service Companies.
 ''The president's track record has been of recognizing the advantages of free trade,'' Mr. Karnik said. 
 Mr. Bush's re-election will bring out the latent demand for outsourcing and lead to more offshoring announcements by companies, he said. 
 ''Some corporations have been cautious about signing or announcing deals in the last few months,'' he said, adding, ''Now they will no longer hold back.''
 Some executives said that offshoring would grow at even steeper rates with Mr. Bush's victory. 
 ''The elections are over and so is the rhetoric; it will be easier for American corporations to step out with their outsourcing plans,'' said Vivek Paul, the vice chairman of Wipro, who works in Mountain View, Calif. The company itself is based in Bangalore.
 In spite of some strong American sentiment against offshoring, Indian outsourcing companies have been growing robustly recently. In the quarter that ended in September, Infosys Technologies announced a 49 percent rise in profit, and added more than 5,000 employees. Its rival Wipro had a 65 percent increase in quarterly profit, and hired 5,500 more workers.
 Early on Wednesday, news of Mr. Bush's likely re-election also buoyed India's stock market. The bellwether Sensex index in Mumbai ended up 1.53 percent, at 5,842.54 points.
 Some experts said that Mr. Bush's return to the White House augured well not just for India's technology industry but also for trade relations between India and the United States.
 ''The results mean that it is less likely that either the Congress or the administration will interfere in the growing and mutually beneficial trade relations between the two countries,'' said Daniel T. Griswold, director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute in Washington. 
 Mr. Bush's victory also proved that Mr. Kerry's anti-outsourcing position did not resonate with voters, Mr. Griswold said. ''The talk about Benedict Arnold C.E.O.'s and traitors of the country, that rhetoric is finally dead,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Programmers at work at Wipro in India. Wipro writes software applications for leading American corporations. (Photo by Namas Bhojani for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 Vivek Paul, left, of Wipro said the election results would make it ''easier for American corporations to step out with their outsourcing plans.'' Nandan M. Nilekani of Infosys said the election brought ''great news.'' (Photographs by Namas Bhojani for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); OFFSHORING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%) Computers and the Internet; International Trade and World Market; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Computer Software; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (93%); ARNOLD COS INC (69%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Wipro Ltd; Infosys Technologies

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (93%); INFY (NYSE) (93%); INFY (NSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (74%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (59%) UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (97%) India

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



75 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE ELECTORATE -- THE VOTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Moral Values Cited as a Defining Issue of the Election

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Even in a time of war and economic hardship, Americans said they were motivated to vote for President Bush on Tuesday by moral values as much as anything else, according to a survey of voters as they left their polling places. In the survey, a striking portrait of one influential group emerged -- that of a traditional, church-going electorate that leans conservative on social issues and strongly backed Mr. Bush in his victory over Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee.
 Mr. Bush appealed overwhelmingly to voters on terrorism and to many others on his ability to handle the economy. But what gave him the edge in the election, which he won 51 percent to 48 percent, was a perceived sense of morality and traditional values.
 Asked what one issue mattered most to them in choosing a president, ''moral values'' ranked at the top with the economy/jobs, terrorism and the war in Iraq. Trailing significantly were health care, taxes and education. 
 Of the people who chose ''moral values'' as their top issue, 80 percent voted for Mr. Bush. (For people who chose the economy/jobs, 80 percent voted for Mr. Kerry.) Nearly one-quarter of the electorate was made up of white evangelical and born-again Christians, and they voted four to one for Mr. Bush.
 Mr. Bush beat his Democratic opponent in almost all religious categories except among Jews, three-fourths of whom favored Mr. Kerry. But they made up only 3 percent of the electorate. Mr. Bush did particularly well among white Catholics, winning 56 percent of them compared with Mr. Kerry's 43 percent, despite Mr. Kerry's being the first Roman Catholic nominated for president since John F. Kennedy in 1960. 
 As the Democrats pick up the pieces after this election, a likely priority will be to consider how to recapture these so-called Reagan Democrats, the mostly Catholic, blue-collar cultural conservatives who were disaffected from the party of Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale but had been brought back into the fold by Bill Clinton and Al Gore.
 Asked what one quality mattered most in choosing a president, 8 percent of all those surveyed on Tuesday chose ''he has strong religious faith,'' and 91 percent of the people who chose that quality voted for Mr. Bush. By contrast, 7 percent chose ''he is intelligent,'' and 91 percent of those people voted for Mr. Kerry.
 The quality that mattered most to about a quarter of the voters was ''he will bring about needed change,'' and 95 percent of the voters who picked that quality voted for Mr. Kerry. But that desire for change and the perception that Mr. Kerry was the better agent of change were overwhelmed by other voters with other priorities.
 For example, Mr. Kerry had an advantage with 52 percent of those surveyed saying that the war in Iraq was going badly, compared to 44 percent who said it was going well. And 52 percent said the war in Iraq had not improved the long-term security of the United States.
 But he apparently failed to convince voters that the war in Iraq was separate from the war on terrorism, and 55 percent of voters saw Iraq as just that -- part of the war on terrorism, compared with only 42 percent who did not. And more voters trusted Mr. Bush to do a better job on terrorism.
 Still, the issues of morality and values seemed to hurt Mr. Kerry as much as anything. 
 Church attendance remained a strong indicator of political preference. Of those who attend church more than once a week, 61 percent voted for Mr. Bush and 39 percent for Mr. Kerry. Of those who never attend church, the numbers were reversed.
 Three-quarters of those who want to outlaw abortion in some or all cases voted for Mr. Bush. Four in 10 voters said there should be no recognition of gay and lesbian couples; three-quarters of those voters voted for Mr. Bush.
 Another striking aspect of the survey was how differently New Yorkers perceive the world compared with their fellow Americans in the heartland. Exit polls showed that 23 percent of voters in New York State regarded the war in Iraq as the campaign's most important issue, and 12 percent regarded moral issues as most important. The situation was reversed in the swing states that line the Mississippi River, from Minnesota to Arkansas, where moral values outranked Iraq.
 Women voters continue to favor the Democratic Party, though not as starkly as they did four years ago. Mr. Bush did better among women this year, winning 48 percent of them, than he did in 2000, when he won 43 percent. As a result, Mr. Kerry drew somewhat fewer women than Al Gore, the Democratic nominee in 2000, drew four years ago.
 As has been typical, married women favored the Republican, Mr. Bush (55 percent for Mr. Bush, 44 percent for Mr. Kerry), while single women favored the Democrat, Mr. Kerry (58 percent, to 40 for Mr. Bush). Married women with children strongly favored Mr. Bush, 59 percent to 40 percent.
 Despite predictions that Mr. Kerry had failed to inspire black voters, he won the votes of 88 percent of them, nearly as high as Mr. Gore's 90 percent four years ago. Any success that Mr. Bush was reported to have reaped with black voters because of a shared opposition to gay marriage was only marginal: Mr. Bush drew just 11 percent of black voters, up from 8 percent in 2000.
 Blacks accounted for 11 percent of the electorate, and Hispanics 8 percent. Mr. Kerry won Hispanics, 53 percent to 44 percent for Mr. Bush. But this was considerably off Mr. Gore's capture of 67 percent of Hispanics in 2000, and a better showing for Mr. Bush, who had drawn just 31 percent in 2000.
 The much-discussed first-time voters did not really materialize. They made up 11 percent of the electorate this year, not much more than the 9 percent who voted for the first time in 2000. Perhaps more telling is the 17 percent of voters this time who did not vote in 2000: they include both first-time and lapsed voters. They favored Mr. Kerry, 54 percent to 45 percent.
 Surprisingly for a Republican, Mr. Bush did better with people older than 60 than Mr. Kerry did. Mr. Kerry did worse with that age group than Mr. Gore did. But Mr. Kerry did better with voters younger than 30 (54 percent) than either Mr. Bush (45 percent) or Mr. Gore in 2000 (48 percent). 
 Mr. Bush drew more Republicans (93 percent) than Mr. Kerry drew Democrats (89 percent). More Democrats (11 percent) voted for Mr. Bush than Republicans (6 percent) voted for Mr. Kerry. Independents were split equally between the two.
 Four percent of respondents said they were gay, lesbian or bisexual, and 77 percent of them voted for Mr. Kerry. Gun owners preferred Mr. Bush by a ratio of two to one, despite Mr. Kerry's hunting forays and other efforts to convince sportsmen that he was one of them.
 More than three-quarters of voters said they had decided for whom they would vote more than a month ago. Of those, 53 percent voted for Mr. Bush, 46 percent for Mr. Kerry.
 The nationwide surveys were taken with voters as they left polling places and were conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International for five television networks and The Associated Press.

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The Election Day polls were based on questionnaires completed by voters as they left voting stations on Tuesday throughout the country.
 The polls were conducted by Edison Media Research of Somerville, N.J., and Mitofsky International of New York City for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News.
 The national results are based on 13,660 voters in 250 precincts across the United states. These include 500 absentee voters and early voters interviewed by telephone.
 The state results are based on 872 to 2,862 voters in 13 to 51 randomly selected precincts across each of 18 states analyzed by The Times. In certain states, some interviews were also conducted by telephone with absentee voters and early voters.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by no more than plus or minus one to two percentage points nationally, and three to five points in each state, from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters who cast ballots in each of these elections.
 Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on Election Day, like the reluctance of some voters to take time to fill out the questionnaire, may introduce other sources of error into the poll.
 Prof. Helmut Norpoth of the State University of New York at Stony Brook assisted The Times in its polling analysis.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Survey of Voters: Who They Were . . .''TotalPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 100FOR BUSH: 51%FOR KERRY: 48%MenPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 46FOR BUSH: 55FOR KERRY: 44WomenPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 54FOR BUSH: 48FOR KERRY: 5118 to 29 years oldPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 17FOR BUSH: 45FOR KERRY: 5430 to 44 years oldPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 29FOR BUSH: 53FOR KERRY: 4645 to 59 years oldPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 30FOR BUSH: 51FOR KERRY: 4860 or overPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 24FOR BUSH: 54FOR KERRY: 46WhitePERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 77FOR BUSH: 58FOR KERRY: 41BlackPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 11FOR BUSH: 11FOR KERRY: 88Hispanic/LatinoPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 8FOR BUSH: 44FOR KERRY: 53AsianPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 2FOR BUSH: 44FOR KERRY: 56ProtestantPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 54FOR BUSH: 59FOR KERRY: 40CatholicPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 27FOR BUSH: 52FOR KERRY: 47JewishPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 3FOR BUSH: 25FOR KERRY: 74NonePERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 10FOR BUSH: 31FOR KERRY: 67White evangelical or born-again ChristianPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 23FOR BUSH: 78FOR KERRY: 21RepublicanPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 37FOR BUSH: 93FOR KERRY: 6IndependentPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 26FOR BUSH: 48FOR KERRY: 49DemocratPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 37FOR BUSH: 11FOR KERRY: 89Gay, lesbian or bisexualPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 4FOR BUSH: 23FOR KERRY: 77. . . And What Was on Their MindsISSUE THAT MATTERED MOSTMoral valuesPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 22FOR BUSH: 80FOR KERRY: 18Economy/jobsPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 20FOR BUSH: 18FOR KERRY: 80TerrorismPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 19FOR BUSH: 86FOR KERRY: 14IraqPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 15FOR BUSH: 26FOR KERRY: 73Health carePERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 8FOR BUSH: 23FOR KERRY: 77TaxesPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 5FOR BUSH: 57FOR KERRY: 43EducationPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 4FOR BUSH: 26FOR KERRY: 73WAR WITH IRAQApprove of decision to go to war with IraqPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 51FOR BUSH: 85FOR KERRY: 14DisapprovePERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 45FOR BUSH: 12FOR KERRY: 87War with Iraq has improved long-term security of U.S.PERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 46FOR BUSH: 90FOR KERRY: 10Has notPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 52FOR BUSH: 19FOR KERRY: 80THE STATE OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMY ISExcellent/goodPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 47FOR BUSH: 87FOR KERRY: 13Not so good/poorPERCENTAGE OF VOTERS: 52FOR BUSH: 20FOR KERRY: 79(Source by Edison/Mitofsky nationwide surveys of voters leaving the polls on Tuesday. Those who voted for other candidates or had other answers are not shown.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); TRENDS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); TERRORISM (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Results; Public Opinion; Ethics; Social Conditions and Trends; Religion and Churches; Christians and Christianity ; Conservatism (US Politics); Evangelism; Presidential Election of 2004; Jews; Terrorism; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Voter Behavior; United States Armament and Defense; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); AL GORE (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Katharine Q Seelye; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



76 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: The Next President Bush

 BODY:
President George W. Bush has put to rest all the ghosts of his father's one-term administration. He won a solid re-election victory on Tuesday night. The country remains, of course, divided. It is the point of a national election to illuminate divisions -- these days in stark blue and red. The 49 percent of the voting public who wanted a different outcome are disappointed, and in some cases crushed and frightened about the future of the country. Their first job is to accept the will of the majority. Then it will be time for everyone -- Mr. Bush, the victorious Republicans and the people who opposed them -- to decide what to do next. 
 Mr. Bush can either try for four years of the same, or look to his place in history. Yesterday, he offered at least some hope that he was choosing the higher road. ''A new term is a new opportunity to reach out to the whole nation,'' he told the Kerry voters. Experience suggests that these conversions are short-lived. Four years ago, according to Vice President Dick Cheney, when Mr. Bush lost the popular vote and seemed to be in a position where consensus-seeking was a given, White House officials thought about taking a compromise centrist route for ''about 30 seconds'' before grabbing their old partisan agenda and running with it. In his speech yesterday, Mr. Cheney stressed the president's mandate. Given the way Mr. Cheney behaved during the first term, it's unnerving to imagine what he may have in mind now. 
 Obviously, the losers in this election are going to be far more eager to see Mr. Bush take a different, more moderate route this time than the winners -- especially the triumphalist Congressional Republican leaders. But there's a yearning out there, in red states as well as blue, for a government that works better and with less partisanship. Many of the voters who support Mr. Bush are just as unhappy about economic uncertainties, lost jobs and the number of people who have no health insurance as the people who voted for Mr. Kerry. Vast majorities of Americans want to keep the federal deficit under control, make Social Security financially sound, protect benefits like Medicare and Medicaid, and be sure that there's adequate spending on homeland security. 
 Mr. Bush can address that national yearning -- and leave a magnificent legacy to the country -- but such an effort will require bipartisan action. Except for his education initiative, the president's domestic agenda thus far has been the product of the Republicans alone, and it has been a mess that has made nobody very happy. Tax cuts are easy to pass, even irresponsible ones. But spending cuts are not, and the president's own party refused to make them happen. Instead, Republican leaders bought the passage of the bills they needed by piling on masses of unnecessary, irresponsible pork. A truly heavy political lift, like fixing Medicare or restraining the deficit, requires national attention and the kind of political support that can come only if both parties feel they have something to gain from success.
 For Mr. Bush's opponents, one of the great disappointments of this election was the fact that the war in Iraq had little impact on the outcome. The nation is worried about whether the Iraq conflict is going well, but many of the people who wonder whether the president made the wrong choices on that had other interests when they went to the polls: a preference for the president's personality, memories of 9/11 and concern over social issues like gay marriage. While Iraq did not in the end hurt the president's re-election campaign, it has not gone away. Although members of his team campaigned as if Iraq was going very well indeed, they know better. Finding a way out of the morass in Iraq must be the work of all Americans, and on this issue, the president has a real obligation to reach out to the other party. While Democrats may be quietly hoping that Mr. Bush runs into so many problems in the new term that the country will turn back to them in the next election, no partisans are so eager for political gain that they want to see Iraq plunged into an inferno of civil war and terrorism. 
 Tuesday's vote came as a particular shock in places like Europe, where much of the population simply couldn't conceive that people would want to keep Mr. Bush in power. In Britain, Prime Minister Tony Blair made two important points to America's angry allies when he spoke about the results. One was that this is the right time for Mr. Bush to reach out to America's traditional allies -- and time for the rest of the world to accept that he will be around for the next four years and must be dealt with as the American people's choice. The other is that the critical goal of stability in the Arab world will never be achieved unless the United States throws itself back into the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians. Mr. Blair is one Bush supporter who deserves all the election rewards he can get, and this is the one he's desperate for.
 For many anti-Bush voters, the wounds of this rancorous campaign will be raw for a long time, and the idea of joining hands with the president will be a nonstarter. And 49 percent of the public expects those in the loyal opposition to continue taking principled stands against the administration. The challenge for them will be to pick their fights wisely.
 To us, the central domestic issue of the next term will be the Supreme Court, and Mr. Bush's nomination to replace the seriously ailing Chief Justice William Rehnquist. The president could pick a respected jurist of centrist temperament with a genuine belief in judicial restraint, or he could pick someone in the ultra-extreme school of Justice Antonin Scalia. Mr. Bush's social conservative base will be pressing in one direction, and will no doubt remind him that the election turned heavily on social issues, particularly opposition to abortion and gay marriage.
 The evidence in the polling data that these social issues were crucial to Mr. Bush's win -- and that the bulk of those infrequent voters who stood in line for hours to vote were evangelicals, not people against the war -- is pretty inescapable. But we were struck by the broad majority of voters who told pollsters that they favored a middle approach on these issues: providing gay couples with the right to have some kind of civil unions, and guaranteeing women the right to legal abortions in most, if not all, cases. This page will never give up our commitment to women's right to reproductive choice, as well as full civil rights for people of all sexual orientations. But a leader who was prepared to make political sacrifices in order to stake a claim to that middle ground could be laying the foundation for a new national consensus that might finally bring the nation's social wars to an end.
 Mr. Bush could be that leader. He could be the uniter he promised to be, then failed to become, four years ago. He could put an end to a period in national history when too many people go to the polls on Election Day convinced that victory for the other side would mean disaster for the nation. A lot of voters felt that way on Tuesday, and now Mr. Bush has the chance to show them they were wrong. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (79%); LAYOFFS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); MEDICAID (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); MEDICARE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); NATIONAL DEBT (62%); TAX LAW (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Editorials; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2000; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); DICK CHENEY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



77 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE ELECTORATE -- THE MOOD OF THE ELECTORATE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: War? Jobs? No, Character Counted Most to Voters

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE and JOHN M. BRODER; Reporting for this article was contributed by Ralph Blumenthal from Austin, Tex.; Diane Cardwell from St. Louis; Monica Davey from Chanhassen, Minn.; Rick Lyman from Milwaukee and Matthew L. Wald from Bethlehem, Pa.

DATELINE: UPPER ARLINGTON, Ohio, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
Some voters made their decision to send President Bush back to the White House because they were concerned about terrorism, others because they feared changing leaders in a time of war. For some, it was opposition to same-sex marriage or abortion.
 But at heart, many Americans who made up Mr. Bush's majority said they voted not on one issue or another, but out of a less tangible sense of values. Despite misgivings about the war or unease about the economy, they said, it was Mr. Bush, not Senator John Kerry, who shared their beliefs and understood their way of life.
 In interviews around the country, people returned frequently to words like faith, family, integrity and trust. Experts will gnaw for years on the question of why Mr. Bush won and Mr. Kerry lost. But the voices of American voters the day after the election fairly shouted that the outcome was not about electoral tactics or issues, but about a fundamental question of character. 
 ''The first thing that drew me to Bush was his morals and his character,'' said Nancy Wallace, 44, a homemaker here in this tidy suburb of Columbus. 
 Mrs. Wallace grew up in a family of Democratic union members and coal miners but abandoned the Democrats two decades ago, or, as she put it, they abandoned her. She voted for Mr. Bush in 2000, she said, and never wavered in her support in the dark days that followed: Sept. 11, a recession that hit Ohio especially hard, the war in Iraq.
 ''There was never really a choice for us,'' Mrs. Wallace said. ''And I'm speaking not only for me but for my husband and neighbors. He's just an honest, hard-working, good man who had a tragedy to deal with and I think he did a great job.''
 Many of those who voted for Mr. Bush said they often disagreed with his actions. Some opposed the war in Iraq, disapproved of his handling of the economy, differed on stem-cell research or abortion. Several said they feared he would appoint Supreme Court justices who are too far to the right.
 But even when they disagreed with Mr. Bush, they said, they admired his resolution, a trait Mr. Kerry portrayed as stubbornness. 
 ''Bush doesn't let polls influence him,'' said Sandy Johnson, 45, who had just finished listening to Mr. Bush's victory speech on the radio in her home office in Carver County, Minn., which went overwhelmingly for Mr. Bush. ''Even when he makes decisions that may not be popular, even on security, he does it in the best interest of the country and he does what he thinks is right. So in a way, all of that comes down to integrity.''
 Ms. Johnson said she grew tired of the accusations that Mr. Kerry had ''flip-flopped.'' Still, she said, ''I came away from this thinking that Kerry lacked integrity. I wasn't sure what he believed. He needs to be everything to everybody around the world. You cannot say that about Bush, even if you don't agree with him.''
 She described an American cultural divide in a deeply personal way.
 ''I have been made to feel by the liberal people that my faith makes me weird,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''I don't wear my religion on my sleeve either; I'm quiet about it. But I firmly believe that my country was founded on faith, and when I saw the popular vote this time, it made me feel like I'm not such an outsider, that there are others like me, and a lot of them.''
 In much of the country, Mr. Kerry could not escape being viewed as a Northeastern liberal.
 ''Most of the country is just much more mainstream,'' said Alan Miller, 38, who was buying candy at a stall in the North Market in Columbus with his son, Ethan, who was celebrating his third birthday. ''He didn't reach people with core values -- family, being in the community, helping out.''
 Douglas Allen, who watched Mr. Kerry's concession speech on television at his office in Minnetonka, Minn., said Mr. Bush appealed to Republicans in a visceral way because he came off not as a politician, but as a regular person.
 ''We trust this president, and we like him personally,'' Mr. Allen, 38, said. ''He's the most straightforward person in politics. You know he means what he says, and that matters.''
 Several Bush voters said that with the photographs of Mr. Kerry skiing or windsurfing, the senator came off as elitist -- and if he seemed alien, his outspoken, Mozambique-born wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, seemed even more so. 
 ''She had a different upbringing than Laura Bush,'' Fran Toussaint, 43, said, not approvingly, as she shopped for cards at the North Market. ''You get the feeling Laura Bush relates to the common people.''
 Ray Perrenoud, a computer technician who lives in St. Peters, a suburb of St. Louis, turned to the adage about not changing horses in midstream to explain his vote for the president. Mr. Perrenoud dismissed the notion that the election had torn the country apart.
 ''We're always divided,'' he said. ''People are interested in jobs, and so people are more self-centered and, like I said, think highly of themselves and less of everybody else and pretty much we've always been that way, let's face it. If it hasn't been North and South, it's been East and West or upstate-downstate. So it hasn't changed and it won't.''
 And for all the talk of passion on both sides, not every vote came with unbridled enthusiasm.
 Shannon Bangle, 31, a lawyer in Austin, Tex., said that he thought Mr. Bush falsely linked the war in Iraq to the terrorist attacks of 2001 and that Republican support for a federal constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage was ''ridiculous.''
 ''The bottom line is I like Bush better as a person,'' Mr. Bangle said. ''The president knows his strength. Visceral is a good word. At the end of the day, I have a strong sense of connection with this president.''
 In Birchwood, Wis., a small town that split 49.8 percent for Mr. Bush and 49.2 percent for Mr. Kerry, Morris Gillett backed the president. But he was not too enthusiastic about it.
 ''Good Lord of mercy,'' Mr. Gillett said. ''To me, this was the worst campaign ever. I'm 80 and I've been through a lot of elections and this is the worst campaign that I've ever experienced. People talking about each other. Negative. To me, they were both talking down to the citizens.''
 His biggest concern with Mr. Bush is the war in Iraq.
 ''I almost did not vote for George Bush because he started that war in Iraq, and that was a terrible mistake,'' Mr. Gillett said. ''But then I figured, now that we're in it, we'd better stay with him.''
 To some Kerry voters, there was solace in that notion that Mr. Bush would have to be the one to deal with Iraq. ''I'd like to see him finish what he started,'' said Jason Whittaker, 27, a medical sales representative near Bethlehem in Pennsylvania, a state Mr. Kerry won.
 But many Bush voters could not comprehend why Americans would not automatically support any president in wartime or the Kerry supporters' anger at the president.
 ''I couldn't understand why other people around the world would hate Bush,'' said Sandi Hadley, 55, browsing the market in Columbus. ''He's patriotic, and I like that because I'm like that.''
 Mrs. Hadley said she supported Mr. Bush primarily because she is an evangelical Christian and admires his religious beliefs. Her son was in the Marines, she said, and she feels a responsibility to support the war.
 ''I don't like to see our guys getting killed,'' Mrs. Hadley said. ''I feel so sorry for mothers whose children are over there. But I feel like we needed to be there, we needed to stop terrorism.''
 Her husband Gene, 79, cut in. ''People say George Bush is a cowboy,'' Mr. Hadley said. ''Well, what's a cowboy but a guy in a white hat, getting things done for the downtrodden? People say he shoots quick. Well, listen, sometimes you have to do that, you have to be decisive. Kerry never projected that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan Miller, with his son in Columbus, Ohio, said Senator John Kerry did not share ''core values.'' (Photo by Greg Sailor for The New York Times)(pg. P1)
 GENE AND SANDI HADLEY -- The couple from Ohio voted for the president. ''People say George Bush is a cowboy,'' he said. ''Well, what's a cowboy but a guy in a white hat, getting things done for the downtrodden?'' (Photo by Greg Sailor for The New York Times)(pg. P4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BIOETHICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); FAMILY (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (57%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (57%); COAL MINING (51%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Election Issues; Christians and Christianity; Conservatism (US Politics); Voter Behavior; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Kate Zernike; John M Broder; Nancy (Columbus, Ohio) Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



78 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: AUTOS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: After the Voting: What May Lie Ahead for Business in America

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 3 

 BODY:

Taxes and Health Costs Top Detroit's Wish List
 Even though Michigan was one of the rare blue states between the coasts, many executives of the Detroit automakers were privately wary of Senator John Kerry because he was recently a co-sponsor of an ambitious Senate proposal to increase fuel economy standards substantially. 
 ''Kerry's past projections on fuel economy were scary,'' said an executive from one of the Big Three Detroit automakers, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Mr. Kerry's proposal, also sponsored by Senator John McCain, was bitterly opposed by the industry and handily defeated in the Senate in 2002. 
 ''We need somebody that's willing to work with us,'' the executive added. ''Clinton was great to work with, he was a Democrat. Bush has been a good president to work with. Whoever gets in office, they realize we're a huge part of the economy, creating jobs, and as a politician you don't want to hamper the job producers.''
 The Bush administration has close ties to the industry -- Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, served as G.M.'s top lobbyist in the 1990's. 
 Top items on the auto industry's wish list in the second term of the Bush administration will be renewing tax credits for advanced-technology vehicles, including hybrid cars, and relief on soaring health care costs, which have been a crippling competitive burden for domestic automakers. Automakers based in Japan and Germany do not have a similar burden of health care spending on retirees. 
 From the standpoint of showroom traffic, executives and industry sales analysts saw the election as a distraction that was good to put behind them. 
 ''We always like to remove the uncertainty in the marketplace,'' said Paul Ballew, G.M.'s top industry sales analyst. ''Having said that, even with this election bubbling along, sales have held up pretty well.''
 Gary Dilts, the top sales analyst at Chrysler, said, ''the guys on the showroom floor think this has been a negative distraction.'' DANNY HAKIM


GRAPHIC: Photos: The re-election of President Bush will have an effect on many segments of American industry, from automakers to military contractors, that may last beyond the next four years. The oil industry may get administration help opening new areas for exploration
the telecommunications industry may be in line for deregulation. Wall Street can probably count on a continuation of tax cuts, and drug makers are likely to be safe from price regulation. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker/Bloomberg News)
(Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
(Photo by Jeff Roberson/Associated Press)
(Photo by Maurice McDonald/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
(Photo by Richard Drew/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); LOBBYING (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%) Automobiles; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Taxation; Tax Credits; Health Insurance; Energy Efficiency

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



79 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: WALL STREET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: After the Voting: What May Lie Ahead for Business in America

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS JR.

 BODY:

For Corporations, Their Kind of Guy
 For Wall Street firms, a second Bush term represents a lush dividend on the millions that their chief executives began raising for the president in the early days of his first term. Led by Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch, executives on the Street embraced the supply-side policies of President Bush -- underscored by sweeping cuts in capital gains and dividend taxes -- that brought the most pro-Wall Street moves since Ronald Reagan began cutting taxes in 1981.
 Expectations are rife that the president's economic platform will be even better for business in his second term as he pushes for such initiatives as private Social Security accounts and continued emphasis on lower taxes. 
 ''Sure there is a quid pro quo,'' said Mallory Factor, a merchant banker and fund-raiser for the president. ''It's a pro-growth economy, lower taxes and less regulation. The market's reaction speaks for itself.''
 Wall Street's full-throated support for President Bush comes despite a certain coolness that the president has had for the Street. He is the first Republican president since Dwight D. Eisenhower not to have a Treasury secretary with a Wall Street pedigree, and in public speeches he has been quick to blame the excesses of the stock market boom and bust for the mini-recession he inherited in his first term. 
 Wall Street has remained a vigorous backer all the same. Four out of the top contributors to the president's campaign hail from Wall Street -- Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch, UBS and Goldman raised close to $2 million among them.
 But analysts warn that Mr. Bush's market-friendly tax policies will do little to lift Wall Street profits if fears of a growing budget deficit result in a sustained rise in interest rates. That, in turn, could result in lower earnings for Wall Street firms as the long bull market in bonds finally recedes. Wall Street firms have made billions in trading bonds since the collapse of the stock market in 2001.
 For the time being, though, Wall Street firms are mostly applauding a second term; they expect that the temporary cuts in the capital gains and dividend taxes of Mr. Bush's first term will now be made permanent. Analysts also foresee merger and acquisition activity to be more robust under Mr. Bush than it would have been under John Kerry, given the Bush administration's tendency not to interfere with large corporate mergers.
 ''There is a relief that this is over,'' said Frank Fernandez, the chief economist for the Securities Industry Association, the industry lobby. ''This administration has a good track record on pro-investment policies. We know where they stand.'' LANDON THOMAS JR.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); MERGERS (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); RECESSION (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MERCHANT BANKING (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); DIVESTITURES (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); INTEREST RATES (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Election Issues ; Taxation; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Stocks and Bonds; Capital Gains Tax; Presidential Election of 2004; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Landon Jr Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



80 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: ELECTION HIGHLIGHTS

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
Challenges Ahead
As President Bush celebrated his re-election he faced ballooning deficits, record borrowing and the challenge of paying for the war in Iraq -- while making his tax cuts permanent and saving Social Security. Page C1.

AMENDMENTS
Bans on Gay Marriage
Proposed state constitutional amendments to ban same-sex marriage, approved in all 11 states where they were on the ballot Tuesday, lifted the turnout of socially conservative voters that helped win President Bush his popular-vote majority, his supporters say. Page P4.

THE REPUBLICANS
High Hopes for New Term
As they exulted in victory, conservatives turned their attention to their long-held goals of giving individuals control over investments in their Social Security accounts, banning same-sex marriage, remaking the Supreme Court, and overturning decisions on abortion rights. Page P1.

NEW YORK
Senators Job Hunting?
At least one of John Kerry's loyal foot soldiers has a brighter political future thanks to his loss: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has shot to the front ranks of contenders for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008. But New York's senior senator, Charles E. Schumer, who finds himself a member of a shrinking Democratic minority, could well be tempted to run for governor in two years rather than spend several more years in opposition. Page P9.

CALIFORNIA
Yes to Stem Cell Research
In California, voters approved a $3 billion research effort involving human embryonic stem cells, the largest state-run scientific research effort in the country. The measure was supported by the Republican governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, who broke ranks with President Bush and the California Republican Party on the contentious issue. The Bush administration has placed restrictions on using federal money for such research. Page P10.

DEMOCRATS
The Recriminations Begin
Democrats immediately began turning to the fight that some in the party fear they wage most consistently: with one another. Politicians and operatives said the defeat of Senator John Kerry and the loss of seats in the House and the Senate were likely to fan internal debate over everything from overarching ideology to on-the-ground tactics to the qualities to look for in a candidate. ''You always take stock after a loss like this, and it was a big disappointment,'' said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri. Page P8.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page summary of election highlights yesterday misstated the outcome of voting on state constitutional amendments in some copies. All 11 proposed bans on same-sex marriage were approved, not defeated.


GRAPHIC: PhotosGraph tracks the federal budget balance, in billions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); TAX LAW (77%); ABORTION (77%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (70%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



81 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: A LOOK BACK -- NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: An Electoral Affirmation of Shared Values

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
It was not a landslide, or a re-alignment, or even a seismic shock. But it was decisive, and it is impossible to read President Bush's re-election with larger Republican majorities in both houses of Congress as anything other than the clearest confirmation yet that this is a center-right country -- divided yes, but with an undisputed majority united behind his leadership.
 Surveys of voters leaving the polls found that a majority believed the national economy was not so good, that tax cuts had done nothing to help it and that the war in Iraq had jeopardized national security. But fully one-fifth of voters said they cared most about ''moral values'' -- as many as cared about terrorism and the economy -- and 8 in 10 of them chose Mr. Bush.
 In other words, while Mr. Bush remains a polarizing figure on both coasts and in big cities, he has proved himself a galvanizing one in the broad geographic and political center of the country. He increased his share of the vote among women, Hispanics, older voters and even city dwellers significantly from 2000, made slight gains among Catholics and Jews and turned what was then a 500,000-popular-vote defeat into a 3.6 million-popular-vote victory on Tuesday. 
 The president's chief strategist, Matthew Dowd, released a memorandum yesterday noting that Mr. Bush had become the first incumbent Republican president to win a presidential race with majorities in the House and Senate since Calvin Coolidge in 1924, and the first president of either party since Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1936 to be re-elected while gaining seats in both houses.
 ''I think that there's a great deal of evidence that the American people support this president,'' said Ralph Reed, the former Christian Coalition leader who was Southeast regional coordinator of the Bush campaign this year. ''There is a wide swath of voters, not just in the South but in the heartland of the country, that no longer feels that the Democratic Party speaks for them or their values, and that is a serious impediment to the Democrats in a campaign like we have just been through.''
 From state capitals to Capitol Hill, the Republicans made gains on Tuesday. Eleven state ballot initiatives to ban same-sex marriage passed easily, even in laid-back, live-and-let-live Oregon, and apparently inspired turnout that helped Mr. Bush. William J. Bennett, the former education secretary who has crusaded for moral values, noted in National Review Online that it was Ohio, which may well have lost more jobs under Mr. Bush than any other state, that gave him his electoral vote victory.
 The former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who led the charge that produced a Republican Congress 10 years ago this month, said: ''I think all of the major themes of this president fit very much into the concept of a center-right governing majority. If you think about John Kerry goose-hunter, and John Kerry altar boy and John Kerry defender of America, he understood at some pretty profound level that you could not move out of the center-right and win.''
 Mr. Gingrich added of Mr. Kerry: ''Look, I think he did the best he could. I think he actually overperformed his natural vote by four or five percentage points. You have to give him some real credit.''
 All along, Mr. Bush's political guru, Karl Rove, had argued that if Mr. Bush could turn out millions of conservatives and evangelical Christians who stayed home four years ago, he could win, aided also by population shifts that added electoral votes to the Sun Belt states in which the president ran strong both times.
 Vice President Dick Cheney, as he introduced Mr. Bush at a victory rally in Washington yesterday afternoon, said that his boss had already had ''a consequential presidency,'' and that voters had been inspired by his ''clear agenda.'' 
 The biggest questions now may be about just what parts of that agenda Mr. Bush will choose to pursue, and just how many fights he will take on with either his liberal opponents or his conservative supporters. 
 Will Mr. Bush move to create private investment accounts for Social Security, a move that would follow through on an idea he first broached four years ago, gratify free-market ideologues but discomfit fiscal conservatives worried about how he would pay for them and practical politicians fearful of simply touching such a hot issue? Will he pick confirmation fights over anti-abortion judges, or press for a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage? Or neither? Or both?
 Yesterday, Mr. Bush sounded a conciliatory note. ''A new term is a new opportunity to reach out to the whole nation,'' he said. ''We have one country, one Constitution, and one future that binds us.'' Mr. Cheney's daughter Mary and her longtime partner, Heather Poe, appeared together at the victory rally. 
 The power of second-term presidents tends to dissipate quickly and Mr. Bush's will be limited at the outset because he will still be five Republican votes shy of the 60 needed in the Senate to stop a Democratic filibuster.
 Senator Arlen Specter, the moderate Pennsylvania Republican expected to head the Judiciary Committee, warned Mr. Bush yesterday against nominating judges ''who would change the right of a woman to choose, overturn Roe v. Wade.''
 James A. Thurber, director of the Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at American University, said that for all the Republican gains, ''the other story is that the nation is deadlocked, especially in the Senate, over what the most important issues are and how we deal with them.'' 
 But Grover Norquist, president of the conservative group Americans for Tax Reform, said that the Republican Party was no longer what it was 25 or 30 years ago, ''a collection of people running on their own.'' Instead, Mr. Norquist said, ''there is a coherent vision, and to a large extent voters can tell that Republicans are not going to raise their taxes, are for tort reform, are for free trade.'' 
 He said that without the drag of the war in Iraq, Mr. Bush would probably have rolled up a bigger majority.
 As it is, Mr. Bush became the first presidential candidate to win more than 50 percent of the popular vote since his father did so in 1988, and he received a higher percentage of the popular vote than any Democratic candidate since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964.
 All those are daunting numbers for the Democrats. Early in his campaign, Mr. Kerry drew fire for musing aloud that the Democrats could win the White House without the South. 
 Yet for all of their hope that the Southwest could be their new ticket, Democrats were left with the fact that in the past 28 years, only Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton among their ranks have made it, and both had Southern and evangelical support. Mr. Kerry, a lifelong Roman Catholic, often struggled this year to speak of his faith in public.
 ''Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter got elected because they were comfortable with their faith,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, a former Clinton aide. ''What happened was that a part of the electorate came open to what Clinton and Carter had to say on everything else -- health care, the environment, whatever -- because they were very comfortable that Clinton and Carter did not disdain the way these people lived their lives, but respected them.''
 He added: ''We need a nominee and a party that is comfortable with faith and values. And if we have one, then all the hard work we've done on Social Security or America's place in the world or college education can be heard. But people aren't going to hear what we say until they know that we don't approach them as Margaret Mead would an anthropological experiment.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Thursday about the re-election of President Bush and a front-page news analysis article that day referred incorrectly in some copies to the 1924 election of Calvin Coolidge, who, like Mr. Bush, won with a Republican majority in both houses. He became president in 1923 upon the death of President Warren G. Harding. Thus he was elected, not re-elected. The article also misstated the performance of the Republican Party in congressional elections that year. It did not gain seats; while it maintained its majority, it lost strength in both House and Senate. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, Bush supporters in Washington waiting for a concession speech at an election party early yesterday. Right, Senator John Kerry's New York headquarters when the speech came. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. P6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); RELIGION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); REFERENDUMS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); BALLOTS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); ETHICS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); TERRORISM (54%); MARRIAGE (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2000; Women; Jews; Hispanic-Americans; Age, Chronological; Urban Areas; Ethics; Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); AL GORE (57%) Todd S Purdum; George W (Pres) Bush; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



82 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE PRESIDENCY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: President Bush's Victory Speech: 'We Are Entering a Season of Hope'

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's victory speech yesterday in Washington, as recorded by The New York Times:
 Thank you all for coming. We had a long night and a great night. The voters turned out in record numbers and delivered an historic victory. 
 Earlier today, Senator Kerry called with his congratulations. We had a really good phone call. He was very gracious. Senator Kerry waged a spirited campaign, and he and his supporters can be proud of their efforts. Laura and I wish Senator Kerry and Teresa and their whole family all our best wishes. 
 America has spoken, and I'm humbled by the trust and the confidence of my fellow citizens. With that trust comes a duty to serve all Americans, and I will do my best to fulfill that duty every day as your president. 
 There are many people to thank, and my family comes first. Laura is the love of my life. I'm glad you love her, too. 
 I want to thank our daughters, who joined their dad for his last campaign. I appreciate the hard work of my sister and my brothers. I especially want to thank my parents for their loving support.
 I'm grateful to the vice president and Lynne and their daughters, who have worked so hard and been such a vital part of our team. The vice president serves America with wisdom and honor, and I'm proud to serve beside him.
 I want to thank my superb campaign team. I want to thank you all for your hard work. I was impressed every day by how hard and how skillful our team was. I want to thank Marc -- chairman Marc Racicot; the campaign manager, Ken Mehlman; the architect, Karl Rove. I want to thank Ed Gillespie for leading our party so well. 
 I want to thank the thousands of our supporters across our country. I want to thank you for your hugs on the rope lines. I want to thank you for your prayers on the rope lines. I want to thank you for your kind words on the rope lines. I want to thank you for everything you did to make the calls and to put up the signs, to talk to your neighbors and to get out the vote. And because you did the incredible work, we are celebrating today. 
 There's an old saying: Do not pray for tasks equal to your powers; pray for powers equal to your tasks. In four historic years, America has been given great tasks and faced them with strength and courage. Our people have restored the vigor of this economy and shown resolve and patience in a new kind of war. Our military has brought justice to the enemy and honor to America. Our nation has defended itself and served the freedom of all mankind. I'm proud to lead such an amazing country, and I'm proud to lead it forward.
 Because we have done the hard work, we are entering a season of hope. We will continue our economic progress. We'll reform our outdated tax code. We'll strengthen the Social Security for the next generation. We will make public schools all they can be, and we will uphold our deepest values of family and faith. We will help the emerging democracies of Iraq and Afghanistan so they can grow in strength and defend their freedom. And then our servicemen and women will come home with the honor they have earned. With good allies at our side, we will fight this war on terror with every resource of our national power so our children can live in freedom and in peace.
 Reaching these goals will require the broad support of Americans. So today I want to speak to every person who voted for my opponent. To make this nation stronger and better, I will need your support, and I will work to earn it. I will do all I can do to deserve your trust. A new term is a new opportunity to reach out to the whole nation. We have one country, one Constitution and one future that binds us. And when we come together and work together, there is no limit to the greatness of America.
 Let me close with a word to the people of the state of Texas. We have known each other the longest, and you started me on this journey. On the open plains of Texas I first learned the character of our country: sturdy and honest and as hopeful as the break of day. I will always be grateful to the good people of my state, and whatever the road that lies ahead, that road will take me home. 
 A campaign is ended, and the United States of America goes forward with confidence and faith. I see a great day coming for our country, and I am eager for the work ahead. God bless you, and may God bless America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KARL ROVE (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



83 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: A LOOK AHEAD -- CABINET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Who Comes, Who Goes, Who Stays in a New Bush Council

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Eric Schmitt, Thom Shanker, Douglas Jehl and David Johnston contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
President Bush's re-election produced a scramble that administration officials said Wednesday could reshape the cabinet, with Attorney General John Ashcroft and the secretary of Homeland Security, Tom Ridge, considered the most likely to relinquish their posts. 
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell has long been described by many people working with him as likely to leave office after tiring of the battles he has waged with administration hardliners. Associates of Mr. Powell said Wednesday, however, that they could not be sure that he would do so after all, especially if he feels that he can make progress on securing Iraq and holding elections there after the first of the year. 
 A top aide to the secretary said that Mr. Powell had not given any indication that he was ready to resign before discussing his future with President Bush.
 ''I don't see him in a hurry to settle it, or to make himself the decision-maker,'' said the aide, adding that Mr. Powell's discussion on his future with the president ''will be amicable and mutual'' and that ''they'll decide together, and that may not be soon.''
 If Mr. Powell were to resign -- there has been speculation that he would return to private life or accept the presidency of the World Bank -- the names circulating in the administration as most likely successors are Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, and former Senator John F. Danforth, who is now United Nations ambassador.
 Associates of Ms. Rice say, on the other hand, that she would be more interested in the job of Defense Secretary than Secretary of State. People who work with Ms. Rice say, for example, that attending diplomatic functions and ceremonies and meeting with visiting diplomats are one of the least favorite aspects of her job.
 At the Pentagon, meanwhile, some working with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld say he is interested in staying in the job in order to complete some of his changes, including the redeployment of troops around the world, transforming the military to make it more flexible, and training an Iraqi security force.
 Ms. Rice has told some associates that she does not wish to stay on as national security adviser and has speculated among friends about returning to the academic field, perhaps serving as president of a university.
 If she leaves the White House post, among the aspirants being discussed within the administration would be Stephen J. Hadley, her deputy, and Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy defense secretary, who was an early advocate of invading Iraq. But Mr. Wolfowitz has been a target of criticism because of the failure to find major unconventional weapons in Iraq.
 Associates say personal reasons are factors in the likely departure of Mr. Ashcroft as head of the Justice Department and of Mr. Ridge from the Homeland Security Department.
 The attorney general, who has turned the Justice Department into an important weapon in the campaign against terror, is said by some associates to be interested in returning to Missouri, his home state, which he served as both governor and United States senator. Mr. Ashcroft had gallbladder surgery in March.
 Mr. Ridge has struggled to build a new cabinet agency from a disparate collection of federal departments, ranging from law enforcement to immigration to transportation. Aides say he seems ready to move on, but some say he may be willing to accept another job, like defense or secretary of state.
 At the Central Intelligence Agency, officials say the new director, Porter J. Goss, is expected to begin soon to make what could be sweeping personnel changes now that he is assured of his own job. Mr. Goss, a former Republican congressman from Florida, had been expected to resign if Senator John Kerry had become president.
 Among the jobs to be filled is the No.3 post of executive director, overseeing day-to-day management of the agency. The post has been vacant since Mr. Goss ousted A.B. Krongard in October. Mr. Goss's first choice had been a former House aide, Michael V. Kostiw, but he had to withdraw after questions were raised about the circumstances under which he resigned from the agency in the 1982. The Washington Post reported that Mr. Kostiw left after being put on administrative leave in connection with a shoplifting case. It is too early even to speculate about what will happen to the cadre of conservative policy makers who have held key positions at the Defense and State Departments and at the White House, several officials said.
 Some were said to be angling for more powerful jobs in a second term. John R. Bolton, under secretary of state for arms control and international security, and an architect of the administration's tough policies on the nuclear programs of Iran and North Korea, is being pushed by supporters for a more senior position in a second Bush term. Conservatives say they would like Mr. Bolton to be considered for such jobs as national security adviser, deputy secretary of state and United Nations ambassador. The current deputy secretary of state, Richard L. Armitage, is considered by State Department officials as likely to leave if Mr. Powell departs.
 Mr. Powell told his senior staff Wednesday morning that he and the department had a ''full agenda'' in coming weeks and urged aides to work hard on it. President Bush is scheduled to attend a summit meeting in Chile later this month to discuss Asian-Pacific issues, particularly North Korea. In addition the secretary is to travel to Europe for meetings of the European Union and NATO, and to the Middle East to discuss the future of democracy in the region and the future security of Iraq.
 ''He gave no indication that he's not planning on being here for all the events immediately facing us,'' said a State Department official.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, center, and Paul D. Wolfowitz, right, deputy defense secretary, awaiting the president's speech yesterday.
 Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld at the rally yesterday. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); POLITICS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); TERRORISM (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); ARMED FORCES (61%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%) United States Politics and Government; United States Armament and Defense; United States Politics and Government; Cabinets and Sub-Cabinets; United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (91%) Justice Department; Homeland Security Department

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%) Condoleezza Rice; Colin L (Sec) Powell; George W (Pres) Bush; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Tom (Dir) Ridge; John (Atty Gen) Ashcroft; Steven R Weisman; Stephen J Hadley; Paul D (Deputy Sec) Wolfowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



84 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: ISSUES -- CONSERVATIVES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Some Backers of Bush Say They Anticipate a 'Revolution'

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., Nov. 3 

 BODY:
Exulting in their electoral victories, President Bush's conservative supporters immediately turned to staking out mandates for an ambitious agenda of long-cherished goals, including privatizing Social Security, banning same-sex marriage, remaking the Supreme Court and overturning the court's decisions in support of abortion rights.
 ''Now comes the revolution,'' Richard Viguerie, the dean of conservative direct mail, told about a dozen fellow movement stalwarts gathered around a television here, tallying up their Senate seats in the earliest hours of the morning. ''If you don't implement a conservative agenda now, when do you?''
 By midday, however, fights over the spoils had already begun, as conservatives debated the electorate's verdict on the war in Iraq, the Bush administration's spending and the administration's hearty embrace of traditionalist social causes. 
 Conservative Christians, both Protestant and Catholic, were first in line to stake their claims, citing polls showing that a plurality of Bush supporters named ''moral values'' as the most important issue and arguing that a drive to ban same-sex marriage boosted turnout in Ohio. 
 ''Make no mistake -- conservative Christians and 'values voters' won this election for George W. Bush and Republicans in Congress,'' Mr. Viguerie wrote in a memorandum sent to other prominent conservatives. ''It's crucial that the Republican leadership not forget this -- as much as some will try,'' he said, underlining the final clause.
 ''Liberals, many in the media and inside the Republican Party are urging the president to 'unite' the country by discarding the allies that earned him another four years,'' Mr. Viguerie continued. ''They're urging him to discard us conservative Catholics and Protestants, people for whom moral values are the most important issue.''
 Dr. James C. Dobson, the founder of Focus on the Family and an influential evangelical Protestant, said he had issued a warning to a ''White House operative'' who called yesterday morning to thank him for his help.
 Dr. Dobson said he told the caller that many Christians believed the country ''on the verge of self-destruction'' as it abandoned traditional family roles. He argued that ''through prayer and the involvement of millions of evangelicals, and mainline Protestants and Catholics, God has given us a reprieve.''
 ''But I believe it is a short reprieve,'' he continued, adding that conservatives now had four years to pass an amendment banning same-sex marriage, to stop abortion and embryonic stem-cell research, and most of all to remake the Supreme Court. ''I believe that the Bush administration now needs to be more aggressive in pursuing those values, and if they don't do it I believe they will pay a price in four years,'' he said.
 Dr. Dobson and several other Christian conservatives said they believed the expanded Republican majority in the Senate and the defeat of the Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle, put them in striking distance of both amending the constitution to ban same-sex marriage and approving the appointment of enough conservative Supreme Court justices to overturn Roe v. Wade and other abortion rights cases.
 ''I think it is a real possibility,'' said Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, a champion of social conservative causes. In the meantime, he said, he also hoped to pass other measures conservatives had campaigned for this year, including an ''Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act'' requiring some women seeking abortions to be offered anesthesia for their fetuses.
 Austin Ruse, president of the conservative Catholic Culture of Life Foundation, suggested that if Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist steps down, Mr. Bush could begin to repay his social conservative backers by naming Justice Antonin Scalia to replace him. ''We'd love to see Scalia in that spot, and I think we have earned it,'' Mr. Ruse said.
 The strongest argument that Christian conservatives played a decisive role in the election came in Ohio, where a ballot measure to ban same-sex marriage passed by an overwhelming margin. Conservatives said the proposal increased conservative turnout and helped Mr. Bush win a narrow, pivotal victory. 
 Phil Burress, the veteran Christian conservative organizer who headed the effort to pass the measure, said his campaign registered tens of thousands of voters, distributed 2.5 million church bulletin inserts and passed out 20,000 yard signs. His group called 2.9 million homes, he said, identifying 850,000 strong supporters whom it called again on Monday as a reminder to go to the polls.
 ''The president rode our coattails,'' Mr. Burress said.
 Although the Bush campaign courted conservative Christians assiduously, the exact level of their turnout is not yet clear. Surveys of voters leaving the polls showed that ''moral values'' outweighed concerns about the economy or the war with more than 20 percent of the voters -- more than chose any other issue -- and about 80 percent of those voters supported Mr. Bush. But some pollsters cautioned that the multiple-choice format of the questions asked might have influenced the responses.
 Sarah Chamberlain, a spokeswoman for the Republican Main Street Coalition, a group of moderates within the party, argued that high-profile moderates on social issues also played a pivotal role for the campaign in Ohio and elsewhere. Those moderates included Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York and Senator John McCain of Arizona. 
 ''Frankly, he wouldn't have been elected without us either, and the conservatives need to remember that,'' she said.
 ''Social conservatives are a very important part of the base, but they are not enough alone,'' said Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform and a conservative strategist close to the Bush administration, noting that in Illinois, Alan Keyes had taken a drubbing in the race for the Senate after running a vigorously conservative campaign on social issues.
 Mr. Norquist eagerly predicted the accomplishment of a long agenda of government reduction: repealing the estate tax, privatizing Social Security, restricting medical and other liability lawsuits, closing military bases, opening more government jobs to competitive bidding to lower costs and weaken unions, imposing new disclosure requirements on organized labor, and expanding health care and investment savings accounts.
 Most conservatives, however, agreed that among the three arms of the right -- religious traditionalists, opponents of big government and foreign policy hawks -- it was the religious right that pulled the most weight in Mr. Bush's re-election.
 Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, a group that advocates limited government, said the Bush administration's spending had irked many of his members. ''My fear is that Republicans will learn the wrong lesson from this victory and say, hey, we can spend and borrow hundreds of millions of dollars and the voters won't hold us accountable,'' he said. ''There were a lot of conservatives who really had to hold their nose to vote Republican.''
 By all accounts, the war in Iraq only hindered Mr. Bush's re-election, renewing debate among conservatives over its wisdom, especially during the hours on Tuesday when early polls suggested that Mr. Bush might be headed for defeat. ''We need a major national debate on, what kind of foreign policy is this country going to have?'' said Paul Weyrich, founder of the Heritage Foundation and now chairman of the Free Congress Foundation. ''Are we going to continue on the offense, where we make more enemies than we can defeat? Or are we going to return to the traditional foreign policy that we do not attack unless attacked?''
 But some of the intellectual proponents of the war known as neoconservatives called the vote something close to a vindication of Mr. Bush's policy of pre-emptive action against potential sponsors of terrorism. 
 ''The world saw this as a referendum on the Bush doctrine, and I think the world was right,'' said Charles Krauthammer, a neoconservative columnist. 
 Kenneth R. Weinstein, chief operating officer of the neoconservative Hudson Institute, was more cautious ''Certainly,'' he said, ''we have avoided the blood bath in the Republican Party that would have taken place if Mr. Bush had been defeated.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Maps: ''Bush's Support Grows in Counties He Won in 2000''His base from the last election grew in intensity.Map of The United States highlighting point change in Mr. Bush's share of the vote.Areas in white, and Hawaii, voted for Al Gore in 2000. County data not available for Alaska. (pg. P1)Chart/Maps: ''Defying Conventional Wisdom''The idea that increased turnout would benefit Democrats was turned on its head by Tuesday's election.Turnout Surged, Particularly in the Midwest and SouthThe map shows the point change in voter turnout by county from 2000 to 2004.Results as of 2 p.m. Wednesday.Turnout was high in states like South Dakota, Texas, Oklahoma, Ohio, Florida and Kentucky.The turnout rate in Tuesdays election was the highest since 1968.Turnout was measured as a percentage of the voting age population that are citizens. Alaska comparisons were not possible because its election districts were redrawn.Map of The United States highlighting highly contested states and pct. pt. change in voter turnout.Bush's Support Grew Nationwide, and He Took Many States With High TurnoutThe map shows the point change in Bush's share of the vote from 2000 to 2004.Bush increased his share of the vote in 87 percent of counties.LARGEST INCREASEApache County, Ariz.2000 -- 31% for Bush2004 -- 52% for Bush+21 pct. pts.President Bush gained votes in Ohio and Florida with the increase in turnout.Map of The United States highlighting pct. pt. increase and decrease in share of vote.The Large Turnout Did Not Help KerryThe map shows the point change from Gore's share in 2000 to Kerry's share of the vote in 2004.Mr. Kerry did win states with high turnout, like New Hampshire and Wisconsin, but his victories on the coasts did not correlate with high turnout.Mr. Kerry's share of the vote declined in nearly two-thirds of counties.LARGEST INCREASESan Miguel County, Colo.2000 -- 49% for Gore2004 -- 72% for Kerry+23 pct. pts.Map of The United States highlighting pct. pt. increase and decrease in share of vote.Comparing the Bush-Gore and Bush-Kerry ContestsIn 2000, counties that voted . . .STRONG BUSHMore than 70% for Bush2000G: 23%B: 74%2004K: 22%B: 77%MODERATE BUSH55% to 70% for Bush2000G: 36%B: 61%2004K: 35%B: 64%MIXED SUPPORTLess than 55% for both2000G: 48%B: 48%2004K: 48%B: 51%MODERATE GORE55% to 70% for Gore2000G: 61%B: 34%2004K: 62%B: 37%STRONG GOREMore than 70% for Gore2000G: 78%B: 18%2004K: 78%B: 21%(Sources by 2004 results from the Associated Press, except for Alaska from the state's Division of Elections
2000 results from Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
 demographic data and voting age population from the Census Bureau and Queens College Sociology Department)(pg. P11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CONSERVATISM (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ABORTION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); BIOETHICS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); IRAQ WAR (69%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government; Law and Legislation; Conservatism (US Politics); Evangelism; Christians and Christianity ; Presidential Election of 2004; Abortion; Social Security (US); Privatization; Homosexuality; Marriages

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: AL GORE (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; Richard Viguerie; James C (Dr) Dobson; Grover Norquist; Phil Burress; David D Kirkpatrick

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



85 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE SENATE -- THE DEMOCRATS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: A Stunned Party Looks to the Internal Debate Ahead

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
Democrats began turning Wednesday to the fight that some in the party fear they wage most consistently: with one another. 
 Democratic politicians and operatives said the defeat of Senator John Kerry and the loss of seats in the House and the Senate were likely to fan internal debate over everything from overarching ideology to on-the-ground tactics to the qualities to look for in a candidate. 
 The recriminations began even before Mr. Kerry's concession, with leaks to the news media about which Democrats had given what valuable but unheeded advice to him. While condemning any acrimony, several Democratic leaders said the party would benefit from a substantive internal debate. 
 ''You always take stock after a loss like this, and it was a big disappointment,'' said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the longtime House Democratic leader who ran against Mr. Kerry for the presidential nomination, only to see his labor ties fail to bring him the Iowa victory he had hoped would propel his candidacy.
 Mr. Gephardt argued that the Democrats' failure appeared to be more of tactics than of programs -- that Mr. Kerry's proposals were popular but that the Democrats' organization, while impressive, paled beside the Republicans' machine for turning out votes.
 ''They used the infrastructure of gun organizations and religious organizations to get that done,'' he said, ''and we've got to grapple with that.''
 But Senator Bob Graham of Florida, who also sought the presidency but who dropped out before a single primary, said the party had to address some basic positions as well.
 ''We ought to debate what our strategy should be in the war on terrorism,'' Mr. Graham said.
 ''We also ought to have a debate,'' he said, ''on how we can move the debate on values beyond God, guns and gays to tolerance, concern for others, love.''
 The Democratic Party appeared Wednesday to be trying to find God, or at least to find a way to talk about him. Several Democrats said their candidates needed to reach evangelical Christian voters, who on Tuesday overwhelmingly supported President Bush.
 ''Our failure -- or our 'drawback' is a better word -- is, sometimes, to speak to our faith, and to relate to people that we share their faith,'' Mr. Gephardt said. 
 One senior Democratic official suggested that the problem was deeper than communicating.
 ''I do believe there is a cultural shift going on in this country,'' he said, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the delicate nature of the intraparty debate. ''I think the country is becoming more conservative. I think their base is growing.''
 Douglas Sosnik, who was a counselor to President Bill Clinton and who advised Mr. Kerry, said that contrary to the aftermath of the muddled 2000 election results, the Democrats now needed to accept that they had become -- ''no ifs, ands or buts'' -- the opposition party. 
 ''As we go prospectively forward -- to the question of 'now what?' -- to me it's all going to be stuffed through the prism of what does it mean to be an opposition party,'' Mr. Sosnik said. ''And to me, being more effective as an opposition party means being grounded outside the Beltway, through the governors.''
 ''We've got to build the party back up from the ground up,'' he said. ''That's going to require some bloodletting, and a rethinking on substance and style.''
 Some argued that the party needed to embrace policies that would appeal to voters in Southern states and across the country.
 ''We need to put ideas first,'' said Al From, founder of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, which was close to Mr. Clinton. ''Over the last 40 years we've seen the turf that we compete on shrink. We've got to be a national party.''
 Mark Penn, a Democratic pollster from the same centrist faction of the party, said, ''The Democratic Party, in terms of security and values, has to be more competitive with the Republicans, and in that sense the party is going to look for ways to rebrand itself.'' 
 But Representative Jan Schakowsky of Illinois said the problem was the Democrats' communication rather than their traditional platform.
 ''I don't think we need to trim on the social and economic justice principles of the Democratic Party at all,'' Ms. Schakowsky said.
 ''We can do a better job of connecting that with people's lives, not just their economic lives but their spiritual lives as well,'' she said. ''It doesn't have to be in religious terms so much as value-laden terms.''
 She said, for example, that she expected that Mr. Bush would now try to ''privatize'' Social Security, and that the Democrats should respond by emphasizing that they wanted to preserve a ''safety net'' because ''we care for you.''
 Democratic officials seemed stunned by Tuesday's vote. They said they had thought that for once they had the unity, the money, the organization and a weak enough Republican opponent to win the presidency and at least hold their own in the House and the Senate. 
 ''With 120 million people voting, at some point it's got to settle in with us that there are just more of them than there are of us,'' one Democratic operative said of the Republicans, adding, ''My greatest fear now is we're going to turn the guns on each other.''
 Several Democrats noted that the party, in belated imitation of the Republicans, was now building its own infrastructure of policy institutes to generate its positions and messages. John Podesta, the president of one such organization, the Center for American Progress, said he hoped that the party would not become bogged down in its long-running fight over moving left or center. 
 ''There has to be a rearticulation in the party of a sense of core principles that I think people are confused about,'' said Mr. Podesta, who was chief of staff in the Clinton White House.
 In one Senate race, in Republican-leaning Colorado, Ken Salazar, a Democrat who supports abortion rights, managed Tuesday to dispatch the beer magnate Pete Coors. Jim Carpenter, Mr. Salazar's campaign manager, said the candidate, a Roman Catholic, was ''very clear that his faith was very important to him but he disagreed with the church on the issue of abortion.'' He said Mr. Salazar's roots in Colorado as a rancher, his personal success story and his service as state attorney general had earned him voters' trust, insulating him from attacks.
 ''It's difficult,'' Mr. Carpenter said, ''for an East Coast senator to get the trust of the voters out here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Among those attending John Kerry's concession speech in Boston yesterday was his fellow Massachusetts senator, Edward M. Kennedy. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TERRORISM (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Christians and Christianity; Evangelical Movement; Elections; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US); House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); TED KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); BILL CLINTON (59%) James Bennet; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Edward M (Sen) Kennedy; Richard A (Rep) Gephardt

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



86 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: A LOOK AHEAD -- DOMESTIC AGENDA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Bush Pledges a Broad Push Toward Market-Based Policies

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER and RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
Vindicated by Tuesday's elections and with his party strengthened on Capitol Hill, President Bush pledged Wednesday to push a broad domestic agenda for a second term, including overhauling Social Security and rethinking the tax laws.
 At a victory rally here, Mr. Bush declared: ''We will continue our economic progress. We will reform our outdated tax code. We will strengthen Social Security for the next generation.'' 
 ''We will make public schools all they can be, and we will uphold our deepest values of family and faith,'' he said.
 Mr. Bush's allies say they are confident he can now advance his vision of an ''ownership society'' and extend his conservative, market-oriented proposals for health, economic and tax policy. 
 In particular, they said he was ready and eager to tackle what many considered an extraordinarily difficult political task -- transforming Social Security so that younger workers could divert part of the taxes they pay into it to private accounts.
 ''I think you're going to have more willingness on the part of the president to be more aggressive on domestic issues -- Social Security, in particular,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee and frequently campaigned with Mr. Bush in the race's closing weeks.
 Mr. Bush's ''ownership society'' is built on the assumption that giving individuals more responsibility for their financial lives, combined with a greater reliance on the private market, can slow the growth of government, reduce the cost of social welfare programs and modernize programs created in the New Deal and Great Society.
 Advocates of private accounts in Social Security say that they would allow young people to get a better return on their investments. Democrats assert that such proposals would fundamentally undermine Social Security and expose Americans to far more financial risk. They have vowed to fight any ''privatization'' plan. 
 Mindful of the political dangers, many Congressional Republicans have shown little appetite for the issue, particularly when approaching a midterm election.
 But Michael Tanner, director of the Project on Social Security Choice at the Cato Institute and an advocate of such accounts, said the White House was clearly intending a major push. ''People in the White House use the term 'legacy issue,' so I think it's something he's likely to come at very quickly and put some real political capital behind,'' Mr. Tanner said.
 ''This is not going to be easy,'' he said. ''This is the underpinning of the New Deal. There's a lot of emotional attachment to it among Democrats. And then there's the practical difficulties as well.''
 Among those practical difficulties are the costs of moving to such a system, which some analysts estimate could be as much as $2 trillion over 10 years.
 Mr. Bush is also expected to keep pushing the idea of health savings accounts as a way to create savvier consumers who shop around for the best deals in medical care. 
 Republicans say that overhauling the tax code to make it ''simpler and fairer'' and to encourage economic growth is clearly on the agenda, as are new limits on litigation. Representative Tom DeLay, the majority leader, declared in a post-victory speech that it was ''time to start thinking beyond just growing the economy, and about fundamentally strengthening it by ridding our economy of the over-taxation, over-regulation and over-litigation that has hamstrung it for decades.''
 Mr. Bush has been vague about how he will approach rewriting the tax code. Tax reform is appealing in the abstract, but the actual details and tradeoffs can be politically dangerous.
 Almost all of the major ideas being debated -- such as a flat tax -- would involve shifting some of the tax burden from the wealthy to middle-income families. Many Republicans say the current system penalizes people who save or invest their money rather than spend it.
 Mr. Bush, who relied heavily on the support of religious conservatives for his re-election this week, is also likely to push a social agenda in his second term. At the moment, those conservatives are intensely focused on the possibility of vacancies on the Supreme Court, which could potentially shift the balance on issues like abortion.
 The age of the court -- eight of the nine justices are 65 or older -- was underscored by the recent announcement that Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist was suffering from thyroid cancer. 
 A Supreme Court nomination of a strict conservative could throw the president and the Democratic opposition into open warfare. And while such a nomination would please the conservative base, the resulting fight could drain Mr. Bush of the political capital he needs to push ahead with the rest of his agenda.
 ''There will be a big and lengthy challenge over the Supreme Court, unless he pulls a senator out of the hat,'' said Stephen J. Wayne, a presidential scholar at Georgetown University. ''There could be at least three resignations from the court over two years. That will consume a lot of time.''
 In general, social conservatives seemed bullish over the possibilities of the next four years. With the gains on Capitol Hill and Mr. Bush's leadership, said Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, ''Congress will be able to reform the tax code, revisit a constitutional marriage amendment and protect a culture of life.'' 
 Moreover, Mr. Perkins and other conservatives predicted that the defeat of the Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, would send a ''clear message'' to ''those in the Senate who will obstruct pro-family issues and President Bush's judicial nominees.''
 Democrats were clearly chastened by their losses but added that they were not dead yet. ''We are obviously going to pick ourselves back up and move straight ahead,'' said Senator Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota. ''We're going to be a loyal opposition and be assertive and strong.''
 Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House and the principal architect of the Republican majority that took power in 1994, said his party was well positioned to create a new governing conservatism. ''For us, the challenge is pretty straightforward,'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''Can we pile up enough practical, real solutions so that people think we're the natural governing party -- they like our product line better.''
 He named three domestic priorities for Republicans: ''transforming health,'' a new focus on improving high schools and the creation of personal accounts in Social Security. ''Those three would be adequately transformational,'' Mr. Gingrich said with a smile.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); RELIGION (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TRENDS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Law and Legislation; United States Politics and Government; Conservatism (US Politics); Christians and Christianity ; Social Security (US); Privatization; Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation; Social Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (78%) Robin Toner; Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; Charles E (Sen) Grassley

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



87 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE PRESIDENCY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: Kerry's Concession Speech: Keeping Eye on a Vision and Healing

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of Senator John Kerry's concession speech yesterday in Boston, as recorded by The New York Times: 
 You just have no idea how warming and how generous that welcome is, your love is, your affection, and I'm gratified by it. 
 I'm sorry that we got here a little bit late and a little bit short. 
 Earlier today, I spoke to President Bush and I offered him and Laura our congratulations on their victory. We had a good conversation. And we talked about the danger of division in our country and the need, the desperate need, for unity for finding the common ground, coming together. 
 Today I hope that we can begin the healing. 
 In America it is vital that every vote count and that every vote be counted. But the outcome should be decided by voters, not a protracted legal process. 
 I would not give up this fight if there was a chance that we would prevail. But it is now clear that even when all the provisional ballots are counted, which they will be, there won't be enough outstanding votes for us to be able to win Ohio. And therefore we cannot win this election. 
 My friends, it was here that we began our campaign for the presidency. And all we had was hope and a vision for a better America. It is a privilege and a gift to spend two years traveling this country, coming to know so many of you. I wish that I could just wrap you up in my arms and embrace each and every one of you individually all across this nation. 
 I thank you from the bottom of my heart. 
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 
 I will always be particularly grateful to the colleague that you just heard from who became my partner, my very close friend, an extraordinary leader, John Edwards, and I thank him for everything he did, and John and I would be the first to tell you that we owe so much to our families. They're here with us today. They were with us every single step of the way. They sustained us. They went out on their own and they multiplied our campaign all across this country.
 No one did this more with grace and with courage and candor, that I love, than my wife, Teresa. And I thank her. Thank you. 
 And our children were there every single step of the way. It was unbelievable. Vanessa, Alex, Chris, Andre and John from my family and Elizabeth Edwards, who is so remarkable and so strong and so smart. And Johnnie and Kate, who went out there on her own, just like my daughters did and also Emma Claire and Jack who were up beyond their bedtime last night like a lot of us. 
 I want to thank my crewmates and my friends from 35 years ago, that great band of brothers, who crisscrossed this country on my behalf for 2004. 
 They had the courage to speak the truth back then and they spoke it again this year. And for that I will forever be grateful. 
 And thanks also, as I look around here, to friends and family of a lifetime, some from college, friends made all across the years and then all across the miles of this campaign. You are so special. You brought the gift of your passion for our country and the possibilities of change. And that will stay with us and with this country forever. 
 Thanks to Democrats and Republicans and independents who stood with us, and everyone who voted, no matter who their candidate was. 
 And thanks to my absolutely unbelievable, dedicated staff led by a wonderful campaign manager, Mary Beth Cahill, who did an extraordinary job. 
 There's so much written about campaigns and there's so much that Americans never get to see. I wish they could all spend a day on a campaign and see how hard these folks work to make America better. It is its own unbelievable contribution to our democracy and it's a gift to everybody, but especially to me. And I'm grateful to each and every one of you. And I thank your families and I thank you for the sacrifices you've made. 
 And to all the volunteers all across this country who gave so much of themselves, you know, thanks to William Field, a 6-year-old who collected $680, a quarter and a dollar at a time, selling bracelets during the summer to help change America. 
 Thanks to Michael Benson from Florida who I spied at a rope line holding a container of money. And it turned out he'd raided his piggybank and wanted to contribute. 
 And thanks to Ilana Wexler, 11 years old, who started Kids for Kerry all across our country. 
 I think of the brigades of students and people, young and old, who took time to travel, time off from work, their own vacation time, to work in states far and wide. They braved the hot days of summer and the cold days of the fall and the winter to knock on doors because they were determined to open the doors of opportunity to all Americans. They worked their hearts out and I wish -- you don't know how much -- that I could have brought this race home for you, for them. 
 And I say to them now: Don't lose faith; what you did made a difference. And building on itself, we go on to make a difference another day. I promise you: That time will come; the time will come; the election will come when your work and your ballots will change the world. And it's worth fighting for. 
 I want to especially say to the American people: In this journey, you have given me the honor and the gift of listening and learning from you. I have visited your homes. I've visited your churches. I've visited your community halls. I've heard your stories. I know your struggles. I know your hopes. They are part of me now. And I will never forget you and I'll never stop fighting for you. 
 You may not understand completely in what ways, but it is true when I say to you that you have taught me and you've tested me and you've lifted me up and you've made me stronger. I did my best to express my vision and my hopes for America. We worked hard and we fought hard. And I wish that things had turned out a little differently. 
 But in an American election, there are no losers. Because whether or not our candidates are successful, the next morning, we all wake up as Americans. And that -- that is the greatest privilege and the most remarkable good fortune that can come to us on earth. 
 With that gift also comes obligation. We are required now to work together for the good of our country. In the days ahead, we must find common cause. We must join in common effort without remorse or recrimination, without anger or rancor. America is in need of unity and longing for a larger measure of compassion. 
 I hope President Bush will advance those values in the coming years. 
 I pledge to do my part to try to bridge the partisan divide. I know this is a difficult time for my supporters. But I ask them -- all of you -- to join me in doing that. 
 Now, more than ever, with our soldiers in harm's way, we must stand together and succeed in Iraq and win the war on terror. I will also do everything in my power to ensure that my party, a proud Democratic Party, stands true to our best hopes and ideals. I believe that what we started in this campaign will not end here. 
 And I know -- our fight goes on to put America back to work and to make our economy a great engine of job growth. Our fight goes on to make affordable health care an accessible right for all Americans, not a privilege. Our fight goes on to protect the environment, to achieve equality, to push the frontiers of science and discovery and to restore America's reputation in the world. 
 I believe that all of this will happen, and sooner than we may think. Because we're America and America always moves forward. I've been honored to represent the citizens of this commonwealth for the -- in the United States Senate now for 20 years. And I pledge to them that in the years ahead, I'm going to fight on for the people and for the principles that I've learned and lived with here in Massachusetts. 
 I'm proud of what we stood for in this campaign and of what we accomplished. When we began, no one thought it was possible to even make this a close race. But we stood for real change -- change that would make a real difference in the life of our nation and the lives of our families. And we defined that choice to America. 
 I'll never forget the wonderful people who came to our rallies, who stood in our rope lines, who put their hopes in our hands, who invested in each and every one of us. I saw in them the truth that America is not only great, but it is good. 
 So here -- so with a grateful heart, I leave this campaign with a prayer that has even greater meaning to me now that I have come to know our vast country so much better thanks to all of you. And what a privilege it has been to do so.
 And that prayer is very simple: God bless America. 
 Thank you. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



88 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE CURRENCY MARKET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: The Dollar's Long-Term Direction: Down

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER and ELIZABETH BECKER

 BODY:
The election drove the dollar all over -- down when it looked like President Bush would lose, up briefly when Senator Kerry conceded defeat.
 But ultimately, the dollar's fate never hinged on the outcome of the presidential election. Now that the dust has settled, the currency is back on its long-term path: downward. According to most economists, it is likely to stay there over the next four years. 
 ''There is a certain inevitability to the decline,'' said Alan Blinder, an economist at Princeton University who served as vice chairman of the Federal Reserve and was an adviser to President Bill Clinton. ''I think the Treasury understands this. It would be nice if they would say so.''
 Managing this potentially painful move will be a pressing challenge for Mr. Bush's economic team. The nation's current account -- the broad gap between the nation's exports and imports of goods and services -- has reached a deficit of nearly $600 billion, almost 6 percent of the nation's overall economic activity. And it shows no signs of diminishing on its own.
 Closing this gaping hole will overshadow the administration's trade policy, coloring its push for better access to foreign markets for American products, and adding urgency to its attempts to make China and other Asian nations revalue their currencies against the dollar so that American industry can be more competitive. 
 Today, the dollar is at the center of a delicate interlocking web of international financial imbalances. The United States imports much more than it exports. Asian countries -- some of the biggest exporters -- send the proceeds back into the United States by investing here, mostly in government bonds. That keeps interest rates low, fueling spending and leading Americans to import even more goods and services from the rest of the world.
 Both sides benefit from this arrangement. The Asian money allows Americans to spend beyond their means. At the same time, dollar purchases by Asian central banks depress the value of Asian currencies, stimulating their exports to the American market. 
 An influential group of economists has argued that there is no reason that this imbalance cannot go on relatively undisturbed -- if not forever, at least for a very long time. But most mainstream economists argue that, at a minimum, the unraveling of this web would send the dollar lower and squeeze American consumption. 
 Kenneth Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard, said that to smoothly and significantly narrow the current account deficit requires a depreciation of at least 20 percent in the dollar, making it much more costly for Americans to buy imported goods and travel abroad.
 The imbalance is fueling a stupendous buildup of foreign debt in the United States. At the end of last year, the nation's net financial deficit -- broadly, what Americans owe the rest of the world minus what the rest of the world owes to the United States -- amounted to nearly 30 percent of total output. And both sides are digging themselves deeper into holes, with American debts mounting and foreigners acquiring ever greater piles of depreciating paper assets. 
 Economists who speak of the current account deficit often quote the economist Herb Stein: ''If something cannot go on forever, it will stop.''
 So what will it take for the brakes to be applied? Barry Eichengreen, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, argues that Asian policy makers are going to force a change. He contents that as they move away from their present export-led growth strategies, which require cheap currencies, to focus monetary policy on managing internal demand, Asian governments will support the dollar less, buy fewer Treasury bonds and shift some of their foreign reserves to other currencies, like euros.
 Indeed, China's decision to raise interest rates last week put upward pressure on the yuan and indicated a willingness to take market-based measures to cool its galloping economy.
''Asian policy is changing,'' Mr. Eichengreen said. ''The end is growing increasingly near.''
 This suggests that President Bush's efforts to maintain open markets will increasingly be up to others. The United States' leading trade partners -- Europeans, Asians and even Canadians -- are promising more challenges to Washington on trade issues, bringing disputes to the World Trade Organization and going after new markets as well. 
A cheaper dollar would stimulate American exports but would create some conflicts with other countries. And a dollar depreciation, on its own, would do little to curb the nation's dependence on foreign money. For a devaluation to work effectively, economists explain that other measures to reduce the nation's excess spending are needed as well.
The situation, some suggested, is analogous to the problems faced by Ronald Reagan early in his second term, when the United States, despite robust growth, suffered from an expensive dollar, weak exports and big deficits. 
 In 1986, the administration negotiated the Plaza Agreement with six other major industrial powers, helping pave the way to a manageable, if sometimes rocky, 40 percent decline in the value of the dollar.
''We have to do something similar to get the value of the dollar down and not wait for a market adjustment which could be more damaging to the economy,'' said Robert E. Scott, of the liberal Economic Policy Institute in Washington. 
 The strategy worked for Mr. Reagan because he also pushed through a couple of tax increases that helped narrow the budget gap. Economists are not very confident, however, that a second Bush administration would be prepared to do something similar. 
 That could leave the economy vulnerable to a more painful adjustment, with the dollar falling rapidly and interest rates rising fast. The result would almost certainly lead to a recession and perhaps a collapse in the real estate market.
 ''There is a real possibility,'' Catherine Mann, an economist at the Institute for International Economics, wrote in a study earlier this year, ''that the entanglements created by this co-dependency cannot be undone by anything short of a global economic crisis.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); BONDS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Currency; International Trade and World Market; Presidential Election of 2004; Currency

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Eduardo Porter; Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



89 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: A LOOK BACK -- THE CAMPAIGN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2051 words

HEADLINE: Turnout Effort and Kerry, Too, Were G.O.P.'s Keys to Victory

BYLINE: This article was reported by Elisabeth Bumiller, David M. Halbfinger and David E. Rosenbaum and written by Ms. Bumiller.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
In the closing hours of President Bush's campaign for re-election, Karl Rove, his chief political adviser, was obsessed with turning out Republican votes. Late on Monday night, Mr. Rove stood in the cold at a rally in Albuquerque and pulled scraps of paper from his pocket covered with numbers that reassured him that his ground army was in full assault.
 ''In Nevada, where last time there were 598,000 votes cast, our organization made 130,000 contacts,'' Mr. Rove said, rattling off the statistics. ''That's 100,000 targeted phone calls and knocks on the door of 30,000 targeted households. These are less active Bush-oriented voters, people who have not had a pattern of voting, Democrats, Republicans and independents.''
 He had similar numbers for Florida, Pennsylvania and every other contested state, all part of his four-year effort to prod the Republicans into matching the high Democratic turnout in presidential elections. ''What we're trying to do is get our efforts up to parity,'' he said. 
 On Tuesday night, Mr. Rove succeeded, as Mr. Bush was re-elected with a margin of 3.5 million votes, in the first presidential election in modern history with an equal turnout of Democrats and Republicans. Mr. Rove's relentless focus on turning out more Republican voters, many of them evangelical Christians, was the critical factor in Mr. Bush's victory, Republicans said.
 Other factors, Republicans said, were Mr. Bush's gamble to run on terrorism and his repeated use of a clear, concise message. And Bush campaign officials said they were helped by the man they called a dream opponent, Senator John Kerry, whose nuanced statements about Iraq gave them an opening, day after day, to attack him as a ''flip-flopper.'' 
 Their high point, Bush campaign officials said, came in the spring, when Mr. Kerry uttered the now-famous line that he had voted for $87 billion for American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan before he voted against it.
 ''It was the most iconic moment of the campaign,'' said Mark McKinnon, the president's chief media strategist. ''As soon as we saw it, we knew that was exactly what we wanted to say, but he said it for us. That's something he couldn't undo.''
 But in Boston on the morning after Mr. Kerry's defeat, the harsh hindsight had begun. Despite the applause heaped upon his campaign manager, Mary Beth Cahill, some advisers were already pointing to what they called the major strategic errors of his campaign. All requested anonymity because they did not want to be seen as criticizing the candidate at a painful time.
 Kerry advisers cited the senator's lack of a clear and consistent message right up until mid-September, and suggested that his theme-of-the-week inconsistency and shifting attacks on the president in some ways bore out Mr. Bush's argument that Mr. Kerry was too indecisive and vacillating to lead the nation.
 Many advisers said Mr. Kerry's most obvious mistake was his long delay in responding forcefully to the attacks by members of the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, the group of Vietnam veterans who criticized Mr. Kerry in a best-selling book and television commercials as a liar, a traitor and a coward.
 But some of Mr. Kerry's most trusted friends and supporters said the delay on the Swift-boat issue only spotlighted a weakness in his campaign that had been apparent since Mr. Bush began labeling him as a flip-flopper in March, an accusation he never forcefully repulsed. ''They weren't prepared to defend his character,'' a longtime friend said. 
 But there were other major behind-the-scenes mistakes. Much as Mr. Kerry had proved a fearless gambler a year ago, mortgaging his house to finance his candidacy and staking his campaign on a come-from-behind victory in Iowa, his campaign against Mr. Bush was marked by moments of caution, some advisers said, like his decision to accept $75 million in public money for the fall campaign and the spending cap that came with it, rather than opting out and raising and spending as much as he could. 
 The practical effect was that Mr. Kerry's campaign could not afford to spend money on advertising in August, at the height of the Swift-boat group's attacks.
 Those who argued against opting out said Mr. Kerry would probably have had only $4 million to $5 million left after the Democratic convention. As it turned out, he had more than $45 million. 
 In the end, some of Mr. Kerry's longtime advisers asserted that his campaign and high-priced consultants had failed him in many ways, but that he had only himself to blame for the clutter of strategists, with no one clearly in charge, whose output was often late and not harnessed into an overall strategy.
 ''The campaign was never as good as the candidate,'' one old friend and strategist said. ''But that's also a reflection on the candidate.''
 Bush campaign officials said they had a candidate who was better than their campaign, which was in itself a tightly run, richly financed and highly disciplined message machine. And while Mr. Bush's advisers readily conceded that he fell short in the debates, on the stump in front of friendly Republicans Mr. Bush was a charismatic performer.
 ''We had at the top of the ticket an inspiring individual who knew what he believed and did what he said,'' Mr. Rove said Wednesday. ''At the end of the day, people voted for him for two reasons. One is they thought he could do the job, and two, they had deep doubts about the other guy.''
 Many of those voters, Mr. Rove said, were evangelical Christians, although he said he could not tell directly from polls of voters if evangelicals had turned out in greater numbers than they had in 2000. But there is some evidence that they did.
 Mr. Rove has long said that Mr. Bush lost the popular vote in 2000 in part because four million evangelicals stayed home, perhaps, he said, because of an old drunken driving charge against Mr. Bush that surfaced the weekend before the election and perhaps because many evangelicals traditionally viewed politics with distaste.
 But in this election, evangelicals said they were motivated to turn out because of Mr. Bush's support for a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, prompted by a decision a year ago by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court allowing such marriages in the state. In addition, Republicans said evangelical voters had an extra incentive because 11 states had amendments to ban same-sex marriage on the ballot.
 ''For the first time in our country's history, the definition of marriage has been changed by a court,'' said Tom Minnery, vice president of public policy at Focus on the Family, an influential conservative Christian group, in an interview on Wednesday. ''That was a wake-up call.''
 Mr. Minnery said that evangelicals turned out in large numbers for Mr. Bush in 2004 because they knew him better than they did in 2000 and recognized the biblical phrasing in many of his speeches. ''In his first term, he was the most openly Christian president we have had in our lifetime,'' Mr. Minnery said. ''And that endeared many Christian people to him.'''
 Republicans also said Mr. Bush won by broadening the reach of his party, much like Ronald Reagan did in the 1980's.
 ''He kept faith with every piece of the center-right coalition -- taxpayers, property owners, investors, businessmen, home-schoolers, gun owners and all communities of faith,'' said Grover Norquist, a leading conservative and the president of Americans for Tax Reform.
 Mr. Rove argued that rather than just playing hard to his Republican base, Mr. Bush's record total of 58 million votes, the most votes for any presidential candidate in history, proved that he had appealed well beyond his core conservative supporters to small-business people, families concerned about ''the coarseness of the culture,'' and ''security moms and dads'' worried about terrorism. 
 Significantly, polls on Election Day showed that the number of voters who said they were concerned about moral values -- who voted in overwhelming numbers for Mr. Bush -- was higher than those who said they were worried about the war, terrorism, the economy or jobs.
 Republicans also said that Mr. Bush won by running hard in the end in what Ken Mehlman, the president's campaign manager, called strong Republican ''fortress'' areas surrounded by rapidly growing suburbs and exurbs filled with first-time voters. 
 ''The thing that characterized the areas more than anything else was a growing propensity to vote Republican and a significant number of potentially unregistered supporters,'' Mr. Rove said.
 If Mr. Bush and Mr. Rove were determined from the first to get every last evangelical Christian to the polls, Mr. Kerry and his advisers seemed to respond only relatively late in the campaign to what polls eventually showed was his gaping weakness with voters on the question of whether a candidate shared their values.
 Campaign aides knew all along that Mr. Kerry, whose New England reticence held him back from discussing his religion, was at a steep disadvantage with Mr. Bush among regular churchgoers. But while he began over the summer sprinkling the word ''values'' into his speeches, it was mainly in saying that hard work should be rewarded, that the middle class and the poor should be given help before the rich got more.
 And while Mr. Bush could use code words like ''culture of life'' and ''armies of compassion'' to motivate evangelicals, Mr. Kerry found himself preaching the separation of church and state from pulpits. Late in the campaign, Mr. Kerry spent every weekend visiting churches, taking communion from Roman Catholic priests who welcomed him despite his support for abortion rights.
 Sam Greenberg, one of Mr. Kerry's pollsters, said the faith and values problem was ''consuming,'' and added: ''He was having immense difficulty breaking through. He's not as secular as he was defined, but that was not what he was able to communicate.'' 
 Mr. Kerry did not help himself in getting voters to see him as an ordinary guy when he was photographed windsurfing in August off his Nantucket home, or that he chose a resort to prepare for his first debate, while Mr. Bush was on his ranch, or that his wealthy wife spoke English with an unfamiliar accent and Mr. Kerry spent his childhood summers in France.
 ''People don't windsurf in Youngstown, Ohio,'' a longtime top Kerry adviser said. 
 There were also Mr. Kerry's swings and misses: calling the Green Bay Packers stadium Lambert Field, not Lambeau, and mangling the names even of his own beloved Red Sox.
 In candid moments, Mr. Kerry himself often said that, with war and terrorism occupying the nation, he did not think ''likeability'' would play as important a role in the campaign as it had in the 2000 election. But the longtime aide said that Mr. Kerry, as a challenger facing a well-known incumbent, had no margin of error in his efforts to connect with voters. ''It all goes into the pot,'' the aide said. 
 The values problem took on enormous significance, Kerry aides said, precisely because of the electoral terrain the campaign was fighting on, which they said posed a major challenge for Democrats in the future: how to talk to Americans in the heartland.
 ''We were working from a pretty small map here,'' said Steve Elmendorf, Mr. Kerry's deputy campaign manager. ''He was pressuring us much more in places where Gore had won than we were pressuring him where he had won, like New Hampshire and Nevada: those were only four electoral votes. He had us in New Mexico, Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota, and in Pennsylvania and Michigan we could never take our eye off the ball. 
 ''It wasn't a resource question so much as we weren't competitive in places like Missouri and Arkansas that Bush had won, so he was able to take enormous resources and really pour them into those states,'' Mr. Elmendorf said.
 Bill Carrick, a Democratic strategist, said the unfavorable electoral map meant Mr. Kerry had no obvious recipe for a victory, which explains why advisers experimented continually with positive and negative messages and with focusing more on domestic policy or national security.
 ''I've been in campaigns when you had a clear path to victory if you did one, two and three,'' Mr. Carrick said. ''Here, there was some message testing, because there was no clear path.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about the Republican emphasis on turnout misstated the given name of a Kerry pollster who commented on the senator's difficulty in communicating his positions on faith and values. He is Stan Greenberg, not Sam. 
 Also because of an editing error, the article referred incorrectly to the area in Missouri on which politicians often focus as part of a strategy to win the state. It is the Missouri Bootheel, not hills.

Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Thursday about the Republican emphasis on turnout referred incorrectly to the area in Missouri on which politicians often focus as part of a strategy to win the state. In some copies yesterday a correction in this space misspelled the name of that area. It is the Missouri Bootheel, not Boothill or hills.


GRAPHIC: Photos: JULY -- Senator John Kerry at the Democratic National Convention. (Photo by Stephan Savoia/Associated Press)
AUGUST -- The president and vice president at the Republican convention. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
AUGUST -- An advertisement by Swift Boat Veterans for Truth. (Photo by Swiftvets via Associated Press)
 SEPTEMBER -- Mr. Kerry and President Bush at their first debate. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. P6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); ELECTIONS (92%); RELIGION (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); BUDGETS (71%); TERRORISM (69%); IRAQ WAR (69%); HISTORY (65%) Presidential Election of 2004; Christians and Christianity; Election Issues; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Vietnam War; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Swift Boat Veterans for Truth (Orgn)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); KARL ROVE (92%); JOHN KERRY (89%) Elisabeth Bumiller; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Karl Rove

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



90 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- Northeast; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 3556 words

HEADLINE: A near sweep for Senator Kerry in his home region.

BYLINE: Contributing to this report were Elissa Gootman, Patrick Healy, Michael Janofsky, Michael Luo, Jennifer Medina, Robert Pear, Richard Prez-Pea, Marc Santora, Stephanie Strom and Daniel J. Wakin.

 BODY:

CONNECTICUT -- KERRY
 It was a hair-raising evening for Representative Christopher Shays, a Republican who fended off sharp attacks by his Democratic opponent, Diane Farrell, the first selectwoman of Westport.
 Early results showed him trailing Ms. Farrell, who had tried to paint him as a conservative of the same ilk as Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority leader. But returns from Republican-leaning towns like Greenwich and Trumbull turned the tide.
 In his victory speech, Mr. Shays revealed that internal polls had shown him losing the race just two weeks before the election, which may explain why he was at Grand Central Terminal on Monday evening, greeting surprised commuters heading home to Fairfield County.
 While the Shays-Farrell race turned into an unexpectedly hot contest, the nasty House battle between Rob Simmons, the Republican incumbent, and Jim Sullivan, a former Norwich councilman, was more tepid than predicted. Mr. Simmons easily defeated Mr. Sullivan for eastern Connecticut's seat, thanks in part to help from the Republican National Congressional Committee, which underwrote a harsh advertising campaign.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat, won a fifth term, a first for a Connecticut senator. Mr. Dodd, 60, spent some $5million to defeat a Republican newcomer, Jack Orchulli, a former fashion industry executive who spent more than $1.3 million on his campaign.
 With the defeat of Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, who is the Senate minority leader, Mr. Dodd is considered a leading contender for a top Senate leadership position. His name has also surfaced on lists of potential candidates for governor and president. 
 Senator Kerry won Connecticut's seven electoral votes, even though he, like President Bush, never campaigned in the state.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Kerry: 847,666 -- 54%
Bush: 686,923 -- 44%
Nader: 12,708 -- 1%

SENATE
100% reporting
Dodd: 923,836 -- 66%
Orchulli: 452,874 -- 32%

DELAWARE -- KERRY
 Senator Kerry won in Delaware, where Gov. Ruth Ann Minner, a Democrat, was elected to a second term. She defeated Bill Lee, a former Superior Court judge, who was the Republican candidate. 
 Ms. Minner and Mr. Lee sparred over the economy, the environment and education, in particular the state's testing program and an unusual three-tiered high school diploma system that has been put on hold. Perhaps the most contentious topic was the state's prison system, with the governor drawing criticism for her handling of a case in which a prison counselor was abducted and raped.
 Ms. Minner, a twice-widowed mother of three who left high school to help support her family but later went back for an equivalency degree, is the state's first female governor. In the end, she was able to win over voters, but the results were closer than early polls had suggested -- a fact that Mr. Lee mentioned in his concession speech. 
 Ms. Minner won with 51 percent of the vote to Mr. Lee's 46 percent, in the state's closest governor's race since 1972. 
 Delaware's lone member of the House, Representative Michael N. Castle, a Republican who is a former governor, was easily re-elected to a seventh term, beating Paul Donnelly, a Democrat.

PRESIDENT
95% reporting
Kerry: 191,870 -- 53%
Bush: 164,807 -- 46%
Nader: 2,050 -- 1%

GOVERNOR
95% reporting
Minner: 177,848 -- 51%
Lee: 160,215 -- 46%

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA -- KERRY
 Marion S. Barry Jr., the former mayor who was caught on tape by the F.B.I. smoking crack cocaine in 1990, resurrected his political career by winning a City Council seat. ''It's not a comeback,'' Mr. Barry told reporters at a victory party. ''It's a coming out of retirement.'' Mr. Barry, who won by a wide margin, will represent one of the district's poorest neighborhoods.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Kerry: 183,876 -- 90%
Bush: 19,007 -- 9%
Nader: 1,3181 -- %

MAINE -- KERRY
 Maine voters swung solidly behind Senator Kerry, a fellow New Englander, even though the Bush family has long had a home in the state. Maine is one of two states that can divide its electoral votes, but Mr. Kerry carried both Congressional districts and therefore won all four electoral votes. 
 The state's House members, both Democrats, were easily re-elected. Representative Tom Allen, whose district includes Portland and Augusta, won a fifth term, trouncing Charlie Summers, a former state senator. In the huge Second District, covering northern Maine, Representative Michael H. Michaud won a second term. 
 Two ballot propositions went down to defeat. A proposal to set a statewide limit on property taxes was overwhelmingly rejected, after state and local officials warned that it would force cuts in school budgets and municipal services. But Gov. John Baldacci, a Democrat, got the message and said he would offer a tax relief plan.
 Voters also rejected a proposal to outlaw the hunting of bears with bait, traps or dogs. Hunters and state officials opposed the ban, saying it would cause economic harm, while supporters ran television advertisements that portrayed bear hunting as cruel.

PRESIDENT
81% reporting
Kerry: 298,886 -- 53%
Bush: 251,274 -- 45%
Nader: 6,213 -- 1%

MARYLAND -- KERRY
 There were few surprises when the polls closed in Maryland. 
 Senator Kerry won the state by almost the same margin Vice President Al Gore had four years earlier. The popular Democratic Senator Barbara A. Mikulski was re-elected by a 30-point margin. And every incumbent in the House delegation won easy re-election.
 Ms. Mikulski said Tuesday night that her victory was proof that Maryland, despite electing a Republican governor in 2002, was still terra firma for Democrats. Her victory takes her to a fourth term.
 The race between Ms. Mikulski and her Republican challenger, E.J. Pipkin, often sounded like a page cribbed from the presidential campaign. Mr. Pipkin, who sunk $1 million of his own money into the campaign, attacked Ms. Mikulski for her votes to raise taxes and to oppose the Iraq war.
 Mayor Martin O'Malley of Baltimore was re-elected with 88 percent of the vote, a win that sets him up for a run for governor in 2006. Mr. O'Malley, a Democrat, has built a reputation working to reduce crime and revive the city.

PRESIDENT
99% reporting
Kerry: 1,209,827 -- 56%
Bush: 936,505 -- 43%

SENATE
99% reporting
Mikulski: 1,368,267 -- 65%
Pipkin: 713,852 -- 34%

MASSACHUSETTS -- KERRY
 There were no surprises in Massachusetts, with Senator Kerry capturing 62 percent of the vote in his home state. The state's 10 representatives seeking re-election, Democrats one and all, also coasted to victory. Four ran unopposed. 
 For some Democratic politicians, there was a particularly personal dimension to the disappointment of President Bush's win.
 In the months leading up to the election, there had been much discussion of the special election that would have been held to fill Mr. Kerry's Senate seat, had he won the presidency. It would have been the state's first open Senate seat since 1984, when Mr. Kerry won the race to succeed the ailing Paul Tsongas. 
 Among those who had been talked about for the position were Representatives Barney Frank, Edward J. Markey and Martin T. Meehan.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Kerry: 1,793,647 -- 62%
Bush: 1,067,143 -- 37%

NEW HAMPSHIRE -- KERRY
 For the first time in nearly eight decades, a challenger unseated the incumbent candidate for governor, with John Lynch, a Democrat, getting 50.8 percent of the vote, less than 2 percent more than Gov. Craig Benson. The outcome was uncertain until early yesterday, long after it became clear that Senator Kerry had won the state. 
 Mr. Benson came into office two years ago, promising not to add or raise taxes. He kept the promise but was plagued by charges of cronyism, and several members of his staff resigned amid ethics scandals. The race had been just hairs apart in the polls for weeks, with the candidates relying heavily on money from their own pockets -- Mr. Lynch spending $1.3 million of his own and Mr. Benson $1.4 million. Mr. Benson, a businessman without much experience in government, said he would probably retire from politics. 
 Mr. Lynch was aided by a record voter turnout. New Hampshire had long been considered a battleground in the presidential campaign, and the theory was proved on Tuesday. Mr. Kerry won 50 percent of the vote, just 9,171 votes more than President Bush, who won 49 percent. Ralph Nader received 1 percent of the total.
 With nearly 680,000 votes cast, turnout beat the record of 578,000 set in 2000, when the state's four electoral votes went to Mr. Bush by a margin of one percentage point. Had Vice President Al Gore won in New Hampshire, he would have had the majority of electoral votes. 
 Voters who said they considered themselves moderate or independent supported Mr. Kerry by a margin of nearly two to one, according to surveys. The war in Iraq was clearly a major factor -- about half of the voters questioned said they disapproved of the war and nearly all of those gave their votes to Mr. Kerry. 
 Senator Judd Gregg, a Republican, got two-thirds of the vote and defeated the Democratic challenger, Doris Haddock, also known as Granny D. Ms. Haddock gained national attention in 1999 when she walked across the country to rally for campaign finance reform. 
 Representatives Jeb Bradley and Charles Bass, both Republicans, also kept their seats. 

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Kerry: 340,019 -- 50%
Bush: 330,848 -- 49%
Nader: 4,447 -- 1%

SENATE
100% reporting
Gregg: 434,292 -- 66%
Haddock: 221,011 -- 34%

NEW JERSEY -- KERRY
 Senator Kerry easily carried New Jersey, but President Bush received 300,000 more votes this year than he did in 2000. 
 Asked whom they would trust to handle the terrorist threat, voters were almost as likely to say Mr. Kerry as Mr. Bush. Only one-fourth of voters said that terrorism was the most important issue influencing how they voted.
 Nearly 700 New Jersey residents were killed in the attack on the World Trade Center, but Democrats said the state's voters did not accept the White House's contention that they were being protected from terrorism by the Bush administration.
 Mr. Bush outpolled Mr. Kerry among whites. In surveys of voters leaving the polls, black voters overwhelmingly favored Mr. Kerry, but more than one-third of Hispanics expressed support for Mr. Bush.
 Mr. Kerry did particularly well among first-time voters and those under 30.
 All 13 House members were re-elected.

PRESIDENT
99% reporting
Kerry: 1,799,320 -- 53%
Bush: 1,587,494 -- 46%
Nader: 18,614 -- 1%

NEW YORK -- KERRY

Even Senator Charles E. Schumer's most loyal partisans did not predict the magnitude of his re-election victory over Assemblyman Howard D. Mills, which set state records for most votes, highest percentage of the vote and largest winning margin.
 The victory by Mr. Schumer, a Democrat, was all the more striking in that Senator Kerry's victory here fell short of Al Gore's and Bill Clinton's margins in the state.
 The results will fuel the already widespread talk that Mr. Schumer might run for governor in 2006, talk he has done nothing to dampen. That could set up a fierce primary clash with another popular Democrat, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer.
 ''Running up the score is a great send-off if you want to run for something else,'' said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist College polls. ''Schumer comes out of this with great strength in every part of the state. Of all the Democrats around the country, he's in as good a position as anybody.''
 Another closely watched race in New York, to represent the Buffalo area in Congress, remained too close to call. With most votes counted, Assemblyman Brian Higgins, a Democrat, led Nancy Naples, the Republican Erie County comptroller, by less than 2 percent. Jack Quinn, a Republican, vacated the seat, giving Democrats one of their best chances nationally for a gain.
 Republicans held on to another open House seat, as State Senator Randy Kuhl defeated Samara Barend, a Democratic newcomer, to succeed Representative Amo Houghton, who is retiring. The race was roiled by the release of Mr. Kuhl's divorce records, which were supposed to be sealed. They included allegations that he had waved shotguns at his wife. The news backfired when it was revealed that it was Ms. Barend's campaign manager who had obtained the records from the court.
 All House members seeking re-election won handily. But several state legislators were defeated, an unusual turn in this state, as Democrats made gains in both houses. Challengers made inroads this year by calling incumbents part of a dysfunctional culture in Albany.

PRESIDENT
99% reporting
Kerry: 3,945,432 -- 58%
Bush: 2,763,506 -- 40%
Nader: 104,192 -- 2%

SENATE
99% reporting
Schumer: 4,368,286 -- 71%
Mills: 1,518,664 -- 25%

PENNSYLVANIA -- KERRY
 Throughout the campaign, Pennsylvania was a virtual home-away-from-home for President Bush and Senator Kerry as they spent considerable time and vast resources wooing a state they both argued was crucial for victory.
 While Mr. Bush did not win it (for the second time), Mr. Kerry might have conceded Tuesday night without it.
 Yet postelection surveys suggested that much of the candidates' efforts in the final weeks were superfluous, as nearly 80 percent of voters said they had made up their minds before the final month of the campaign.
 Mr. Kerry's success was built on the kind of solid calculation that eluded him elsewhere: he ran stronger than Mr. Bush among women, blacks and Hispanics, the youngest of voters, the oldest and large majorities who believed the economy was ''not so good'' or poor. He also ran much stronger in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh than in most other places in the state.
 But as a reflection of Mr. Bush's strength across the country and the central themes of his campaign, Mr. Kerry was not the choice of voters who said terrorism or moral values was the issue that most determined how they voted.
 Senator Arlen Specter, a moderate Republican who fended off a fierce primary challenge from a House conservative, waited out Representative Joe Hoeffel's early lead to overtake him in the late hours and win by 11 points (53 percent to 42 percent), securing a fifth term.
 ''This victory is an important symbol for the moderate wing of the Republican Party,'' Mr. Specter said in victory, a message as much for his supporters as for Senate conservatives, who outnumber those Republicans who sometimes vote with Democrats. 
 Two minor-party candidates shared the remaining 5 percent of the vote.
 Mr. Hoeffel, a three-term House Democrat, proved to be no match for Mr. Specter's deep familiarity among voters, as evidenced by the senator's winning 28 percent of the Democratic vote and scoring a two-point edge, 47 percent to 45 percent, among independents, according to voter surveys.
 Mr. Specter, who is 74, was also the clear choice among all voters over 29 years old and a majority of those with annual incomes above $30,000.
 Pennsylvania's House races provided a dash of drama but no seat changes. The state's three open seats were filled by candidates from the same party, and in a sign of the noncompetitive nature of most House races these days, two incumbents ran unopposed, and six others won with 86 percent of the vote or more.
 Only Jim Gerlach, a first-term Republican in a district east of Philadelphia, had to sweat out a challenge, hanging on to defeat a Democratic county attorney, Lois Murphy, by 51 percent to 49 percent.

PRESIDENT
99% reporting
Kerry: 2,870,358 -- 51%
Bush: 2,748,900 -- 49%

SENATE
99% reporting
Specter: 2,882,829 -- 53%
Hoeffel: 2,283,694 -- 42%

RHODE ISLAND -- KERRY
 Rhode Island and its four electoral votes stayed firmly in the New England pro-Kerry block. Senator Kerry won 60 percent of the vote to President Bush's 39 percent, with 1 percent going to Ralph Nader. Rhode Island has voted Democratic in every presidential race since 1984.
 Two Democratic Representatives, Jim Langevin and Patrick J. Kennedy, the youngest son of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, easily defeated their Republican challengers. 
 Mr. Langevin won a third term and Mr. Kennedy a sixth, defeating a former Navy Seals member named Dave Rogers, who lost to Mr. Kennedy a second time in a row.
 The race was one of the 10 most expensive House elections, with the two campaigns raising a combined $3.8 million. But it was a less contentious race than the one two years ago. 
 ''I think that both of us were able to be very civil and give Rhode Islanders a clear choice,'' Mr. Rogers told The Associated Press on Election Day. Senator Kennedy campaigned for his son on Tuesday. Representative Kennedy, 37, entered politics at 21 by winning a seat in the State General Assembly. He has represented the state's First District for 10 years.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Kerry: 247,071 -- 60%
Bush: 161,345 -- 39%
Nader: 3,976 -- 1%

VERMONT -- KERRY
 Gov. Jim Douglas, a Republican, was re-elected by a comfortable margin after a spirited contest with Peter Clavelle, the mayor of Burlington. 
 Keeping true to their reputation of refusing to rigidly toe any party line, Vermonters elected Democrats, Republicans and independents.
 As expected, Senator Kerry won the state convincingly, by roughly 20 percentage points. However, the turnout for him had virtually no impact on the race for governor, despite repeated attempts by Mr. Clavelle, a Democrat, to link Governor Douglas and President Bush and the war in Iraq. In the end, the governor won by a margin of 21 percentage points.
 Mr. Douglas acknowledged the vagaries of party affiliation in the state, telling supporters that he planned a ''mainstream'' and ''bipartisan'' administration.
 ''Vermonters appreciate the hard work we've done,'' he said in his victory speech. ''With the help of all of you in this room, I look forward to providing leadership to this state, helping all Vermonters fulfill the promise of Vermont." 
 The campaign, which featured a series of debates that provided a chance for voters to hear more than just clipped sound bites, offered a clear choice in governing ideologies. 
 Mr. Clavelle was, until recently, a member of the Progressive Party, which is more liberal than the Democrats on many issues. He changed party affiliation to run for governor but was nonetheless identified with the Progressive Party throughout the race.
 While Mr. Douglas mostly steered clear of direct criticism of his opponent, he did finance a series of ads that portrayed Mr. Clavelle as an out-of-the-mainstream tax-and-spend liberal.
 Mr. Douglas focused his campaign on a pro-business record, support for economic development and more funds for antidrug programs. He also showed that he was not afraid to break with the national Republican Party. For instance, he was harshly critical of the Bush administration's environmental record. That stance helped him fend off Mr. Clavelle's attempt to link him with Mr. Bush.
 In other contests, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Democrat, easily won re-election, trouncing his Republican opponent, Jack McMullen, by 45 percentage points.
 Representative Bernard Sanders, the only independent in the House, also won an easy victory.

PRESIDENT
98% reporting
Kerry: 181,366 -- 59%
Bush: 119,110 -- 39%
Nader: 4,379 -- 1%

SENATE
98% reporting
Leahy: 207,266 -- 70%
McMullen: 72,737 -- 25%

GOVERNOR
98% reporting
Douglas: 179,032 -- 59%
Clavelle: 115,670 -- 38%

WEST VIRGINIA -- BUSH
 It was one of the states most visited by President Bush and Senator Kerry in the campaign, but West Virginia ended up being nothing close to a battleground, supporting Mr. Bush by a margin that would have been unimaginable when President Bill Clinton sailed to easy victories there in 1992 and 1996.
 Reflecting concerns over foreign attacks and jobs, nearly 30 percent of Democrats joined overwhelming numbers of Republicans who cited terrorism, moral values and the economy as the major reasons for supporting Mr. Bush over Mr. Kerry, according to surveys of voters. 
 The polls also showed that more than a majority of voters in the state, 56 percent, said they approved of the way the president was handling his job, and 58 percent said they felt the country was safer from terrorism than it was four years ago.
 It was the second time Mr. Bush carried the state, after defeating Al Gore by six percentage points in 2000.
 Democrats did not, however, abandon other Democratic candidates in large numbers. Both of the state's Democratic House members -- Representatives Alan B. Mollohan and Nick J. Rahall II -- were safely re-elected to Congress. The lone Republican, Representative Shelley Moore Capito, shook off a Democratic challenge from Erik Wells, a former television anchor, to keep her seat.
 Democratic loyalties also helped Joseph Manchin III, West Virginia's secretary of state, win the governor's race, succeeding Bob D. Wise, a Democrat who did not seek a second term. Mr. Manchin, who ran unsuccessfully for governor in 1996, won 63 percent of the vote in defeating Monty Warner, a Republican, who had 34 percent, and Jesse Johnson of the Mountain Party, who had 2 percent.
 Mr. Manchin was aided by name recognition -- an uncle had served as secretary of state and state treasurer -- and by an overwhelming advantage in money. In the final weeks of the campaign, he spent $3.3 million, compared with $880,000 by Mr. Warner. 

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 418,151 -- 56%
Kerry: 321,641 -- 43%
Nader: 3,951 -- 1%

GOVERNOR
100% reporting
Manchin: 465,636 -- 63%
Warner: 250,831 -- 34%


CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A chart in the elections section yesterday showing New York State returns for president and United States senator gave an outdated party affiliation for Ralph Nader. He was the candidate of both the Independence Party and the Peace and Justice Party; the Green Party was his affiliation in 2000.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Balance of Power in the States: Northeast''States with a change in control of a legislative chamber or the governor's office in bold. Outlined bar indicates which party switched power by gaining the majority or winning the governor's seat. States that did not have elections in 2004 are in italics.Chart shows the party in majority control, by each aforementioned state, for:Governorproportion of State Houseproportion of State Senate(Sources by National Conference of State Legislatures
 National Governors Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); JUDGES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (67%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); PRISONS (60%); FASHION & APPAREL (51%) Election Results; Legislature; Governors (US)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%) House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (90%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); RUTH ANN MINNER (77%); TOM DASCHLE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; Northeastern States (US); Middle Atlantic States (US); Connecticut; Maryland; New Jersey; United States; New York State; Pennsylvania; Vermont ; Delaware; Washington (DC); Maine; Massachusetts; New Hampshire; Rhode Island; West Virginia; United States; New England States (US)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



91 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- MIDWEST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 3589 words

HEADLINE: Some important victories for Kerry, but a death blow in Ohio.

BYLINE: Contributing to this report were Elissa Gootman, Patrick Healy, Michael Janofsky, Michael Luo, Jennifer Medina, Robert Pear, Richard Prez-Pea, Marc Santora, Stephanie Strom and Daniel J. Wakin.

 BODY:

ILLINOIS -- KERRY
 Barack Obama, a rising star in the Democratic Party with a compelling personal story, won election to the Senate in a sweeping victory, defeating the Republican, Alan Keyes, by the biggest margin ever in an Illinois Senate race, far greater than Senator Kerry's margin over President Bush.
 Mr. Obama, 43, became the only African-American elected to the Senate this year and the third since Reconstruction. He won with 70 percent of the vote. 
 ''We will not be measured by the margin of our victory, but we will be measured by whether we are able to deliver concrete improvements to the lives of so many people all across this state,'' Mr. Obama said. He fills the seat previously held by Peter G. Fitzgerald, a Republican who is retiring.
 Mr. Obama spoke well after the election results were clear, but before Mr. Keyes was willing to give up. Mr. Keyes, 54, entered the race late, after another Republican, Jack Ryan, dropped out following allegations in divorce papers involving sex clubs. 
 On Tuesday night, Mr. Keyes did not formally concede even after Mr. Obama spoke. Instead, waving his arms for emphasis, he repeated his campaign themes opposing gay marriage and denouncing support for abortion as he quoted from a biblical passage about people ''wandering off into myths.''
 Still, it was Mr. Obama's night. The young Democrat came to national attention after his keynote address at the Boston nominating convention, where he related his experience as the son of a white mother from Kansas and a black father from Kenya. He used his personal experience to build a campaign theme of bridging divides.
 Illinois Democrats also had success in House races, picking up two seats.

PRESIDENT
98% reporting
Kerry: 2,753,525 -- 55%
Bush: 2,225,320 -- 44%

SENATE
98% reporting
Obama: 3,425,074 -- 70%
Keyes: 1,319,920 -- 27%

INDIANA -- BUSH
 One of the best examples of the Bush administration's efforts to build a legacy at the state as well as the federal level is Indiana's incoming governor, Mitch Daniels. 
 Mr. Daniels left his post as director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Bush White House in 2003 to return to his adopted home state and spend the next year and a half cruising Indiana in a recreational vehicle and introducing himself in person to the people he hoped would become his supporters.
 His stint as a vagabond paid off handsomely on Tuesday, when he easily captured the Statehouse from Gov. Joseph E. Kernan, the Democrat who took the job last year when Frank O'Bannon died suddenly, and was ambivalent about trying to retain it.
 Mr. Daniels has promised to address the state's flagging economy and restore jobs.
 Although Senator Evan Bayh, a Democrat, easily held on to his seat, power in the state over all shifted toward the Republicans. Mr. Daniels will be the first Republican to hold the state's top job in 16 years, and the party also regained control of the State House of Representatives for the first time since 1996.
 Representative John Hostettler, a Republican who gained notoriety when he tried to board a plane with a loaded gun, had an easier time retaining his job than many had expected, but Representative Julia Carson, a Democrat, who will also be returning to Washington, had a much closer race than was forecast. 
 But Indiana's Congressional delegation did lose one Democrat, Baron P. Hill, a three-term incumbent. In a fight too close to call until midday yesterday, Mr. Hill lost to Mark Sodrel, a Republican who is a trucking executive. Last spring, when Vice President Dick Cheney appeared at a fund-raiser for a Republican challenger, Mr. Hill remarked: ''I don't need people from Washington, D.C., coming out here and propping me up. I'll do it on my own.''
 He may be having second thoughts about that now.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 1,470,396 -- 60%
Kerry: 958,429 -- 39%

SENATE
100% reporting
Bayh: 1,485,090 -- 62%
Scott: 897,760 -- 37%

GOVERNOR
100% reporting
Daniels: 1,294,870 -- 53%
Kernan: 1,102,980 -- 45%

IOWA
 President Bush held on to a narrow lead in Iowa, and if he ultimately won, he would be the first Republican in 20 years to carry the state, which he lost by less than half a percentage point in 2000.
 State officials said they would need several days to count thousands of provisional ballots and absentee ballots. The secretary of state, Chet Culver, said the presidential race in Iowa was too close to call.
 Civic participation normally runs high in Iowa, but Mr. Culver said the turnout, about 75 percent of registered voters, set a record.
 Survey of voters leaving the polls showed that voters under 30 and those 60 or over tended to support Senator Kerry, while Mr. Bush had an edge among those in between.
 Gov. Tom Vilsack campaigned for Mr. Kerry. Opinion polls in the final days of the campaign indicated that Mr. Kerry might win the state, where his presidential campaign first gained momentum in the party caucuses early this year. 
 But by working hard in Republican areas of western Iowa, the Bush campaign offset the advantage that Mr. Kerry had in the eastern part of the state.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee, won a fifth term, with 70 percent of the vote. He got 68 percent in 1998 and nearly 70 percent in 1992. He has been an indispensable ally of the White House in enacting the tax cuts at the heart of President Bush's agenda. He was an architect of the law that added prescription drug coverage to Medicare. And he is a zealous protector of federal employees who expose waste and fraud in federal programs.
 Mr. Grassley defeated Arthur Small, a lawyer and former state legislator. Democrats said Mr. Grassley was too close to drug and insurance companies. But at scores of town meetings around the state, he defended the Medicare law as a way to deliver long-promised benefits to the elderly.
 The state's five House members, including Jim Nussle, the chairman of the Budget Committee, and three other Republicans, won re-election.
 Republicans had hoped that Representative Leonard L. Boswell, a relatively conservative Democrat, might be vulnerable. The Republican challenger, Stan Thompson, waged an aggressive campaign but won only 45 percent of the vote, and Mr. Boswell will return to Washington for a fifth term.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 745,742 -- 50%
Kerry: 732,492 -- 49%
Nader: 5,811 -- 0%

SENATE
100% reporting
Grassley: 1,025,501 -- 70%
Small: 403,399 -- 28%

KANSAS -- BUSH
 In this Republican stronghold, the state's six electoral votes were never seriously in doubt, with President Bush winning easily. 
 Similarly, in the Senate race, the Republican incumbent, Sam Brownback, won in a landslide, defeating Lee Jones, a railroad engineer. Mr. Jones became the Democratic nominee only after the winner in the primary, Robert Conroy, withdrew.
 Mr. Conroy, who said he had put his name on the ballot only to ensure that Mr. Brownback did not run unopposed, failed to campaign and still managed to win the nomination over Mr. Jones. He then pulled out without much explanation.
 But national and state Republican leaders once again failed to unseat Dennis Moore, the lone Democrat in the state's Congressional delegation, who has now beaten Republican opponents four times. He defeated Kris Kobach -- a law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City and former Justice Department official whose pedigree includes Harvard, Oxford and Yale -- with his largest margin yet. 
 Republican and Democratic leaders poured hundreds of thousands of dollars into the race. Mr. Kobach leaned heavily on the evangelical Christian vote, portraying himself as a staunch protector of conservative social values, even campaigning at one point with the Rev. Jerry Falwell. Meanwhile Mr. Moore cast himself as a moderate, hoping to lure independent voters. 
 The state's three Republican incumbents in the House all won, including Jim Ryun, the former Olympic runner whose district covers most of the eastern part of the state. Mr. Ryun managed to stave off a furious challenge by Nancy Boyda, a political unknown who managed to keep the race close far longer than most national observers had predicted. The race got especially heated toward the end after Mr. Ryun ran a television advertisement that criticized his opponent's participation in antiwar rallies and featured images of Osama bin Laden. The unusually harsh tactic prompted some to wonder if the race was tightening. But Mr. Ryun won with 56 percent of the vote, compared with Ms. Boyda's 41 percent.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 711,083 -- 62%
Kerry: 416,905 -- 36%
Nader: 8,955 -- 1%

SENATE
100% reporting
Brownback: 770,317 -- 69%
Jones: 305,226 -- 27%

MICHIGAN -- KERRY
 Senator Kerry beat President Bush by three percentage points in Michigan, a traditionally Democratic state that has suffered some of the worst job losses in the country.
 Michigan's governor and its two senators, all Democrats who were not up for re-election this year, focused on campaigning for Mr. Kerry. The senator defeated Mr. Bush by 40 percentage points in Wayne County, which includes Detroit.
 Mr. Kerry won strong support from unions and voters who said the economy was their biggest concern, surveys of voters showed. 
 Mr. Bush's supporters were most concerned with terrorism and moral values.
 Michigan was one of 11 states that approved a statewide ban on gay marriage. The ban, known as Proposal 2, won 59 percent of voter support. It was opposed by major newspapers and statewide politicians, but supporters ran a successful campaign in Roman Catholic and evangelical churches, raising $1.2 million. Opponents raised less than half of that.
 Voters also passed a proposal to limit new types of gambling, despite objections by Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm. The proposal, supported by 58 percent of voters, requires voter approval of new forms of legalized gambling, including slot machines and video lottery terminals.

PRESIDENT
97% reporting
Kerry: 2,393,251 -- 51%
Bush: 2,249,215 -- 48%
Nader: 23,171 -- 0%

MINNESOTA -- KERRY
 The power of incumbency in the House of Representatives was clear in the land of 10,000 lakes, where all eight officeholders won re-election. There was only one race that presented even a mild challenge to an incumbent. 
 Representative Mark Kennedy, a Republican, had to struggle to keep his seat. Patty Wetterling, the Democratic challenger, made a surge late in the race, but Mr. Kennedy was able to hold on. This means Minnesota will continue to have four Republicans and four Democrats in the House. 
 With no Senate races and no contest for governor, attention in this swing state focused mainly on which way it would break for president. While Bill Clinton won the state handily in 1996, beating Bob Dole by 16 percentage points, Al Gore barely won the state four years ago with a 2 percent margin. As in other parts of the country, the turnout was high, and the lines at polling stations were often long. Around midnight, it became clear that Senator Kerry would take the state and its 10 electoral votes by roughly the same margin as Mr. Gore.

PRESIDENT
98% reporting
Kerry: 1,411,010 -- 51%
Bush: 1,312,724 -- 48%
Nader: 18,109 -- 1%

MISSOURI -- BUSH
 Secretary of State Matt Blunt, a member of a three-generation political family, defeated State Auditor Claire McCaskill to bring the governor's office under Republican control. 
 There had been speculation that Mr. Blunt, 33, the son of Representative Roy Blunt, the House majority whip, would benefit from a strong showing by President Bush, and that appeared to be the case.
 Surveys of voters leaving the polls showed that a slight majority approved of Mr. Bush's job performance and that those people in turn voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Blunt. Mr. Bush carried the state by seven percentage points.
 Mr. Blunt's conservative stands on social issues also helped him, the surveys said.
 In a nasty campaign that featured attack ads from both sides, Ms. McCaskill, 51, tried to highlight her long resume, which included stints in the State Legislature and as a county prosecutor. She wrested the Democratic nomination away from the incumbent, Bob Holden, in a bitter primary.
 Senator Christopher S. Bond, a Republican and a three-term incumbent, defeated State Treasurer Nancy Farmer, the Democratic challenger. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Blunt's father won his Congressional race easily.
 The departures of Representatives Richard A. Gephardt and Karen McCarthy, both Democrats, left two open Congressional seats, but Democrats won both. 
 A former mayor of Kansas City, Emanuel Cleaver, beat Jeanne Patterson, a political newcomer, to fill Ms. McCarthy's seat. 
 Russ Carnahan, the son of former Senator Jean Carnahan and former Gov. Mel Carnahan, won the race for Mr. Gephardt's seat, defeating Bill Federer.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 1,452,715 -- 53%
Kerry: 1,253,879 -- 46%

SENATE
100% reporting
Bond: 1,514,793 -- 56%
Farmer: 1,153,422 -- 43%

GOVERNOR
100% reporting
Blunt: 1,380,200 -- 51%
McCaskill: 1,296,362 -- 48%

NEBRASKA -- BUSH
 The Republican Party retained its hold on this heartland state, handing President Bush an even bigger victory than it did in 2000. 
 Jeff Fortenberry, 43, a Republican and publishing executive whose only experience in public life was a term on the Lincoln City Council, easily defeated Matt Connealy, the Democratic contender, to take the House seat vacated by Doug Bereuter, a Republican. Mr. Fortenberry, who ran what he called a campaign for ''strong families,'' gained strength in the final days of the campaign when Gov. Mike Johanns began stumping for him.
 Nebraskans also firmly refused to sanction gambling, despite a strong push by proponents who were backed by Nevada gambling companies. A constitutional amendment to allow two casinos near Omaha was rejected, as were two of three initiatives would have opened the state to gambling.
 ''It's a great story of citizens uniting to fight the giant and winning,'' said Pat Loontjer, executive director of Gambling With the Good Life, an antigambling grassroots movement supported by churches, state political figures and Warren E. Buffett, the investor.

PRESIDENT
90% reporting
Bush: 445,839 -- 67%
Kerry: 213,837 -- 32%
Nader: 4,776 -- 1%

NORTH DAKOTA -- BUSH
 By a margin of 46 percent, North Dakotans overwhelmingly approved a constitutional amendment to define marriage. The amendment establishes marriage as a union between a man and a woman and says that ''no other domestic union, however denominated, may be recognized as marriage or given the same or substantially equivalent legal effect.''
 Support for the amendment, however, did not appear to translate into support for conservative candidates, as some had expected. ''Our Democratic member of the House of Representatives won by the largest margin he ever had, and our Democratic senator also won by a huge margin,'' said Mary Kweit, a political science professor at the University of North Dakota. 
 North Dakota, with its predominantly elderly and rural population, is considered a conservative state, yet all its delegates to Congress are Democrats. Senator Byron L. Dorgan had a 36 percent margin over his Republican challenger, Mike Liffrig, a lawyer. Representative Earl Pomeroy, a Democrat, relished a 20 percent margin over his opponent, Duane Sand.
 Yet Gov. John Hoeven, a Republican, won another term. He campaigned on concern about the state's weak economy and job losses and won support from groups that have traditionally backed Democrats, like the state teachers' union, whose members have received two raises during his tenure in the Statehouse.
 Similarly, President Bush easily defeated Senator Kerry here to win the state's three electoral votes. 
 ''That is the eternal mystery of North Dakota politics,'' Professor Kweit said of the public's voting allegiances. ''The explanation I always give is that this is a very small state, just 638,000 people, and the congressional delegation, all of whom are Democrats, do a wonderful job of maintaining contact with people back here. People don't think of a vote for Byron being a vote for a Democrat, they think about voting for Byron.''

PRESIDENT
99% reporting
Bush: 194,668 -- 63%
Kerry: 110,052 -- 36%
Nader: 3,712 -- 1%

SENATE
99% reporting
Dorgan: 210,209 -- 68%
Liffrig: 97,554 -- 32%

GOVERNOR
99% reporting
Hoeven: 218,682 -- 71%
Satrom: 84,182 -- 27%

OHIO -- BUSH
 All eyes ended up looking at Ohio and its 100,000-plus vote lead for President Bush in the hours after the election. Its 20 electoral votes could have given Senator Kerry victory, but the point became moot when he conceded.
 Ohio's sagging economy and job losses proved a boost for Mr. Kerry, voter surveys showed. The worse Ohioans thought of both, the more they were likely to vote for him. He also scored higher than the president in union households. President Bush scored well among older, wealthier and more religious voters.
 George V. Voinovich, a former governor and mayor of Cleveland, continued his forceful presence in Ohio politics, handily winning a second term as senator against Eric Fingerhut, a Democratic state senator. 
 Ohio was one of 11 states that had a ballot measure to bar same-sex marriages, and all passed with strong margins. Ohio's measure was for a state constitutional amendment to define marriage as between a man and a woman, but more drastically, for a ban on any status that ''intends to approximate'' a marriage, meaning partnership benefits like health insurance could be affected. The measure carried by a 62 percent to 38 percent margin. 
 It won despite opposition from Senator Voinovich, his fellow Republican Senator Mike DeWine, figures in business and the clergy, the president of Ohio State University and the state attorney general. Opponents argued the amendment would prevent private firms or public universities from granting benefits to unmarried couples, hurting Ohio's competitiveness. Ohio already has a law banning gay marriage, but supporters said the measure would prevent a judge from overturning it. 

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 2,796,147 -- 51%
Kerry: 2,659,664 -- 49%

SENATE
100% reporting
Voinovich: 3,378,356 -- 64%
Fingerhut: 1,906,648 -- 36%

SOUTH DAKOTA -- BUSH
 In a race as important for its symbolism as for its impact, John Thune, a Republican, ousted the Senate minority leader, Tom Daschle, a veteran of South Dakota politics for nearly 30 years. 
 Mr. Thune, who served three terms in the House, criticized Mr. Daschle in the campaign, saying he was more in tune with the politics of Capitol Hill than the concerns of South Dakota residents. The race remained tight until early yesterday, locked in a dead heat for much of Tuesday night. 
 The loss makes Mr. Daschle the first Senate party leader in more than five decades to be voted out of office. The race had been closely watched by both parties, with White House officials calling the senator an obstructionist for opposing the president on the war in Iraq, tax cuts and judicial nominees. Senator Daschle had fought hard, raising $16 million during the campaign as of mid-October, which he spent largely on television advertisements. Mr. Thune had raised $10 million by the same time.
 Several outside groups spent additional large sums of money to pay for advertisements opposing Senator Daschle.
 After being elected to the House in 1978, Mr. Daschle captured a Senate seat in 1986 and won each of his previous three bids for re-election with relative ease. 
 In 2002, Mr. Thune ran against Senator Tim Johnson and lost by fewer than 550 votes. Just as he did in that race, Mr. Thune said this year that he would be able to work well with Republicans in the Senate and with President Bush. 
 This time, Mr. Thune rode the strong wave of support for Mr. Bush, who won with the same 22 percent margin as he did in 2000. Several political analysts had said that the Senate race would probably be determined by the presidential vote. Senator Kerry received 38 percent of the vote, and Ralph Nader received 1 percent. 

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 232,545 -- 60%
Kerry: 149,225 -- 38%
Nader: 4,317 -- 1%

SENATE
100% reporting
Thune: 197,814 -- 51%
Daschle: 193,279 -- 49%

WISCONSIN -- KERRY
 In Wisconsin, where Al Gore just barely defeated George W. Bush in 2000, Senator Kerry had a slight edge over President Bush this time. After weeks of fierce campaigning by both sides that culminated in rival rallies in Milwaukee on Monday, Mr. Kerry captured 50 percent of the vote to Mr. Bush's 49 percent.
 Senator Russell D. Feingold, a Democrat, fought back a stiff challenge from Tim Michels, a Republican, winning 55 percent of the vote to earn a third term.
 Mr. Feingold, perhaps best known for championing campaign finance, and Mr. Michels, a wealthy construction company executive and former Army Ranger, clashed over a host of issues, like health care, taxes, the war in Iraq and the Patriot Act. 
 Mr. Feingold was the lone senator to vote against the act, saying he feared that it would infringe on civil liberties. Mr. Michels criticized Mr. Feingold for being too liberal, ran campaign commercials with images of the World Trade Center and voiced support for the Iraq war. 
 Mr. Feingold, in turn, portrayed Mr. Michels as a political novice, particularly after he acknowledged he had not read the Patriot Act in full. 
 The state's incumbent representatives, four Republicans and three Democrats, were re-elected, with Gwen Moore, a Democrat, winning the one open seat.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Kerry: 1,488,935 -- 50%
Bush: 1,477,122 -- 49%
Nader: 16,324 -- 1%

SENATE
100% reporting
Feingold: 1,632,562 -- 55%
Michels: 1,301,305 -- 44%


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Balance of Power in the States: Midwest''States with a change in control of a legislative chamber or the governor's office in bold. Outlined bar indicates which party switched power by gaining the majority or winning the governor's seat.Chart shows the party in majority control, by each aforementioned state, for:Governorproportion of State Houseproportion of State SenateNebraska is not included because it has a unicameral, nonpartisan legislature.* Michigan and Minnesota held State House races, but no State Senate races.(Sources by National Conference of State Legislatures
 National Governors Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); MARRIAGE (67%); ABORTION (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); BUDGETS (64%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (51%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Election Results; Legislature; Governors (US)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%) House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); MITCH DANIELS (78%); EVAN BAYH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (79%) United States; Midwestern States (US); Illinois; Michigan; Minnesota; Missouri; United States; Nebraska; North Dakota; Ohio; South Dakota; Indiana; Kansas; Iowa; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



92 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- South; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 3503 words

HEADLINE: Strong performances by President Bush and Republican senators.

BYLINE: Contributing to this report were Elissa Gootman, Patrick Healy, Michael Janofsky, Michael Luo, Jennifer Medina, Robert Pear, Richard Prez-Pea, Marc Santora, Stephanie Strom and Daniel J. Wakin.

 BODY:

ALABAMA -- BUSH
 Alabama produced neither surprise nor drama on election night as the state showed itself as the Republican presidential stronghold it has been for the last three decades.
 President Bush built his 26-point victory on the strength of support from every age demographic and from all economic groups except the very poorest, according to voter surveys. 
 Only voters earning under $15,000 favored Senator Kerry.
 In winning a fourth term, Senator Richard C. Shelby finished even stronger than Mr. Bush, with a 36-point victory over Wayne Sowell, a Democrat who was the first black Senate candidate ever nominated by a major party in Alabama. Black voters were the only demographic group that gave him more votes than Mr. Shelby.
 The House races played out as pre-election polls predicted. All six incumbents who faced opposition -- four Republicans and two Democrats -- won easily. 
 Representative Spencer Bachus, a conservative Republican who represents majors parts of the Birmingham metropolitan area, had no Democratic opponent and thus won a seventh term.

PRESIDENT
99% reporting
Bush: 1,171,067 -- 63%
Kerry: 690,123 -- 37%
Nader: 6,658 -- 0%

SENATE
98% reporting
Shelby: 1,231,610 -- 68%
Sowell: 590,360 -- 32%

ARKANSAS -- BUSH
 Despite a last-minute appearance by former President Bill Clinton in his home state of Arkansas on Sunday, President Bush won the state by a greater margin than he did in 2000. Polls had shown the race tilting in Mr. Bush's favor over the summer but then tightening toward the end.
 In the Senate race, Blanche Lincoln, the Democratic incumbent, defeated State Senator Jim Holt, who made his opposition to gay marriage and his stance on other conservative social values the overriding theme of his campaign. 
 He tried to paint his opponent as ultraliberal, but Ms. Lincoln argued that she was a centrist, and she drew the endorsement of several conservative groups.
 She had served two terms in the House before quitting to raise children but then returned to politics in 1998 to claim the Senate seat vacated by Dale Bumpers. 
 With Democrats losing Senate races throughout the South on Tuesday, she and Senator Mark Pryor, also of Arkansas, are among the few Democratic senators left in the region.
 In the state's three contested House races, incumbents all won, including Vic Snyder, a Democrat, whose opponent, State Representative Marvin Parks, also tried to draw distinctions based on their stances on social issues. 
 John Boozman, a Republican, and Marion Berry, a Democrat, easily defeated their opponents. 
 Voters also passed a state ballot measure banning gay marriage.

PRESIDENT
97% reporting
Bush: 546,316 -- 54%
Kerry: 452,090 -- 45%
Nader: 5,892 -- 1%

SENATE
97% reporting
Lincoln: 555,199 -- 56%
Holt: 437,744 -- 44%

FLORIDA -- BUSH
 President Bush won a crucial victory in Florida, the site of an agonizing recount four years ago, and his former secretary of housing and urban development, Mel Martinez, won the Senate seat being vacated by Bob Graham, an influential Democrat.
 Mr. Bush won more than 75 percent of the vote in a handful of counties in north Florida and won support from swing voters in central Florida, while Senator Kerry's best showing came in southeast Florida, including Broward and Palm Beach Counties.
 The president carried several counties in central Florida, like Hernando and Pasco, that he lost to Al Gore in 2000.
 After a tight, hard-fought race that included personal attacks, the Democrats' Senate candidate, Betty Castor, conceded yesterday to Mr. Martinez, who will become the first Cuban American in the Senate. 
 Ms. Castor, a former president of the University of South Florida, said her race was so close that it reminded her of the last presidential election. ''I was conjuring up 2000,'' she said.
 Mr. Martinez will provide an additional vote for the Bush administration on many issues. He has supported the war in Iraq; opposes abortion and embryonic stem cell research; would limit noneconomic damages in medical malpractice suits; and would allow younger workers to set aside some of their Social Security taxes in private retirement accounts.
 Representative Katherine Harris, the former state official who was at the center of disputed election rulings in the 2000 presidential recount battle, won her bid for a second term. In the Florida Panhandle, Representative Allen Boyd, a conservative Democrat, won a fifth term.
 Voters approved an increase in the minimum wage and decided to give the public more information about doctors' mistakes and to take away the medical licenses of doctors who make repeated errors.

PRESIDENT
99% reporting
Bush: 3,836,217 -- 52%
Kerry: 3,459,299 -- 47%
Nader: 32,036 -- 0%

SENATE
99% reporting
Martinez: 3,551,629 -- 49%
Castor: 3,470,405 -- 48%

GEORGIA -- BUSH
 President Bush easily defeated Senator Kerry, as was expected; in the 10 previous presidential elections, Georgians backed the Democratic candidate only three times, including twice when Jimmy Carter, a Georgian, was the nominee. 
 In the race to succeed Senator Zell Miller, a Democrat who harshly criticized Mr. Kerry at the Republican National Convention and did not seek re-election, the Republican candidate, Representative Johnny Isakson, defeated Representative Denise L. Majette, a Democrat. 
 By vacating her House seat to run for the Senate, Ms. Majette angered some supporters of her successful bid two years ago to unseat Cynthia A. McKinney, the Democratic firebrand known for her incendiary remarks, including a suggestion that Mr. Bush might have known about the Sept. 11 attacks but did nothing to stop them. Ms. McKinney, who was more subdued this time around, won the seat back. 
 In a heavily contested Congressional race, John Barrow, a Democrat, unseated Representative Max Burns, a Republican, in a district drawn to favor Democratic candidates. Mr. Burns had criticized Mr. Barrow for declining to say how he would vote on a proposed state constitutional amendment banning gay marriage. 
 That measure passed, although opponents said they planned to challenge its legality. 
 In another contested House race, Representative Jim Marshall, a Democrat, held his seat against Calder Clay, a Republican he narrowly beat two years ago. 

PRESIDENT
99% reporting
Bush: 1,787,218 -- 59%
Kerry: 1,239,804 -- 41%

SENATE
99% reporting
Isakson: 1,735,297 -- 58%
Majette: 1,170,343 -- 39%

KENTUCKY -- BUSH
 The race for Senator Jim Bunning's seat gave Republicans one of their few serious scares of election night. But with a heavy pro-Bush turnout, especially in rural western Kentucky, Mr. Bunning held off a late charge by State Senator Daniel Mongiardo, a Democrat.
 Mr. Bunning, a Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher, has a reputation for being irascible, and he won his seat six years ago by a slim margin. But as a conservative incumbent in a conservative state, facing a little-known and underfinanced opponent, he was a heavy favorite this year. For months, polls showed him with a double-digit lead.
 But the race turned raucous in the final weeks, and Dr. Mongiardo climbed in the polls. Mr. Bunning said his opponent resembled a son of Saddam Hussein, then apologized for the remark. He refused to attend a scheduled debate, instead taking part by satellite from Washington, where he read some remarks from a teleprompter.
 Mr. Bunning, 73, said that he was unaware of widely reported news from Iraq and that he had not read a newspaper in six weeks. He charged that a Mongiardo aide had physically assaulted his wife, which Democrats denied.
 Democrats seized on the senator's behavior, calling him out of touch and questioning his physical and mental health. Mr. Bunning then released medical records and saying that Dr. Mongiardo was inexperienced and had accomplished nothing in government.
 In one of the nation's most closely watched and one of the most expensive House races, Geoff Davis, a Republican, won a seat that was held by a Democrat, Ken Lucas, who retired. Mr. Davis, a businessman, defeated Nick Clooney, a former television news reporter and newspaper columnist and the father of the actor George Clooney, by a 11 percentage points. 

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 1,061,608 -- 60%
Kerry: 706,503 -- 40%
Nader: 8,77 -- 90%

SENATE
100% reporting
Bunning: 865,424 -- 51%
Mongiardo: 843,011 -- 49%

LOUISIANA -- BUSH
 For the first time since Reconstruction, Louisiana has elected a Republican senator, Representative David Vitter. Mr. Vitter defeated three major Democratic rivals to win the seat left open by John B. Breaux, a moderate Democrat retiring this year.
 Mr. Vitter, the only Republican candidate, won 51 percent of the vote, defeating his nearest rival by 22 percentage points. Mr. Vitter had been expected to win a plurality, but he needed the majority to avoid a runoff election in December.
 Elliot Stonecipher, a Louisiana political consultant, said the campaign offered ''an alignment of everything the gods could offer'' to a Republican in the state. 
 Heavy rains along the Gulf Coast probably kept many voters at home, Mr. Stonecipher said. After the presidential campaigns shifted their energy and money away from Louisiana, interest in the statewide races dissipated. 
 And a barrage of negative advertisements from the Democrats seemed to backfire, further building Mr. Vitter's lead. Mr. Stonecipher said the three Democrats ''hit him with the kitchen sink'' with ads attacking Mr. Vitter for things like old traffic tickets.
 Two House races in Gulf Coast districts will be decided by runoff elections. 
 In the Third District, Billy Tauzin III, a Republican, finished first, with a 32 percent plurality. In the Seventh District, another Republican, Charles Boustany, won with a 39 percent plurality.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 1,101,710 -- 57%
Kerry: 818,211 -- 42%
Nader: 7,015 -- 0%

SENATE
100% reporting
Vitter: 941,231 -- 51%
John: 540,774 -- 29%
Kennedy: 275,214 -- 15%

MISSISSIPPI -- BUSH

Mississippians overwhelmingly approved a ballot measure to ban gay marriage, easily surpassing Gov. Haley Barbour's hope that the initiative would get at least 80 percent of the vote. The constitutional amendment is expected to give more power to a state law that already prohibits such unions, but opponents say they still intend to fight the measure in court.
 Each of the four House incumbents was re-elected with a healthy margin. Republicans Roger Wicker and Charles W. Pickering Jr. each received about 80 percent of the vote, with no Democratic challengers. Representatives Bennie Thompson and Gene Taylor will remain the state's only Democrats in Congress. 
 President Bush sailed to win the state's six electoral votes. The last time the state chose the Democratic candidate was in 1976, when it went for Jimmy Carter.

PRESIDENT
97% reporting
Bush: 649,859 -- 59%
Kerry: 435,570 -- 40%
Nader: 2,965 -- 0%

NORTH CAROLINA -- BUSH
 Republicans called North Carolina their three-B state, for Bush, Burr and Ballantine, the party's candidates for president, senator and governor, respectively.
 They emerged from the election with two out of three. President Bush won by 13 percentage points, and Representative Richard M. Burr picked up the Senate seat left vacant by John Edwards, the Democratic nominee for vice president.
 But Gov. Michael F. Easley, a Democrat, fended off a challenge from the Republican, Patrick Ballantine, winning 55 percent to 43 percent.
 Party control of the state's House seats did not change hands.
 Mr. Bush was widely expected to carry North Carolina, but until recently, Democrats were confident they would win the state's Senate race.
 This summer, Mr. Burr was 10 points behind his Democratic rival, Erskine Bowles, President Bill Clinton's former chief of staff. After losing an earlier Senate bid to Elizabeth Dole in 2002, Mr. Bowles campaigned this year as a shirtsleeves moderate. He traveled on a bus and said he was not beholden to the interests of the Democratic Party.
 The race narrowed in the fall as Mr. Burr ran a fusillade of television advertisements negatively comparing Mr. Bowles to President Clinton. 
 Mr. Burr also won ground after Congress passed a $10 billion federal tobacco buyout favored by many farmers.
 The race, which cost $20 million, was one of the most expensive Senate contests in the country. Mr. Bowles pumped $2.6 million of his own money into the campaign in October. Yesterday, victorious Republicans jabbed at Mr. Bowles and Mr. Edwards, both multimillionaires, by saying that Mr. Burr's victory proved that the Senate seat was not reserved for the wealthy.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 1,896,288 -- 56%
Kerry: 1,458,753 -- 43%

SENATE
100% reporting
Burr: 1,728,246 -- 52%
Bowles: 1,555,509 -- 47%

GOVERNOR
100% reporting
Easley: 1,839,039 -- 55%
Ballantine: 1,450,042 -- 43%

OKLAHOMA -- BUSH
 As the fierce race for an open Senate seat finished, the Republican, former Representative Tom Coburn, led in most polls, though not by much. But in the end, it was not close. The Bush tide buoyed Dr. Coburn; turnout in this solidly Republican state was up by 20 percent from 2000.
 A month ago, the contest looked like a dead heat, thanks in part to the iconoclasm of Dr. Coburn, a fiscal conservative who criticized both parties for budget deficits and pork barrel spending. Party leaders had backed more moderate Republicans to succeed Senator Don Nickles, who is retiring, but Dr. Coburn easily won the primary.
 Democrats charged that Dr. Coburn was out of the mainstream, noting that he opposed spending even for projects in Oklahoma. He replied that his views would make his voice an independent one in Washington.
 Dr. Coburn, a family physician, was hurt by allegations that he had sterilized an under-age patient against her will and committed Medicaid fraud in that case -- charges that he denied -- and for a time, his Democratic opponent, Brad Carson, pulled even or slightly ahead in most polls. But in the last month, Republican officials and antitax groups lavished resources on the race, calling Mr. Carson a liberal. He tried hard to distance himself from Senator Kerry, whom he halfheartedly endorsed, but conservatives often reminded voters of the connection.
 A defining moment came in a debate last week, when the candidates were asked what they would do when their own views clashed with those of most Oklahomans. Mr. Carson said he would defer to his constituents; Dr. Coburn said he would follow his conscience, regardless of public opinion.
 By a three-to-one margin, Oklahoma voters approved a ban on same-sex marriage, and by almost two-to-one, they voted to create a state lottery.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 959,670 -- 66%
Kerry: 504,066 -- 34%

SENATE
100% reporting
Coburn: 763,230 -- 53%
Carson: 594,768 -- 41%
Bilyeu: 86,555 -- 6%

SOUTH CAROLINA -- BUSH
 Standing by his staunch conservative ideology proved successful for Jim DeMint, a three-term Republican congressman, in the South Carolina Senate race. Mr. DeMint defeated Inez Tenenbaum, a Democrat, 54 percent to 44 percent. His victory for the seat, held since 1966 by Senator Ernest F. Hollings, a Democrat who is retiring, contributed to the Republicans' increased majority in the Senate. 
 Mr. DeMint was helped by President Bush, who carried the state with 58 percent of the vote. Ms. Tenenbaum had tried to distance herself from the national party, but seemed unable to shake accusations that she was too liberal for the conservative state. 
 Democrats had counted on a strong showing by young and black voters to help Ms. Tenenbaum, the state superintendent of education. She had fared better in polls in recent weeks after Mr. DeMint said that gays and single mothers should not be public school teachers. (He later softened his remarks.) 
 But voter surveys on Tuesday showed that Mr. DeMint had done surprisingly well among black voters, whose support Ms. Tenenbaum had counted on. 
 Mr. DeMint repeatedly said he would be able to work closely with other Republicans in the Senate, including his ally, Senator Lindsey Graham. The two will be the first pair of Republicans to hold the state's Senate seats since Reconstruction. Republicans now hold four of the state's six House seats.

PRESIDENT
100% reporting
Bush: 916,627 -- 58%
Kerry: 642,244 -- 41%
Nader: 5,399 -- 0%

SENATE
100% reporting
DeMint: 838,769 -- 54%
Tennebaum: 686,971 -- 44%

TENNESSEE -- BUSH
 The night of uncertainty over the presidential race could have been dispelled by a quick look at Tennessee, which has not backed a losing presidential candidate since 1960, even to the detriment of its native son Al Gore in 2000. President Bush easily won its 11 electoral votes on Tuesday, defeating Senator Kerry with a 15-point margin.
 In other races, Lincoln Davis, a Democrat, kept his House seat, beating Janice Bowling in a replay of their race two years ago. The eight other incumbents, divided equally between both parties, also returned to office with wide margins of victory. There were no races for Senate seats or for governor.

PRESIDENT
99% reporting
Bush: 1,381,237 -- 57%
Kerry: 1,032,789 -- 42%
Nader: 8,832 -- 0%

TEXAS -- BUSH

The incendiary redistricting in Texas -- engineered by Tom DeLay, the House majority leader, and aimed at ensuring the Republican grip on the House of Representatives -- met with tremendous success except for one significant race.
 Representative Chet Edwards, a Democrat and a veteran of tough election battles, defeated his Republican challenger, State Representative Arlene Wohlgemuth, by a margin of 4 percent. He managed to win even though Fort Hood, where he had cultivated loyal constituents with his attention to military and veterans' affairs, was cut out of his new district by the DeLay plan.
 The district includes Crawford, the tiny town where President Bush has his ranch, but Mr. Edwards's victory came as little surprise to W. Leon Smith, editor of The Lone Star Iconoclast and The Clifton Record, which endorsed Senator Kerry. ''He's very well-liked and trusted,'' Mr. Smith said of Mr. Edwards. ''He's voted with Bush on a lot of initiatives over the last four years, and he has a rural mind-set, which meets the criteria for this area. He's a family man, and he's really worked hard for this district.''
 Ms. Wohlgemuth ran a take-no-prisoners campaign in a district that Mr. Smith described as ''made-to-order for her'' but could not defeat the seven-term incumbent.
 In an interview yesterday with the nationally syndicated talk-show radio host Mike Gallagher, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas chided his party for bungling the race. ''When you look at of the contested races out there, the Democrats only won one and the fact of the matter is, anecdotal evidence tells us the only reason they won that one is because of a poorly run campaign by the Republicans,'' Governor Perry said.
 Two other longtime Democratic incumbents, Charles W. Stenholm and Martin Frost, did not fare as well, losing their seats to Republican incumbents Randy Neugebauer and Pete Sessions, respectively. 
 Louis Gohmert, a Republican and former judge, won the seat held by Max Sandlin, a Democrat, and Ted Poe, another former judge, ousted Nick Lampson, another Democratic incumbent.
 The defeat of those four Democrats shifted control of the Texas House delegation to the Republicans, who now hold 20 of the state's 32 seats. In 2003, the Democrats held 17 of them.
 Mr. DeLay, who twice was recently faulted by the House Ethics Committee, had no problem retaining his seat.

PRESIDENT
99% reporting
Bush: 4,495,797 -- 61%
Kerry: 2,816,501 -- 38%

VIRGINIA -- BUSH
 President Bush carried the state once again, making it 40 years and counting since Virginia went Democratic in a presidential election. Aides to Senator Kerry had hoped the streak would end this year, with the state's population shifting toward the north, which has a less of a conservative emphasis. 
 The Democrats invested heavily in television advertisements over the summer and, after seeming to back away in September, sent $50,000 more to the state in the campaign's final days. They had been counting on support from voters in Northern Virginia and along the coast, where they hoped Mr. Kerry's status as a decorated veteran would help with the region's concentration of military bases. But Mr. Bush's strength in rural parts of the state, as well as in the conservative suburbs, trumped any inroads Mr. Kerry made. 
 Democrats were disappointed as well in the race for a seat vacated by Representative Edward L. Schrock, a Republican who suddenly withdrew after allegations were published on a Web site that he had solicited gay sex through a telephone service. Despite having only 60 days to put together a campaign, Thelma Drake, a Norfolk real estate agent and Republican member of the State House of Delegates, defeated David B. Ashe, a lawyer and Marine veteran, in a heavily conservative district. Incumbents won in the 10 other House races. 
 In Richmond, L. Douglas Wilder, who 15 years ago became the country's first black elected governor, was elected mayor of his hometown, capping a political comeback. 

PRESIDENT
99% reporting
Bush: 1,661,066 -- 54%
Kerry: 1,408,405 -- 46%


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Balance of Power in the States: South''States with a change in control of a legislative chamber or the governor's office in bold. Outlined bar indicates which party switched power by gaining the majority or winning the governor's seat. States that did not have elections in 2004 are in italics.Chart shows the party in majority control, by each aforementioned state, for:Governorproportion of State Houseproportion of State Senate(Sources by National Conference of State Legislatures
 National Governors Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); REFERENDUMS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); MARRIAGE (67%); MARRIAGE LAW (62%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (62%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (62%) Election Results; Legislature; Governors (US)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%) Senate (US); House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (78%); MARK PRYOR (58%); JOHN BOOZMAN (58%); VIC SNYDER (58%); MARION BERRY (58%); SPENCER BACHUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; Southern States (US); Alabama; Arkansas; Georgia; Louisiana; United States; Mississippi; Oklahoma; Tennessee; Texas; Florida; Kentucky; North Carolina; South Carolina; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



93 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: ENERGY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: After the Voting: What May Lie Ahead for Business in America

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:

A Prospect for Oil Prices To Help Shape Policy
 President Bush's victory comes at a time of near-record oil prices, and the issue could end up shaping his administration's energy policy over the next four years.
 Crude oil prices have risen more than 70 percent since Mr. Bush came to office in January 2001, pushing gasoline and heating oil to record levels. 
 With most of the world's oil producers pumping at capacity, high prices threaten to slow economic growth in the United States, weighing on business costs and adding hundreds of dollars a year to households' expenses. 
 To try to offset this, analysts said, the administration is expected to endorse drilling for oil in part of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska and to take some steps to limit demand.
 But squaring these goals with the president's calls to reduce American dependency on oil from the Middle East could prove a challenge, especially for an administration headed by two former oilmen.
 J. Robinson West, the chairman of PFC Energy, an energy adviser in Washington, noted that ''one of the biggest applause lines in both campaigns came when they mentioned energy independence from the Middle East and Saudi Arabia.'' 
 ''Of course, energy independence is a meaningless concept,'' Mr. West said, ''but they will clearly try to increase oil supplies in the United States and make an effort to deal with demand.''
 The administration, he added, could be expected in the second term to encourage the development of hybrid cars, alternative fuels like natural gas, and renewable energy to limit the country's energy dependency by slowing the growth in demand. 
 Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates and author of a Pulitzer Prize-winning history of oil, ''The Prize,'' said: ''The big challenge is the need to increase oil production over the next 20 years in very substantial volumes. We will see a focus on policies that encourage increased and diversified oil production.'' 
 The idea of more oil drilling in Alaska -- part of the recommendations put forward by an energy task force led by Vice President Dick Cheney in 2001 -- has been contested for years on the ground that it could harm the region's environment. 
 ''They'll want to put the issue in front of the American public,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the PIRA Energy Group in New York. ''But I don't think it will go through. There are still a lot of people in Congress opposed to it, and the new administration won't have the ability to break a filibuster.''
 One policy the president is not expected to change is his opposition to releasing oil from the strategic reserve to bring down prices. Quite the opposite, analysts said. Mr. Bush is expected to keep filling the reserve. 
 The administration's foreign policy will affect its energy policies -- in particular, relations with Iraq, Iran and Saudi Arabia. 
 ''Energy security in the United States is still focused on the Middle East,'' said Ian Bremmer, who heads the Eurasia Group, a political risk consultancy. JAD MOUAWAD




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); WILDLIFE (69%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (64%); WRITERS (62%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (62%); FILIBUSTER (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Exploration of Resources; Automobiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Strategic Petroleum Reserve; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Electric Vehicles; Energy Efficiency

COMPANY: IHS INC (65%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (65%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%) George Bush; Jad Mouawad; David A Bell

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ARCTIC (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Arctic National Wildlife Refuge 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



94 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE 2004 ELECTIONS: HEALTH CARE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: After the Voting: What May Lie Ahead for Business in America

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR and MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:

Mounting Costs And Tax Breaks
 In a second term, the Bush administration expects the nation's burdensome health care bill to continue mounting at a brisk pace -- from an estimated $1.79 trillion, or $6,167 a person, in 2004 to a projected $2.39 trillion, or $7,928 a person, in 2008. 
 As in its first term, the administration will seek to restrain the growth in spending and improve health quality by providing tax breaks, free-market incentives and greater choice for individuals in shopping for their own care. 
 At the same time, the administration says it will have only a limited role in regulating prices for drugs, medical devices and health services. Senator John Kerry had proposed a larger role for government in both paying for health care and controlling prices. 
 With the Bush victory, the shares of pharmaceutical makers like Pfizer, Merck and Eli Lilly, and for-profit health maintenance organizations like United HealthCare, Aetna and Wellpoint rose sharply yesterday. ''We're seeing a big collective sigh of relief from those companies,'' said Kenneth Thorpe, a health care economist at Emory University.
 But no matter who is in the White House, big policy challenges remain. Roughly 45 million people are uninsured in the United States, and an estimated 70 percent of them are employed. To increase coverage, the Bush administration supports creating tax credits and health savings accounts and associated health plans for small businesses. Those strategies are intended to reduce the cost of health insurance for small employers and individual workers. But those kinds of health plans typically require sizable out-of-pocket payments by individuals. 
 ''Conservatives want to see universal health care by using tax credits and health savings accounts, and that should and will be on the agenda,'' said Robert Goldberg, director of the Center for Medical Progress at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group.
 But a major expansion of tax credits and plans with tax incentives would be very costly. Many analysts are skeptical that the Bush administration will make a major commitment to expanding these programs when it has made maintaining income tax cuts for individuals its priority and the nation is running a huge budget deficit. 
 While health savings accounts will probably be expanded in the new Congress, according to Frank B. McArdle, a health policy specialist at Hewitt Associates, a consulting firm, he noted that ''there will be no big shift, but a continued gradual shift toward an individual consumer marketplace.''
 Another change may come on the medical malpractice front. With a larger majority in the Senate, the Bush administration, analysts say, may well be able to win approval for legislation capping medical malpractice payouts, which Democrats have thwarted in the past. 
 Support for medical liability limits seems to be gaining ground nationally, with Florida, Nevada and Oregon passing state referendums capping malpractice payments on Tuesday. The votes on Wyoming's malpractice referendum were still being counted yesterday afternoon.
 Despite the Bush victory, many industry experts expect a greater government role in health care in the long run. The pharmaceutical industry offers a good example. By the end of 2006, when the new Medicare drug benefit program is in full operation, the government will be paying for half of all prescription drugs purchased in the United States, Richard Evans, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, estimated.
 The appeal of using that buying power to curb price increases may prove irresistible, Mr. Evans said. ''Bush isn't going there for political or ideological reasons, but he may eventually go there for economic reasons,'' he said. ''For the pharmaceutical industry, I think the Bush re-election means we're taking the long road to government price influence instead of the short road under Kerry.'' STEVE LOHR and MILT FREUDENHEIM




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); DRUG PRICES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); INCOME TAX (73%); APPROVALS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); MEDICAL DEVICES (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (65%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (65%); LITIGATION (62%); REFERENDUMS (60%) Medicine and Health; Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation; Malpractice; Tax Credits; Law and Legislation; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (90%); AON HEWITT (62%); ELI LILLY & CO (56%); WELLPOINT INC (56%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFEB (BRU) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%); LLY (SWX) (56%); LLY (NYSE) (56%); LEL (LSE) (56%); WLP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (62%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (62%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Steve Lohr; Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



95 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ford Motor Settles Suit Over Goldman Offering
The Ford Motor Company agreed to settle a lawsuit that accused William Clay Ford Jr., left, of improperly accepting shares of the initial public offering of the Goldman Sachs Group, which agreed to pay $13.4 million under the deal.
 The lawsuit, filed by Ford shareholders, said Mr. Ford received an allocation of 400,000 shares in 1999 because he was the leader of Ford, which had deep banking ties with Goldman Sachs. [Page C4.]

Auto Sales Rose 2.2% Last Month
Auto sales rose 2.2 percent in October, to a strong seasonally adjusted sales rate of 16.9 million cars and trucks, but General Motors and Ford Motor continued to lose ground to import brands. [C4.]

Constellation Buying Mondavi
Constellation Brands has signed an agreement to buy the Robert Mondavi Corporation for about $1 billion. [C11.]

A Tax Defeat for the I.R.S.
A federal judge dealt a blow to the Internal Revenue Service in its battle against questionable tax shelters, ordering the agency to refund to a private entity controlled by General Electric more than $62 million stemming from a deal the I.R.S. had deemed a sham. [C2.]

Studios Expected to File Lawsuits
The trade group that represents Hollywood's major motion picture studios is expected to file as many as 230 lawsuits against individuals who have illegally shared movie files over the Internet. [C6.]

New Details on Ovitz Contract
A former director of the Walt Disney Company who helped negotiate the contract of Michael Ovitz laid the blame for the uproar after Mr. Ovitz was fired on press reports that led people to believe the $140 million payment he received was a severance package, rather than part of his contract. [C2.]

Hilfiger Delays Earnings Results
Shares of Tommy Hilfiger fell to a 52-week low after the company, which is already facing an investigation by the United States attorney's office in Manhattan, announced disappointing sales and declining operating margins. The company also announced that it would delay the release of its earnings because of the investigation, which could affect the company's tax liability. [C5.]

Safety Reviewer Talks About Vioxx
A federal drug-safety reviewer contends that an effort to publish his study demonstrating the dangers of Vioxx was delayed and demeaned by top officials at the Food and Drug Administration. [A21.]

Another Loss at Interpublic
The Interpublic Group of Companies had another loss, its seventh consecutive quarter of net losses. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C5.]

Earnings Rise at News Corporation
The News Corporation, which is controlled by Rupert Murdoch, said that its fiscal first-quarter profit rose 27 percent, in part because advertising sales increased at its cable networks, like the Fox News Channel. [C11.]

U.S. Offers Research Grants
Entrepreneurs have discovered that the United States military and a scattering of other agencies award small businesses with promising products more than $2 billion a year in research grants. Small Business. [C6.]

God and the Electorate
Religious issues may be at the forefront of political debate because few people go to church. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,137.05 up 101.32Nasdaq composite -- 2,004.33 up 19.5410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.08% up 0.03The euro -- $1.2821 up 0.0147The dollar -- 106.15 yen down 0.24Graph: ''TODAY'' shows U.S. productivity figures for the last six quarters.U.S. ProductivityThird quarter figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.5%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Tommy Hilfiger shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); TAX LAW (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SEVERANCE PAY (77%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); JUDGES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); MOVIE RELEASE DATE CHANGES (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%); DRUG SAFETY (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (94%); ROBERT MONDAVI CORP (83%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (83%); NEWS CORP (81%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%); WALT DISNEY CO (66%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (94%); IPG (NYSE) (83%); NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%); DIS (NYSE) (66%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); STZ (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (83%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (66%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (56%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004



96 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; The City Life; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Caught Up in the Underground Blues

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

 BODY:
The woman wasn't just singing ''R-E-S-P-E-C-T'' -- she was earning it from a big audience by the subway stairs, booming the lyrics out toward the steel rails of the express train. ''Find-out-what-it-means-to-me!'' sang Alice Tan Ridley in a tattoo of insistence that cut through the city's screech and hurry. Some passers-by stopped in their tracks and ripped off headsets that were playing their own private songs and reveries. 
 Headset removal in the subways is the penultimate compliment for Ms. Ridley. The ultimate is the dollar bills and coins dropped into her busker's cup by New Yorkers snagged on her exhaustive rhythm-and-blues repertory. 
 There are many intrusions in the average New Yorker's subway ride: bad-actor beggars, noisome bucket drummers, a self-announced unemployed man pressing his resume on strangers, loud mendicants invoking the homeless while offering free (prop?) sandwiches to puzzled worker-riders. A bit of decent live music counts as an antidote. The Caribbean gentleman who suddenly riffs a little Mozart on his steel drum in Midtown is worth a buck. Perversely, the bleary-eyed fellow uptown who endlessly sings ''Misty'' a cappella against the subway tiles has my dollar whenever he stops. 
 But for sheer entertainment, it's hard to hear better than Ms. Ridley, who has earned her heartening place by auditioning for it. There's a hierarchical touch to the world of buskers, and Ms. Ridley is at the acme -- one of the more than 100 performers the transit system has certified to hang a genuine ''Music Under New York'' plastic banner to let her audience know she's special. She is, although she says there are legions of bannerless subway performers just as good.
 ''A lot of talent walking around New York needing a showcase,'' she says after wailing a rendition of ''Midnight Train to Georgia'' that left her husky-voiced and glistening with sweat.
 After 13 years as a city schoolteacher (''I loved it''), Ms. Ridley was so tempted by an urge to perform that she chucked her classroom for the subway platform. ''Just set up and start to sing,'' she advises. ''Play off the crowd's energy.'' At a typical session, some people who stopped for a quick listen were seen to stay an hour, missing trains, peeling out dollars more than once, a few breaking into dance. Strangers book her on the spot for funerals and weddings. Regulars call the transit system to find out where she's singing.
 ''I got a career,'' the singer affirms after 12 years underground. She also has a rare city perspective: she recognizes scores of familiar faces in supposedly anonymous crowds. ''People think they're alone walking New York, but I know different.'' FRANCIS X. CLINES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STREET ART (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); TRAINS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%) Transit Systems; Subways ; Music; Editorials

PERSON: Alice Tan Ridley; Francis X Clines

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (55%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



97 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; JOURNEYS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours Baton Rouge, La.

BYLINE: By PABLEAUX JOHNSON

 BODY:
FOR a midsize industrial city, Baton Rouge, La., wears many hats: state capital, petrochemical hub, college town. Situated about 80 miles up the Mississippi River from New Orleans, it is Louisiana's second-largest city and home to Louisiana State University and its fighting Tiger football team. Last year's finish as N.C.A.A. co-champions was a godsend to lifelong fans, but rabid L.S.U. boosters turn out for every home game regardless of the win-loss record; fanatical school spirit tends to run in families and to span many generations. If you travel to Baton Rouge for a home game, be prepared for a full-contact spectator experience as Tiger Town roars to life. PABLEAUX JOHNSON

Friday

5 p.m.
1. Color Up
First, the costume. Stop by the L.S.U. campus for a leisurely stroll on the oak-shaded paths and stock up on at least one piece of school-branded purple and gold attire -- the bare minimum for game day. Hit the racks at the L.S.U. Bookstore on the first floor of the Student Union building (225-578-5137).

7:30 p.m.
2. Under the Overpass
L.S.U. comes by its party school reputation honestly, which means that Baton Rouge depends heavily on good bar food. Head out to George's Restaurant (2943 Perkins Road, 225-343-2363), a low-slung brick building in the shadow of a highway overpass, and get ready for a night of outstanding Louisiana barroom specialties. Start off with a cup of rich chicken and sausage gumbo ($3.95), chunky with smoked sausage and soothing on a brisk autumn night. Other portions are anything but controlled: a platter of thin-cut fried catfish filets ($7.75) could easily feed two; the Doug's Special ($8.95) -- a hamburger steak topped with gravy, ham, cheese, grilled onions and bacon -- weighs in at more than a pound and is a savory, glorious mess for the fearless carnivore.

Saturday

9 a.m.
3. Playing the Market
Grab breakfast at the Red Stick Farmers' Market, which runs until noon near the Main Street Market (501 Main Street, 225-267-5060). Sweet local citrus fruits, including irresistible mandarin-like satsumas, are at their peak now and go perfectly with cinnamon rolls or rich sweet potato pies from the bakers' tables. If you're craving a warmer way to start your day, pop into the Capital Corner Market and Newsstand (504 North Fifth Street, 225-336-9730) for a crepe stuffed with egg, ham and cheese ($4.25) or with bananas Foster ($4.95).

10 a.m.
4. The Kingfish Lives
A short walk toward the river brings you to the Old State Capitol building, below, home to the state's Museum of Political History (100 North Boulevard, 800-488-2968). This striking, castle-like 1850 structure was the seat of state government until 1932. The museum's most popular exhibit focuses on Huey P. Long, the legendary Depression-era governor known as the Kingfish. Several rooms explore Long's storied career, his populist politics and his assassination in 1935. In one room, his words come alive, electronically speaking, as a Disney-style animatronic statue of Long lectures museumgoers on a variety of subjects, including his public works projects, presidential ambitions and, of course, his abiding love for L.S.U. football.

Noon
5. Up, Over and Out
With lunchtime approaching, it's time to head across the river and toward the swampy wetlands west of the city. A trip across the towering Mississippi River Bridge on Interstate 10 affords you an aerial view of Baton Rouge and the three major industries that sustain it: the oddly picturesque chemical refineries that form the city's economic backbone, the towering state Capitol building and to the left, the hulking visage of Tiger Stadium, also known as Death Valley. About 15 miles later, Exit 139 (Grosse Tete-Rosedale) puts you on Louisiana State Highway 77. Head north on the two-lane road running beside Bayou Grosse Tete, a slow-moving tributary that cuts through sugar cane fields. With moss-draped oaks dipping into chocolate-brown water, it gives you a taste of Louisiana's verdant bayou country.

1 p.m.
6. What's in Store
A few miles before the tiny hamlet of Livonia, you will spy a nondescript general store on the left, usually surrounded by a cluster of vehicles flying L.S.U. flags -- a sure sign of fans on the move. The renovated store is actually a restaurant in disguise, Joe's Dreyfus Store Restaurant (2731 Highway 77, Livonia,; 225-637-2625). This unassuming roadhouse serves up straight-ahead Cajun specialties like crawfish etouffee ($13.50) and gelatinous hogshead cheese ($3.50) along with surprisingly sophisticated dishes including light and flavorful sauteed frog's legs in a Provencal-style wine and tomato sauce ($7.50 for an appetizer portion).

4 p.m.
7. It Takes a Village
By now, you're ready to enter Death Valley, preferably by taxi. Since L.S.U. home games attract crowds of more than 90,000, it's best to leave the driving to the professionals. Yellow Cab (225-926-6400) has the largest fleet in town. Ask the driver to drop you off at the southern edge of Tiger Stadium. The area around the stadium becomes one big party zone. In ''Touchdown Village,'' tailgating goes into the realm of performance art. Expansive parking lots are packed with colossal motor homes, each decked out with amenities like commercial deep fryers, high-wattage karaoke machines, keg-sized refrigerators and big-screen satellite TV's. Well-off L.S.U. fans seem to share a dream -- to bring their living rooms within shouting distance of the stadium, whether or not they have a seat inside for the game.

6:30 p.m.
8. Saturday Night Lights
As game time nears, throngs of fans move toward the gates, signaling prime time for scalpers and last-minute ticket buyers. For unranked or unpopular teams, tickets are easy to find, but for conference rivals or historic enemies (like Alabama or Ole Miss), you can either auction off your firstborn or head for a nearby sports bar. To the south, there's the multi-screen newcomer, Walk-On's Bistreaux and Bar (3838 Burbank Drive, 225-757-8010), with a wraparound bank of plasma screens and the electrifying ambience of a stock exchange trading pit. Closer to campus, the Varsity Theater (3353 Highland Road, 225-383-7018) has TigerVision projected on two large screens, comfortable balcony seating, and three bars, no waiting.

Sunday

9 a.m.
9. Feast with the Faithful
Win or lose, Louie's Cafe (209 West State Street, 225-346-8221), a greasy spoon just outside the campus gates, is the place for Sunday morning quarterbacking, wager collection or discussions on the Tigers' post-season prospects. Tuck into a plate of crunchy pecan waffles ($3.50) or a huge platter of garlic-spiked hash browns smothered in melted cheese ($3.95). Louie's is open 24 hours, but the Sunday morning crowds start gathering around 9; stragglers end up sitting on the cafe's cement stoop with nattily dressed parishioners fresh from Sunday services.

11 a.m.
10. Huey's Headstone
On the way out of town, stop in for a peaceful self-guided tour of the Louisiana State Capitol (North Third Street at State Capitol Drive, 225-342-7317), a monument to the vision and power of the Kingfish. In September 1935, Long, a United States senator at the time, was killed by a single bullet from an assassin's gun in a marble-lined back hallway. There is a small exhibit on the shooting and perhaps a lasting structural reminder -- a mark on a marble column said to have been left by a bullet from a bodyguard's gun. Long's grave is on the Capitol grounds, topped with his likeness in bronze -- bigger than life and gazing into the future.

THE BASICS
Visiting Baton Rouge
 Baton Rouge is 80 miles northwest of New Orleans on Interstate 10. Delta Air Lines, Continental Airlines, American Airlines and Northwest Airlines fly into Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport from major cities in the South.
 The 300-room Sheraton Baton Rouge Convention Center Hotel (102 France Street, 225-242-2600) is close to downtown sights and museums. It is attached to the Argosy, a riverboat casino. Rooms start at $99 and sell out quickly for weekends with L.S.U. home games, when a $6 round-trip shuttle runs between the hotel and Tiger Stadium.
 A bit farther afield, the Stockade (8860 Highland Road, 225-769-7358), a bed-and-breakfast, offers five homey rooms from $100 to $175 a night.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Michael Mohr for The New York Times)Map of Louisiana highlighting Baton Rouge and points of interest. (Drawing by Steven Shukow for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (87%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (65%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (65%) Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: Pableaux Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (97%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) Baton Rouge (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



98 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1881 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Covering New Treatments, But With a Catch

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
For the first time in its history, Medicare has systematically begun to make payments for new and expensive treatments and diagnostic tests conditional on agreement by companies or other groups to pay for studies on whether these new methods actually work on the Medicare patients who get them.
 The move was decided by the agency's recently appointed director, Dr. Mark McClellan, who said the goal was better and more cost-effective medicine.
 The new initiatives began this year when Dr. McClellan, who is both an internist and an economist, decided that evaluating treatments for elderly Americans falls under Medicare's purview to pay for whatever is medically necessary. If the treatment does not work, he argues, then it really is not medically necessary, and Medicare should not be paying. 
 Over the past six months, he has been fundamentally transforming Medicare's scope by offering to pay for a number of new and expensive treatments and diagnostic tests -- ranging from $30,000-a-dose cancer drugs to brain scans to diagnose Alzheimer's -- but with a catch. Patients can only have them if they enter into studies that evaluate how well they work. And someone other than Medicare will have to pay for those studies.
 In the past Medicare just paid the bills or said no to treatments. Now, with a flood of promising but astronomically expensive treatments and little data on how they work in the real world, Medicare has decided to use its 41 million beneficiaries to get some answers. And it is using the threat of refusing to pay unless patients are in a study as a cudgel to get companies or foundations or professional groups to pay for the research.
 The goal, Dr. McClellan said, is better and more cost-effective medicine. 
 ''Instead of having 10 to 20 percent success rates over a broad population, we want to get to 80 to 90 percent who will benefit, and with fewer side effects,'' he said.
 At issue are questions that will determine the future and price of health care: Do new cancer drugs costing $10,000 to $20,000 a dose help in many situations where they are now being prescribed? What are the long-term effects of weight-loss surgery, costing $30,000 to $40,000 per operation even when there are no complications? How well do implantable defibrillators for heart patients, each costing $35,000, work? Will PET scans to look for early Alzheimer's disease, costing $1,670 per scan, make any difference?
 ''It's a whole new role for Medicare,'' said Dr. Sean Tunis, Medicare's chief medical officer.
 In many ways, Medicare officials say, they are forced to take the lead because their beneficiaries are the biggest users of the new drugs and medical devices and no one else is getting the information that patients and doctors need to decide on treatments. Medicare itself has no research budget, the National Institutes of Health can only do so much with its budget and private companies often have a narrow focus in studies they pay for. 
 Now, with medical costs soaring, with Medicare's budget at $320 billion and with estimates that a third of all medical expenditures are for unnecessary or ill-advised treatments, the stakes are enormous.
 And with Medicare the dominant payer for elderly Americans, who are most likely to need the treatments, its clout, when it insists on studies, is substantial.
 When Medicare says it will only cover treatments for patients enrolled in such studies, that's ''a pretty big stick,'' said Dr. Stephen Hammill, president of the Heart Rhythm Society.
 Reaction among those who may end up paying for new research has been mixed. Some are going along; others are arguing why them? But Medicare holds a powerful hand -- its beneficiaries are the biggest users of drugs and medical devices, and private insurance companies often follow Medicare's lead on coverage decisions.
 The problem arises because while drugs and devices are tested and evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration before they come on the market, those tests often leave huge gaps in doctors' knowledge of how well they work, and for whom.
 The tests to gain F.D.A. approval ''leave an awful lot of ground uncovered,'' said Dr. Richard Platt, professor and chairman of the department of ambulatory care and prevention at Harvard Medical School.
 They do not tell doctors or patients whether an older and cheaper drug is as good as or better than a newer one, for example. And they do not reveal whether older people, with many medical conditions, will fare as well as the generally younger and healthier people on whom the drugs or devices were tested.
 ''The best way to learn about practical problems and practical benefits,'' Dr. McClellan said, ''is to evaluate how treatments do in real world settings.''
 Dr. Platt and other academic experts, as well as patient advocacy groups like the Center for Medical Consumers in New York, agree, and applaud the new Medicare initiative.
 It is so compelling, said Dr. Robert Califf, director of the Clinical Research Institute at Duke University, that ''almost regardless of your political philosophy, this makes sense.''
 ''We have an increasingly powerful array of drugs and devices and a bewildering array of choices,'' he said. ''And there is a broad agreement among people who make these choices that we don't have the information we need.''
 The dearth of information reached a crisis with cancer drugs, Dr. Tunis said, when new drugs, so-called biologics, began reaching the market.
 With cancer drugs, he said, the tradition is to test new medications in situations that their makers think are most likely to show benefit. That leads to approval by the F.D.A. Then the drugs often come into widespread use off-label -- doctors give them to patients with different cancers or in combination with other drugs, trying them out in new contexts. Medicare is required to pay for the original approved use and for uses listed in certain drug compendia. Other than that, Medicare payments for off-label uses are up to the discretion of local contractors to the agency. Some pay; others do not.
 The system was never questioned until about two years ago, when Zevalin, or Ibritumomab tiuxetan, made by Biogen Idec, was approved for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, at a cost of about $25,000 a dose, and Medicare started paying the bills. Medicare administrators were taken aback by the price. They also worried that it would be widely used in patients other than those with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and that taxpayers would be paying for it without anyone knowing how well it worked in these untested situations.
 More biologics began to be approved. ''Each one of these biologics hits the market with a price tag of $10,000 to $30,000 a dose,'' Dr. Tunis said. ''It is one thing to try through clinical experience and trial and error to learn the off-label uses of drugs that cost $100 to $200 a dose. It is another thing with biologics that are not only expensive but can have pretty significant side effects.''
 The agency decided to use its influence to speed up research on off-label uses of four new drugs approved for colorectal cancer -- oxaliplatin, irinotecan, bevacizumab and cetusimab.
 On Monday, Medicare said it would require national contractors to pay for off-label uses of the drugs for patients in any of nine clinical trials being started by the National Cancer Institute. That way, Dr. Tunis said, Medicare hopes to encourage patients to enter the studies, which will determine whether the drugs are effective in the new contexts.
 CancerCare, a nonprofit group providing support services to cancer patients and their families, was delighted.
 ''What I most impressed with is to see C.M.S. really focused on this issue of quality and not just as acting as a payer,'' said Diane Blum, the group's director, referring to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. ''It is an enormous step forward and I hope the patient community pays attention.''
 For PET scans for people with suspected Alzheimer's disease, Medicare announced on Sept. 15 that it would pay only if patients are in a clinical trial in which they will be randomly assigned to have a PET scan of the brain, or not. The agency wants to know whether early diagnoses with the PET scans make a difference in the medical care that patients receive, the course of their disease, and outcomes like the time before patients are admitted to a nursing home.
 The makers of PET scanners have agreed to do a clinical trial with Medicare beneficiaries, said Dr. David Rollo, the chief medical officer for Siemens Medical Systems. He said that there are many logistical problems to sort out in this first-ever industry-wide collaboration because each machine is different, ''each manufacturer brags that theirs is the best'' and yet, in the study, the brain images must be comparable no matter what machine is used.
 On Friday, the PET scan manufacturers will have a conference call with Medicare officials to plan how to proceed, Dr. Rollins said.
 On Sept. 28, Medicare issued a proposal to pay for implantable defibrillators for hundreds of thousands of patients with severe heart disease, but who have not had a heart attack, but only if they are in a national registry to follow the outcomes. The questions the agency wants answered, Dr. Tunis said, include: Who is still alive in 6 to 12 months? Whose defibrillator actually went off, shocking their heart back to life? Does it matter whether a cardiologist or general surgeon put the device in the patient's body? Does it matter which brand of defibrillator a patient receives?
 But the defibrillator makers are not enthusiastic about starting a registry.
 ''The first option is that C.M.S. should pay for it,'' said Peter Gove, a spokesman for St. Jude Medical, a defibrillator maker, referring to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
 The Heart Rhythm Society is meeting with the makers of implantable defibrillators and other groups next week to discuss what to do. ''I think there will be funding from somewhere,'' Dr. Hammill said.
 In September, the agency proposed similar restrictions on paying for stents to open blocked carotid arteries in the neck for patients, like many elderly Americans, who are at high risk of stroke from such an obstruction, but who cannot tolerate surgery.
 And after a meeting yesterday of a Medicare advisory committee, which said there were large gaps in knowledge about the safety and long-term effects of weight-loss surgery for the extremely obese, Medicare officials said they were thinking of requiring a registry for that treatment as well.
 Medicare does not intend to force studies of everything it pays for. Instead, Dr. Tunis said, ''We plan to do this for treatments that are potentially very important to the Medicare population but for which the evidence is not yet definitive.''
 While there may be opposition to Medicare's newly aggressive approach, patients, and taxpayers, can only be better off, Dr. Califf said.
 ''We have a huge budget deficit and looming huge costs for health care,'' he said. ''And we know we are spending huge amounts of money on things that don't work. But we don't know what they are.''
 So, he said, the nation has a choice. ''Medicare could pay for everything, or we could develop a rational system to pay for the things that matter.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Mark McClellan has been transforming Medicare's scope. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. A26)Chart: ''Costly Medicine''Medicare is considering reimbursement for some costly procedures and drugs, including these, if patients agree to enroll in studies on the effectiveness of the treatments.TREATMENT OR PROCEDURE: Left ventricle assist devicesPOSSIBLE NUMBER OF PATIENTS (annually): 200*COST PER PATIENT: $136,000TREATMENT OR PROCEDURE: PET scans for Alzheimers diseasePOSSIBLE NUMBER OF PATIENTS (annually): 2,000-3,000*COST PER PATIENT: $1,670TREATMENT OR PROCEDURE: Chemotherapy for colorectal cancerPOSSIBLE NUMBER OF PATIENTS (annually): 8,000-10,000*COST PER PATIENT: $14,000TREATMENT OR PROCEDURE: PET scans for cancerPOSSIBLE NUMBER OF PATIENTS (annually): 85,800*COST PER PATIENT: $1,670TREATMENT OR PROCEDURE: Implantable cardioverter-defibrillatorsPOSSIBLE NUMBER OF PATIENTS (annually): 50,000*COST PER PATIENT: $35,000*EstimatedALSO UNDER CONSIDERATION bariatric surgery, carotid stents (pg. A26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (89%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (89%); CANCER (89%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); BARIATRICS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (72%); CANCER DRUGS (72%); BRAIN (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AGING (70%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Research; Tests and Testing; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%) Food and Drug Administration

PERSON: Gina Kolata; Mark (Admr) Mcclellan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



99 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 881 words

PERSON: Sean Basinski

HEADLINE: A Graduate of Law School and the Burrito Cart

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

 BODY:
SEAN BASINSKI moves quietly about, making the morning coffee in the communal office of the Street Vendor Project in Lower Manhattan. It is not easy to reconcile the many lives of this gentle-mannered 32-year-old with a shaved head, who is wearing scruffy Birkenstocks and jeans. He used to sell burritos from a vending cart in Midtown. He has a law degree from Georgetown University. And before that? He was a junk bond analyst on Wall Street, a preppy young Republican who wanted to make loads of money.
 When asked about this, he lowers his head, a bit amused. ''Vendor Power'' is his motto now. Call him a crusader for the pushcart people. 
 Mr. Basinski is the founder and director of the Street Vendor Project of the Urban Justice Center, which has taken up the vendors' cause. The project scored its biggest court victory recently when a Manhattan judge ruled that the city had illegally increased vendors' fines last year, to as much as $1,000, without warning. The judge, ruling on a class-action lawsuit filed by the group, ordered a preliminary stop to the fines and barred the city from denying licenses because of unpaid tickets. The decision affects about 12,000 vendors in New York. The city has said it would not appeal the order but would seek to increase the fines legally. A public hearing on the matter is set for Nov. 18. 
 Mr. Basinski has a long face, an intense expression and a self-effacing manner. But he is eager to talk about the court decision. He says vendors who received tickets may divide about $1 million in refunded fines when the court issues its final decision. As a practical matter, he adds, vendors who were fined and could not renew their licenses would now be able to do so. 
 ''The most exciting thing is seeing the momentum of this movement, making vendors aware of themselves as a population that could have some power,'' he says. ''When you go out on the street, more and more vendors know about us. They know about our workshops. We sort of see ourselves as a union. We are trying to be a voice for vendors and have the public see them in a different way, almost like in a collective action.''
 Mr. Basinski started the project, a shoestring operation, three years ago, financed initially with $15,000 from Yale shortly after he graduated from law school in 2001. It is part of a coalition of small projects at the nonprofit Urban Justice Center. The vendor project has 200 members, and their photographs, taken with a digital camera, line a long wall. Some smile broadly. Others look somber and proud. Most are recent immigrants and speak little English.
 ''They just love to see pictures of themselves,'' Mr. Basinski says. ''They like being a part of something. Vendors are often alone on foot. There never was much of a community of vendors.''
 Vendors pay $100 in annual dues to join and are given a disposable camera and a tape measure. That way, Mr. Basinski says, they can collect evidence of their vending operation if they have problems with the police or store owners.
 Despite the recent court success, Mr. Basinski worries about how the project will survive through the winter. He says the group, which has a $100,000 annual budget, could lose as much as 80 percent of that because its foundation financing is expiring. 
 ''It's hard to raise money for vendors,'' he says. ''There's still that public attitude that vendors are flimflam artists. Maybe people get them confused with shell-game guys. Vendors don't really fit into other public interest groups. They don't really fit anywhere.''
 ''We're not going to shut down, though,'' he adds. ''If we have to wait tables at night, we'll somehow make it happen. We have to build up a permanent organization or else what will it mean?''
 Mr. Basinski comes from a world and a life far removed from that of many vendors. He grew up in Vienna, Va. His father, an aerospace engineer, is a retired Air Force lieutenant colonel; his mother is a gerontologist. Mr. Basinski studied economics at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business and was in a fraternity.
 HE started out in a money-making career. But after two unfulfilling years on Wall Street, he quit in 1996 and traveled for a year through West Africa, a longtime dream. ''It does change you to live among people who have nothing,'' he says.
 When he returned to America, he decided he would study law because of its tradition of social justice. But in 1998, before he dived into the books, he worked on a lark as a vendor. He wanted to try out his entrepreneurial skills in New York, where he was dabbling in photojournalism and working as a waiter. He did not like hot dogs or shish kebab, but he loved Mexican food. He hawked fresh burritos, black beans and rice for $4, and chicken or steak for $5, at 52nd Street and Park Avenue for eight months.
 ''I sold 63 burritos on my best day,'' he says with a grin. ''But for every day that was a good day, there is a day that you don't sell anything.''
 Mr. Basinski says he has passed the state bar exam and is waiting to be admitted to the bar, but his vision of becoming a business tycoon is long gone. He lives alone in a pocket-size apartment on the East Side, with a bathtub in the kitchen. And his burrito cart? It is tucked in his bedroom. It makes a fine table.


GRAPHIC: Photo: SEAN BASINSKI (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BONDS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); JUDGES (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CLASS ACTIONS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); APPEALS (67%); LICENSES & PERMITS (66%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (60%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (56%) Vendors, Street; Biographical Information; Legal Profession

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%) Georgetown University; Street Vendor Project of the Urban Justice Center

Lynda Richardson; Sean Basinski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



100 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; A Sigh of Relief in Hyde Park; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Trust Buys Forest to Keep Roosevelt Plot Safe

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

DATELINE: HYDE PARK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Before he died in 1945, President Franklin D. Roosevelt deeded his house and adjacent land here to the federal government. He left the rest of his sprawling 1,500-acre estate to his wife, Eleanor, and their children.
 ''He wanted to avoid an undue burden on his family,'' said Sarah Olson, the superintendent of the Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt and Eleanor Roosevelt National Historic Sites, since he expected that they would continue to live there.
 But Roosevelt's decision eventually became a bane to the protectors of his legacy. 
 By the early 1950's, his heirs had begun to sell off large pieces of the estate -- which stretched from the banks of the Hudson River to Dutchess Hill, nearly four miles to the east -- and commercial development had sprouted along the Albany Post Road, also known as Route 9, which bisected the estate.
 For years historians and conservationists have feared a boom of stores and housing developments rising on Roosevelt's old stamping grounds, which, they said, would destroy the rustic qualities of the area.
 Now they are breathing a little easier. Yesterday, the Scenic Hudson Land Trust, affiliated with the environmental organization Scenic Hudson, bought 336 acres of forest in the center of the old Roosevelt estate and said it plans to leave the land largely as it is.
 The deal reconnects Roosevelt's home, called Springwood, to the Val-Kill property, where Eleanor Roosevelt moved after her husband's death.
 Historians and conservationists say the purchase provides a bulwark against further development around these key Roosevelt sites and sets an example for other historic communities threatened by overdevelopment.
 Ned Sullivan, the president of Scenic Hudson, which is based in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., said developers are considering many projects in Hyde Park. Near the estate, he said, ''unplanned sprawling development has already ravaged Route 9.'' 
 He continued, ''We face the problem that these sites of national and international significance could be islands in a sea of sprawl and strip malls.'' 
 The deal announced yesterday took several years to complete. In 2000, the Scenic Hudson Land Trust bought 44.5 acres across Route 9 from Springwood. The properties, which included an empty lot and a 15-acre parcel with a drive-in movie theater, had been marketed to retail chains and had been the focus of a litigious battle over a Wal-Mart proposal in the early 1990's.
 Concerned about the fate of adjoining land, including the 336-acre wooded parcel, which runs from Route 9 to Route 9G, Scenic Hudson brought together community officials, environmentalists and representatives of local, state and federal governments to discuss the best use of the land.
 The group talked about how to develop the land around the Roosevelt properties in a way that would provide the town with an economic engine but not compromise its historic character.
 ''At first there was a very highly charged atmosphere, a distrust of outsiders coming into town and having an agenda that maybe isn't consistent with the community's,'' recalled Steve Rosenberg, the executive director of the Scenic Hudson Land Trust.
 Town leaders were fearful of removing the property from the tax rolls. The National Park Service, which administers the Roosevelt homes at Springwood and Val-Kill, does not pay taxes on its properties, although the federal government contributes to the school district.
 After four years of meetings, the group arrived at a general plan intended to stimulate tourism while preserving the estate.
 The plan calls for a regional visitors' center on the edge of the newly purchased property, along with possible attractions like a year-round farmers' market, bicycle rentals, horseback riding and an ice skating rink.
 The backbone of the project is a dirt carriage road between the main Roosevelt property and Val-Kill that the family once used. Under the plan, bicyclists and hikers would be permitted to use the path, and Scenic Hudson is considering adding a period-style vehicle like a trolley to carry tourists between the sites.
 A commercial real estate firm that owned the tract, Poughkeepsie Shopping Center Inc., agreed to sell it for $1.6 million, and the deal was completed yesterday afternoon, Mr. Rosenberg said.
 Roosevelt's life ''comes to a wonderful focus here in Hyde Park,'' said Christopher N. Breiseth, president and chief executive of the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute, which promotes their legacy. ''Each site has a part of the story to tell.'' 
 He added, ''To make them accessible and link them the way they actually were in his time is to tell a story to the world as well as to our own people.''
 For him, the fractured Roosevelt property needed reconstituting if only to honor the royal hot-dog feast of 1939.
 In June of that year, the Roosevelts invited George VI and Queen Elizabeth to a picnic. They tooled around the estate in Roosevelt's hand-controlled convertible, with the president, a notoriously fast driver, at the wheel.
 At Top Cottage, a retreat that Roosevelt built in 1938, the king and queen ate hot dogs for the first time in their lives -- a simple yet resonant gesture that endeared the royal family to a skeptical American public.
 That visit, Mr. Breiseth said, marked the beginning of the special relationship between the United States and Britain. It also left a lasting, visceral impression on the Roosevelts' guests.
 In a recently published book, ''The Roosevelts and the Royals,'' Will Swift wrote, ''Only in recent years did the British ambassador reveal how frightened the queen had been by the harrowing and fast uphill trek through the woods.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A wooded trail connects Springwood, the Roosevelt home in Hyde Park, N.Y., above left, with Val-Kill, right, where Eleanor Roosevelt lived in her later years and near where King George VI ate hot dogs. (Photographs by Tara Engberg for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 The lake on the Roosevelts' Val-Kill property, which is east of the forest that is being acquired to prevent commercial development. (Photo by Tara Engberg for The New York Times)(pg. B4)Map of New York highlighting Scenic Hudson Land Trust purchase: Scenic Hudson Land Trust's purchase covers 336 acres of forest. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); LAND SUBDIVISION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); HISTORY (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); RETAILERS (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%) Forests and Forestry

ORGANIZATION: Scenic Hudson Land Trust Inc

PERSON: Kirk Semple; Franklin Delano (1882-1945) Roosevelt; Eleanor (1884-1962) Roosevelt

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Hyde Park (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



101 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: Let My Island Go

BYLINE: By JANE COSTELLO

 BODY:
IN many ways, the small town of Islesboro, Me., is a place divided. The thin, figure-eight-shaped island community in Penobscot Bay, a half-hour ferry ride off the Maine coast, is a summer getaway for wealthy second-home owners, some of whom arrive by private jet. Geographically, it's split by an area called the Narrows, with the summer people, who number about 1,400, drawn to the village of Dark Harbor, on Islesboro's southern end. Most of the 600 permanent residents live ''up island,'' near Pripet, historically home to Islesboro natives. 
 But this fall, Islesboro's residents, full- and part-time, are united as never before behind one goal: seceding from mainland Waldo County, which they maintain is bleeding them dry with property taxes. 
 Indeed, during the last few years, coastal homeowners in Maine have watched their tax bills soar, with most waterfront property owners paying at least twice as much as they did five years ago. Islesboro's share of county taxes, determined on the basis of property values, has increased 46 percent since 2002. ''For years the figure didn't change much at all,'' said Marnie Diffin, a full-timer and Islesboro's town manager. ''Then in the last four years, it went crackers.'' 
 And even if the ''summer money'' can afford the increase, many second-home owners say they don't want to overpay for the privilege of being part of a county they say supplies the island with minimal services. ''Summer people pay a lot of taxes, and right now there's a perception that we're not getting our money's worth,'' said David Blanton, a Californian who has summered on Islesboro for the last 20 years. Mr. Blanton's taxes on his Seal Harbor home went up 30 percent this year. ''We have our own school and our own fire department. We're pretty self-sufficient.''
 In January, residents established a five-person committee to study the issue. By the spring, a full-blown secession movement was under way. In September, Islesboro's board of selectmen voted 4 to 1 to secede from Waldo County, which relies heavily on the island to beef up its tax revenue, and join wealthier Knox County. Waldo is one of the poorer counties in Maine, with its residents making 11 percent less per capita than the state's average of $19,533 a year. And while there are 27 towns in the county, taxes paid by the city of Belfast, Waldo's biggest municipality, and Islesboro account for 35 percent of the $5.2 million budget. Inland towns, where property values remain relatively low, pay a much smaller share. 
 Knox County, by contrast, has affluent coastal towns, including Camden and Rockport, as well as the island of Vinalhaven, contributing to its tax base. Backers of Islesboro's secession movement claim that the island's county taxes would be cut nearly in half if it joined up with Knox, because other comparable towns would be helping to carry the tax burden. ''We've got to do something,'' said Valli Durkee, the owner of the Bee's Knees Cafe in Dark Harbor. ''A normal person can't afford to live here anymore.''
 I SLESBORO is only one of a growing number of vacation-home spots that are rethinking their allegiances. The secession movement is by and large a bit of unexpected fallout from the rising real estate market for second homes, which has driven up vacation area property values in a relatively short period of time. According to the National Association of Realtors, 2003 was a record year for second-home purchases, with sales increasing to 445,000 from 359,000 in 2001. Demand has pushed prices up, too, with taxes often following suit.
 Now, a number of towns are saying they've had enough. In Killington, Vt., for example, where nearly 80 percent of the homeowners are part-timers, some residents made headlines earlier this year by suggesting the town secede from Vermont in favor of more tax-friendly New Hampshire. At issue is a state law that established two property tax rates to finance education, one for primary residences and a second, higher rate for vacation homes.
 The secessionist movement isn't just a New England phenomenon. For the last four years, Avalon Manor, a tiny island off the coast of central New Jersey, has been struggling to de-annex itself from Middle Township and join Avalon, a bigger island connected to Avalon Manor by bridge. Manor residents claim Avalon is better equipped to provide fire and rescue services, and that the town's relationship with Middle Township exists only because of a 200-year-old statue that randomly assigned barrier islands to the townships. So far, Middle Township has prevailed in the courts, though Avalon Manor is planning an appeal to the New Jersey Supreme Court.
 Determining what constitutes a fair share of taxes is at the center of many of these disputes, since second-home owners or the smattering of full-time residents in seasonal areas rarely get back in services what they pay in tax increases. Vacation-home owners mostly don't use the public schools, don't benefit from winter road clearing and don't need their trash picked up nine months of the year. Full-time residents of an island often feel neglected by a distant mainland government. ''Municipalities look at these islands as cash cows,'' said Jim MacElree, a Pennsylvania county judge who owns property in Avalon Manor. ''Our property taxes generate significant revenue but we get very little in return.''
 Middle Township officials argue that losing Avalon Manor's tax revenue, which is close to $1 million, would be detrimental to the county as a whole, and say that the town is provided with adequate services. ''They've been part of Middle Township for a couple of hundred years, and we want to keep it that way,'' said Jim Pickering, Middle Township's solicitor. 
 In most cases, the secessionists are in for a long and ultimately frustrating fight. For Islesboro's breakaway to succeed, residents must find a representative willing to introduce the secession bill to the state legislature. All parties must agree on the outcome: Knox County must vote to accept Islesboro, Waldo County must vote to let Islesboro go, and the State Legislature must approve the deal. None of which seems very likely. ''Secession isn't the answer; it's insupportable to have towns floating in and out of counties,'' said Carol Weston, the state senator from Waldo County. Not surprisingly, she has refused to sponsor the secession bill. ''The issue is that Maine relies too heavily on property taxes to finance the schools; the state needs to shoulder more of the costs.''
 According to the Census Bureau, Maine is ranked 33rd in the country in per capita income, but second -- behind New York -- when calculating the state and local tax burden as a percent of personal income. By state mandate, Maine communities are limited to using property taxes to pay for the vast majority of municipal services and for public education. The burden falls disproportionately on those who can least afford to pay it, said Senator Weston. ''The tax system we have in place is now forcing people who've lived here for generations to either pay huge increases or to sell their property. It isn't sustainable.''
 John Hyk, a Waldo County commissioner, nevertheless is sympathetic to the island's complaints. ''Islesboro keeps getting whacked because the land gets more valuable there every year,'' he said. ''But Waldo doesn't want to let them go -- they're the wealthiest town in the county.'' Mr. Hyk said that reluctance to redraw county lines extends to the state level, where representatives are loath to sponsor legislation that would encourage other wealthy waterfront towns to think about changing allegiances. 
 ''The legislature is afraid that if they open the gate, every town will be shopping around for the best deal,'' he said. ''Then the rich would get richer and the poor would get poorer.''
 But residents of other Maine islands have successfully seceded. Long Island, located in Casco Bay off Portland, seceded from the city in 1992 after a property revaluation that doubled, and in some cases, quadrupled property taxes. The most recent example involves tiny Frye Island, a 1,000-acre island in the heart of Sebago Lake, which successfully broke away from the neighboring town of Standish and established its independence on July 4, 1998.
 Frye Island has about 400 summer cottages but no year-round residents. For years, homeowners paid taxes to the town of Standish, including money to support the regional school district. By 1995, it became apparent to Frye Islanders that they received almost no services in return for their tax money and that it would be more economical to set up their own town. Unlike other communities, which face an uphill battle trying to take back their tax dollars, Frye Island homeowners were able to persuade both Standish and the state legislature that secession made sense because of the island's remote location. 
 ''It was unbelievably difficult for Standish to provide any services to us,'' said Joe Potts, who became the island's first selectman. ''It took forever to get anyone out here to do road repairs or other things we needed done. For years and years, we paid Standish and got nothing.'' 
 But the secession was not a complete break. As part of the deal, Frye Island agreed to remain part of the regional school district, despite the fact that it sends no students to the public schools. Since the town incorporated in 1998, its share of the school tax has risen to $900,000 from $300,000 and homeowners are once again grumbling about paying disproportionately for services they don't use. 
 But even if Islesboro does eventually succeed in breaking away, it won't be without a long -- and pricey -- fight. Judge MacElree, of Avalon Manor, estimates that it has cost secession-minded homeowners there between $100,000 and $250,000 to fight their battle over the last four years. ''You need to hire a good lawyer, and do lots of fund-raising,'' he said. ''Because one thing is certain: The town will battle back and use your own tax dollars against you.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: SECESSIONIST -- Marnie Diffin, town manager of the island community of Islesboro, Me., wants to lower taxes by switching county allegiances. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
SCENIC -- Grindel Point Light in Islesboro, Me. Residents say seceding will lower taxes.
 SPURNED -- John Hyk, a commissioner in Waldo, Islesboro's current county. (Photographs by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. F8)Map of Maine highlighting Islesboro and surrounding areas. (pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); FERRIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUDGETS (73%) Taxation; Property Taxes

PERSON: Jane Costello

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Maine; Isleboro (Me); Waldo County (Me)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



102 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Millions Frozen In Doctors' Assets In U.S. Tax Case

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
A federal judge has temporarily frozen more than $500 million in assets owned by thousands of doctors and dentists who bought abusive tax shelters run by a San Diego investment company, the Justice Department announced yesterday.
 The action, one of the largest of its kind, is rare and part of an effort by the Internal Revenue Service to clamp down on tax shelters it considers abusive. 
 About 4,000 doctors and dentists across the nation bought tax-reduction plans in recent years from the company, Xelan, evading $420 million in taxes, not including interest and penalties, a statement from the Justice Department asserted. 
 Yesterday, agents from the I.R.S. and the F.B.I. searched Xelan's headquarters in San Diego. The agency is auditing the returns of several hundred doctors and dentists who used the tax shelters. 
 Xelan had set up several types of plans aimed at helping doctors and dentists lower their tax bills. The government is focusing on two of them, one involving a charity administered by Xelan and the other, disability insurance, which the company said would allow investors to defer taxes on income for seven years. 
 The I.R.S. says that it found some two dozen instances of doctors using the charity to make ''contributions'' to their children's college tuition.
 Xelan -- whose full name is Xelan, the Economic Association of Health Professionals -- is a privately owned group of about a dozen companies that sell financial planning, investment and insurance through a cross-country network of offices.
 The group, founded and run by Dr. L. Donald Guess, a San Diego dentist turned financial adviser, is the subject of a criminal investigation by a federal grand jury in San Diego. Calls and e-mail messages to Xelan's headquarters were not returned yesterday. 
 Four units of the company filed for bankruptcy protection in July as the investigation intensified, and the entire company is in the hands of a court-appointed receiver.
 Judge Thomas J. Whelan of Federal District Court in San Diego issued the order temporarily freezing the assets on Tuesday after the Justice Department asked him to do so. The order, which also directs Dr. Guess and six other Xelan executives to turn in their passports and not destroy any company records, is in effect through Nov. 18, when the judge will consider whether to extend it. The Justice Department hopes to have the temporary freeze made permanent, so that the assets will be available to cover tax bills.
 A Justice Department lawyer said that about $50 million of the assets was in various bank accounts in San Diego, while about $505 million was in investment accounts at the Vanguard Group, the giant mutual fund firm based in Valley Forge, Pa. A Vanguard spokesman declined to comment on the matter yesterday. 
 Michael C. Durney, a tax lawyer in Washington who represents several hundred of the doctors and dentists, said yesterday that the I.R.S. was ''incorrect'' in considering the plans not legitimate for tax deduction.
 A lawyer for Dr. Guess, Darrell D. Hallett of Seattle, said his client ''firmly believes that the Xelan programs are legitimate and that the I.R.S. allegations will be proven incorrect."
 One focus of Justice Department scrutiny is the Xelan Foundation, which was set up as a charity that allows the donors -- and not the charity -- to decide how their contributions are to be used. The government contends that the foundation, which is registered with the I.R.S., operated as an abusive tax shelter. The Justice Department said it found 29 instances of the foundation's accepting pretax contributions from doctors and dentists, who then used the money for their children's college tuition. 
 The other focus of the investigation is a Xelan insurance business, called the Doctors Benefit Insurance Company, that is based in Barbados. The company offered four types of coverage for doctors, with a supplemental disability plan as its core product. 
 Xelan told doctors that they could put up to 100 percent of their income tax-free into the supplemental disability plan. Legitimate payments for insurance are tax-deductible. Xelan told the doctors that their contributions were tax-free for seven years, after which they would owe taxes on the principal and gains.
 The I.R.S. maintains that the plan was not insurance but a taxable deferred-compensation program. The $505 million in Vanguard accounts was from the insurance plan, a Justice Department lawyer said.
 Xelan's Web site, www.xelan.com, provides insight into how it marketed the tax-reduction plans. It offers a relatively simple online ''income-tax loss test'' questionnaire, that it says is intended to ''estimate potential losses due to unnecessary income tax.''
 Mr. Durney said ''the foundation and the supplemental insurance programs offered through Xelan are legitimate operations,'' adding, ''They are neither a scam nor an abusive tax shelter.'' He said his clients bought the programs believing that they were legitimate. 
 Mr. Durney was a deputy assistant attorney general in the Justice Department's tax division in the mid-to-late 1980's. The insurance company, he said, was rated by A.M. Best, a leading ratings agency, as C+, or marginal, until August, when it was downgraded four notches to D, or poor, amid the scrutiny of Xelan.
 A Justice Department lawyer said investigators suspect that Xelan executives also dipped into some of the doctors' own money, both to buy out doctors who had second thoughts about the investment plans and for unauthorized personal expenses. 
 Department lawyers said the I.R.S. had issued 10 summons to Vanguard and a unit of SEI Investments, an investment and financial transaction processing company in Oaks, Pa., in connection with Xelan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); DENTISTRY (89%); JUDGES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); ETHICS (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); TUITION FEES (65%); GRAND JURY (63%) Taxation; Doctors; Dentists; Tax Shelters; Tax Evasion; Search and Seizure; Suits and Litigation; Taxation; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling

COMPANY: VANGUARD GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%) Xelan, the Economic Association of Health Professionals; Justice Department; Internal Revenue Service; Federal Bureau of Investigation

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: L Donald (Dr) Guess; Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



103 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Slows, a Signal for Hiring

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The productivity of workers in the United States rose at the slowest pace in almost two years in the third quarter, a sign that companies may need to add workers at a faster rate to meet demand. 
 Productivity, a measure of how much an employee produces for each hour of work, grew at a 1.9 percent annual rate, down from 3.9 percent in the previous three months, the Labor Department said. 
 In a separate report, the department said that initial jobless claims fell by 19,000 to 332,000 last week. 
 ''From a job growth point of view, the drop in productivity is good news,'' said Tim McGee, chief economist at U.S. Trust in New York. ''Businesses are to the point that, if they want to keep up with demand, they have to hire.''
 Companies are having trouble squeezing more efficiency from employees after improved technology and job cuts led to the biggest back-to-back productivity gains ever in 2002 and 2003. Labor costs rose at a 1.6 percent annual rate, the fastest since the first quarter of 2003.
 Economists had forecast that third-quarter productivity would grow at a 1.5 percent annual rate, down from the previously reported 2.5 percent rate for the second quarter, based on the median estimate of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Unit labor costs, or the amount paid for each unit of production, were expected to rise 2.3 percent after a 1 percent gain in the second quarter.
 Even with profits of corporations in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index forecast to rise 19 percent this year, companies including the Ford Motor Company and Sears, Roebuck & Company have fewer workers than they did in 2001. Companies in the S.&P. 500 employed 21.3 million people at the end of 2003, down from 21.5 million two years earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (93%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (88%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%) United States Economy; Productivity

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (65%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (65%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (65%); F (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (65%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



104 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Crude Falls to a 6-Week Low As Stores of Gas and Oil Grow

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The price of crude oil fell yesterday to its lowest level in six weeks as increased OPEC production and slower economic growth eased pressure on supplies.
 Oil stockpiles in the United States have grown 7.5 percent during six consecutive weeks of gains, according to Energy Department figures. The price of natural gas has been falling amid strong supplies, which may prompt some factories to switch to natural gas from oil. 
 Crude oil prices rose 2 percent on Wednesday as President Bush's re-election was taken as a signal that the United States would continue to buy oil for emergency reserves.
 ''The inventory number is finally seeping in after being overshadowed by the election result yesterday,'' said Jason Schenker, an economist at the Wachovia Corporation in Charlotte, N.C. ''We're returning to where we were before the election overtook other factors.''
 The price of crude oil for December delivery fell $2.06, or 4.1 percent, to $48.82 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It was the lowest closing price since Sept. 23. Prices reached a record of $55.67 on Oct. 25. 
 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries increased its output for a sixth consecutive month in October, a Bloomberg survey showed. OPEC production rose 0.5 percent from September, to 30.61 million barrels a day, according to the survey of oil companies, producers and analysts.
 Oil supplies in the United States rose 2.2 percent, to 289.7 million barrels in the week ended Oct. 29, the biggest increase since March, the Energy Department said Wednesday. Natural gas stores rose 44 billion cubic feet, to 3.293 trillion cubic feet, the highest since the department began keeping weekly data in 1993. Some factories can switch from oil-based fuels to gas.
 Heating oil for December delivery fell 5 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $1.37 a gallon in New York. Futures reached $1.60 on Oct. 25.
 Michael Fitzpatrick, vice president for energy risk management with Fimat USA in New York, said that high fuel prices continue to stifle businesses worldwide. ''Japan, which needs only half as much oil as the U.S. to generate $1 of economic growth, is clearly slowing,'' he said. ''Crude oil prices are beginning to choke off growth, especially in Asia.''


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks natural gas prices (near-month contract), since May 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FUTURES (89%); HEATING OIL (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); RISK MANAGEMENT (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Inventories (Economic Indicator)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (70%); NEWEDGE GROUP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



105 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Why They Won

BYLINE: By Thomas Frank. 
Thomas Frank is the author, most recently, of ''What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
The first thing Democrats must try to grasp as they cast their eyes over the smoking ruins of the election is the continuing power of the culture wars. Thirty-six years ago, President Richard Nixon championed a noble ''silent majority'' while his vice president, Spiro Agnew, accused liberals of twisting the news. In nearly every election since, liberalism has been vilified as a flag-burning, treason-coddling, upper-class affectation. This year voters claimed to rank ''values'' as a more important issue than the economy and even the war in Iraq.
 And yet, Democrats still have no coherent framework for confronting this chronic complaint, much less understanding it. Instead, they ''triangulate,'' they accommodate, they declare themselves converts to the Republican religion of the market, they sign off on Nafta and welfare reform, they try to be more hawkish than the Republican militarists. And they lose. And they lose again. Meanwhile, out in Red America, the right-wing populist revolt continues apace, its fury at the ''liberal elite'' undiminished by the Democrats' conciliatory gestures or the passage of time. 
 Like many such movements, this long-running conservative revolt is rife with contradictions. It is an uprising of the common people whose long-term economic effect has been to shower riches upon the already wealthy and degrade the lives of the very people who are rising up. It is a reaction against mass culture that refuses to call into question the basic institutions of corporate America that make mass culture what it is. It is a revolution that plans to overthrow the aristocrats by cutting their taxes.
 Still, the power of the conservative rebellion is undeniable. It presents a way of talking about life in which we are all victims of a haughty overclass -- ''liberals'' -- that makes our movies, publishes our newspapers, teaches our children, and hands down judgments from the bench. These liberals generally tell us how to go about our lives, without any consideration for our values or traditions.
 The culture wars, in other words, are a way of framing the ever-powerful subject of social class. They are a way for Republicans to speak on behalf of the forgotten man without causing any problems for their core big-business constituency.
 Against this militant, aggrieved, full-throated philosophy the Democrats chose to go with what? Their usual soft centrism, creating space for this constituency and that, taking care to antagonize no one, declining even to criticize the president, really, at their convention. And despite huge get-out-the-vote efforts and an enormous treasury, Democrats lost the battle of voter motivation before it started.
 Worse: While conservatives were sharpening their sense of class victimization, Democrats had all but abandoned the field. For some time, the centrist Democratic establishment in Washington has been enamored of the notion that, since the industrial age is ending, the party must forget about blue-collar workers and their issues and embrace the ''professional'' class. During the 2004 campaign these new, business-friendly Democrats received high-profile assistance from idealistic tycoons and openly embraced trendy management theory. They imagined themselves the ''metro'' party of cool billionaires engaged in some kind of cosmic combat with the square billionaires of the ''retro'' Republican Party.
 Yet this would have been a perfect year to give the Republicans a Trumanesque spanking for the many corporate scandals that they have countenanced and, in some ways, enabled. Taking such a stand would also have provided Democrats with a way to address and maybe even defeat the angry populism that informs the ''values'' issues while simultaneously mobilizing their base.
 To short-circuit the Republican appeals to blue-collar constituents, Democrats must confront the cultural populism of the wedge issues with genuine economic populism. They must dust off their own majoritarian militancy instead of suppressing it; sharpen the distinctions between the parties instead of minimizing them; emphasize the contradictions of culture-war populism instead of ignoring them; and speak forthrightly about who gains and who loses from conservative economic policy.
 What is more likely, of course, is that Democratic officialdom will simply see this week's disaster as a reason to redouble their efforts to move to the right. They will give in on, say, Social Security privatization or income tax ''reform'' and will continue to dream their happy dreams about becoming the party of the enlightened corporate class. And they will be surprised all over again two or four years from now when the conservative populists of the Red America, poorer and angrier than ever, deal the ''party of the people'' yet another stunning blow. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TREASON (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Public Opinion; United States Politics and Government; News and News Media ; Education and Schools; Courts; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (90%) Thomas Frank; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Richard Milhous (1913-94) Nixon

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



106 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Washington State Governor's Race Is Still Squeaking

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Nov. 4 

 BODY:
Florida is settled this time around and the country knows who is president, but Washington State residents are still wondering: who is the new governor?
 ''Neck and Neck,'' a phrase that was punctuated with an exclamation point Thursday on the Web site of the Republican candidate, one-time underdog Dino Rossi, is almost an understatement at this point. 
 The latest vote tallies in a gubernatorial cliffhanger, whose outcome will be determined by hundreds of thousands of absentee ballots yet to be counted, show Mr. Rossi and his Democratic opponent, State Attorney General Christine Gregoire, within a hair of each other. On Thursday evening, Ms. Gregoire had 49.45 percent of the vote and Mr. Rossi had 48.45 percent of the 2.2 million votes counted. 
 On Wednesday morning, Mr. Rossi, 45, a businessman who has a dog named Dubya and may be only the latest benefactor of the national Republican renaissance, was ahead by about 800 votes. By Wednesday evening, though, Ms. Gregoire, 57, who was favored to win until the final days of the campaign, was ahead by about 14,000 votes. 
 By Thursday night, Ms. Gregoire had widened her lead to 21, 234 votes. But there were still 682,645 votes left to count, and the possibility of a recount loomed in a state that has not sent a Republican to its governor's mansion in Olympia since 1980. 
 ''I have a headache,'' said Paul Berendt, chairman of the Washington State Democratic Party. ''I never had a tension headache leading up to the election, but I've got one now.''
 Gary Locke, the current governor, who decided not to run for re-election last year and threw his support behind Ms. Gregoire, said in a telephone interview, ''Everybody is on pins and needles.''
 Still, Mr. Locke and Mr. Berendt said Thursday that they were optimistic, as were officials with the Gregoire campaign, the state's Republican Party chairman and Rossi campaign officials, all of them describing complicated formulas pointing to a win for each side.
 The counting of absentee ballots is expected to continue at least through Friday evening. 
 ''It's too close to call, but I'd rather be us than them,'' said Chris Vance, the state Republican Party chairman. Mr. Vance added, ''When you've got a really good Republican with a lot of money and a really good Democrat with a lot of money, that's what you get: dead even.''
 In the 11 contests for governor held around the nation this year, Democrats took five seats and Republicans took five, with Republicans still controlling 28 governors' offices to Democrats' 21. 
 The Washington race, the most expensive gubernatorial campaign in the state's history, according to party officials, with each candidate raising about $6 million, was an unexpected squeaker. 
 Washington allows its now huge number of absentee voters to postmark their ballots as late as midnight on Election Day, which can drag out results, possibly for weeks in close contests like this one. 
 Ms. Gregoire, a three-term attorney general best known here for going after the tobacco industry, was comfortably ahead in the polls for much of the campaign. 
 Democrats and Republicans alike say that Mr. Rossi, a commercial real estate agent and former state senator who was chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, succeeded in persuading voters that the state, still grappling with high unemployment, needed an outsider and a new face. 
 ''I think she was definitely hamstrung by the fact that after 20 years of the same people in Olympia voters were ready for a change,'' said Mary Lane, a spokeswoman for Mr. Rossi, referring to Ms. Gregoire.
 Mr. Locke, whose record had been attacked by Mr. Rossi in his television advertisements, with doomsaying about the state's economy, said that some of his own supporters in the business community, Republicans who had encouraged Mr. Locke to run for re-election, had been quickly seduced by the Rossi campaign, along with other voters. 
 ''A lot of the reason it has become so close is because in some ways Dino is deceiving people in terms of the state of our state, saying that everything was falling apart,'' Mr. Locke said.
 Mr. Rossi was also able to sweep several high-profile Democratic officials and Democratic voters -- he calls them Dinocrats -- into his camp, including some who voted for Senator John Kerry for president, his campaign said. 
 ''Like a lot of Democrats around the country, we were shocked by how successful Republicans were in turning their people out,'' said Morton Brilliant, a spokesman for Ms. Gregoire. Washington has historically voted for Democratic presidential candidates, including Mr. Kerry, by a wide margin.
 While the 2004 governor's race may turn out to be the closest race since a Democrat won in 1960 by 1.2 percent, Washington is no stranger to close contests. 
 In 2000, a recount was held in the United States Senate race between Maria Cantwell, the Democrat, and Slade Gorton, the Republican, with Senator Cantwell declared the winner 24 days after the election. 
 Washington requires a recount if the difference between the candidates is less than 2,000 votes and less than half of one percentage point. 
 The other wrinkle in Washington is that elections officials estimate there may be 100,000 provisional ballots, which will not be counted until the results are certified by the counties on Nov. 17. 
 ''If it's really tight,'' said John Pearson, deputy director of elections for the secretary of state's office, ''it's going to go down to the end.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Christine Gregoire, the Democratic candidate for governor, thanked volunteers yesterday at her campaign headquarters in Seattle. (Photo by Elaine Thompson/ Associated Press)
 Dino Rossi, the Republican candidate, greeted supporters Tuesday at Republican election-night headquarters in Bellevue, Wash. (Photo by Ted S. Warren/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); BALLOTS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); HISTORY (68%) Elections; Election Results; Governors (US); Absentee Voting

PERSON: CHRISTINE GREGOIRE (92%); GARY LOCKE (58%) Christine O (Atty Gen) Gregoire; Dino Rossi; Sarah Kershaw

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Washington (State) 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



107 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: O.K., Folks: Back To Work

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
An iron rule of life is to be careful what you wish for.
 President Bush can take his re-election victory to the bank, and his political portfolio has been bolstered by enhanced Republican majorities in both houses of Congress. That's the good news for the president. Nearly all the other news is bad. 
 A story in the business section of yesterday's Times noted, ''Even as President Bush was celebrating his election victory on Wednesday, his Treasury Department provided an ominous reminder about the economic challenges ahead.''
 With budget deficits exploding, the government will have to borrow $147 billion in the first three months of 2005, a quarterly record. But the record won't stand for long. The government is hemorrhaging money, and the nation has a war to pay for. A new record is almost sure to be set before the year is out.
 Managing money is not one of this president's strong points. Plus and minus signs mean nothing to him. If he were actually writing checks, they'd be bouncing to the moon. The federal government's revenue was $100 billion lower this year than when Mr. Bush took office, and spending is $400 billion higher.
 Yesterday, at his press conference, the president made it clear that his campaign promise of more -- not fewer -- tax cuts for the wealthy is at the top of his second-term agenda.
 Much has been made of the support Mr. Bush has gotten from religious people. He's going to need all of their prayers that some miracle happens to suspend the laws of simple arithmetic and keep his fiscal house of cards from collapsing.
 Meanwhile, the situation in Iraq, overshadowed by the election, is as grim as ever. Insurgents blew up a critical oil pipeline on Tuesday, the latest severe blow to efforts to get the Iraq economy on track. Three British soldiers were killed in an attack yesterday. The assassinations, kidnappings and car bombings continued. The humanitarian aid group Doctors Without Borders announced that it would cease operations in Iraq because of the unrelenting danger. And Hungary became the latest U.S. coalition partner to announce that it would withdraw its troops from Iraq.
 In other words, nothing has changed. Mr. Bush's victory on Tuesday was not based on his demonstrated competence in office or on a litany of perceived successes. For all the talk about values that we're hearing, the president ran a campaign that appealed above all to voters' fears and prejudices. He didn't say he'd made life better for the average American over the past four years. He didn't say he had transformed the schools, or made college more affordable, or brought jobs to the unemployed or health care to the sick and vulnerable.
 He said, essentially, be very afraid. Be frightened of terrorism, and of those dangerous gay marriages, and of those in this pluralistic society who may have thoughts and beliefs and values that differ from your own. 
 As usual, he turned reality upside down. A quintessential American value is tolerance for ideas other than one's own. Tuesday's election was a dismaying sprint toward intolerance, sparked by a smiling president who is a master at appealing to the baser aspects of our natures.
 Which brings me to the Democrats -- the ordinary voters, not the politicians -- and where they go from here. I have been struck by the extraordinary demoralization, even dark despair, among a lot of voters who desperately wanted John Kerry to defeat Mr. Bush. ''We did all we could,'' one woman told me, ''and we still lost.''
 Here's my advice: You had a couple of days to indulge your depression -- now, get over it. The election's been lost but there's still a country to save, and with the current leadership that won't be easy. Crucial matters that have been taken for granted too long -- like the Supreme Court and Social Security -- are at risk. Caving in to depression and a sense of helplessness should not be an option when the country is speeding toward an abyss.
 Roll up your sleeves and do what you can. Talk to your neighbors. Call or write your elected officials. Volunteer to help in political campaigns. Circulate petitions. Attend meetings. Protest. Run for office. Support good candidates who are running for office. Register people to vote. Reach out to the young and the apathetic. Raise money. Stay informed. And vote, vote, vote -- every chance you get.
 Democracy is a breeze during good times. It's when the storms are raging that citizenship is put to the test. And there's a hell of a wind blowing right now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); TAX LAW (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (66%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (66%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%); RELIGION (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



108 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: No Surrender

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
President Bush isn't a conservative. He's a radical -- the leader of a coalition that deeply dislikes America as it is. Part of that coalition wants to tear down the legacy of Franklin Roosevelt, eviscerating Social Security and, eventually, Medicare. Another part wants to break down the barriers between church and state. And thanks to a heavy turnout by evangelical Christians, Mr. Bush has four more years to advance that radical agenda.
 Democrats are now, understandably, engaged in self-examination. But while it's O.K. to think things over, those who abhor the direction Mr. Bush is taking the country must maintain their intensity; they must not succumb to defeatism. 
 This election did not prove the Republicans unbeatable. Mr. Bush did not win in a landslide. Without the fading but still potent aura of 9/11, when the nation was ready to rally around any leader, he wouldn't have won at all. And future events will almost surely offer opportunities for a Democratic comeback.
 I don't hope for more and worse scandals and failures during Mr. Bush's second term, but I do expect them. The resurgence of Al Qaeda, the debacle in Iraq, the explosion of the budget deficit and the failure to create jobs weren't things that just happened to occur on Mr. Bush's watch. They were the consequences of bad policies made by people who let ideology trump reality.
 Those people still have Mr. Bush's ear, and his election victory will only give them the confidence to make even bigger mistakes.
 So what should the Democrats do?
 One faction of the party is already calling for the Democrats to blur the differences between themselves and the Republicans. Or at least that's what I think Al From of the Democratic Leadership Council means when he says, ''We've got to close the cultural gap.'' But that's a losing proposition.
 Yes, Democrats need to make it clear that they support personal virtue, that they value fidelity, responsibility, honesty and faith. This shouldn't be a hard case to make: Democrats are as likely as Republicans to be faithful spouses and good parents, and Republicans are as likely as Democrats to be adulterers, gamblers or drug abusers. Massachusetts has the lowest divorce rate in the country; blue states, on average, have lower rates of out-of-wedlock births than red states.
 But Democrats are not going to get the support of people whose votes are motivated, above all, by their opposition to abortion and gay rights (and, in the background, opposition to minority rights). All they will do if they try to cater to intolerance is alienate their own base.
 Does this mean that the Democrats are condemned to permanent minority status? No. The religious right -- not to be confused with religious Americans in general -- isn't a majority, or even a dominant minority. It's just one bloc of voters, whom the Republican Party has learned to mobilize with wedge issues like this year's polarizing debate over gay marriage.
 Rather than catering to voters who will never support them, the Democrats -- who are doing pretty well at getting the votes of moderates and independents -- need to become equally effective at mobilizing their own base.
 In fact, they have made good strides, showing much more unity and intensity than anyone thought possible a year ago. But for the lingering aura of 9/11, they would have won.
 What they need to do now is develop a political program aimed at maintaining and increasing the intensity. That means setting some realistic but critical goals for the next year.
 Democrats shouldn't cave in to Mr. Bush when he tries to appoint highly partisan judges -- even when the effort to block a bad appointment fails, it will show supporters that the party stands for something. They should gear up for a bid to retake the Senate or at least make a major dent in the Republican lead. They should keep the pressure on Mr. Bush when he makes terrible policy decisions, which he will.
 It's all right to take a few weeks to think it over. (Heads up to readers: I'll be starting a long-planned break next week, to work on a economics textbook. I'll be back in January.) But Democrats mustn't give up the fight. What's at stake isn't just the fate of their party, but the fate of America as we know it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (79%); HIJACKING (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (73%); MEDICARE (72%); CHURCH & STATE (71%); AL-QAEDA (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); LGBT RIGHTS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (51%); JOB CREATION (51%); BUDGETS (51%); ABORTION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; Evangelical Movement; United States Politics and Government; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Franklin Delano (1882-1945) Roosevelt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



109 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Will Bush, Like Reagan, Push for Real Tax Changes?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
TWENTY years ago, running against Ronald Reagan, a Republican incumbent who had slashed taxes and sent the budget deficit soaring, Walter Mondale offered a prediction: ''Mr. Reagan will raise taxes, and so will I,'' he said. ''He won't tell you. I just did.''
 Mr. Mondale proved to be a better seer than candidate. The economic hallmark of the second Reagan term was tax reform, which took the form of an effort to simplify the tax code and close what were seen as loopholes. It was painted as revenue neutral, but in fact it raised taxes and began the process of repairing the budget. 
 For his second term, George W. Bush promised his own tax reform, although details were few. There has been talk of simplification and of a national sales tax.
 Tax reform is a loaded term, of course. One man's reform may be another's outrage, and fairness is very much in the eye of the beholder. 
 But reform is different from simply raising or lowering taxes. It implies shifting the burden among taxpayers, or changing the economic activity being taxed. It can mean seeking to ensure that all pay taxes. Rates can be lower if few can escape paying, and the belief that many do not pay is corrosive to voluntary compliance with tax laws.
 By that standard, the Bush tax cuts included reforms, which is not to say that everyone thinks they were wise. Money earned from working is now taxed at higher levels than money earned through investments. The estate tax -- a tax on wealth -- is being phased out.
 In his first term, President Bush showed himself to be a master of cutting taxes, but his administration did not prove as adept at the minutiae of changing tax laws. In the Reagan administration, the Treasury produced a detailed proposal that became the basis of the 1986 tax act, which the administration largely managed to protect from lobbyists seeking exemptions for their clients. It helped the economy by no longer diverting capital to industries that offered big tax benefits without much other economic rationale.
 But the Bush Treasury has never seemed to have the same authority. For this year's tax bill, it largely stayed on the sidelines, and Congress passed and Mr. Bush signed a bill laden with provisions whose only unifying theme was that some lobbyist had the ear of a powerful legislator. 
 In 2003, Mr. Bush proposed a dividend tax plan that had clear elements of change beyond simply cutting taxes. The original plan was that corporate dividends would not be taxed -- so long as they came from profits on which the company had paid taxes. The idea was that in the course of ending what was called double taxation of profits -- once when the company made them and again when they were paid out to shareholders -- the tax system would assure that there was single taxation. Owners of companies that avoided taxes would still have to pay.
 But it turned out that that proposal had been lifted from the shelf where it had sat since it was floated in the administration of the first President Bush, and not all the details had been worked out. As lobbyists swarmed, the president appeared uninterested in preserving the principle that corporate profits should not escape all taxation. Congress simply cut the tax on all dividends.
 Will the Bush administration be willing and able to put together a tax proposal with the thought and attention to detail that characterized the 1986 Reagan plan? Will the new system be designed with an understanding of the strain on the budget coming when baby boomers retire? Will the president be willing to fight for consistent principles, or will there be lots of special-interest provisions?
 The answers to those questions may determine whether his legacy matches that of the man on whose administration he has so clearly relied for inspiration.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Federal tax revenue as a percentage of gross domestic product. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (99%); TAX REFORM (93%); TAX LAW (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); INCOME TAX (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%) Taxation; Law and Legislation

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) George W (Pres) Bush; Ronald Wilson Reagan; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



110 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Two Days Later, Investors Still Like What They See

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
As the price of oil fell yesterday and President Bush began to lay out his agenda for a second term, share prices rose sharply, pushing a leading market gauge out of the doldrums for the first time since February.
 The rally was also powered by some good earnings news and the announcement that Altria, the owner of Philip Morris and Kraft Foods, was considering separating the company into two or three groups. Altria's stock rose 8.5 percent and accounted for almost a fifth of yesterday's 177-point jump in the Dow Jones industrial average. 
 The gains, which were bigger than the bounce during Wednesday's first post-election trading, pushed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index up 18.47 points, or 1.6 percent, to a high for the year of 1,161.67. The index is up 4.5 percent for the year. 
 The Nasdaq composite index climbed 19.30 points, or 1 percent, to 2,023.63 and is up 1 percent for the year. The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 1.8 percent, to 10,314.76, but is down 1.3 percent for the year.
 ''Oil prices have come down and you now have this clear political path,'' said William E. Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics in Boston. ''The completion of the election and the completion of it cleanly is good political news.''
 A crucial test for the post-election euphoria will come this morning, when the government releases the employment report for October. Wall Street expects that 175,000 jobs were created last month, based on the median forecast gathered by Bloomberg News.
 That forecast is slightly higher than the monthly average for the year. But some analysts say that the recent hurricanes could distort the jobs figures and lead to some sort of surprise. That possibility is reflected in the forecasts, which range from a low of 85,000 to a high of 325,000. 
 If the numbers turn out to be surprisingly low, some of the air may come out of the balloon. With earnings growth beginning to slow and interest rates expected to rise modestly as the Federal Reserve pushes its short-term benchmark rate higher, a disappointment in job creation might be hard for investors to tolerate.
 Federal Reserve policy makers are expected to raise the fed funds rate on overnight loans between banks a quarter point, to 2 percent, when they meet next week.
 Although the rate increase is expected unless the jobs data is surprisingly weak, investors will be looking for any signal from policy makers on how fast and far they will move above the 2 percent level. 
 The rally in stocks yesterday generally followed the fall in the crude oil market, with stocks rising as the price of oil fell. At the end of trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the price of a barrel of crude oil for December delivery had fallen $2.06, or 4.1 percent, to $48.82, its lowest close since Sept. 23.
 One reason for the decline in oil prices, some analysts said, is that traders are beginning to realize that supplies have been growing. 
 Some stocks that did well the day after the election, on the thought that they would benefit from Mr. Bush's re-election, did not fare well yesterday. Among these were drug stocks, including Merck & Company, which fell 3.1 percent, to $27.02, after rising 4 percent Wednesday, and Pfizer, which dropped 1.3 percent yesterday, to $29.06, after rising 2.6 percent Wednesday.
 In the bond market, prices and yields were little changed. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note was unchanged at 101 13/32 as was the yield, at 4.08 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); INTEREST RATES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); WEATHER (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Stock Average; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (58%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (58%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (58%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



111 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Learning From the Election, and Looking Ahead

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I went to bed on Tuesday night a middle-aged housewife in North Carolina and woke up Wednesday a left-wing liberal out of touch with my country and my own state.
 As a longtime Democrat and a supporter of the Kerry-Edwards ticket, I am deeply concerned about the future direction of our country. I do not understand what gives conservative Christians the right to legislate our social, moral and political values.
 While they are concerned about gay marriage, abortion and stem cell research, I worry about the useless war in Iraq, the high cost of health care and the economy. 
 I fear for our country, and I will continue to teach my children the importance of charity, openness, acceptance and understanding -- my moral values.

Jane Paige
Cary, N.C., Nov. 4, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (87%); BIOETHICS (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MARRIAGE (68%); IRAQ WAR (67%); RELIGION (54%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (53%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (53%); ABORTION (53%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (53%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) Jane Paige; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



112 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTION; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 6289 words

HEADLINE: 'I'm Ready for the Job,' Bush Says in News Conference After Election

 BODY:

Following is a transcript of President Bush's news conference yesterday, as recorded by The New York Times:

Opening Statement
 Yesterday I pledged to reach out to the whole nation. And today I'm proving that I'm willing to reach out to everybody by including the White House press corps. 
 This week the voters of America set the direction of our nation for the next four years. I'm honored by the support of my fellow citizens. And I'm ready for the job. 
 We are fighting a continuing war on terror and every American has a stake in the outcome of this war. Republicans, Democrats and independents all love our country and together we'll protect the American people. We will preserve -- we'll persevere until the enemy is defeated. We'll stay strong and resolute. We have a duty -- a solemn duty -- to protect the American people, and we will. 
 Every civilized country also has a stake in the outcome of this war. Whatever our past disagreements, we share a common enemy. We have common duties to protect our peoples, to confront disease and hunger and poverty in troubled regions of the world. 
 I'll continue to reach out to our friends and allies, our partners in the E.U. and NATO, to promote development and progress, to defeat the terrorists and to encourage freedom and democracy as alternatives to tyranny and terror. 
 I also look forward to working with the present Congress and the new Congress that will arrive in January. I congratulate the men and women who've just been elected to the House and the Senate. I will join with old friends and new friends to make progress for all Americans. 
 Congress will return later this month to finish this current session. I urge members to pass the appropriations bill that remain, showing spending discipline while focusing on our nation's priorities. 
 Our government also needs the very best intelligence, especially in the time of war. So I urge the Congress to pass an effective intelligence reform bill that I can sign into law. 
 The new Congress that begins its work next year will have serious responsibilities and historic opportunities. To accelerate the momentum of this economy and to keep creating jobs we must take practical measures to help our job creators, the entrepreneurs and the small-business owners. 
 We must confront the frivolous lawsuits that are driving up the costs of health care and hurting doctors and patients. 
 We must continue the work of education reform to bring high standards and accountability, not just to our elementary and secondary schools but to our high schools as well. 
 We must reform our complicated and outdated tax code. We need to get rid of the needless paperwork that makes our economy -- that is a drag on our economy -- to make our -- to make sure our economy is the most competitive in the world. 
 We must show our leadership by strengthening Social Security for our children and our grandchildren. This is more than a problem to be solved. It is an opportunity to help millions of our fellow citizens find security and independence that comes from owning something -- from ownership. 
 In the election of 2004, large issues were set before our country. They were discussed every day on the campaign. The campaign over, Americans are expecting a bipartisan effort and results. I'll reach out to everyone who shares our goals. And I'm eager to start the work ahead. 
 I'm looking forward to serving this country for four more years. 
 I want to thank you all for your hard work in the campaign. I told you that the other day and you probably thought I was just seeking votes. 
 But now that you voted, I really meant it. I appreciate the hard work of the press corps. We all put in long hours and you were away from your families for a long period of time. But the country's better off when we have a vigorous and free press covering our elections. And thanks for your work. 
 With that overpandering, I'll answer a few questions.

Questions and Answers

Q. Mr. President, thank you. As you look at your second term, how much is the war in Iraq going to cost? Do you intend to send more troops or bring troops home? And in the Middle East more broadly, do you agree with Tony Blair that revitalizing the Middle East peace process is the single most pressing political issue facing the world?

Mr. Bush -- Now that I've got the will of the people at my back, I'm going to start enforcing the one-question rule. That was three questions.
 Start with Tony Blair's comments. I agree with him that the Middle East peace is a very important part of a peaceful world. I have been working on Middle Eastern peace ever since I've been the president. I laid down some -- a very hopeful strategy on -- in June of 2002. And my hope is that we'll make good progress. I think it's very important for our friends, the Israelis, to have a peaceful Palestinian state living on their border. And it's very important for the Palestinian people to have a peaceful, hopeful future. That's why I articulated a two-state vision in that Rose Garden speech. I meant it when I said it and I mean it now. 
 What was the other part of your question?

Q. Iraq.

A. Oh, Iraq. Yeah. Listen, we will work with the Allawi government to achieve our objective, which is elections and on the path to stability. And we'll continue to train the troops. Our commanders will have that which they need to complete their missions. And in terms of the cost, I -- we will work with O.M.B. and the Defense Department to bring forth to Congress a realistic assessment of what the cost will be.

Q. Thank you, Mr. President. How will you go about bringing people together? Will you seek a consensus candidate for the Supreme Court if there's an opening? Will you bring some Democrats into your cabinet?

A. Again, you violated the one-question rule right off the bat. Obviously you didn't listen to the will of the people.
 But first of all, there's no vacancy for the Supreme Court. And I will deal with a vacancy when there is one. 
 And what I -- I told the people on the campaign trail that I'll pick somebody that knows the difference between personal opinion and the strict interpretation of the law. You might have heard that several times. I meant what I said. 
 And if people are interested in knowing the kind of judges I'll pick, look at the record. I've sent up a lot of judges, well qualified people who know the law, who represent a judicial temperament that I agree with and who are qualified to hold the bench. 
 The second part of your two-part question?

Q. Democrat to your cabinet by any chance?

A. I haven't made any decisions on the cabinet yet.

Q. How else will you bring people together?

A. We'll put out an agenda that everybody understands and work with people to achieve the agenda.
 Democrats want a free and peaceful world. And we'll -- by the way, right after Sept. 11, we worked very closely together to secure our country. There is a common ground to be had when it comes to a foreign policy that says the most important objective is to protect the American people and spread freedom and democracy. 
 There's common ground when it comes to making sure the intelligence services are able to provide good, actionable intelligence to protect our people. And this -- it's not a Republican issue; it's a Republican and Democrat issue. And so I'll -- plenty of places for us to work together.

Q. Thank you, Mr. President. On foreign policy more broadly, do you believe that America has an image problem in the world right now because of your efforts in response to the 9/11 attacks? And as you talked down the stretch about building alliances, talk about what you'll do to build on those alliances and to deal with these image problems, particularly in the Islamic world.

A. I appreciate that. Listen, I've made some very hard decisions -- decisions to protect ourselves, decisions to spread peace and freedom. And I understand that in certain capitals and certain countries those decisions were not popular. You know, you said -- you asked me to put that in the context of the response on Sept. 11. The first response, of course, was chasing down the terror networks, which we will continue to do. And we -- we've got great response around the world in order to do that. There's over 90 nations involved with sharing information, finding terrorists, and bringing them to justice. That is a broad coalition and we'll continue to strengthen it.
 I laid out a doctrine that said if you harbor a terrorist, you're equally as guilty as the terrorist and that doctrine was ignored by the Taliban and we removed the Taliban. And I fully understand some people didn't agree with that decision. But I believe that when the American president speaks, he'd better mean what he says in order to keep the world peaceful. And I believe we have a solemn duty, whether or not people agree with it or not, to protect the American people. And their -- the Taliban and their harboring of Al Qaeda represented a direct threat to the American people. 
 And of course and the Iraq issue is one that people disagreed with. And I don't need to rehash my case. But I -- I did so -- I made the decision I made in order to protect our country, first and foremost. 
 I will continue to do that, as the president. But as I do so, I will reach out to others and explain why I make the decisions I make. 
 There is a certain attitude in the world by some that says, you know, it's a waste of time to try to promote free societies in parts of the world. I've heard that criticism. I remember I went to London to talk about our vision of spreading freedom throughout the greater Middle East. 
 And I fully understand that that might rankle some and be viewed by some as folly. I just strongly disagree with those who do not see the wisdom of trying to promote free societies around the world. 
 If we are interested in protecting our country for the long term, the best way to do so is to promote freedom and democracy. And I simply do not agree with those who either say overtly or believe that certain societies cannot be free. It's just not a part of my thinking. 
 And that's why, during the course of the campaign, I was -- I believe I was able to connect, at least with those who were there, in explaining my policy when I talked about the free elections in Afghanistan. 
 There were -- there was doubt about whether or not those elections would go forward. I'm not suggesting any of you here expressed skepticism, but there was. There was deep skepticism. And because there is a attitude among some that certain people may never be free, and at least don't long to be free, or incapable of running an election. And I disagree with that. 
 And the Afghan people, by going to the polls in the millions, proved -- proved that this administration's faith in freedom to change people's habits is -- is worthy.
 And that'll be a central part of my foreign policy. And I've got work to do to explain to people about why that is a central part of our foreign policy. I mean I've been doing that for four years. 
 But if you do not believe people can be free, and can self-govern, then all of a sudden, the two-state solution in the Middle East becomes a moot point, invalid. If you're willing to condemn a group of people to a system of government that hasn't worked, then you'll never be able to achieve the peace. 
 You cannot lead this world and our country to a better tomorrow unless you see a better -- unless you have a vision of a better tomorrow. And I've got one based upon a great faith that people do want to be free and live in democracy.

Q. Now that the political volatility is off the issue because the election is over, I'd like to ask you about troop levels in Iraq in the next couple of months leading up to elections. The Pentagon already has a plan to extend tours of duty for some 6,500 U.S. troops. How many more will be needed to provide security in Iraq for elections, seeing as how the Iraqi troops that you're trying to train up are pretty slow coming on line?

A. Yeah. Well, first of all, the -- we are making good progress in training the Iraqi troops. There'll be 125,000 of them trained by election time.
 Secondly, I have yet to -- I have not sat down with our secretary of defense talking about troop levels. I read some reports during the course of the campaign where some were speculating, in the press corps, about the number of troops needed to protect elections. I -- that has not been brought to my attention yet. And so I would caution you that what you have either read about or reported was pure speculation thus far. 
 These elections are important and we will respond, John, to the requests of our commanders on the ground. And I have yet to hear from our commanders on the ground that they need more troops.

Q. Mr. President, your victory at the polls came about in part because of strong support from people of faith, in particular Christian evangelicals and pentacostals and others. And Senator Kerry drew some of his strongest support from those who do not attend religious services. What do you make of this religious divide, it seems, becoming a political divide in this country? And what do you say to those who are concerned about the role of a faith they do not share in public life and in your policies?

A. Yeah. My answer to people is I will be your president regardless of your faith. And I don't expect you to agree with me, necessarily, on religion. As a matter of fact, no president should ever try to impose religion on our society. The great -- the great tradition of America is one where people can worship the -- the way they want to worship. And if they choose not to worship, they're just as patriotic as your neighbor. That is an essential part of why we are a great nation. And I am glad people of faith voted in this election. I'm glad -- I appreciate all people who voted. And I don't think you ought to read anything into the politics, the moment, about whether or not this nation will become a divided nation over religion. I think the great thing that unites us is the fact you can worship freely if you choose and if you -- you don't have to worship. And if you're a Jew or a Christian or a Muslim, you're equally American. That is -- that is such a wonderful aspect of our society. And it is strong today and it'll be strong tomorrow.

Q. Mr. President, you talked once again this morning about private accounts and Social Security. During the campaign you were accused of planning to privatize the entire system. It has been something you've discussed for some time. You've lost some of the key Democratic proponents such as Pat Moynihan and Bob Kerrey in the Congress. How will you proceed now with one of the key problems which is the transition cost, which some say is as much as $2 trillion? How will you proceed on that and how soon?

A. Well, first I made Social Security an issue for those of you who had to suffer through my speeches on a daily basis, for those of you who actually listened to my speeches on a daily basis, you might remember every speech I talked about the duty of an American president to lead. And we must lead on Social Security because the system is not going to be whole for our children or our grandchildren.
 And so to answer your second question is, we'll start on Social Security now. We'll start bringing together those in Congress who agree with my assessment that we need to work together. We've got a good blueprint, a good go-by. You mentioned Senator Moynihan, I had asked him prior to his passing to chair a committee of notable Americans to come up with some ideas on Social Security. And they did so. And it's a good place for members of Congress to start. 
 The president must have the will to take on the issue, not only in the campaign but now that I'm elected. And this, reforming Social Security, will be a priority of my administration. Obviously, if it were easy it would have already been done. And this is going to be hard work to bring people together and to make, to convince the Congress to move forward. And there are going to be costs. But the cost of doing nothing is insignificant -- is much greater than the cost of reforming the system today. That was the case I made on the campaign trail. And I was earnest about getting something done. And as a matter of fact I talked to members of my staff today as we're beginning to plan the strategy to move agendas forward about how to do this and do it effectively.

Q. Mr. President, you were disappointed, even angry 12 years ago when the voters denied your father a second term. I'm interested in your thoughts and the conversation with him yesterday as you were walking to the Oval Office. And also whether you feel more free to do any one thing in a second term that perhaps you were politically constrained from doing in the first.

A. At 3:30 in the morning on I guess it was the day after the election, he was sitting upstairs. And I finally said go to bed. He was awaiting the outcome and was hopeful that we would go over and be able to talk to our supporters. It just didn't happen that way. So I asked him the next morning when he got up, said come by the Oval Office and visit. And he came by. We had a good talk. He was headed down to Houston. And it was, you know, there was some uncertainty about that morning as to when the election would actually end. And it wasn't clear at that point in time. So I never got to see him face to face to watch his, I guess, pride in his tired eyes as his son got a second term. I did talk to him and he was relieved. I told him to get a nap. He was -- I was worried about him staying up too late. But, so I haven't had a chance to really visit and embrace.
 And you're right, '92 was a disappointment. But he taught me a really good lesson, that life moves on. And it's very important for those of us in the political arena win or lose to recognize that life is bigger than just politics. And this was one of the really good lessons he taught me.

Q. Do you feel more free?

A. In terms of feeling free, well, I don't think you'll let me be too free. There's accountability and there are constraints on the presidency as there should be in any system. I feel it is necessary to move an agenda that I told the American people I would move. Something refreshing about coming off an election. Even more refreshing since we all got some sleep last night.
 But there's, you go out and you make your case. And you tell the people this is what I intend to do. And after hundreds of speeches and three debates and interviews and the whole process where you keep basically saying the same thing over and over again that when you win there is a feeling that the people have spoken and embraced your point of view. And that's what I intend to tell the Congress. That I made it clear what I intend to do as the president. Now let's work -- and the people made it clear what they wanted. Now let's work together. It's one of the wonderful -- it's like earning capital. 
 You asked do I feel free. Let me put it to you this way. I earned capital in the campaign, political capital. And now I intend to spend it. It is my style. That's what happened after the 2000 election, I earned some capital. I've earned capital in this election. And I'm going to spend it for what I told the people I'd spend it on, which is, you've heard the agenda: Social Security and tax reform, moving this economy forward, education, fighting and winning the war on terror. We have an obligation in this country to continue to work with nations to help alleve poverty and disease. We will continue to press forward on the H.I.V. AIDS initiative, the Millennium Challenge Account. We will continue to do our duty to help feed the hungry. And I'm looking forward to it. I really am. 
 It's been a fantastic experience campaigning the country. It's, you've seen it from one perspective. I've seen it from another. I saw you standing there at the last final rally in Texas to my right over there. I was observing you observe. And you saw the energy. And there was just uplifting about people showing up at 11 o'clock at night expressing their support and their prayers and their friendship. It's a marvelous experience to campaign across the country.

Q. Do you plan to reshape your cabinet for the second term? Or will any changes come at the instigation of individuals? And as part of the same question, may I ask you what you've learned about cabinet government, what works, what doesn't work. And do you mind also addressing the same question about the White House staff?

A. The post-election euphoria did not last very long here at the press corps. Let me talk about the people that have worked with me. I had a cabinet meeting today. And I thanked them for their service to the country and reminded them that we've got a job to do. And I expected them to do the job. I have made no decisions on my Cabinet and or White House staff. I am mindful that working in the White House is really, is exhausting work. The um, the people who you try to get to leak to you spend hours away from their families. And it is, there is, the word burnout is oftentimes used in Washington. And it's used for a reason. Because people do burn out. And so obviously, in terms of those who are, who want to stay on and who I want to stay on I've got to make sure that it's right for their families. And that they're comfortable. Because when they come to work here in the White House I expect them to work as hard as they possibly can on behalf of the American people.
 And the Cabinet, there will be some changes. I don't know who they will be. It's inevitable there will be changes. It happens in every administration. To a person I am proud of the work they have done. And I fully understand we're about to head into the period of intense speculation as to who is going to stay and who is not going to stay. And I assured them, today I warned them of the speculative period. It's great Washington sport to be talking about who's going to leave and who the replacements may be and handicapping my way of thinking.
 I'll just give you, but let me just help you out with the speculation right now. I haven't thought about it. I'm going to start thinking about it. I'm going to Camp David this afternoon with Laura. And I'll begin the process of thinking about the Cabinet and the White House staff. And we'll let you know at the appropriate time when decisions have been made.

Q. What works, what doesn't?

A. Yeah, well, first I've learned that I've put together a really good cabinet. I'm very proud of the people that have served this government. And they, to a man or woman work their hearts out for the American people. And I've learned that you've got to continue to surround yourself with good people. This is a job that requires crisp decision making. And therefore, in order for me to make decisions I've got to have people who bring their point of view into the Oval Office and are willing to say it. I always jest to people, the Oval Office is the kind of place where people stand outside, they're getting ready to come in and tell me what for and they walk in and get overwhelmed by the atmosphere. And they say ''man, you're looking pretty.'' And therefore, you need people to walk in on those days when you're not looking so good and saying you're not looking so good, Mr. President. And I've got, those are the kind of people that served our country.
 We've had vigorous debates, which you all during the last four years took great delight in reporting. Differences of opinion. But that's what you want if you're the commander in chief and a decision maker. You want people to walk in and say I don't agree with this or I do agree with that. And here's what my recommendation is. But the president also has to learn to decide. There's ample time for the debate to take place. And then decide. And make up your mind. And lead. That's what the job's all about. And so I have learned how important it is to be, to have a really fine group of people that think through issues and that are not intimidated by the process. And who walk in and tell me what's on their mind.

Q. Sir, does it bother you that there's a perception out there that your administration has been one that favors big business and the wealthy individuals? And what can you do to overcome that, sir?

A. Seventy percent of the new jobs in America are created by small businesses. I understand that. And I have promoted during the course of the last four years one of the most aggressive pro-entrepreneur, small business policies. Tax relief. You might remember, I don't know if you know this or not but 90 percent of the businesses are sole proprietorships or Subchapter S corporations.
 Tax relief helped them. This is an administration that fully understands that the job creators are the entrepreneurs. And so in a new term we'll make sure that tax relief continues to be robust for our small businesses. We'll push legal reform and regulatory reform. Because I understand the engine of growth is through the small business sector.

Q. Sir, given your commitment to reaching out across party lines and to all Americans, I wonder if you could expand on your definition bipartisanship and whether it means simply picking off a few Democrats on a case-by-case basis to pass the bills you want to pass or whether you would commit to working regularly with the Democratic leadership on solutions that can win broad support across party lines?

A. Do you remember the No Child Left Behind Act? I think that's the model I'd look at if I were you. It is a -- I laid out an agenda for reforming our public schools. I worked with both Republicans and Democrats to get that bill passed. In a new term, we'll continue to make sure we do not weaken the accountability standards that are making a huge difference in people's lives, in these kids' lives. But that's the model I'd look at if I were you.
 And there's a certain practicality to life here in Washington. And that is when you get a bill moving, it is important to get the votes. And if politics starts to get in the way of getting good legislation through, well, that's just part of life here. 
 But I'm also focused on results. I think of the Medicare bill. You might remember that old stale debate. We finally got a bill moving. I was hoping it would get strong bipartisan support. Unfortunately it was an election year. And but we got the votes necessary to get the bill passed. 
 And so we will -- I will -- my goal is to work on the ideal and to reach out and to continue to work and find common ground on issues. 
 On the other hand, I've been wisened to the ways of Washington. I watched what can happen during certain parts of the cycle where politics gets in the way of good policy. And at that point in time, I'll continue to -- you know, I'll try to get this done. And try to get our bills passed in a way. Because results really do matter, as far as I'm concerned. 
 I really didn't come here to hold the office, just to say, Gosh, it was fun to serve. I came here to get some things done. And we are doing it.

Q. I know you haven't had a chance to learn this, but it appears that Yasir Arafat has passed away.

A. Really?

Q. And I was just wondering if I could get your initial reaction and also your thoughts on perhaps working with a new generation of Palestinian leadership.

A. I appreciate that. My first reaction is: God bless his soul. And my second reaction is that we will continue to work for a free Palestinian state that's at peace with Israel.

Q. Mr. President, as you look at your second-term domestic priorities, I wonder of you could talk a little bit about how you see the sequence of action on issues beyond Social Security, tax reform, education, and if you could expand a little bit for us on the principles that you want to underpin your tax reform proposal? Do you want it to be revenue-neutral? What kinds of things do you want to accomplish through that process?

A. I appreciate that. I was anticipating this question that, you know, what is the first thing you're going to do when it comes to legislation. It just doesn't work that way, particularly when you've laid out a comprehensive agenda. And part of that comprehensive agenda is tax simplification.
 The -- first of all, a principle would be revenue-neutral. If I'm going to -- you know, if there was a need to raise taxes, I'd say, let's have a tax bill that raises taxes as opposed to let's simplify the tax code and sneak a tax increase on the people. It's just not my style. I don't believe we need to raise taxes. I've said that to the American people. And so the simplification would be the goal. 
 Now, secondly, that -- obviously that it rewards risk and doesn't have unnecessary penalties in it.
 But the main thing is that it would be viewed as fair, that it would be a fair system, that it wouldn't be complicated, that there's a, you know, kind of -- that loopholes wouldn't be there for special interests, that the code itself be viewed and deemed as a very fair way to -- to encourage people to invest and save and achieve certain fiscal objectives in our country as well. 
 You know, one of the interesting debates will be, of course, in the course of simplification: will there be incentives in the code? Charitable giving, of course, and mortgage deductions are very important. As governor of Texas, when I -- at some time I think I was asked about simplification, I always noted how important it was for certain incentives to be built in the tax code. And that'll be an interesting part of the debate. 
 Certain issues come quicker than others in the course of a legislative session. And that depends upon whether or not those issues have been debated. I think, for example, of the legal issue -- the legal reform issues. They have been -- medical liability reform had been debated and got thwarted a couple of times in one body in particular on Capitol Hill. 
 And so the groundwork has been laid for some legislation that I've been talking about. On an issue like tax reform, it's going to -- tax simplification -- it's going to take a lot of legwork to get something ready for a legislative package. I fully understand that. 
 The Social Security reform will require some additional legwork, although the Moynihan Commission has laid the groundwork for it, I think is a very good place to start the debate. 
 The education issue is one that could move pretty quickly because there's been a lot of discussion about education. You know, it's an issue that the members are used to debating and discussing. 
 And so I think, you know, all issues are important. And the timing of issues as they reach it through committee and floor really depend upon whether or not some work has already been done on those issues.

A couple more questions.

Q. Mr. President, American forces are gearing up for what appears to be a major offensive in Falluja over the next several days. I'm wondering if you could tell us what the objective is, what the stakes are there, for the United States, for the Iraqi people, and the Iraqi elections coming up in January.

A. In order for Iraq to be a free country, those who are trying to stop the elections and stop a free society from emerging must be defeated. And so Prime Minister Allawi and his government, which fully understands that, are working with our generals on the ground to do just that.
 Now, we will work closely with the government. It's their government; it's their country. We're there at their invitation. And but I think there's a recognition that these -- some of these people have to -- must be defeated. And so that's what they're thinking about. That's what you're -- that's why you're hearing discussions about potential action in Falluja.

Q. Thank you, sir. Many within your own party are unhappy over the deficit, and they say keeping down discretional spending alone won't help you reach your goal of halving the deficit in five years. What else do you plan to do to cut costs?

A. Well, I, you know, I would suggest they look at our budget that we've submitted to Congress, which does in fact get the deficit cut in half in five years. And it is a specific, line-by-line budget that we are required to submit and have done so.
 The key to making sure that the deficit is reduced is for there to be on the one hand, spending discipline -- and I've -- as you noticed in my opening remarks, I talked about these appropriations bills that are beginning to move. And I thought I was pretty clear about the need for those bills to be -- to be fiscally responsible. And I meant it. And I look forward to talking to the leadership about making sure that the -- the budget agreements we had are still the budget agreements -- that just because we had an election, that they shouldn't feel comfortable changing our agreement. And I think they understand that. 
 Secondly, the other way to make sure that the deficit is -- decreases -- is to grow the economy. As the economy grows, there'll be more revenues coming into the Treasury. That's what you have seen recently. If you notice that there's been some -- there's been some write-downs of the budget deficit whereas the deficit is less than we thought because the revenues is exceeding projections. And the reason why the revenues -- the revenues are exceeding projections. Sometimes I mangle the English language. I get -- anyway -- yeah, very inside. 
 The revenues are exceeding projections. And as a result, the projected deficit is less. But my point there is is that so -- with good economic policy that encourages economic growth, the revenue streams begin to increase. And as the revenue streams increase, coupled with fiscal discipline, you'll see the deficit shrinking. And we are focused on that. I do believe there ought to be budgetary reform in Washington, on the Hill -- Capitol Hill. I think it's very important. 
 I would like to see the president have a line item veto again when it passed constitutional muster. I think it would help the executive branch work with the legislative branch to make sure that -- that we're able to maintain budget discipline. 
 I've talked to a lot of members of Congress who are wondering whether or not we'll have the will to confront entitlements, to make sure that there is entitlement reform that helps us maintain fiscal discipline. 
 The answer is yes. That's why I took on the Social Security issue. I believe that we have a duty to do so. I want to make sure that the Medicare reforms that we put in place remain robust to help us make sure Medicare is available for generations to come. 
 And so there is a -- I've got quite an active agenda to help work with Congress to bring not only fiscal discipline but to make sure that our pro-growth policies are still in place.

Q. I'm interested in getting back to Steven -- Stevenson's question about unity. Clearly, you believe you have reached out and will continue to reach out. Do you believe that Democrats have made a sincere and sufficient effort to meet you somewhere halfway? And do you think now there's more reason for them to do that in light of the election results?

A. I think the Democrats agree that we have an obligation to serve our country. I believe there will be good will, now that this election is over, to work together. I found that to be the case when I first arrived here in Washington. And working with the Democrats and fellow Republicans, we got a lot done. And it is with that spirit that I go into this coming session. And I will meet with both Republican and Democrat leaders, and I am -- they'll see I'm genuine about working toward some of these important issues.
 It's going to be -- it's not easy, you know. These -- I readily concede I've laid out some very difficult issues for people to deal with. 
 Reforming the Social Security system for generations to come is a difficult issue. Otherwise it would have already been done. But it is necessary to confront it. And I would hope to be able to work with Democrats to get this done. I'm not sure we can get it done without Democrat participation. Because it is a big issue. And I will explain to them, you know, I will show them Senator Moynihan's thinking as a way to begin the process. And I will remind everybody who's here that we have a duty to leave behind a better America and when we see a problem, to deal with it. And I think Democrats agree with that.
 And so I'm optimistic. You've covered me when I was a governor of Texas. I told you that I was going to do that as the governor. There was probably some skepticism in your beady eyes there. But you might remember we were able to accomplish a lot by -- and Washington is different from Austin, no question about it. Washington -- one of the disappointments of the -- of being here in Washington is how bitter this town can become and how divisive. 
 I'm not blaming one party or the other. It's just the reality of Washington, D.C. Sometimes exacerbated by -- by you, because it's great sport; it's entertaining for some. It also makes it difficult to govern at times. And I -- but nevertheless, my commitment is there. I fully -- now I'm more seasoned to Washington. I have cut my political eyeteeth, at least the ones I've recently grown here in Washington. And so I'm aware of what can happen in this town. But nevertheless, having said that, I am fully prepared to work with both Republican and Democrat leadership to advance an agenda that I think makes a big difference for the country. 
 Listen, thank you all. I look forward to working with you. I've got a question for you: How many of you are going to be here for a second term? Please raise your hand. 
 Gosh, we're going to have a lot of fun then. 
 Thank you all. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSCRIPTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (70%); TAX LAW (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); EDUCATION REFORM (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (63%); HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); LITIGATION (60%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%) United States Politics and Government; Election Issues; Social Security (US); Taxation; Education and Schools; Medicine and Health; Malpractice; Law and Legislation 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



113 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTION: THE MAJORITY LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: After a Tough Road to Re-election, DeLay Is Eager to Assert His Role as House Leader

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4 

 BODY:
As the House majority leader, Tom DeLay, celebrated his election victory in Texas Tuesday night, the theme song playing in the background had been selected by his aides to send a message: ''Hit Me With Your Best Shot.''
 In the weeks leading up to the voting, Mr. DeLay was hit with back-to-back scoldings from the House ethics committee, reinforcing his reputation as a lawmaker who pushes the limits, while providing Democrats an opportunity to try to make him into an issue against Republicans in competitive districts. 
 But House Republicans ultimately gained seats, increases due in no small part to a Texas redistricting plan engineered by Mr. DeLay, earning him even more gratitude and good will from fellow Republicans already angry over the ethics actions. 
 ''Tom DeLay will be re-elected majority leader,'' Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, predicted this week, calling him a ''founding father'' of the House Republican majority. ''He's been an impact player to help this majority in pushing this agenda through into law and help many Republicans gain seats in the House.''
 Now, with President Bush and other top Congressional Republicans talking about trying to reduce the partisanship that has gripped Capitol Hill, some are wondering whether the combative majority leader will move in that direction as well.
 In remarks and interviews with various news organizations since the election, Mr. DeLay has said he is willing to work with Democrats. But he has also made it clear that he considers the strengthened Republican numbers in Congress -- four seats gained in the House and four in the Senate -- as the leverage he needs to advance some stalled elements of the conservative legislative agenda.
 ''Time to start thinking beyond just growing the economy and about fundamentally strengthening it by ridding our economy of the over-taxation, over-regulation and over-litigation that has hamstrung it for decades,'' Mr. DeLay said in his victory speech. He later told a Houston television station, ''With a bigger majority, we can do even more exciting things.''
 One area where Mr. DeLay might quickly try to apply his added legislative muscle is to energy legislation that has been hung up in the Senate, primarily over a provision that Mr. DeLay backed to provide legal immunity to producers of a gasoline additive blamed for groundwater pollution. He has not shown much inclination to budge on that issue and now that Republicans have more strength in the Senate, he might not have to compromise.
 Aides say that Mr. DeLay sees the combination of President Bush's victory and larger Republican majorities in the House and Senate as a signal to move ahead with a fundamental tax overhaul, perhaps a new national sales tax. Democrats who used the prospect of a new Republican-authored sales tax as an issue say they look forward to that prospect.
 ''I hope Tom DeLay does try to move the national retail sales tax,'' said Representative Robert T. Matsui of California, chairman of the House Democratic campaign committee. ''The American public needs to debate whether or not that legislation will actually hurt the economy, will hurt middle-class Americans, and will actually reduce and change the tax burden so middle-class Americans will pay more.''
 Stuart Roy, communications director for Mr. DeLay, said the leader was willing to reach out to Democrats but expected to have more success with rank-and-file lawmakers as opposed to Democratic leaders who have tangled with Mr. DeLay over Republican control of the House and observance of ethics standards.
 ''Certainly Nancy Pelosi has no desire to work with Tom DeLay,'' Mr. Roy said, referring to the Californian who leads the House Democrats. ''But we will extend the olive branch.'' He added, though, that Mr. DeLay and his fellow Republicans were not about to change their ideological stripes as a result of the election. ''Tom DeLay is not a moderate and our conference is a conservative Republican conference,'' Mr. Roy said. ''But not every bill that deals with taxes or deals with security is a partisan issue.''
 Democrats say they are open to a rapprochement with House Republicans but will take a wait-and-see attitude. They are skeptical that a Republican majority that padded its numbers after a session marked by bitter partisanship and votes on divisive social issues will now take a new tack.
 And Ms. Pelosi made it clear that Democrats would continue to go after Republicans for their support of the Republican leadership's agenda. As she dissected the results this week, she said that Republican incumbents ''no longer can masquerade as moderates at home when they vote 8 out of 9, 9 out of 10 times with Tom DeLay in Washington, D.C.''
 When Mr. DeLay and his allies in Texas undertook the redistricting last year, they argued that it was clear the existing lines were skewed when a Republican state like Texas had a Congressional delegation that was majority Democratic. Democrats fought the plan, saying the new lines should be drawn only after the next census. The fight is still in the courts and also figured into the ethics matters involving Mr. DeLay. 
 But Mr. DeLay declared the new map a success after the election gave five more seats to Republicans.
 Mr. DeLay had to run in a new Houston-area district and, because of the thousands of new constituents as well as fallout from the ethics matters, he found the going a little tough. In the end, he received 55 percent of the vote, which, for a powerful incumbent like Mr. DeLay, is modest and well below the 60 percent or more he received in the past.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom DeLay was re-elected to the House despite being scolded on ethics. (Photo by Pat Sullivan/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); ETHICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); IMMUNITY (68%); ENERGY REGULATION (66%); TAX REFORM (62%); SALES TAX (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); LITIGATION (50%); WATER POLLUTION (50%); FUEL ADDITIVES (50%) United States Politics and Government; Ethics; Reapportionment; Elections; Election Results; Law and Legislation; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (56%) Congress (US); House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: THOMAS M REYNOLDS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PAULA G ROSPUT REYNOLDS (52%) Tom (Rep) Delay; Carl Hulse

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Texas; Houston (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



114 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ace Dismisses 2 Executives In Response to Inquiry
Ace Ltd., a Bermuda insurer that is a subject of the New York attorney general's investigation into bid-rigging and price fixing in the insurance industry, dismissed two executives.
 Ace said that it had dismissed Geoffrey G. Gregory, the president of its casualty risk unit, and Patricia Abrams, an assistant vice president who worked for Mr. Gregory, because of ''past improper actions'' in the unit. [Page C5.] 

Altria May Split Into 2 or 3 Pieces
The chief executive of Altria, Louis C. Camilleri, left, said that the company might split into two or three independent entities. Altria, which includes Philip Morris USA, Philip Morris International, Philip Morris Capital and Kraft Foods, has been looking for a way to extract Kraft and Philip Morris International from the American tobacco unit, which has been mired in litigation. [C2.]

Medicare Altering Payment System
Medicare is offering to pay for a number of new treatments and diagnostic tests, ranging from $30,000-a-dose cancer drugs to brain scans to diagnose Alzheimer's -- but with a catch. Patients can only receive the payments if they enter into studies that evaluate how well they work. [A1.]

Energy Company May Appeal Ruling
The chief financial officer of Progress Energy said appealing an adverse Internal Revenue Service ruling regarding $1 billion in federal tax credits for the company could take as long as two years. [C2.]

Crude Oil Falls to a 6-Week Low
The price of crude oil for December delivery fell $2.06, to $48.82 a barrel, as increased OPEC production and slower economic growth eased pressure on supplies. [C6.]

Stocks Continue Post-Election Rally
Stocks continued their post-election rally. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 18.47 points, or 1.6 percent, to a high for the year of 1,161.67. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 19.30 points, or 1 percent, to 2.023.63, and the Dow Jones industrial average jumped 177.71 points, or 1.8 percent, to 10,314.76. [C6.]

Large Losses at MCI and Qwest
MCI and Qwest Communications reported large losses in the third quarter, driven by a continued decline in revenue and one-time write-offs. But the companies said that the long slide in phone prices might be slowing in some parts of their businesses and that they were making progress cutting costs. Shares of MCI rose 51 cents, to $17.76, and Qwest gained 17 cents, to $3.58. [C3.]

Garment Quota Move Riles China
China's Ministry of Commerce filed a protest over the possible imposition of quotas in the United States on five categories of garment imports, including polyester pants and shirts, cotton knit shirts and underwear. [C3.]

Movie Industry Preparing Lawsuits
Hollywood's major movie studios said that they would begin filing lawsuits against people who make copyrighted films available for downloading over the Internet. [C4.]

Retail Sales Rose 4% Last Month
Sales at retailers increased 4 percent in October, the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index indicated. [C3.]

Productivity Slowed in 3rd Quarter
The productivity of workers grew at a 1.9 percent annual rate in the third quarter. In a separate report, the Labor Department said that initial jobless claims fell by 19,000, to 332,000, last week. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,314.76 up 177.71Nasdaq composite -- 2,023.63 up 19.3010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.08% Unch.The euro -- $1.2867 up 0.0046The dollar -- 106.08 yen down 0.07Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Unemployment since April.October figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +5.4%Graph tracks MCI's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE FIXING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MEDICARE (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); TELEPHONE RATES (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (72%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); CHEMICALS (68%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); CANCER DRUGS (67%); CANCER (67%); BRAIN (67%); TAX LAW (65%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ACE LTD (93%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (71%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (56%); CENTURYLINK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%)

TICKER: AEX (FRA) (93%); ACE (NYSE) (93%); MO (NYSE) (84%); VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%); PMI (SWX) (71%); PM (PAR) (71%); PM (NYSE) (71%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (57%); CTL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (93%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%)

PERSON: LOUIS CAMILLERI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



115 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

337,000 Jobs Created; Jobless Rate Rises to 5.5%
The economy created 337,000 new jobs in October, snapping a prolonged jobs slump and renewing hopes that businesses may finally be starting to hire workers more aggressively.
 Unemployment inched up 0.1 percent, to 5.5 percent. But that was seen as a generally positive development -- largely a result of discouraged workers returning to the labor force because of improving prospects. [Page A1.]

Verizon Adding NextWave Licenses
Verizon Wireless said that it would pay $3 billion in cash for the spectrum licenses owned by NextWave Telecom, a move that should help it expand coverage for new subscribers. [C2.]

Scrutiny for F.D.A. Safety System
The Food and Drug Administration announced that it would hire the government's top scientific review agency to figure out whether its drug-safety system is adequate. Also, after embarrassing disclosures that the views of its drug-safety officials have been suppressed, the agency said that it would set up an internal appeals process. [A11.]

Russia Leader Signs Kyoto Protocol
President Vladimir V. Putin signed Russia's ratification of the Kyoto Protocol on global warming, clearing the way for the international treaty aimed at reducing emissions of heat-trapping gases to take effect next year. [A10.]

Molson Sweetens Merger Offer
In a bid to gain support for its proposed merger with the Adolph Coors Company, the Canadian brewer Molson offered minority shareholders a $316 million special dividend, contingent on the merger's approval. [C3.]

Europe Unhappy With U.S. Tax Bill
The European Union raised objections to parts of the $137 billion corporate tax bill passed last month. The measure was three years in the making and was intended to do away with a tax cut for exporters that was declared illegal by the World Trade Organization. [C3.]

SBC Plans to Cut 10,000 Jobs
SBC Communications will eliminate 10,000 jobs by the end of 2005. The cuts amount to 6.1 percent of SBC's work force of 165,000 and will come through attrition and layoffs. They are in addition to 7,000 jobs SBC plans to eliminate this year. In general, SBC and the other Bell operating companies have been reducing the size of their local phone businesses because they have been losing customers. [C2.]

J.P. Morgan Forms British Venture
Cazenove and J.P. Morgan Chase have formed a joint venture in Britain that puts Cazenove in charge of all of J.P. Morgan's British investment banking business. [C3.]

Purdue Settles With West Virginia
Purdue Pharma reached a $10 million settlement with regulators in West Virginia over claims that it had inappropriately marketed OxyContin to state residents. [C2.]

An Editor for Washington Post
The Washington Post named Philip Bennett, the assistant managing editor for foreign news, as the next managing editor, replacing Steve Coll, who announced in August he would return to writing at the start of 2005. [C2.]

African Gold Miner Sues Suitor
Gold Fields filed a lawsuit against Harmony Gold Mining, a rival South African miner, in an attempt to stop Harmony's hostile $7.4 billion takeover bid. [C3.]

MBNA Adds American Express Card
MBNA introduced a line of credit cards under the American Express brand. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,387.54 up 72.78Nasdaq composite -- 2,038.94 up 15.3110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.17% up 0.09The euro -- $1.2962 up 0.0095The dollar -- 105.65 yen down 0.43Graph tracks unemployment (seasonally adjusted) in 2003 and 2004. (Oct. 2004: 5.5%)Graph tracks share prices of SBC for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); MERGERS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); TAX LAW (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); DIVIDENDS (75%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); DRUG SAFETY (74%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EMISSIONS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); LEGISLATION (64%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (62%); INVESTMENT BANKING (62%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); SCIENCE NEWS (54%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AT&T INC (83%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (83%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (63%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (83%); TAP (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (63%); JPM (LSE) (63%); 8634 (TSE) (63%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (83%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (83%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (83%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



116 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: A Brooklyn Con Game Victim Stings Back

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
The promoter was heavyset, balding, clean-shaven, round-faced and smooth-skinned. When he approached his marks, he was blunt but also unpredictable -- he would show up late for meetings, sometimes with a cane, sometimes not. It was all part of the game.
 ''Charming would have blown the whole thing,'' said one of his intended marks, Elliott Bey. 
 But his scheme, in the end, was beautifully simple, and his marks, it turns out, were well chosen: young first-time business owners, pressed to fulfill their dreams quickly or lose their expensive storefronts, working like mad to grab a piece of the much-promoted, ill-defined New Brooklyn of world-class theater, shopping, a basketball stadium, the works.
 Dropping the names of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the big-time developer Bruce C. Ratner, the promoter, identified by the authorities as Mark Edwards, 46, gently separated small-business owners from their money by convincing them that he was a clever, connected publicist, and that he would deliver them endless promotion.
 Mr. Edwards worked his way across gentrifying strips of Brooklyn, following the path of blossoming boutiques, cafes and salons through Fort Greene and Park Slope, then halfway up the raging restaurant strip of Smith Street. He took money, the authorities said, but produced no publicity campaign, and he made it as far as NY Perks, Mr. Bey's new coffee shop, before his scheme came undone. Through coincidence and dumb luck, Mr. Bey, the newest new guy on the block, got wise to the grift, reeled the con man in over the course of a month and a half, then stung him right back.
 When Mr. Edwards walked into NY Perks on Wednesday, light rock was oozing from the speakers, and the sleek round tables were filled with people who were not regular customers. He walked to the back bar, where he spoke for an hour with Mr. Bey and an undercover police officer, then accepted a check for $959.88, walked out the door and was placed under arrest.
 He was arraigned Thursday on forgery and fraud charges, and he remained in jail yesterday, unable to come up with $5,000 bail.
 Tahisi Graham, who is Mr. Edwards's wife and the owner of his employer, the TGE Marketing Company, said the criminal charges were an overreaction to business disputes.
 ''They should have just asked for their money back,'' she said of the small-business owners. ''I don't see why he has to go through this.''
 Detectives assigned to the city's Department of Investigation, who made the arrest, said they were not yet sure of the scope of the con game, and their investigation was continuing. But court documents and interviews with shop owners show that Mr. Edwards approached at least a dozen businesses in a trek of months that traced the borough's increasing economic activity.
 As far back as the beginning of the summer, Mr. Edwards was floating a variant of his pitch in Fort Greene, near the spot where Mr. Ratner hopes to build a stadium for the New Jersey Nets basketball team. Catering to the black population in the neighborhood, where African restaurants thrive, Mr. Edwards promoted a minority business development plan similar to the neighborhood development plans he would later describe in other areas.
 By mid-July, business owners said, he was passing out fliers in Park Slope with a somewhat different sales pitch. He carried pamphlets marked ''New York City Department of Small Business Services'' and ''Business Improvement Districts,'' altered to include promotional information about TGE Marketing, as well as materials using the city logo and the logos for radio stations. 
 Every successful confidence game depends on the mark's willingness to try to get something for nothing, and Mr. Edwards offered radio and online advertising heavily subsidized by city economic development programs and by private developers, according to a criminal complaint. 
 ''He said Bruce Ratner's going to eat a piece, the radio stations, the city of New York -- it will be very cheap, very affordable because they wanted to promote the area,'' said Sergio Mormile, the owner of Vespa Salon on Seventh Avenue.
 Mr. Mormile bought in for $479.94, the price of partial participation. A few blocks away, David Silver signed up his store, Second Helpings, for full participation at $959.88. ''We could have used the boost,'' Mr. Silver said.
 The money was deposited in a TGE Marketing account at Greenpoint Bank, according to a criminal complaint. But by early September, Mr. Edwards, who had no business relationship with the city or the radio stations, was working Smith Street, the jewel in the crown of New Brooklyn.
 Row houses still frame the block, but fame has changed Smith Street, where a restaurant made front-page news last year for its rating in a well-known guidebook. The strip is boutiqueland, a cheery stretch of fiercely competitive stores with fanciful names and bright displays.
 ''Established 1998,'' boasts a pottery place. Coffee table retrospectives of Playboy photographs are sold at a number of stores. A yet-to-open store called Crush uses its pastel awning to promise ''Hip Stuff You'll Want.''
 Mr. Edwards -- sometimes working with a partner, sometimes sending a photographer to take promotional pictures -- worked the block, concentrating on young first-time business owners, those owners said. Patrick Watson, the owner of a wine store called Smith and Vine, bought in for $959.88.
 Although Mr. Edwards hit every note of his marketing pitches, Mr. Watson said, his behavior seemed strange in hindsight.
 ''They would never show up on time,'' Mr. Watson said. ''I think that was in case they got stung. They always caught you off guard.''
 Quietly, word started to get around. Acting on a complaint of Mr. Edwards's broken promises, passed along by the Small Business Services Department, detectives from the Department of Investigations started contacting business owners. Eventually, they found Mr. Bey at NY Perks, who agreed to help set up a sting.
 Mr. Bey, 35, who had opened his cafe on Aug. 19, had no connections with his neighbors, and so no warning about the con. When Mr. Edwards walked in one day in early September, limping and leaning on his cane, dressed in a white button-down shirt emblazoned with radio station logos, Mr. Bey received him enthusiastically.
 ''I'm very shrewd, I'm very savvy, and I was going to give him a check,'' Mr. Bey said.
 But a few days after their first meeting, Mr. Bey ran into a friend from Fort Greene who recognized Mr. Edwards from the similar minority business development pitch. But Mr. Bey did not back out. Instead, he took the detectives' number and kept in touch with Mr. Edwards.
 ''I kept him interested,'' he said. ''They sent this clown in with a 3-meg-pixel digital camera. Even if I hadn't known it was a scam, I would have figured it out then.''
 After a two-week lull, Mr. Edwards came back to NY Perks on Wednesday to collect his check. When he walked in, his limp was gone, and so was his cane. The undercover officer was waiting at the back bar.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Elliott Bey, who opened his coffee shop in August, was in danger of being duped by the scheme until a friend warned him about the promoter. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); ARRESTS (85%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); COUNTERFEITING (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (61%); BAIL (61%) Retail Stores and Trade; Frauds and Swindling

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%) Michael Brick; Elliott Bey; Mark Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



117 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Iran and Europe Locked in Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 5 

 BODY:
In an effort to stop Iran from producing a nuclear bomb, the 25 leaders of the European Union on Friday offered Iran economic and political incentives if it suspended its production of enriched uranium.
 The proposal, issued in a statement at the end of a two-day summit meeting in Brussels, coincided with negotiations that opened here in which Iran was seeking concessions from France, Germany, Britain and the European Union to allow it to produce enriched uranium. Uranium can be enriched both for peaceful purposes and to develop nuclear weapons.
 In the negotiations, which stretched late into the night, the Iranians were willing only to consider a temporary suspension of perhaps six months to buy time for a broader agreement and avoid the threat of sanctions, according to officials involved in the negotiations. One European official labeled the Iranian position ''suspension minus.'' 
 The goal of the Europeans, by contrast, has been to push Iran to agree to suspend its uranium enrichment indefinitely in exchange for the promise of economic and political rewards, officials said.
 Iran has said that its uranium enrichment program is only for energy production purposes, claiming it as a sovereign right and a matter of national pride. On Oct. 31, Iran's Parliament unanimously passed a bill supporting the resumption of uranium enrichment. On Tuesday, Iran's president, Mohammad Khatami, ruled out a definitive halt to uranium enrichment but expressed confidence that a compromise could be reached.
 ''Our nation must be given the assurance that it will not be stripped of its right,'' Mr. Khatami told reporters at the Parliament, adding that he was optimistic that negotiations in Paris would succeed.
 That sentiment was echoed by Hussein Mousavian, the Iranian negotiator in the talks, who told Iran's state television, ''I am optimistic because the two parties are determined to reach an accord satisfactory to both.''
 The spirit of optimism seems to be grounded in two assumptions by Iran.
 The first is that the Europeans seem willing to bend to Iran by offering concessions to avoid a confrontation on Nov. 25, when the United Nations' nuclear monitoring body, the International Atomic Energy Agency, meets in Vienna. The second assumption is that the international community will not have the political will to impose sanctions on Iran if it does not comply -- particularly economic sanctions at a time when oil prices are so high.
 Under pressure from the Bush administration, the I.A.E.A. is scheduled to rule at its meeting later this month on whether Iran has met demands that it cooperate fully to disclose its nuclear activities. The Bush administration is poised to turn the matter over to the Security Council for discussion of sanctions if Iran does not cooperate.
 The Europeans, who have worked to avoid sanctions, nevertheless admit that Iran has reneged on an agreement reached with France, Germany and Britain in October 2003 to suspend uranium enrichment and to accept stricter international inspections of its nuclear sites.
 In Brussels this week, Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer of Germany said Iran had to ''stop the fuel cycle.'' Otherwise, he predicted, ''we are moving forward in a very serious situation.''
 But Iran has charged that the Europeans have reneged on their promises under last year's agreement to deliver peaceful nuclear technology and other economic incentives in exchange for its cooperation.
 Mr. Mousavian has taken a hard line on the issue of uranium enrichment. ''Cessation is rejected, indefinite suspension is rejected,'' he was quoted by Agence France-Presse as saying in Tehran on Tuesday. ''Suspension shall be a confidence-building measure and a voluntary decision by Iran and in no way a legal obligation.''
 To avoid a diplomatic showdown and to salvage last year's agreement, the Europeans proposed a package of economic incentives for Iran last month that included access to imported nuclear fuel for its reactors, help with regional security concerns, and increased trade, including access to spare parts for Iran's aging airline industry.
 That incentive strategy was underscored in the European Union decision contained in the European Union's statement on Friday. ''A full and sustained suspension of all enrichment and reprocessing activities, on a voluntary basis, would open the door for talks on long-term cooperation offering mutual benefits,'' the statement said.
 The European leaders also pledged to press for long-term ''political, economic and technological'' cooperation and the resumption of negotiations on a trade agreement between Iran and the European Union.
 In Tehran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, took the unusual step of delivering the weekly Friday Prayer sermon in which he insisted that Iran had no intention of developing nuclear weapons, which, he said, were forbidden under Islam.
 ''They accuse us of pursuing nuclear weapons,'' Ayatollah Khamenei said. ''I am telling them as I have said before that we are not even thinking about nuclear weapons. Our nuclear weapon is our young and devoted youth and our believing nation.''
 In an interview published Friday in The San Francisco Chronicle, Mohamed ElBaradei, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said he had no clear proof that Iran was developing nuclear weapons. ''We haven't seen any concrete evidence that points to a fact that Iran has a nuclear weapons program,'' he said in the article. ''We have seen Iran experimenting with all aspects of the fuel cycle, but we still have lots of work to do.''
 But the United States, Britain, France and Germany and other countries believe that despite its denials, Iran is pursuing a clandestine nuclear weapons program under cover of its civilian atomic energy program.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, in Tehran. (Photo by Valed Salemi/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); TRENDS (69%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Atomic Weapons; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Uranium

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%) European Union

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (58%) Elaine Sciolino

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); IRAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%) Iran; Brussels (Belgium); Paris (France); France; Germany; Iran; Great Britain; Europe

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



118 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: A Question of Values

BYLINE: By Gary Langer. 
Gary Langer is the director of polling for ABC News.

 BODY:
A poorly devised exit poll question and a dose of spin are threatening to undermine our understanding of the 2004 presidential election. 
 The news media has made much of the finding that a fifth of voters picked ''moral values'' as the most important issue in deciding their vote -- as many as cited terrorism or the economy. The conclusion: moral values are ascendant as a political issue.
 The reporting accurately represents the exit poll data, but not reality. While morals and values are critical in informing political judgments, they represent personal characteristics far more than a discrete political issue. Conflating the two distorts the story of Tuesday's election. 
 This distortion comes from a question in the exit poll, co-sponsored by the national television networks and The Associated Press, that asked voters what was the most important issue in their decision: taxes, education, Iraq, terrorism, economy/jobs, moral values or health care. Six of these are concrete, specific issues. The seventh, moral values, is not, and its presence on the list produced a misleading result.
 How do we know? Pre-election polls consistently found that voters were most concerned about three issues: Iraq, the economy and terrorism. When telephone surveys asked an open-ended issues question (impossible on an exit poll), answers that could sensibly be categorized as moral values were in the low single digits. In the exit poll, they drew 22 percent.
 Why the jump? One reason is that the phrase means different things to people. Moral values is a grab bag; it may appeal to people who oppose abortion, gay marriage and stem-cell research but, because it's so broadly defined, it pulls in others as well. Fifteen percent of non-churchgoers picked it, as did 12 percent of liberals.
 Look, too, at the other options on the list. Four of them played to John Kerry's strengths: economy/jobs, health care, education, Iraq. Just two worked in President Bush's favor: terrorism and taxes. If you were a Bush supporter, and terrorism and taxes didn't inspire you, moral values was your place to go on the exit poll questionnaire. People who picked it voted for him by 80 percent to 18 percent.
 Moral values, moreover, is a loaded phrase, something polls should avoid. (Imagine if ''patriotism'' were on the list.) It resonates among conservatives and religious Americans. While 22 percent of all voters marked moral values as their top issue, 64 percent of religious conservatives checked it. And among people who said they were mainly interested in a candidate with strong religious faith (just 8 percent, in a far more balanced list of candidate attributes), 61 percent checked moral values as their top issue. So did 42 percent of people who go to church more than once a week, 41 percent of evangelical white Christians and 37 percent of conservatives.
 The makeup and views of the electorate in other measures provide some context for the moral values result. The number of conservative white Protestants or weekly churchgoing white Protestants voting (12 percent and 13 percent of voters, respectively) did not rise in 2004. Fifty-five percent of voters said abortion should be legal in all or most cases. Sixty percent said they supported either gay marriage (25 percent) or civil unions (an additional 35 percent). 
 Opinion researchers don't always agree. The exit poll is written by a committee, and that committee voted down my argument against including ''moral values'' in the issues list. That happens -- and the exit poll overall did deliver a wealth of invaluable data. The point is not to argue that moral values, however defined, are not important. They are, and they should be measured. The intersection of religiosity, ideology and politics is the staging ground for many of the most riveting social issues of our day.
 The point, instead, is that this hot-button catch phrase had no place alongside defined political issues on the list of most important concerns in the 2004 vote. Its presence there created a deep distortion -- one that threatens to misinform the political discourse for years to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); RELIGION (88%); LIBERALISM (78%); BIOETHICS (77%); ABORTION (64%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



119 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Skids, Despite Stock Rally and a Strong Jobs Report

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The dollar skidded to a record low against the euro yesterday, despite a surprisingly strong jobs report for October and another rally in the stock market, which has posted gains every day since the election.
 The surge in stocks after the jobs report signaled a shift from the post-election bounce and the beginning of the return of investor focus to economic fundamentals, said Bob Froehlich, chief investment strategist at Deutsche Asset Management.
 He is optimistic about the outlook. The focus on fundamentals, however, means that economic data will have to keep coming in at or above expectations to keep investors happy. A further decline in the dollar may be a drag on stocks by discouraging foreigners from buying equities in the United States. And if oil prices do not decline significantly they will become a drag on growth. 
 The slowdown in corporate earnings expected next year could also worry investors. And if the economy proves to be more robust than expected, the Federal Reserve may begin pushing up interest rates at a quicker pace, which could be a negative for both stocks and bonds. 
 The dollar fell as much as 0.8 percent during the day and was down 0.7 percent from Thursday in late trading in New York. The dollar slipped 0.2 percent against the Japanese yen and fell against other major currencies.
 With the euro now valued at $1.2962, the dollar has fallen 2.6 percent this year and 36 percent since its high against the euro in October 2000. If the dollar declines another 11 percent against the euro, the American currency would be at its weakest against European currencies since the dollar became a free-trading currency in the early 1970's. 
 In the stock market, all three market gauges were up modestly, after bigger gains on Wednesday and Thursday.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which climbed 4.50 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,166.17, hit a high for the year. It was powered by a 23 percent surge in Sears, Roebuck. Sears shares soared after the report that Vornado Realty Trust, an owner of shopping centers, had bought a 4.3 percent stake, a move that could lead to the profitable sale of property owned by Sears.
 Bond prices dropped sharply when the government reported that 337,000 new jobs were created in October, nearly twice the Wall Street forecast. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note jumped to 4.17 percent, from 4.08 percent on Thursday. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell 26/32, to a price of 100 19/32.
 The surge in jobs, analysts said, shows that the economy is less vulnerable than some had thought. This also made it more likely that the Federal Reserve would follow next week's expected quarter-point increase in the benchmark interest rate with another increase in December. Still, the 10-year yield is well below the 2004 high hit in June. 
 The price of crude oil rose 79 cents, to $49.61, but remained under $50 a barrel for the third day this week. 
 While the dollar's decline is hard on American tourists and those who like foreign imports, it can be generally positive in the current environment of low inflation. A dollar decline will help American exporters and domestic companies that compete with foreign imports. In addition, economists say a weaker dollar is necessary to discourage imports and to curtail the country's record deficit in trade and services with the rest of the world. 
 The fact that the dollar did not rally after the jobs report ''underlines the gloom on the U.S. currency,'' said Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at the MG Financial Group.
 He said that currency traders and speculators seem to be paying less attention to economic factors, like jobs and interest rates, and more attention to so-called structural factors. These include the record budget deficit and record current account deficit, which is the broad gap between the nation's exports and imports of goods and services.
 The current account deficit has to be covered by net inflows of capital from abroad and many analysts say this flow will slow, which would, in turn, weaken the dollar and raise interest rates here.
 In addition, Mr. Laidi said that while the Bush administration talked about favoring a strong dollar, ''everybody knows it is implicitly a weak-dollar policy.''
 Further pressure on the dollar has come from European leaders, who have indicated they are not ready yet to take steps to weaken the euro, although the strong euro could be a drag on growth there.
 Mr. Laidi said one reason for this is that a strong euro makes crude oil, which is priced in dollars, cheaper in Europe and curbs inflation. 
 In the stock market, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 72.78 points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,387.54, while the Nasdaq composite index climbed 15.31 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,038.94.
 Both the Dow and the Nasdaq are still below their 2004 highs. But the Nasdaq, which rose 3.2 percent this week, is now up 1.8 percent for the year. The Dow, which climbed 3.6 percent this week, is now down just 0.6 percent for the year. The S.&P. 500-stock index, which rose 3.2 percent this week, is up 4.9 percent for the year. 
 The dollar's fall, which could discourage foreign investment in the stock market, may have restrained the rally after the strong jobs report. So did the threat of more Fed rate increases.
 Mr. Froehlich of Deutsche Asset Management said that he was encouraged by both the jobs report and by the decision of Verizon Wireless to pay $3 billion for airwave licenses from NextWave Telecom. The deal will allow Verizon Wireless to handle more calls in 23 cities, including New York. Shares of Verizon slipped 7 cents, to $41.01. 
 Mr. Froehlich said that the jobs growth and the Verizon deal showed that companies were willing to put the cash they have to work, which is good for the economy and for the future of earnings growth.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EURO (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); RETAILERS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Government Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (63%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (52%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (63%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



120 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: When Good Debt Turns Bad

 BODY:
Consumers came through for the economy in the third quarter. The Commerce Department reported recently that economic growth from July through September -- a respectable 3.7 percent -- was due largely to spending on new cars and other big-ticket items. But the question that leaped out was, Where did the spending money come from? 
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics also reported that wages and salaries grew only 2.4 percent over the past year. That's the lowest one-year pace on record -- and it lags behind inflation, which clocked in at 2.7 percent. It's nice to see consumption up. But these numbers show it's being fueled by borrowing, not fatter paychecks, and that is worrisome.
 This economic recovery could be buoyed by borrowing -- if jobs were plentiful, incomes and assets were rising at a healthy clip, and interest rates weren't likely to go up. After a long period of sluggishness, the economy added a healthy 377,000 jobs in October, but it will take sustained monthly increases of similar size before anyone can say with confidence that hiring is truly on the rebound. Home values are still rising in some markets, but who knows how long that will last. Meanwhile, household debt keeps increasing, with 40 percent of all new mortgages at variable rates, and homeowners and renters alike using more of their income to pay their credit card bills. So the outlook is for an economy that slogs along at a decent pace -- unless the debt load becomes unbearable.
 No one knows if or when accumulated debt could become unsustainable. But after years of encouraging borrowing with rock-bottom interest rates, policy makers should at least admit the possibility of a debilitating crunch -- and act accordingly. That would involve seeing a relationship between private and public debt. The more indebted the nation is, the greater the danger of spikes in interest rates. To alleviate that danger, it's imperative to increase the nation's savings rate. There is simply no proven policy to increase private savings. So the government has to increase the national savings rate by saving money through deficit reduction. 
 Warning about debt levels is the economic equivalent of crying wolf. Americans are familiar with debt hangovers and always seem to recover. But the cure is seldom painless: a family may have to do without, or the government may raise taxes and cut spending. Still, with the political will to tackle deficits, the pain yet to come can be mitigated. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); STATISTICS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); HOME PRICES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%) United States Economy; Editorials; Credit; Savings ; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



121 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Europe Still Unhappy With U.S. Tax Subsidy

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5 

 BODY:
Just when lawmakers thought a thorny tax dispute was behind them, the European Union raised objections on Friday to parts of the $137 billion corporate tax bill that was passed last month.
 The measure was three years in the making and was intended to do away with a tax cut for exporters that was declared illegal by the World Trade Organization. Rather than simply outlawing the tax subsidy system, Congress replaced it with three times the number of tax cuts, involving nearly every sector of the economy from tobacco farmers to shipbuilders. 
 The European Union applauded the United States for doing away with the old tax cut and said it would remove the $4 billion in sanctions it had imposed against American products after winning the W.T.O. ruling.
 But on Friday, the Europeans asked for talks with the United States to question why some of the biggest American corporations should be given a three-year grace period or transition before the original tax cut was ended.
 ''We have consistently raised concerns about grandfathering and other transition issues,'' Anthony Gooch, the European Union spokesman in Washington, said. ''But we are still in train to lift sanctions by Jan. 1.''
 The administration contends that the Europeans are raising the issue after the fact, in part to show their dissatisfaction with a new trade dispute filed at the W.T.O. by the United States over European subsidies for Airbus.
 In retaliation, the Europeans filed a similar complaint against American subsidies for Boeing, one of the corporations that will benefit from the three-year transition period in the new corporate tax bill.
 ''The E.U. had expressed willingness before to grandfather some contracts,'' said Richard Mills, spokesman for the office of the United States trade representative. ''This is not only standard practice in tax legislation in the United States but also in a number of E.U. members.''
 After years of debate and a final marathon of arm-twisting to pass the bill and get it signed by the president last month, lawmakers have warned that they will look unkindly at foot-dragging by the Europeans.
 Mr. Gooch, the spokesman, said that on the contrary the Europeans were moving with remarkable speed to erase the $4 billion in sanctions and that further discussions about transition did not undo Europe's approval of the repeal of the tax cut for exporters.
 ''This is a real model of how to settle disputes,'' Mr. Gooch said. ''Our negotiations were very gentlemanly stuff compared to other disputes.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: American officials say the latest objections stem from a dispute over Europe's subsidies to Airbus. (Photo by Matthias Rietschel/Associated Presss) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); TOBACCO FARMING (71%) International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Taxation

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (54%); BOEING CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%) European Union; World Trade Organization

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



122 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: WEAPONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: U.S. EXPANDS LIST OF LOST MISSILES

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5 

 BODY:
American intelligence agencies have tripled their formal estimate of shoulder-fired surface-to-air missile systems believed to be at large worldwide, since determining that at least 4,000 of the weapons in Iraq's prewar arsenals cannot be accounted for, government officials said Friday.
 A new government estimate says a total of 6,000 of the weapons may be outside the control of any government, up from a previous estimate of 2,000, American officials said. 
 The officials said they did not know whether missiles from Iraq remain there or have been smuggled into other countries, though a senior administration official said Friday that ''there is no evidence that they have left the country.'' 
 It was unclear whether Iraqi military or intelligence personnel removed the missile systems during the initial invasion of Iraq or whether they disappeared from warehouses after major combat ended. 
 Shoulder-fired missiles -- which are small, lethal and easy to use -- are attractive weapons for terrorists. In recent months, Western intelligence and law enforcement agencies have repeatedly warned that Al Qaeda intends to use them to shoot down planes. In 2002, attackers who launched two small Russian-made SA-7 missiles almost hit a commercial aircraft taking off from Mombasa, Kenya. The new estimate of a larger number of the missile systems was discussed at a classified Defense Intelligence Agency conference in Alabama this week, the officials said. They declined to discuss the methods by which the new estimate had been reached, saying that it was classified.
 American intelligence analysts have said in the past that during Saddam Hussein's rule, Iraq stockpiled at least 5,000 of these missile systems, and that fewer than a third had been recovered. The shelf life of the missiles can vary, with battery life depending on the conditions under which they are stored.
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said last fall that ''no threat is more serious to aviation'' than the shoulder-fired missiles, which can be bought on the black market for as little as $5,000, are about five feet long and weigh as little as 35 pounds. More than 40 aircraft have been struck by shoulder-fired surface-to-air missiles since the 1970's, causing at least 24 crashes and more than 600 deaths worldwide, according to a State Department estimate. In Iraq, the missiles have been used in more than a dozen attacks on American planes and helicopters, including those taking off and landing at Baghdad's international airport.
 In recent months, the number of successful missile attacks on American aircraft and helicopters in Iraq has declined, but American officials have said the reason has largely been the precautionary measures taken by the United States military.
 An unclassified study released in June 2004 by what is now the Government Accountability Office cited ''U.S. government estimates'' that a few thousand of the portable missiles were ''outside government controls.'' A separate study released in November 2003 by the Congressional Research Service cited counterterrorism experts in saying that as many as 4,000 to 5,000 shoulder-fired missiles might be available to Iraqi insurgents.
 The new estimate by American intelligence agencies was described by government officials who had access to the classified intelligence report. They said the tripling of the number represented the first formal effort to determine how unaccounted Iraqi stockpiles may have compounded the surface-to-air missile threat. Only several hundred shoulder-fired surface-to-air missiles from the Iraqi arsenals have been turned in to American forces in a buyout program, the government officials said.
 A Defense Department official said Friday that more than one million shoulder-fired surface-to-air missiles had been produced since the weapons were first manufactured in the 1950's, with 20 countries producing more than 35 different types of weapons. According to the accountability office study, 500,000 to 750,000 shoulder-fired surface-to-air missiles are still believed to be in the worldwide inventory. Many of the older missiles are militarily obsolete and have been destroyed. 
 Until the invasion of Iraq, many of the shoulder-fired weapons believed to be outside government controls were those provided by the United States and its allies to mujahedeen fighters in Afghanistan to assist in their resistance against Soviet forces during the 1980's. Those weapons included American-made Stinger and British-made Blowpipe missiles, but by December 2002, American-led forces in Afghanistan had captured more than 5,000 of the missiles from the Taliban and Al Qaeda, according to news reports at the time.
 The Defense Intelligence Agency conference on the worldwide threat to civil aviation posed by these portable air defense systems was held Wednesday and Thursday by the agency's Missile and Space Intelligence Center, at Redstone Arsenal, in Huntsville, Ala. 
 The range and accuracy of the weapons can vary widely by type, with the Russian-made SA-16 regarded as the most lethal in Iraq's prewar arsenal. It is not known how many of the missiles may have been fired at American planes and helicopters during the invasion in 2003.
 In an effort to address the missile threat, the Department of Homeland Security has asked government contractors to find a way to protect passenger jets from small shoulder-fired missiles. The technology has been installed on military planes for years, using laser-jamming equipment and decoy flares to deflect the missiles, and some contractors have determined that passenger planes could be outfitted with antimissile technology relatively soon.
 The State Department has also started an aggressive effort to persuade other countries to join in an effort to limit the availability and proliferation of the weapons. In July, the House of Representatives passed a bill that calls on the president to pursue even stronger measures, and directs the administration to expedite approval of new antimissile technologies. The Senate has not yet acted on the bill.
 The new government estimate follows the disclosure late last month that more than 300 tons of powerful explosives had disappeared since early March 2003 from an Iraqi site previously monitored by the International Atomic Energy Agency. Video images that emerged after that report appears to suggest that at least some of the explosive material disappeared after the fall of the Iraqi government. Unlike those explosives, surface-to-air missiles in Iraq were not sealed or monitored by weapons inspectors before the war and may have been widely dispersed among the Iraqi forces in the field. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (95%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); TERRORISM (87%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HELICOPTERS (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); AL-QAEDA (67%); AIRPORTS (66%); RESEARCH REPORTS (65%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (54%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (52%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Intelligence Services; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; Smuggling

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) Douglas Jehl; David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KENYA (92%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



123 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: The Election and Our Values

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof argues that working people will continue to vote against their interests until Democrats talk more about faith and less about economic policies (column, Nov. 3). Pundits said that in 2000 as well. They were wrong then and they are wrong now. 
 John Kerry should have stated immediately, clearly and forcefully that the war in Iraq was wrong, and that he was wrong to support it; that the Republican attack ads were lies; that environmental protection is in everybody's interest; that high wages and decent benefits are a matter of economic justice; and that infringement of our rights on the basis of fearmongering is fascist. 
 In other words, the Democrats must insist that they are a real alternative, and not lightweight Republicans. 
 To recover a phrase from the distant past, Democrats must be a choice, not an echo.

John Douard
Montclair, N.J., Nov. 3, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); ETHICS (88%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); IRAQ WAR (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%) Presidential Election of 2004; Ethics; United States Economy

PERSON: John Douard; Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



124 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Sears Stock Jumps as Realty Trust Discloses Stake

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

 BODY:
Sears, Roebuck, once the king of American retailers but lately struggling for shoppers, has finally attracted a big one -- not for its tools and appliances, but for its real estate. 
 The share price of Sears, Roebuck soared 23 percent yesterday after Vornado Realty Trust, the large real estate investor, said that it had acquired a 4.3 percent stake in the retailer. 
 Sears has been trying to turn around its performance for several years, with limited success. As it has redesigned stores and added to its merchandise in hopes of increasing sales, competitors like Wal-Mart Stores and Lowe's have snatched away its customers. 
 In July, Vornado began buying Sears stock as well as derivatives held by a bank. Its move seemed to suggest that Sears might be worth more as a collection of real estate holdings than as a purveyor of clothing, housewares and other goods. Sears owns about 60 percent of its 870 Sears stores, a spokesman said, and leases the rest. There are also 1,100 independently owned and operated outlets for appliances and tools. 
 A spokeswoman for Vornado, which is publicly traded and based in Manhattan, would not discuss the investment.
 In a quarterly report that was filed yesterday with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Vornado said it had acquired the stake in Sears from July through September, paying about $40.6 million for 1.18 million shares of common stock and another $64.2 million for what it called ''an economic interest'' in 7.9 million shares held by a financial institution. 
 Vornado estimated the market value of its Sears holdings at $338.1 million, based on the Sears closing price on Thursday, which was $37.18 a share. Sears stock closed at $45.88 yesterday, bringing the value to $418 million. 
 Ted McDougal, a spokesman for Sears would not comment on whether the investment came as a surprise to company management. He said no other real estate investment trusts held stakes in Sears. ''We are pleased that Vornado sees value in our stock,'' Mr. McDougal said. ''We believe we have a sound plan to create sustainable increases in shareholder value.''
 Vornado owns the Merchandise Mart tower in Chicago. It also owns 33 percent of Alexanders, the department store chain, which it has held for about 20 years. 
 For Sears, attracting real estate investors may be easier than turning around what has been a losing proposition with the stores. Sears sold its lucrative credit card business to Citigroup last year and has been trying to woo shoppers by looking beyond the shopping malls where most of its stores are concentrated. In much of the country, strip malls have replaced shopping malls as destinations. 
 It has also sought to improve its assortment of goods, particularly apparel, but has had mixed results. The Lands' End line, purchased for $1.9 billion two years ago, has had sluggish sales in many areas. A new store concept called Sears Grand, which is being developed in strip malls, adds products like milk and frozen pizza to the usual Sears lineup; the company says sales have been impressive but says it is too early to tell about profits. 
 As Sears experiments to try to correct its shortcomings, competitors like Wal-Mart, Lowe's and Home Depot are siphoning shoppers with bigger and newer stores that often undercut Sears in price. 
 The chief executive of Sears, Alan J. Lacy, has said Sears Grand is his plan to build more off-the-mall stores. The company recently bought 56 former Kmart and Wal-Mart stores to increase its exposure outside malls. 
 That raises the question of just how valuable Sears real estate can be to an investor like Vornado, one analyst said. ''There's a whole body of thought out there that retail real estate is undervalued and therefore retailers are attractive,'' said Bernard Sosnick, a retail analyst for Oppenheimer & Company. But, he added, in most of the country, too many stores have been built in malls and elsewhere. ''Why would the aggregate of retail space be worth more, not less?'' he said. 
 In general, Sears has not performed as well as expected. In the third quarter, the company lost 29 cents a share as sales in its stores fell, as they have for most of the year. October was a rare bright spot, with sales rising 1.9 percent, the company said Thursday. But Mr. McDougal said the outlook for the fourth quarter, which includes the all-important holiday shopping surge, is for no improvement over the period last year. 
 Mistakes by Sears management -- including poor planning and too many programs started and then dropped -- are to blame, some analysts and industry experts said.
 ''Shoppers haven't gotten any of the messages,'' said Candace Corlett, a partner at WSL Strategic Retail, a Manhattan consulting firm. ''They've been too short-lived and not executed well. You have to reinforce your message in every element of the brand.''
 The company made a mistake when it put Lands' End clothing in every one of its stores, said Kim Picciola, a retail analyst for Morningstar in Chicago. ''In hindsight, they should have been more selective,'' she said. ''I do think they can improve the Lands' End piece of the business by more selectively allocating the merchandise to the stores where it is popular and ensuring that they have the right kind of merchandise. No coats in Florida.''
 George Strachan, a retail analyst for Goldman Sachs, wrote in a report to investors that Vornado's purchase of Sears stock ''has reignited speculation about the ultimate future of retailers whose embedded asset values exceed their current market values.'' He upgraded his rating of Sears in response to the Vornado development, which was disclosed in a Vornado news release about its own third-quarter earnings. 
 Mr. Strachan noted that Kmart Holdings, which owns the Kmart discount chain, sold some of its stores in recent months and might be an example of a retailer ''whose ultimate future could lie in the realm of real estate, given a perhaps limited future as an operating company.'' At the same time, he added, there are greater challenges for retailers with most of their stores in malls. Clearly, Vornado feels differently, he wrote, and ''we will watch with interest how this ultimately plays out.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)Graph tracks Sears stock, weekly since 1974.Graph tracks share prices of Sears this week. (+32.1% for the week.)(Source by SunGard PowerData)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (79%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); HOME CENTERS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); CREDIT CARDS (64%) Retail Stores and Trade; Real Estate

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (90%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (90%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (90%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (72%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%) Sears, Roebuck & Co; Vornado Realty Trust

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (90%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (90%); VNO (NYSE) (72%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (90%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (90%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: Constance L Hays

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



125 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Beliefs; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Voters say values matter, but it's important to find out what reality is behind this convenient catchall.

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels

 BODY:
The election of George W. Bush, it seems, turned on moral values. 
 It seems. 
 Hardly had the exit polls shown that 22 percent of the voters named ''moral values'' as the issue mattering most in their choice for president when Andrew Kohut, the president of the Pew Research Center, called that conclusion misleading. On the Wednesday edition of ''The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer,'' Mr. Kohut rightly pointed out that moral values may have ranked ahead of jobs or terrorism because it was an ambiguous, appealing and catchall phrase. 
 It is true that if the exit polls had constructed an equivalent catchall economic category adding concern about health care and taxes to that about jobs and growth, it would have been the top concern of 33 percent of the voters. If the poll findings had combined concern about terrorism with concern about Iraq, as apparently many voters did, the resulting category would have ranked first with 34 percent of the voters. 
 To underscore the ambiguity of moral values, consider three of the issues often subsumed under that umbrella. Stem cell research is immensely popular. Gay marriage is not. Legal access to abortion falls somewhere in between. 
 And surely concern about moral values mixes revulsion at the offerings of Hollywood, cable television, the popular music industry and pornographic Web sites with defense of displaying the Ten Commandments in courthouses and of reciting ''under God'' in the Pledge of Allegiance -- and who knows what else.
 Furthermore, many of these concerns are stimulated and shaped artificially and emotionally by the high commands and local shock troops in the culture wars. 
 So level-headed observers like Mr. Kohut are wise to warn that no one quite knows what reality lies behind the moral values catchphrase. But isn't it important to find out? The fact that 80 percent of the voters listing moral values uppermost in their minds voted for Mr. Bush suggests that there is some unifying, underlying reality there. Anyone seeking to understand American political culture should be more than a little bit curious, to say nothing of Democrats contemplating the future of their party. 
 There are, however, several surefire ways to short-circuit such an inquiry. 
 Comparing the so-called values voters with jihad-driven Muslim terrorists, an equation ventured by not a few post-election analysts, will do nicely, for starters. Loosely tossing around terms like fundamentalism and theocracy is similarly effective at anesthetizing the thought processes. Then there is the leap that fretting about moral values is merely a disguise for ignorance, irrationality and intolerance. 
 These caricatures cast millions of citizens as ominous Others, alien invaders not from another planet but at least from another era, probably the benighted Middle Ages or the nearly as dark 1950's. Nevermind the evidence of writers and scholars as different as David Brooks, Alan Wolfe and Morris P. Fiorina that Americans are not really as deeply divided as either the metaphor of a culture war or the electoral-vote map of the red and blue states suggests. 
 Barack Obama, the newly elected senator from Illinois, memorably challenged the red-state, blue-state dichotomy at the Democratic convention. ''We worship an awesome God in the blue states,'' Mr. Obama said, and ''have gay friends in the red states.'' Perhaps he could have added something about finding supporters of the ban on so-called partial-birth abortions in blue states and conservative Christian defenders of church-state separation in the red states. 
 Fanaticism exists, of course, and stupidity, too. Wild claims and aggressive demands have been made in the name of moral values, often enough by figures competing for public attention. Latching upon these is an easy and tempting way to deaden the kind of empathy and imagination necessary to comprehend another perspective.
 A condescending incredulity offers a slightly more sophisticated way to derail any inquiry into the moral values issues. Just treat one's own views as so established and self-evident that any questioning of them can only be a puzzling and pathological ''backlash.'' Are there really still people out there opposed to abortion rights? How incomprehensible!
 Whatever one may think of same-sex marriage, for example, it takes a real stretch to pretend that it is not a noteworthy departure from existing social and legal norms. It would also be a long shot to deny that it was the Massachusetts Supreme Court along with local officials around the nation challenging current laws by officiating at same-sex weddings who placed this on the national agenda rather than the religious right or President Bush.
 Voters' emphasis on moral values has prompted talk that the culture is undergoing a sharp conservative shift. A better case can be made that the cultural shifts of recent years have almost entirely continued in a liberal direction. On Nov. 2 a significant part of the nation balked. Gay marriage has proved, at least for now, unacceptable. Meanwhile civil unions, which stirred shock and fury in Vermont only a few years ago, have almost reached the edge of being mainstream. 
 A final way of skirting any exploration of the moral values so many Americans say determined their presidential choice actually has considerable legitimacy. One can challenge the very idea reflected in the exit polls that moral values constitute some distinct category of public concerns. 
 Are not moral values also at stake in decisions about war, in drawing lines against torture, in addressing poverty or in providing desperately needed housing and health care? It has become commonplace to note that for every injunction in the Bible regarding homosexuality there are hundreds, maybe thousands regarding care for the poor. All of a nation's common life, not just sexual matters or personal behavior, is shot through with moral and ethical issues. 
 These points are absolutely true. But those who make them should remember that enlarging the framework of the discussion is one thing, trying to change the subject is another. Whatever this large chunk of voters may have in mind by moral values, those things need to be identified and addressed, not simply steamrolled over by pointing to other issues that may be equally moral and equally or even more important. 
 Suppose that these barriers to pursuing the question of moral values can be overcome. What then? The endgame should not be some expedient concession or cosmetic exercise to garner votes next time around. The endgame should be an honest discussion of the moral stances dividing Americans, each side (and there may be more than two) addressing the contending arguments at their best and not at their worst. It is not unthinkable that a few minds might be changed, and a great many people feel less alienated. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); RELIGION (86%); ETHICS (78%); BIOETHICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); ABORTION (66%); FUNDAMENTALISM (64%); MARRIAGE (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (51%); PORNOGRAPHY (51%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Ethics; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Pew Research Center for the People and the Press (Orgn)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Peter Steinfels; George W (Pres) Bush; Andrew Kohut

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



126 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: The Values-Vote Myth

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Every election year, we in the commentariat come up with a story line to explain the result, and the story line has to have two features. First, it has to be completely wrong. Second, it has to reassure liberals that they are morally superior to the people who just defeated them.
 In past years, the story line has involved Angry White Males, or Willie Horton-bashing racists. This year, the official story is that throngs of homophobic, Red America values-voters surged to the polls to put George Bush over the top. 
 This theory certainly flatters liberals, and it is certainly wrong.
 Here are the facts. As Andrew Kohut of the Pew Research Center points out, there was no disproportionate surge in the evangelical vote this year. Evangelicals made up the same share of the electorate this year as they did in 2000. There was no increase in the percentage of voters who are pro-life. Sixteen percent of voters said abortions should be illegal in all circumstances. There was no increase in the percentage of voters who say they pray daily.
 It's true that Bush did get a few more evangelicals to vote Republican, but Kohut, whose final poll nailed the election result dead-on, reminds us that public opinion on gay issues over all has been moving leftward over the years. Majorities oppose gay marriage, but in the exit polls Tuesday, 25 percent of the voters supported gay marriage and 35 percent of voters supported civil unions. There is a big middle on gay rights issues, as there is on most social issues.
 Much of the misinterpretation of this election derives from a poorly worded question in the exit polls. When asked about the issue that most influenced their vote, voters were given the option of saying ''moral values.'' But that phrase can mean anything -- or nothing. Who doesn't vote on moral values? If you ask an inept question, you get a misleading result.
 The reality is that this was a broad victory for the president. Bush did better this year than he did in 2000 in 45 out of the 50 states. He did better in New York, Connecticut and, amazingly, Massachusetts. That's hardly the Bible Belt. Bush, on the other hand, did not gain significantly in the 11 states with gay marriage referendums. 
 He won because 53 percent of voters approved of his performance as president. Fifty-eight percent of them trust Bush to fight terrorism. They had roughly equal confidence in Bush and Kerry to handle the economy. Most approved of the decision to go to war in Iraq. Most see it as part of the war on terror.
 The fact is that if you think we are safer now, you probably voted for Bush. If you think we are less safe, you probably voted for Kerry. That's policy, not fundamentalism. The upsurge in voters was an upsurge of people with conservative policy views, whether they are religious or not.
 The red and blue maps that have been popping up in the papers again this week are certainly striking, but they conceal as much as they reveal. I've spent the past four years traveling to 36 states and writing millions of words trying to understand this values divide, and I can tell you there is no one explanation. It's ridiculous to say, as some liberals have this week, that we are perpetually refighting the Scopes trial, with the metro forces of enlightenment and reason arrayed against the retro forces of dogma and reaction.
 In the first place, there is an immense diversity of opinion within regions, towns and families. Second, the values divide is a complex layering of conflicting views about faith, leadership, individualism, American exceptionalism, suburbia, Wal-Mart, decorum, economic opportunity, natural law, manliness, bourgeois virtues and a zillion other issues.
 But the same insularity that caused many liberals to lose touch with the rest of the country now causes them to simplify, misunderstand and condescend to the people who voted for Bush. If you want to understand why Democrats keep losing elections, just listen to some coastal and university town liberals talk about how conformist and intolerant people in Red America are. It makes you wonder: why is it that people who are completely closed-minded talk endlessly about how open-minded they are?
 What we are seeing is a diverse but stable Republican coalition gradually eclipsing a diverse and stable Democratic coalition. Social issues are important, but they don't come close to telling the whole story. Some of the liberal reaction reminds me of a phrase I came across recently: The rage of the drowning man. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); RELIGION (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); APPROVALS (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); LGBT RIGHTS (71%); COHABITATION (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); MARRIAGE (70%); ABORTION (68%); TERRORISM (63%); IRAQ WAR (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Ethics; Election Issues

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) David Brooks; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



127 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Europe Seeks Unity on New Bush Term

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER; Walter Gibbs contributed reporting from Oslo for this article.

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Nov. 5 

 BODY:
As European leaders came together on Friday for the first time since the American elections, Britain's prime minister, Tony Blair, urged them to adjust to the ''reality'' that George W. Bush would be president for four more years, but signs of old resentments lingered in private remarks about the wisdom of impending American military action in Iraq. 
 Some leaders, gathered here for a European Union summit meeting, suggested that the military campaign aimed at Falluja, stronghold of insurgent forces west of Baghdad, could result in the extensive use of heavy weapons, leading to substantial civilian casualties and a political backlash. 
 ''If Falluja is torched by the Americans with the support of Tony Blair, that will make it much more difficult to prepare for the elections in Iraq,'' a senior European official said.
 In their official remarks, though, the 25 leaders representing the nations of the expanded European Union said they looked forward ''to working very closely'' with Mr. Bush. 
 President Jacques Chirac of France said in separate comments that a strong America reinforced the need for a stronger Europe ''politically and economically'' in an ''ever more multipolar world,'' a phrase Mr. Chirac uses to emphasize that he means a world not dominated by the United States. 
 ''I believe that European cohesion is naturally the right way to deal with what some people might consider the worries or concerns'' stemming from the results of the American election, he said, and then left the summit meeting early, skipping a luncheon for Iraq's interim prime minister, Ayad Allawi. 
 Mr. Chirac said he did not intend to snub Dr. Allawi, but was departing for Abu Dhabi to attend the funeral of Sheik Zayed bin Sultan al-Nahayan, president of the United Arab Emirates, who died Tuesday.
 Another surprising shift that registered among leaders were the remarks of the prime minister of Norway, Kjell Magne Bondevik, whose country, a close ally of Washington, has resisted joining the European Union from its inception. It might be time to reconsider, Mr. Bondevik said. 
 Speaking on Norwegian television, Mr. Bondevik said that Mr. Bush's unilateral style in international affairs was driving Europe and America apart, a tendency that would strengthen the argument to place Norway more firmly in the Europen camp. 
 ''The distance between American and Europe continues to increase over a long period,'' he said, adding that this would lead ''toward a growing consolidation in Europe.'' 
 Still, while there was no groundswell of enthusiasm for Mr. Bush's second term, there was cordiality and a pragmatic recognition that Europe and America face a series of difficult tasks over the next few months that will require close coordination: elections in Iraq, potential nuclear proliferation in Iran and violence between Israelis and Palestinians.
 Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, said at a news conference that he had spoken with Mr. Bush on Friday by telephone in a conversation that focused on the future.
 ''We were both of the opinion that it is now about looking forward,'' he said. ''Both America and Germany are interested in a fully intact, friendly relationship between both countries. That also strengthens the trans-Atlantic relationship,'' he said.
 The critical state of affairs in Iraq and the rapid decline in the health of the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, weighed heavily on discussions here.
 Mr. Blair, who met separately with Dr. Allawi, was most focused on Iraq, especially after the death of three British soldiers in an ambush on Thursday.
 The European leaders agreed to offer Dr. Allawi's government $38.6 million to help finance elections in January, and an additional $33 million for security forces to protect United Nations personnel in Iraq. Election experts may also follow. Europe had already pledged $371 million in reconstruction aid this year.
 But European involvement in Iraq remains marginal. Both Mr. Chirac and Mr. Schroder harbor deep reservations about committing NATO troops there. 
 The alliance's plan to establish a large training mission for a new army in Iraq has been beset by delays, but also by security and logistical concerns. NATO leaders approved a plan to dispatch them at a summit meeting last June.
 Mr. Schroder has ruled out any deployment of German troops to Iraq, and Mr. Chirac, speaking in Madrid in September, referred to the conflict as a ''Pandora's box'' that Western forces had been ''unable to close.'' 
 Dr. Allawi, making a stop at NATO headquarters here, urged Western leaders to move more expeditiously in helping Iraq to build an army that could eventually take control of security in Iraq. 
 ''Time is of the essence,'' he told the alliance's governing body. ''There is a real battle in Iraq today. Delays measured in hours and days can cost lives.'' He asked it to move its plans forward ''as quickly as possible.''
 Mr. Blair also sought to keep up the pressure for a greater European role in Iraq, but his hopes for playing the pivotal role as a bridge between America and Europe have been diminished by his exclusion from the ''triumvirate'' he tried to form last year, with Mr. Chirac and Mr. Schroder, to orchestrate Europe's course. On Friday the French and German leaders met with Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain to plot their strategy for the summit meeting.
 Mr. Blair seemed undeterred.
 ''The fact is that we have in Iraq a government that is desperately trying to bring stability, hope and democracy in Iraq,'' Mr. Blair said, standing beside Dr. Allawi. He added that this would require Europe's help.
 Asked to explain comments he made Thursday that some European leaders were ''in denial'' about Mr. Bush's victory, Mr. Blair said, ''It is pretty obvious that there are some people who have not wanted to come to terms with changes that have happened.''
 ''I'm not going to go and start pointing fingers at people,'' he continued, ''What I'm really saying is that we've got to move on now. There's a new reality so let's work with that reality.''
 The European leaders also sought to galvanize support for a new push in the peace process between Israelis and Palestinians. 
 They endorsed a set of proposals developed by Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy adviser, that lay out a series of steps for security and political reforms that would set the stage for Palestinian elections, the restart of economic aid and a return to the so-called road map and negotiations aimed at meeting Mr. Bush's goal of creating a Palestinian state at peace with Israel.
 In a memo to European foreign ministers, Mr. Solana said that ''between now and the end of the year, a number of events have to be actively managed'' to capitalize on the Israeli disengagement plan and, with Mr. Arafat ill, the possibility of new Palestinian leadership. 
 ''There is a certain confluence of elements and we should seize this opportunity,'' an aide to Mr. Solana said.
 In a statement addressed to Palestinians, the leaders expressed their support ''at this difficult moment'' and welcomed the vote of the Israeli Knesset to approve Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's withdrawal plan. But the leaders admonished Israelis that the pullout should be ''a first step in the overall process'' of a return to the road map and negotiations for a permanent agreement.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, left, preparing yesterday for a European Union summit meeting in Brussels, as Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, center, greeted President Jacques Chirac of France. (Photo by Francois Lenoir/Reuters)
 Ayad Allawi, the interim Iraqi prime minister, before meeting with European leaders in Brussels yesterday. (Photo by Yves Herman/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); TERRORISM (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%) European Union

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (91%); JACQUES CHIRAC (89%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%) Patrick E Tyler; Tony (Prime Min) Blair; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (68%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); NORWAY (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%) Europe; Iraq; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



128 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Putin Ratifies Kyoto Protocol On Emissions

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 5 

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin on Friday signed Russia's ratification of the Kyoto Protocol on global warming, the Kremlin announced, clearing the way for the international treaty aimed at reducing emissions of heat-trapping gases to take effect early next year.
 With Mr. Putin's signature, Russia became the 126th country to ratify the treaty, but one of the most important ones after the United States, Australia and others rejected it. 
 The treaty could take effect only if supported by enough nations to represent at least 55 percent of industrialized countries' emissions of six gases in 1990, and Russia was the only country left that produced enough to clear the threshold.
 Mr. Putin's government decided to ratify the treaty in late September after a prolonged and, for the Kremlin, unusually public debate.
 Some officials argued that the treaty would do grave economic harm to Russia, limiting industrial growth and undercutting Mr. Putin's often-stated goal of doubling the country's gross domestic product. Others argued that Russia, whose emissions are now well below its 1990 levels, could benefit by selling emission credits to countries that exceed their limits, especially in Europe.
 Once the Kremlin settled its internal debate, the necessary legislative approvals proceeded swiftly. The lower house of the Russian Parliament voted overwhelmingly to ratify the protocol on Oct. 22, followed five days later by the upper house. The last step before it takes effect is technical: Russia must submit its ratification documents to the United Nations; 90 days after that, the treaty's provisions become binding.
 The Kremlin announced that Mr. Putin had signed by issuing a brief statement early Friday morning with no fanfare.
 The statement echoed the main arguments against the treaty, saying it would have ''serious consequences'' for Russia's ''social and economic development.'' But it also noted the country's decisive position in determining the fate of the treaty.
 ''The decision on ratification was passed taking into account the significance of the protocol for the development of international cooperation and, likewise, taking into account the protocol will take effect only under the condition of the Russian Federation's participation in it,'' the statement read. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); EMISSIONS (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%) Weather; Air Pollution; Kyoto Protocol; Global Warming; Treaties

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%) Steven Lee Myers; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



129 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTION: WEALTHY CANDIDATES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: A Million Bucks Didn't Buy Much for Free-Spending Candidates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Of the 22 candidates who spent more than $1 million of their own money trying to win their first election to Congress, only one made it.
 The sole victor was Michael McCaul, a former federal prosecutor who won as a Republican in a Texas House district once represented by Lyndon B. Johnson. The biggest loser -- in terms of money down the drain -- was Blair Hull, a securities trader who spent nearly $29 million trying for a Senate seat but lost in the Illinois Democratic primary to Barack Obama. 
 The reasons the other 20 lost after spending a total exceeding $40 million differed widely. Some ran against popular incumbents, some faced other millionaires in a primary and a few ran credible races only to come up short.
 Two political newcomers, Capri Cafaro, a 26-year-old shopping center heiress, and Jack Davis, a New York businessman, said their money was well spent.
 Ms. Cafaro, a Democrat, ran against a poor economy in northeast Ohio but lost, with 37 percent, to a five-term Republican, Representative Steven C. LaTourette. 
 ''I knew getting in that this was going to cost money,'' said Ms. Cafaro, who spent $1.6 million.
 Mr. Davis changed parties to become a Democrat so he could run in a district near Buffalo against an incumbent Republican, Thomas M. Reynolds. He said the $1.2 million he spent was worth it to get his message out that free trade policies are costing American jobs. He lost, but got 44 percent of the vote.
 ''I don't feel it's wasted; it was something that I had to do,'' Mr. Davis said. ''What I did was to prove a point.''
 A campaign finance rule that went into effect this year helped the incumbents by allowing those running against millionaires to raise up to $6,000 per donor: three times the normal ceiling on individual contributions to a single candidate.
 ''Millionaires don't automatically win,'' said Herb Asher, a political science professor at Ohio State University. ''The money just gives them instant credibility and puts them in the position to be able to run in the first place.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Finances; Primaries

ORGANIZATION: Congress (US); House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: MICHAEL T MCCAUL (88%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); STEVEN C LATOURETTE (58%); THOMAS M REYNOLDS (58%) Michael Mccaul; Lyndon Baines (1908-73) Johnson; Blair Hull; Barack Obama

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States; Texas; Illinois; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



130 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTION: THE POLLING; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Poll Question Stirs Debate On Meaning Of 'Values'

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; David D. Kirkpatrick contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Citing a major Election Day poll that found ''moral values'' ranked at the top of the list of issues that swayed the national electorate, some news organizations have portrayed matters like same-sex marriage and abortion as the sleeper factors of a campaign fought mostly over war, jobs, health care and terrorism.
 Democrats have looked at the data as evidence that they desperately need to do a better job connecting with cultural traditionalists. Conservative groups have used the survey data to make a case that mainstream America agrees with the conservative agenda that Mr. Bush now claims a mandate to enact. 
 ''Those 25 percent of voters who said moral values were the animating issues in this election, that is us,'' said Austin Ruse, a conservative Roman Catholic and president of the Culture of Life Foundation, slightly exaggerating the figure -- 22 percent. ''We understand that President Bush is a very loyal guy, and we believe that President Bush will be loyal to those who put him there in a very tough time.''
 But some Democrats and independent pollsters say these assumptions are largely based on a flawed polling question that has skewed the results to make it seem as if cultural matters had a more powerful effect than they actually did. Though they acknowledge that cultural issues were important in Mr. Bush's re-election, they say they worry that that Republicans and Mr. Bush will act forcefully on a false premise. 
 ''People have misinterpreted the election and that misinterpretation may well have an impact on the intra-party debate and on public policy,'' said Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster who worked for Mr. Kerry's campaign. 
 At issue is the poll of voters that The Associated Press and television networks conducted Tuesday upon which many major news organizations have relied upon as well. It asked voters to pick one issue that most influenced their decision among seven choices: taxes; education; Iraq; terrorism; economy/jobs; health care and moral values.
 Gary Langer, director of polling for ABC News, a sponsor of the poll, said a major flaw in the question is that ''moral values'' is not the same sort of specific issue that taxes or Iraq are. ''Health care is an issue, terrorism is an issue; moral values is much more of a personal characteristic,'' he said. 
 Mr. Langer and others said ''moral values'' became a sort of ''catchall'' for Mr. Bush's voters that could include topics as varied as gay marriage and vulgarity on television.
 Several independent pollsters said they were suspicious because a higher percentage of people listed ''moral values'' as their top concern in the Election Day poll than had in many of the previous public polls.
 Humphrey Taylor, chairman of the Harris Poll, said in a posting on the Internet that the difference may have been because most of the pre-election surveys asked voters to name on their own the most important issues of the election. 
 ''When so few people (one percent in our October survey) mentioned moral values spontaneously, I very much doubt the pundits' conclusions that this was really more important than the issues that came at the top of our list when they were not prompted,'' Mr. Taylor wrote on the Web site of the American Association of Public Opinion Researchers. 
 But Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster, called critiques ''garbage.'' 
 ''The people who picked moral values as an issue know what that means,'' he said. ''It's a code word in surveys for a cluster of issues like gay marriage and abortion.'' 
 Mr. McInturff said that if ''moral values'' was really a ''catchall'' with a confused meaning, more Democrats would have picked it. Of the 22 percent who chose ''moral values'' in the Election Day poll, 80 percent were Bush supporters and 20 percent were Kerry supporters. ''It's self-selected by people for whom these issues are very important,'' he said, adding that the margin by which Mr. Bush carried these voters arguably made the difference in the election. 
 Democrats acknowledged its importance, to a degree. ''We have things we need to address in our party when it comes to faith and values,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois.
 Sheldon Gawiser, director of elections for NBC News, another partner in the poll, defended the wording of the ''moral values'' question.
 ''It covers a group of things that people were very concerned about,'' he said. ''There was a very significant religious component to this campaign that resonated with the public. That's what you're seeing here.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TERRORISM (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ABORTION (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); RELIGION (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



131 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Publishers See Bounty In Voters' Divisions

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
Whether or not they liked the result of the presidential election, many publishers were pleased this week to see that the country remained as divided as ever.
 Partisan wrangling, after all, sent liberals and conservatives to bookstores in droves over the last year, seeking out volumes that largely confirmed their views of the other side. From ''Unfit for Command,'' the antipathetic account of Senator John Kerry's service in Vietnam, to ''Against All Enemies,'' an insider's critical look at the Bush administration's buildup to war in Iraq, partisan political books led the best-seller lists for much of the year.
 Books bashing Mr. Kerry are likely to disappear now, and those attacking President Bush might similarly fade away, at least for a while, as Democrats regroup. But publishing executives say they expect that books emphasizing the differences between Republicans and Democrats will remain popular for a long time. 
 ''Good or bad, the split in America right now creates a publishing opportunity on both sides of the fence,'' Jack Romanos, president and chief executive of Simon & Schuster, said. ''To publish for the middle of the road right now would be suicide.''
 In the short term, Democrats are likely to search for explanations of what went wrong in the election, and the probability is high that at least one or two Kerry campaign officials will offer an insider's view of the campaign. Bush administration officials who do not return for a second term could set off aggressive bidding wars for the right to publish their memoirs. The most coveted of those prizes would probably be Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who has not said whether he will depart.
 Already, a book by George J. Tenet, former director of central intelligence, has been shopped around by Robert B. Barnett, the Washington lawyer who negotiated the publishing deal for former President Bill Clinton. Twelve publishers are expected to bid on the Tenet book beginning next week, and executives said Mr. Tenet could receive an advance of several million dollars for a book to be published in late 2005 or 2006.
 In the longer term, Republicans are likely to try to promote some forward-looking books, as factions of the party vie for control of the agenda. Marji Ross, president and publisher of Regnery Publishing, is planning to put a big effort behind ''Winning the Future,'' by Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, which will lay out ''a new Contract With America,'' Ms. Ross said. In January, Regnery will publish ''Men in Black'' by Mark Levin, an assessment of judicial activism and its effect on the courts.
 Ms. Ross said that old-fashioned attack books would not disappear, however. ''Any book needs to have a sense of vitality and energy,'' she said. ''We don't want to be publishing boring policy books. We want people to feel their blood pressure rise when they read our books.''
 Brad Miner, executive editor of American Compass, a conservative book club that is part of Bookspan, the company that includes the Book-of-the-Month Club, said he sent an e-mail message to several publishers on Wednesday recommending that they consider books that delve into ''moral issues.'' According to polls, a plurality of voters said Tuesday that those issues had the biggest effect on their choice for president. 
 Even with Mr. Bush having won a majority of the votes, however, conservatives are unlikely to think they are controlling the agenda, Mr. Miner said. ''Most conservatives still will feel that the momentum of the culture is against them,'' he said. That is likely to mean continued demand for authors like Ann Coulter and others who seem easily to engender outrage at perceptions of liberal excess.
 Liberals, meanwhile, are likely to try to figure out what happened. Already, three books that seek to explain how conservatives have secured so much real estate on the electoral map have surged in sales. 
 ''What's the Matter With Kansas?: How Conservatives Won the Heart of America,'' by Thomas Frank, ranked as high as No. 2 on the Amazon.com best-seller list in the days after the election. The book, published in June by Metropolitan Books, an imprint of Henry Holt & Company, takes a polemical look at what Mr. Frank calls the Great Backlash, the popular revolt against what conservatives see as a liberal establishment.
 Also shooting up the best-seller lists was ''Don't Think of an Elephant!: Know Your Values and Frame the Debate,'' by George Lakoff, a linguist who argues that Republicans have succeeded in part by controlling the language of the debate on social issues in a way that portrays their views most favorably. The book was published in mid-September by Chelsea Green Publishing. 
 And gaining renewed attention was ''The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America,'' published in May by Penguin Press. The book, by John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge, United States-based journalists for The Economist magazine, analyzes the history and sociology of the conservative movement.
 John Sterling, the president and publisher of Henry Holt, said the company made plans several weeks ago to have Mr. Frank of ''What's the Matter With Kansas?'' available for interviews if the Democrats lost, a factor he cited for at least some of the book's renewed popularity. Mr. Sterling also made sure there were plenty of books on hand. After shipping more than 100,000 since publication in June, Mr. Sterling said he expected 15,000 more to go out the door in the week after the election. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); POLITICS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); BESTSELLERS (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); BOOKSTORES (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Books and Literature; Book Trade; United States Politics and Government

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Edward Wyatt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (90%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



132 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: OCTOBER HIRING SET STRONG PACE OF 337,000 JOBS

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
The American economy created 337,000 new jobs in October, the government reported yesterday, snapping a prolonged jobs slump and igniting renewed hopes that after years of caution, businesses may finally be starting to hire workers more aggressively. It was the biggest monthly increase in employment since March.
 Economists cautioned, however, that a short burst of strong growth did not necessarily mean that hiring would continue at such a vigorous pace. Since the economic recovery began in late 2001, a couple of encouraging spurts in employment have quickly fizzled out. 
 ''This is the kind of job report you want to see at this stage of an economic recovery,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the left-leaning Economic Policy Institute in Washington. ''But we've been here before. Whether this will be a persistent trend is hard to know.'' 
 With the election over, the new report had little political consequence, but both parties cited it anyway. Democrats pointed out that there were still 371,000 fewer nonfarm payroll jobs than there were when President Bush took office nearly four years ago. 
 But the new employment report comes close to relieving the president of one of the most pointed Democratic charges: if job growth continues near this pace for the next two months, Mr. Bush will avoid becoming the first occupant of the White House since Herbert Hoover to preside over a net job loss during a four-year term.
 In a statement, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said, ''President Bush's tax relief combined with good monetary policy, the strength of our small-business sector, and our outstanding work force, has led to a growing economy that is producing good jobs for American families.''
 Stock markets moved higher on the report, but the dollar skidded to a record low against the euro yesterday, an indication that currency traders might be worried about the record budget deficit. [Page C1.] 
 Unemployment inched up 0.1 percentage point, to 5.5 percent. But that was seen as a generally positive development -- it was largely a result of discouraged workers returning to the labor force because of improving prospects, thus adding both to the number of people with jobs and to those officially counted as looking for work. The jobs numbers, which are adjusted to take predictable seasonal variations into account, surprised most Wall Street economists, who had been expecting about half that many jobs to be created in October. 
 The government also revised upward its previous estimates of job growth for August and September by a total of 113,000, painting a rosier picture of the employment situation over the last three months. 
 With the latest figures, it now looks as if the economy has been adding an average of about 225,000 jobs a month for the last three months, substantially above the 150,000 needed to absorb the new entrants into the labor force that a growing population provides. 
 ''The economy is very sound fundamentally,'' said Mickey Levy, chief economist at Banc of America Securities. ''But I don't expect this pace of job growth to continue.'' 
 Wall Street took the Labor Department report as evidence that even if job growth slackens off a bit, the economy should be able to maintain a healthy momentum. As a result, investors pushed up stock prices. The broad-based Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose about 0.4 percent, to 1,166.17; the Nasdaq composite index closed at 2,038.94, up 0.76 percent for the day. 
 But bond prices fell, pushing up long-term interest rates, as investors bet that the Federal Reserve will tighten monetary policy regularly to prevent inflation. The Fed is widely expected to raise interest rates by a quarter point when it meets next Wednesday and to follow with a similar move in December.
 For months, many economists had been baffled that strong consumer and government demand was not driving employers to hire more workers.
 ''We have been waiting for this for the better part of the last two or three quarters,'' said Bob Gay, a former economist at the Federal Reserve who is global strategist at Commerzbank Securities.
 Job gains occurred almost across the board. Though manufacturers shed 5,000 jobs, employment growth was broadly based through the vast service sector that accounts for most employment in America, with strong gains among health and education workers.
 Construction also chalked up big gains, though unusual factors accounted for some of that. Cleanup and reconstruction of the hurricane-ravaged Southeast contributed to 71,000 new jobs in construction, the Labor Department estimated.
 But even stripping out nonrecurring items, Mr. Gay estimated that underlying job growth was above 200,000. ''That is not a number to be pooh-poohed,'' he said.
 The question now is whether this pace of job growth will prove sustainable, or whether businesses will again fall into the reluctance to hire that had generally characterized their behavior since the economy sank into recession in March 2001. 
 ''These numbers make it very tempting to call the end of the soft patch but we are reluctant to do so,'' Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist of High Frequency Economics of Valhalla, N.Y., wrote in an e-mail message to clients. ''The true state of the labor market is nothing like as strong as this report.''
 Last spring, the economy had a brief burst of job creation, which economists greeted as evidence that businesses had finally begun to respond to more than two years of sustained economic growth with new hiring. But in May, a surge in gasoline prices damped consumer spending and by June job growth had been reduced to a trickle.
 With winter approaching, energy prices remain high. Meanwhile, credit-fueled consumption is building up the debt burdens of Americans. 
 There is still a big job hole to fill. After almost four years of weak employment, 62.3 percent of the working-age population have jobs, well below the peak of 64.7 percent reached in April 2000. The length of the average workweek -- which remained unchanged at 33.8 hours -- is also significantly below its level four years ago.
 Hourly wages of regular workers are still treading water, rising 2.6 percent, to $15.83, from a year ago, barely enough to keep up with inflation. And after extended periods of unemployment -- 22.2 percent of the unemployed have been out of work for more than half a year -- displaced workers are becoming increasingly desperate to get a job.
 Not all demographic groups are benefiting from the tighter job market. Unemployment among teenage boys rose to 19 percent in October, from 18.1 percent in September. Unemployment among blacks increased to 10.7 percent from 10.3 percent. 
 There are several encouraging signs in the economic data, however. Consumer spending bounced 0.6 percent in September after declining in August, pointing to stronger demand. And productivity growth slowed to 1.9 percent in the third quarter, suggesting that businesses have reached the limit in squeezing output from their existing work force and will need to hire more. 
 Another indication that businesses are feeling short of labor is that employment in the temporary-help sector grew by 48,000 in October, to its highest level since February 2001, just before the economy slid into recession.
 After a period of improving profits, relatively little investment and meager payroll growth, most businesses are flush with cash. Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank, noted that with the election out of the way, companies might be more willing to spend it.
 ''Some of that cash,'' he said, ''could migrate its way into the labor market and pick up some employment.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Labor Picture in October''Graph tracks unemployment since November 2003.Civilian unemployment: 5.5 percentBY DEMOGRAPHICWhiteSeptember: 4.7%October: 4.7%BlackSeptember: 10.3October: 10.7Hispanic*September: 7.1October: 6.7Asian+September: 4.3October: 4.8Men 20 and overSeptember: 5.0October: 4.9Women 20 and overSeptember: 4.7October: 4.8Teenagers (16-19)September: 16.6October: 17.2OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalSeptember: 8.0October: 8.1Lost jobSeptember: 4.0October: 4.1Left jobSeptember: 0.8October: 0.8Returning to labor marketSeptember: 2.4October: 2.4New to labor marketSeptember: 0.7October: 0.7'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (millions)Working part time, but want full-time workSeptember: 4.4October: 4.7''Marginally attached'' workersSSeptember$: 1.6October: 1.6Graph tracks employment (nonfarm payroll survey -- 132.0 million and household survey -- 139.8 million) since November 2004.BY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmSeptember: 131.7October: 132.0GoodsSeptember: 21.9October: 22.0ServicesSeptember: 109.7October: 110.0AgricultureSeptember: 2.2October: 2.1SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedSeptember: 62.3%October: 62.3%Labor force (workers and unemployed)September: 65.9October: 65.9Figures are seasonally adjusted except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.SPeople$ not working but not counted as unemployed because they are not currently looking for work
 must have searched in the last 12 months and been available for work when surveyed. Includes discouraged workers. Not seasonally adjusted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); CURRENCIES (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); DISMISSALS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); EURO (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Labor; United States Economy; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; Labor

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



133 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

American Forces Prepare For Falluja Invasion
American military forces surrounding Falluja, the western town at the heart of the Sunni insurgency in Iraq, are preparing for what appears to be an imminent assault, while insurgents have set up a defensive perimeter around the city. A1

The chief United Nations electoral expert said election procedures in Iraq were advancing on schedule. A9

Increase on Weapons Estimate
American intelligence agencies have tripled their formal estimate of shoulder-fired surface-to-air missile systems believed to be at large worldwide, after determining that at least 4,000 of the weapons from Iraq's prewar arsenals cannot be accounted for. A1

Chile Acknowledges Abuse
The Chilean Army acknowledged for the first time that it must bear collective ''institutional'' blame for years of characterizing the human rights violations that occurred under the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet as ''excesses'' of individual officers rather than a deliberate government policy. A5

Georgia to Increase Troops
President Mikhail Saakashvili said Georgia would increase its troop contribution to the mission in Iraq, linking the move to the electoral victory of President Bush. A9

Putin Ratifies Kyoto Protocol
President Vladimir V. Putin signed Russia's ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, the Kremlin announced, clearing the way for the international treaty aimed at reducing emissions linked to global warming to take effect early next year. A10

Negotiations on Iran Weapons
The 25 leaders of the European Union offered Iran possible economic incentives if it suspended production of enriched uranium. A8

Dutch Charge Islamic Militants
Seven Islamic militants were charged in Amsterdam with terrorist-related activities in connection with the killing of the Dutch filmmaker Theo van Gogh, Amsterdam's public prosecutor said. A10

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

F.D.A. Moves to Analyze Self
The Food and Drug Administration announced that it would hire the government's top scientific review agency to figure out whether its drug-safety system is adequate set up an internal appeals process. A11

OBITUARIES A17

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: The man who refused to say yes; a really modest proposal; when good debt turns bad.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

NATIONAL A11-15,20

Conservatives Urge G.O.P. To Limit Specter's Power
Angry conservatives demanded that Republicans prevent Senator Arlen Specter from becoming chairman of the Judiciary Committee after he said that strongly anti-abortion judicial nominees might be rejected in the Senate. A1

Tape Prompted Talk of Threat
President Bush's senior counterterrorism advisers held an urgent meeting to consider elevating the country's terrorism threat level one day after the broadcast of a videotape by Osama bin Laden. A11

Democrats Plan Party Future
John Kerry is being urged by top advisers and friends to take a high-profile role in the Democratic Party despite his loss to President Bush and to exert his influence on shaping his party's identity. A13

Flaw in Ohio Voting Machine
An electronic voting machine Ohio added 3,983 votes for President Bush, although there were just 800 voters in the precinct. A12

Beliefs A15

ARTS B9-21

Philadelphia Orchestra Pact
The orchestra and its musicians said they reached a tentative agreement over a contract. B9

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Dodd Is Considering A Run for Governor
Senator Christopher J. Dodd is considering running for governor of Connecticut in 2006, an adviser said. He is among three Democratic senators from the region giving thought to such a leap, particularly in the wake of the elections, when Senate Republicans expanded their majority. A1

McGreevey's Farewell Gift
Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey, entering his final days in office, gave the state's environmental lobby a parting gift of an executive order to delay a law that will speed permits for developers. B1

Answers Sought in Strafing
Senator Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey demanded an explanation of a warplane's errant strafing of an elementary school with cannon fire and asked that the Air National Guard in Washington suspend training operations in the state. B4

Westchester Race Gets Ugly
Charges of voter suppression and countercharges of voter fraud are flying in the race between Nicholas A. Spano, the third most powerful member of the Republican-controlled New York State Senate, and a county legislator, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, which is too close to call. B1

Neediest Cases B6

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Stocks Up, Dollar Down
The dollar skidded to a record low against the euro, despite a surprisingly strong jobs report for October and another rally in the stock market, which has posted gains every day since the election. C1

Sears Stock Surges
Shares of Sears, Roebuck soared 23 percent after Vornado Realty Trust, the large real estate investor, said that it would acquire a 4.3 percent stake in the retailer. C1

More Troubles for Airlines
Pilots at Northwest Airlines voted to approve $265 million in concessions, a day after United Airlines said that it would seek another $2 billion in cost cuts and the termination of its employee pension plans. C1

Business Digest C1

Bridge B16
Crossword B19
TV Listings B21
Weather B7


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (83%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); EMISSIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); DRUG SAFETY (62%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%); ABORTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHILE (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); GEORGIA (87%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



134 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTION: WASHINGTON MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: An Abrupt Change of Plans for Many Washington Democrats

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5 

 BODY:
Republicans are entrenched here. 
 Most political appointees will keep their jobs if they want them. The lobbyists and interest groups who have had a foot in the door for the last four years will continue to have access to power, and those who have been frozen out will continue to shiver.
 For the men and women who have devoted themselves to getting a Democrat back in the White House and who had every hope of working in a new administration, Election Day was a day of reckoning. 
 ''Every one of us was operating on the assumption we were going to win,'' said Steve Elmendorf, who was Senator John Kerry's deputy campaign manager. ''No one has decided what to do yet.''
 ''I guess,'' Mr. Elmendorf said, ''that those who are older and have more connection and maybe children and significant others and houses will be staying in Washington and figuring out how to make a little money and stay involved. A lot of younger people will decide this is not a particularly good time to be a Democrat in Washington and will probably leave and try to work elsewhere.''
 Mr. Elmendorf said he would ''stick around and try to find a way to earn a living.'' Gene Sperling, who advised the Kerry campaign on economic issues, said he would also stay -- to work on a project on education in poor countries and to finish a book to be called ''The Pro-Growth Progressive.''
 One of the differences between Republicans and Democrats, said Carolyn Peachy, an event and party planner who has seen many administrations come and go, is that Democrats tend to stay in Washington when their party is out; Republicans tend to leave when Democrats are in power.
 Look at who is in President Bush's cabinet and who might have been in a Kerry cabinet, Ms. Peachy said. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General John Ashcroft aside, almost all the Bush cabinet members came from outside Washington, and it is a good bet that the new people in his second-term cabinet will also come from elsewhere. If Mr. Kerry had been elected, she said, probably half or more of the people who would have entered his cabinet would have already been living here.
 ''Republicans don't tend to look at public service careers with as much notion of permanence as Democrats, I would speculate,'' said Dirk Van Dongen, a Republican, who is president of the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors, a lobby for small-business interests.
 Tom Ridge, the secretary of homeland security, is an exception to the rule. He has made clear that after a lifetime in public office, he is ready to cash in on his experience and earn the big bucks he says he needs to pay his two daughters' college tuition.
 Mr. Ridge can more or less set his own price at the law firms and trade associations on K Street. A partner in a law firm with one of the city's biggest lobbying practices compared Mr. Ridge to a star baseball player who becomes a free agent and sets off a bidding war among major league teams. 
 Asked about Mr. Ridge's prospects, Mark A. Bloomfield, president of the American Council on Capital Formation, a lobbying organization financed by corporations, said: ''He's been a governor, a congressman and a cabinet officer. He's a good friend of the president. He's got lots of ability. He's gold.''
 Mr. Bush's re-election was bad news for the real estate business, since a turnover in administrations means a turnover in houses. Republicans tend to live in the Spring Valley neighborhood in Washington and in McLean and Old Town Alexandria in Virginia, said Nancy Taylor Bubes, a prominent real estate agent. Democrats, she said, favor Georgetown and Cleveland Park in the District of Columbia, and suburban Maryland.
 Some on the Kerry team will doubtless find sanctuary in the liberal research institutes that flourish like mushrooms in a damp forest when Republicans are in power. 
 ''When the Democrats lost in 2000,'' said Stephen Hess, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, ''there was an influx of Clinton people to Brookings. People in waiting at the Heritage Foundation went to the Bush administration. 
 ''On Tuesday, there were a lot of people at Brookings whose bags were packed to go into a Kerry administration, and on Wednesday, they had to unpack their bags.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LOBBYING (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); WHOLESALERS (60%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%) United States Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) David E Rosenbaum; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



135 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTION: THE INDEPENDENT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Nader Is Left With Fewer Votes, and Friends, After '04 Race

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4 

 BODY:
This time around, no one can blame Ralph Nader's presidential candidacy for derailing the Democrats. At fewer than 400,000 votes -- less than one-sixth of his 2000 vote total -- Mr. Nader's dismal showing at the polls Tuesday probably put more of a dent in his own reputation than in John Kerry's vote.
 Support for Mr. Nader, 70, suffered a ''late collapse,'' as many of his sympathizers decided that defeating President Bush was more important than casting a symbolic vote for Mr. Nader's progressive agenda, said Cal Jillson, a political scientist at Southern Methodist University. 
 But the collapse was on a Lilliputian scale, from roughly 1 percent in the pre-election polls to just a third of a percent of the popular vote. 
 ''Those who chose Nader over Al Gore in 2000 realized what they'd done and bolted for Kerry,'' said Sandy Maisel of the Goldfarb Center for Public Policy at Colby College.
 Evidently unembarrassed by his vote total or by his election-eve prediction of a big Kerry win, Mr. Nader hit the airwaves after the election in fine fettle. If voters' concern about moral values re-elected President Bush, he asked on CNN, ''What about the morality of corporate crime, the morality of dangerous workplaces and deaths from air pollution and bad hospital practices?''
 The returns seemed to repudiate Mr. Nader's argument that many Americans are looking for a progressive alternative to the two major parties, which he describes as ''indentured to corporate power.''
 He had proposed radical prescriptions for the United States' future, including a ''responsible withdrawal'' of troops from Iraq within six months; Canadian-style government health insurance; and a guaranteed ''living wage'' for workers. But his platform never drew much attention, in part because of the distraction of some Democrats' fight to keep Mr. Nader off the ballot in key states.
 ''Nader is saying the corporations are dangerous to American democracy and we need to stomp them into submission,'' Mr. Jillson said. ''But Americans say, 'Hey, that's the economy you're trying to stomp on.' His message just doesn't resonate.''
 Longtime allies had tried to talk Mr. Nader out of running for president this year, blaming him for stealing votes from Mr. Gore and sending Mr. Bush to the White House in 2000. They were relieved that he did not have such an impact this time, but they watched the denouement of his campaign with dismay.
 ''It never made sense for Ralph to be a candidate,'' said Michael Pertschuk, a former chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and a colleague of Mr. Nader. ''So many people are full of rage at Ralph. I can't quite get there. But I feel an awful lot of frustration and sadness.''
 As a young Senate staff member 40 years ago, Mr. Pertschuk first met Mr. Nader, who rose to fame when his 1965 book on auto safety, ''Unsafe At Any Speed,'' prompted General Motors to hire a private detective to try to dig up dirt on him.
 ''He helped us to be much more ambitious in shaping the auto safety legislation,'' Mr. Pertschuk said. But when a compromise bill emerged, Mr. Nader backed it, he said.
 Today, there is no note of negotiation or compromise in Mr. Nader's politics. His increasingly lonely, almost quixotic stance brings to Mr. Pertschuk's mind the image of the Old Testament prophets. ''The prophets visualized a radically changed society,'' he said. ''But they weren't looking at the next election.''
 It seemed a measure of Mr. Nader's diminishing relevance that late in his campaign he seemed to be just as exercised about the Democrats working against him as about his old adversaries, the giant corporations. 
 In an election night interview, Mr. Nader seemed particularly animated when he denounced the Democrats' ''massive dirty tricks.''
 ''Sure, they can compete and argue and debate, he said. ''But they wanted to engage in an authoritarian slam by denying our voters the opportunity to vote for us.''
 One of the Democrats who worked against Mr. Nader, Toby Moffett, defended their efforts to challenge signatures on Nader ballot petitions and picket at his rallies.
 ''Ralph's the only one who's calling it unseemly,'' said Mr. Moffett, a Washington lobbyist and former Connecticut congressman. ''We didn't do anything outside the law.''
 Mr. Moffett said bitterly of Mr. Nader, with whom he worked decades ago, ''The guy hasn't done anything constructive in 25 years. He won't build coalitions. He won't work for compromise.''
 Howard Zinn, a historian retired from Boston University and a longtime Nader friend, said history's judgment was likely to be far kinder.
 ''Nader has been a heroic figure,'' Mr. Zinn said. ''Presidents come and go, but Nader for decades has been a tireless advocate for the environment, for social justice and citizens' rights. The problem comes when he moves from that lofty place to the mean streets of politics. Some of the tarnish rubs off on him, whether he likes it or not.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph Nader, on Tuesday, when his independent campaign for the presidency drew less than a third of a percent of the popular votes. (Photo by Mike Theiler/European PressPhoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); HOSPITALS (50%); AIR POLLUTION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2000; Third-Party Movements (US)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); AL GORE (58%) Scott Shane; Ralph Nader; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004



136 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; DIRECTIONS: DEBRIEFING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Working Stiffs

BYLINE: By KATE AURTHUR

 BODY:
It's been a bad few years for the economy, but with crime shows dominating the schedule, the market for corpses on television is in an extraordinary growth period. Now that murder victims are becoming television's most valuable role players, we asked this coming week's cast of stiffs what it's like to play dead. 

1. STEVEN CHAVEZ, 34, Chino, Calif.
Real life: Professional body piercer.
On ''N.Y.P.D. Blue'' (10 p.m. Tuesday, ABC): Stabbed to death on a city bus.
''This was the first dead person I've played, but I've wanted to for a long time. You just see people dying on shows, and you're thinking, 'I'd like to do that role.' It was almost like any other acting job besides the fact that people feel superstitious, like they didn't want to walk over me. They treated me like I was really dead.''

2. ABIGAIL MAVITY, 11, Los Angeles
Real life: Home-schooled seventh grader and child actress.
On ''Cold Case'' (8 p.m. Sunday, CBS): Found dead after a sleepover.
''They had this black platform in the water so you couldn't see it. And they had me lying on it, and, like, they had me close my eyes and hold my breath. It was kind of cold. The men were saying it was nice and warm because they heated it, but I'm so small that it got so cold for me.''

3. BRENDA RICCI, 30, Astoria, Queens
Real life: Bathroom attendant, Scores
On ''Law and Order'' (10 p.m. Wednesday, NBC): Stabbed with an ice pick at the Central Park Boat House.
''I thought maybe it would be my first speaking role, and I'll be part of the jury, and I thought maybe I'd be the one that said 'And we find the defendant guilty,' or whatever it was going to be. He said, 'You're going to be a dead body.' And I thought, 'Oh really.' But I have to say, it was the best gig I've had so far.''

4. MONICA WOLFKILL, 37, Quakertown, Pa.
Real life: Executive assistant at a law firm and community theater performer.
On ''Forensic Files'' (9 p.m. Wednesday, Court TV): A woman from upstate New York murdered by her husband in 2002.
''It was about 4 in the morning when we were shooting, and there was a bush that had burrs in it which was part of the forensic evidence. And my hair was so matted with those burrs that every time he dragged me they'd get inside my clothes. We spent maybe 20 minutes picking burrs out of my hair when we were done.''

5. DANICA STEWART, 21, Los Angeles
Real life: Plays Jessica Bennett on the NBC soap opera ''Passions.''
On ''C.S.I.'' (9 p.m. Thursday, CBS): High school student found dead in a fancy hotel suite.
''On 'C.S.I.: Miami' I played a dead body, too. And my eyes were open on that one. It's so much better when they're closed, because when they're open you can't blink and you have to have no movement in your eyes. So I was like, 'Eyes are closed, whew.''' KATE AURTHUR


CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Labels on two pictures on Page 6 of Arts & Leisure today, with a brief article about actors who play corpses on television, are reversed. Picture 3 shows Brenda Ricci, and No. 4 Monica Wolfkill.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Marie Vigil)
(Photo by Wolf Films in association with NBC Universal Television)
(Photo by Warner Brothers/CBS)
 (Photo by CBS/Alliance Atlantis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); FORENSICS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); LAWYERS (75%); JURY TRIALS (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); THEATER (57%) Television

PERSON: Kate Aurthur

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



137 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Maryanne Coyle, Hilary Andrews

 BODY:
Maryanne Elizabeth Coyle, a daughter of Anne K. Coyle and Hugh F. Coyle of Brooklandville, Md., was married yesterday to Hilary Buckminster Andrews, a son of Elizabeth Scott Andrews of Hoboken, N.J., and the late Martin Andrews. The Rev. 
Kendrick J. Forbes officiated at St. Francis Xavier Roman Catholic Cathedral in Nassau, the Bahamas.
 Mrs. Andrews, 33, is the assistant vice president for client services at RewardsPlus, a provider of benefits-management software in Hunt Valley, Md. She graduated from Fairfield University. Her father is in charge of job development and placement training services for clients of Associated Catholic Charities in Baltimore. Her mother retired as an executive relocation representative in Brooklandville for PHH, a vehicle leasing service.
 Mr. Andrews, 28, is a technical recruiter in the Baltimore office for Comsys, a recruiting business for information technology companies. He graduated from Roanoke College. His mother is the senior editor for the publications of the United Nations Development Program in New York. His father was the technical supervisor for the 1970 movie ''Woodstock'' and the cinematographer for ''The World of Buckminster Fuller,'' a 1971 documentary about the late inventor, who was a cousin.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); RELIGION (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); CHARITIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); FILM (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%); BAHAMAS (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



138 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: For a Film Producer Couple, A New Home Stage In Chelsea

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
JOHN SLOSS, a lawyer who puts together financing for movies, and his wife, Kathryn Tucker, a film producer, have paid $5.1 million for a 25-foot-wide Chelsea town house owned by Norah P. and Edward P.H. Burden. Mr. Burden is a descendant of the shipping and railroad baron Cornelius Vanderbilt. 
 The town house, at 444 West 20th Street, came on the market in the course of the Burdens' lengthy divorce battle. City records and documents filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan show that the closing on the town house came in late September, just a week before the divorce case was made final. 
 ''It was a happy coincidence but a coincidence they happened right around the same time,'' said Ms. Burden's lawyer, Deborah E. Lans. Diane Steiner, a lawyer for Mr. Burden, declined to comment.
 The town house is divided into two apartments, two floors up and two floors down, and Ms. Burden arranged with Mr. Sloss to stay on and rent out the lower two floors for a short period. The apartment, with a back garden and a finished basement, has been listed for rent for $14,850 a month, through the broker Shawn Felker at Douglas Elliman. 
 The Burdens paid $1.6 million for the building in 1987. Town & Country magazine ran an article in 1998, under the headline ''House of Mirth,'' detailing the couple's painstaking efforts to return the building, built in the 1850's, to an Edith Whartonesque stateliness. The Burdens at first tried to tackle the job themselves, but eventually hired a design team to do the work and then filled the house with Burden family treasures, such as a Louis Phillippe pier table supported by griffins and a German Baroque bull's-eye mirror.
 The result was ''stylish without ever sliding into the perilous waters of the superficially fashionable,'' according to Town & Country.
 Mr. Sloss said he would strive to maintain a similar standard. 
 He said that eventually, as their family grows, he and his wife may occupy the full town house. The couple had a daughter, Loulou, in June. ''She's the pride of West Chelsea,'' Mr. Sloss said. 
 The house is across the street from the General Theological Seminary of the Episcopal Church, and down the block from a town house at 454 West 20th Street, where Jack Kerouac wrote ''On The Road.'' 
 The Burdens first put it on the market in July 2003, for $6.25 million, but the asking price was lowered earlier this year. The sale was handled by Wendy J. Sarasohn, a senior vice president at the Corcoran Group. 
 Mr. Sloss has raised financing for a long list of films, from ''City of Hope'' in 1991, to ''Boys Don't Cry'' in 1999, to this year's ''Before Sunset.'' Ms. Tucker was a producer on the 2003 film ''The Station Agent.'' 
 Mr. Sloss and Ms. Tucker had previously lived in SoHo, in a condo at 37 Greene Street. They sold that property for $2.5 million two days before closing on the West 20th Street house.

A Real Estate Bubble?
 Whether or not you conclude that Manhattan real estate prices are a bubble waiting to pop may depend on whether you take the long view or the short view, according to a pair of economists who have analyzed the island's housing numbers. 
 John Marchant and Roger Sharp, economists at a research and consulting firm called Business360, say those who have raised the alarm over a disproportionate increase in housing prices in recent years are only half right. 
 Since 1997, when prices began their rapid rise, Manhattan real estate prices have outpaced increases in personal income, and from that perspective they look bubbly. 
 But if you take the long view, going back to the mid-1980's, ''the market today looks relatively undervalued,'' they write in a report issued this fall, using sales data from the appraisal firm Miller Samuel. 
 Looking at figures for the two periods, they conclude that since 1997, sale prices for Manhattan co-op apartments have risen by up to 80 percent more than personal income. 
 But since the peak of the 1980's boom market, in 1987, ''personal income has grown considerably faster than real estate prices,'' they say. During that period, they calculate, personal income has grown at a rate 56 percent greater than co-op prices. The effect, they say, is to make real estate more affordable, not less.
 The numbers also suggest that the market has only just caught up with the boom prices of the last real estate cycle -- testimony to the dramatic drop in prices in the early 1990's. Using price-per-square-foot figures and adjusting for inflation, real condo and co-op prices in 2004 were just 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively, above their 1987 levels. The comparison comes as a surprise, given the huge run-ups of recent years, with real prices since 1997 jumping more than 90 percent. ''It's a slap in the face,'' Mr. Marchant said. 
 Meanwhile, the current market continues to percolate, although many Manhattan real estate brokers have been complaining in recent months that the inventory of apartments for sale is shrinking. Warburg Realty Partnership has provided numbers to back that up. Throughout Manhattan, there were 5,143 co-ops, condos and town houses for sale last June. The number has been dropping steadily since, with 3,899 properties on the market in October, a decrease of 24 percent from June. 
 There may be so little on the market at the moment because buyers snapped up everything they could last winter and spring. 
 Figures compiled by the Real Estate Board of New York show that in the third quarter of this year, 1,916 condo sales closed (most of those deals would have gone into contract in the first half of the year). That is a record number and an 87 percent jump over the same period last year. Co-op sales registered 1,229 closings during the third quarter, a 47 percent increase over the same period in 2003. 
 Those numbers also represent sizable increases from a record number of sales for both condos and co-ops logged in the second quarter of this year.


GRAPHIC: PhotosDrawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); FAMILY LAW (78%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (71%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); RELIGION (64%) Housing; Biographical Information; Housing; Cooperatives; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Income

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Business 360

PERSON: William Neuman; John Sloss; Kathryn Tucker; Norah P Burden; Edward P H Burden; John Marchant; Roger Sharp

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



139 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; CITYPEOPLE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Ardor in the Court

BYLINE: By SAM KNIGHT

 BODY:
THE remarkable thing about the Shepards, a mother-and-daughter team who are New York's most distinctive courtroom artists, is that they ended up in a job where they have to sit still and in silence for large parts of the day. They are movers. And they are talkers. 
 Around lunchtime a couple of weeks ago, they were at full speed, finishing a job for CNBC in Brooklyn Federal Court. The Shepards, highly visible characters in all of New York's courthouses for more than a decade, had arrived late and had to barge in during a plea hearing. As they were rushing out afterward, Andrea, the daughter, who has straight blond-brown hair, came across Barry Slotnick, a tall, bearded lawyer who appeared in the scene she had just drawn. ''Barry!'' she called out. ''You're looking good! Could you give me your card again? We're having a show.'' 
 Moments later, Andrea was joined by her mother, Shirley, who is smaller, with black half-moon glasses and curtains of perfectly silver hair. They headed for the courthouse doors, Andrea pulling the wheelie that holds their supplies. Shirley grabbed the security guard. ''We're having a show; you have to come; there'll be food and everything,'' she said urgently. 
 The Shepards do everything together. Whether on assignment from The New York Post, Channel 4 News or CNBC, they have sat as a pair, bunched together through the city's most absorbing trials since 1991. When they are in court, sketching rogue traders and celebrities, they draw on the same clipped-down piece of pastel paper, gripping it between them, filling out the room in brown, coloring the flag.
 ''Half the time I'm saying leave the nose alone, give him more hair,'' Andrea said, ''but most of the time we just take the pastel out of each other's hands and change it.'' Because Shirley, who had a classic New York arts education (High School of Music and Art, Pratt and Cooper Union), taught Andrea how to sketch, their styles are almost indistinguishable, their collaboration sealed under the single signature ''Shepard.''
 Their lives have not always been conjoined. Both women are on their second or third career -- Andrea worked for 15 years as an economist at AT&T before turning full time to courtroom art -- but nowadays, the Shepards are unusually in tune. They share the same lunch, eating sparingly to stay awake during afternoon sessions. Native New Yorkers (Shirley was brought up in the East Bronx ''when it was still a rural area''), they live together in Hell's Kitchen, in an apartment equipped with four television sets so they can catch their work on the evening news. Both decline to give their ages; as Andrea explained, ''it might impact our single situation.'' 
 They take vacations together, visiting Europe to see great works of art, then going to the sites where they were painted. They cannot help but apply the rigor of their craft. ''It turns out the Impressionists were not as accurate as we believed,'' said Shirley. Most disappointing was Monet's depiction of the Westminster Bridge in London, said to have been painted from his room at the Savoy Hotel. ''From that height?'' Shirley said darkly. ''I don't think so.''
 They also wear identical outfits. That Tuesday both wore black pants and T-shirts with sequins showing the top of the Empire State Building. (Before turning to courtroom art, Shirley was a fabric designer.) They also wore matching turquoise silk scarves, and when it started to rain, they slipped into red anoraks and pulled out blue and yellow umbrellas. 
 And they talk together -- not really to each other but as two complementary sounds. When they are telling a story in chorus, relentlessly interrupting, explaining and corroborating, the Shepards seem to share the same hectic stream of consciousness. Take this story of the time they met Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia:
 Shirley: ''So ----''
 Andrea: ''Scalia ----''
 ''We're hugging ----''
 ''One on each side ----''
 ''Listen to this ----''
 ''And then we see it in the papers ----''
 ''He's had this shoulder surgery ----''
 ''And I was like, which one of us did it?''
 Despite their colorful personae and taste for publicity (an exhibition of their work opens Dec. 8 at John Jay College of Criminal Justice), as courtroom artists the Shepards are known for their precision.
 THEY'RE very accurate,'' said Vernon Shibla, their assignment editor at The New York Post, who has sent them on stories for more than decade. Unlike some other artists, he said, ''They don't start drawing until they get into the courtroom.'' 
 ''We regard our work as historically correct,'' said Shirley, who is dismissive of court art cliches like prosecutors with thrusting arms. ''My attitude is, who cares whether he points at the guy?'' 
 Listening to their stories, it is clear that the Shepards do not experience trials in terms of innocence or guilt; their references are to personalities, clothes and a subject's willingness to pose. ''Quattrone is gorgeous,'' Shirley said of their encounters with Frank Quattrone, the Silicon Valley banker recently sentenced to 18 months for obstruction of justice. ''He will turn around and look at you, keep his head high.'' 
 At their first commission, the 1991 trial of Peter Gotti, brother of the late Don, the Shepards sat as close as possible to the action. Since then, Shirley has given P. Diddy a tie, been tapped on the shoulder by Karen Kozlowski (who warned Shirley to make her husband, Dennis, look good) and had her drawings touched up by Courtney Love.
 In fact, proximity is the most striking part of the Shepards' work; their drawings are arresting, with a giddying lack of perspective. But it is also proximity to their subjects that has led to the current shadow in the Shepards' shared life. 
 For a time, the Shepards enjoyed a close relationship with Rosie O'Donnell, the former talk show host, whom they met during her dispute with the publisher of Rosie, a now defunct magazine. But now the Shepards are suing her for abusing the copyright of her courtroom pictures. They say they found versions of their sketches, made into collages, hanging in an exhibition of Ms. O'Donnell's work in SoHo in May and are asking for $1 million in damages and costs. Ms. O'Donnell plans to fight the case, and Cindi Berger, her spokeswoman, said Ms. O'Donnell never tried to pass off the Shepards' work as her own.
 The case suggests a climax to the Shepards' courtroom career, the moment when they step into their portfolio. Almost despite themselves, they are beginning to plan how they will draw each other in the stand. ''As long as the judge allows it,'' Andrea said, ''I can't help but doodle something.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Most of the time we just take the pastel out of each other's hands and change it,'' says Andrea Shepard, near left, with her mother, Shirley. Subjects have included Martha Stewart, far left, and Rosie O'Donnell. (Photos by Above, Angel Franco/The New York Times
 left and right, Shirley and Andrea Shepard) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); LAWYERS (72%) Art; Courts

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: John Jay College of Criminal Justice

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (50%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%) Shirley Shepard; Andrea Shepard; Sam Knight

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



140 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3124 words

HEADLINE: A Very Modern Art, Indeed

BYLINE: By HUGH EAKIN

 BODY:
SHAME on you! That is the message that a leading donor delivered a few years ago in a letter to the Museum of Modern Art's board. The cost of the Modern's ambitious new home was rising into the stratosphere, and while many trustees had made multimillion-dollar contributions, a hard-core inner circle was doing a lot more. 
 ''These people were committing a much higher percentage of their net worths,'' the donor, who was part of that inner circle, recounted recently. The others, he argued, needed to follow suit. 
 There are very few art museums where a trustee might feel guilty for giving only a few million dollars. But the Modern is hardly your average museum: when it reopens on Nov. 20 after a four-year renovation and expansion, it will have completed one of the most expensive projects ever undertaken by a cultural institution. 
 The expanded building, a cool granite and glass fortress designed by the Japanese architect Yoshio Taniguchi, ultimately cost $858 million -- a sum that was raised largely during a period in which the city suffered a terrorist attack and an economic recession, while other big New York museums were laying people off and reducing hours.
 How did the Modern do it?
 Part of the answer lies in the management strategy of the Modern's front office, under its director, Glenn D. Lowry. It also has to do with the financial muscle of the museum's board, where a little gentle bullying has yielded seven- and eight-figure contributions. Above all, it has to do with the museum's determination not only to preside over the world's pre-eminent collection of 20th-century art, but to have the best building to display it in, to draw the biggest crowds and to keep growing -- in art holdings, square feet and financial assets -- well into the future. 
 Longtime museum directors express awe at the scope of the Modern's vision. ''This is probably the biggest project of our lifetime,'' said David Ross, the president of the Artist Pension Trust and a former director of the Whitney Museum of American Art and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, ''and Glenn Lowry has pulled it off with aplomb.'' 
 The museum is basking in its accomplishment, waging a big publicity drive to promote its glamorous new home. But on one subject, the Modern is mute: it refuses to discuss how it raised the money. Mr. Lowry declined to be interviewed for this article or to answer written questions about the expansion and its financing. A number of people close to the project, including about a dozen trustees, declined to be interviewed, did not return repeated calls or referred questions to the museum. 
 ''It is a longstanding museum policy never to talk about fund-raising,'' said a spokeswoman for the Modern, Ruth Kaplan. In a subsequent statement, the museum said it would not disclose the financing because it wanted to ''honor the privacy of its supporters.'' 
 Still, several trustees did speak about their experience, as did other people close to the museum; from their words and information in the public record, it is possible to piece together the story of the capital campaign and what it signals for the Modern's mission and identity. A picture emerges of the institution's evolution -- from a home for masterworks that was gleaming but cramped, and dependent on the particular vision of individual curators, into a well-oiled enterprise, organized around a single expansive vision and dependent on attention to revenue streams and bond ratings.
 The museum has acknowledged in a news release that more than $500 million - over two-thirds of the funds raised-- came directly from board pledges. Currently, the board includes 42 trustees and 15 life trustees. Even including the board's 14 ''honorary'' trustees, who do not have voting rights and do not play as direct a role in the museum, this amounts to an average individual contribution of more than $7 million. Earlier this year, Mr. Lowry told The New York Times that 50 trustees had each given $5 million or more. The museum also received $65 million from the city, the largest completed capital grant to a private institution in the city's history. (Unlike museums like the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Brooklyn Museum of Art, the Modern does not ordinarily receive public financing.) 
 In December 2001, with the help of the investment bank Goldman Sachs, the museum was able to float a $235 million bond for the expansion and a $24 million bond to finance previous debt; both offerings were tax-exempt. Underwritten by Goldman Sachs and issued by the Trust for Cultural Resources of the City of New York, the bond offerings essentially provided the museum with cash for construction while it awaited pledges and future gifts.
 They brought the museum's total debt to $398 million, which exceeded the museum's expendable assets at the time, $366 million. Even so, the bonds were given an A1 rating -- the fifth highest -- by Moody's Investor Service, the bond rating agency, on the strength of the museum's recent financial performance and its apparent ability to raise money. Approved just months after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the bond issue helped the Modern avoid the squeeze felt by other institutions. In 2002, the Guggenheim Museum canceled its own plans for a new $680 million building designed by Frank Gehry for the Lower East Side of Manhattan, and in 2003 the Brooklyn Museum of Art closed for two weeks to save money. 
 ''The Modern expansion comes at a time of pessimism in the museum world,'' said Richard Koshalek, a former director of the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art who is now president of the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, Calif. ''It's a huge leap.''
 THE project looked very different when it was first announced in the late 1990's. The economy was booming, and museums were thinking big. When Mr. Taniguchi's design was chosen in 1997, the target for the fund-raising campaign was $300 million to $400 million, several people close to the museum said. But when the Modern formally announced its capital campaign in 1998, the figure quickly rose to $650 million. 
 Everything about the proposed building, from its huge glass curtain walls facing the garden to its slender, solid-steel mullions to the white oak flooring in some of the galleries, was expensive. Barbara Jakobson, a trustee and member of the museum's architect-selection committee, suggests that Mr. Taniguchi had sold the board on the costly design because it allowed the museum to increase greatly in size without seeming ponderous. She cited the architect's oft-quoted remark to Terence Riley, the Modern's chief curator of architecture and design: ''He said, 'If you give me enough money, I'll design you a beautiful building. If you give me more, I'll make it disappear.''' 
 Thus, when construction began, the figure was suddenly $806 million, and ultimately, $858 million. ''I think it shocked people how much it was going to be,'' said one person who took part in the discussions at the time and who, because of his relationship with the museum, asked not to be named. Another person who took part in the discussions said of the project, ''It ran away with the budget.'' 
 The cost of construction alone, $425 million, exceeded that of all but a few top museums. (By comparison, Mr. Gehry's Guggenheim Bilbao in Spain cost $160 million.) The museum also spent close to $100 million on additional real estate in Midtown Manhattan and in Long Island City, where it established MoMA Queens, a temporary museum and long-term storage facility. More than $100 million went toward fund-raising costs, the temporary relocation and other expenses related to the expansion and capital campaign. In addition, tens of millions of dollars were needed for the endowment to cover the new operating costs -- which at $120 million a year are almost 50 percent higher than they had been in the old building.
 Virtually since his arrival as director in 1995, Mr. Lowry, who had previously guided the Art Gallery of Ontario through its own cash-strapped expansion, had been quietly preparing the Modern for the financial pressures of the construction. Traditionally the Modern had a hands-off management structure, with the top curators of each department given significant leeway in planning exhibitions and setting budgets, a practice which, several former staff members said, led to occasional deficits. Mr. Lowry established a new layer of management above the senior curators, appointing several deputy directors who answered directly to him and took over responsibilities, like the gallery design and budgeting of an exhibition, that were previously in the hands of curators. John Elderfield, for example, the museum's chief curator at large, was named deputy director of curatorial affairs.
 At the same time, Mr. Lowry introduced firm budgets for each department and reduced the number of expensive shows. ''It's about running it as a business,'' said Lewis B. Cullman, a trustee involved with the capital campaign.
 It worked: in 1998, for example, the museum drew 1.6 million visitors and generated a net surplus without scheduling a single large-scale exhibition. In its analysis of the bond issue, Moody's wrote that ''MoMA's financial management team has a demonstrated capability to achieve balanced current operations'' and praised the museum for cutting back on big, financially unpredictable exhibitions. 
 Still, the whole plan depended on the generosity of the trustees. It helped that the board is led by David Rockefeller Sr., its chairman emeritus, and Ronald S. Lauder, its chairman, who together bring enviable connections to the overlapping worlds of art, business and New York society. It also helped that the Modern's board had a reputation as one of the more elite clubs in the museum world and could expect more of its members. Current trustees include, among others, the real estate magnate Jerry I. Speyer, the software entrepreneur Peter Norton, the Hollywood executive Michael S. Ovitz, and the Greek shipping heir and socialite Philip S. Niarchos.
 ''It is a board in which extremely powerful people are willing to subsume their egos for the good of the institution,'' Ms. Jakobson said. 
 In previous decades, the Modern board has been a haven for wealthy connoisseurs of modern art; many of those, like Philip Johnson and, until her death in 2001, Elaine Dannheisser, were distinguished collectors in their own right. Several people close to the Modern describe the traditional dynamic of the board as based on ''inherited understandings'' of the museum's mission and on longtime close relationships with the curatorial staff. 
 WHILE this continues to some extent, the financial pressures of the expansion have placed a powerful new emphasis on net worth. Longtime members of the board's inner circle, like Mr. Rockefeller, Mr. Lauder and the president emeritus, Agnes Gund, helped to galvanize other trustees to make significant contributions to the project as it progressed -- both by example and by what one trustee called ''peer pressure.'' Mr. Rockefeller and his wife, Peggy; Mr. Lauder and his wife, Jo Carole; and a vice chairman, Donald Marron, and his wife, Catie, made particularly large contributions, for which they received the right to have parts of the museum named after them. Mr. Cullman and his wife, Dorothy, have endowed a still-to-be completed education center, which will contain spaces named after the trustee Celeste Bartos and the broadcasting and candy industrialist John Edward Noble.
 But pledges were not enough. To maintain its bond rating, the museum had to ensure that the cash arrived in a timely way, not always an easy task. At a board meeting in June it emerged that the museum had a $20 million cash shortfall. Mr. Cullman offered $5 million if other members could assemble the remaining $15 million. 
 Meanwhile, according to its annual financial statements, the museum was recruiting exceptionally wealthy patrons across the country. Since the capital campaign began, new additions to the board include, among others, Thomas H. Lee, a leveraged buyout specialist; Donald L. Bryant Jr., an insurance executive and winemaker; Gary Winnick, a former telecommunications executive; and Eli Broad, a Los Angeles developer. ''They have more than a handful of billionaires, and that helps,'' Mr. Ross, , the former director of the Whitney and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, said.
 But they also now have more than a handful of people who may not know as much as previous members did about the museum and its vanguard role in the history of modern art. And speaking on the condition of anonymity, some observers close to the museum expressed concern that the selection of some new members seems to have had as much to do with business as with modern art.
 Mr. Winnick, then a recently minted billionaire, was introduced to Mr. Rockefeller in 2000 by a private banking executive at Chase, where Mr. Rockefeller was a former chairman. At the time, Chase was actively pursuing contracts with Mr. Winnick's company, Global Crossing. (The company later filed for bankruptcy, though Mr. Winnick's personal fortune survived largely intact.)
 Mr. Winnick pledged $5 million when he joined the board in 2000. Mr. Broad, who was elected to the board during the past year, said he was one of the group who had given ''$5 million or more'' to the museum. ''I was not asked to contribute when I became a trustee,'' he said. ''On our own volition, my wife and I decided to give to the campaign.'' 
 Board members and their business connections have also served the project in other ways. In 1996, Mr. Speyer, a longtime trustee and a vice chairman, used his stature in the real estate industry as well as his negotiating skills to help the museum acquire the adjacent Dorset Hotel and two other neighboring properties. The museum paid only $50 million, although the sellers had originally asked for a much higher figure. (Daniel Neidich, a real estate investment banker for Goldman Sachs, who assisted Mr. Speyer with the purchase, has also since joined the Modern's board.) Robert B. Menschel, the current president of the Modern board, is a senior director of Goldman Sachs.
 The business community remains, for the moment, confident in the enlarged museum's finances. Fund-raising for the endowment has represented only a small part of the capital campaign, accounting for $70 million of the $717 million raised to date. But the museum's operations have broken even each of the past 10 years, including during the expansion, and the Modern has improved its assets-to-debt ratio slightly since the 2001 bond issue. Successful future budgeting will partly depend on the museum's ability to generate higher ticket revenue. The museum has projected that it will be able to attract as many as 2.5 million visitors a year, an increase of about one million over previous attendance, even though it has raised its ticket price to $20. The museum has also recently acquired two more properties on the site to give it extra room to grow.
 ''The outlook is stable,'' Naomi Richman, a Moody's analyst who rated the 2001 bond issue, said recently. Ms. Richman said that the bond rating would stay at A1 and was not likely to be raised in the next few months. In 2001, Moody's had indicated that the rating might improve once the museum completed the project.
 Several people who have long been involved with the museum worry about its new financial orientation. They suggest that the museum's curators may be losing ground to upper-level administrators. ''This is now an administered museum run by a director who is essentially all-powerful, working for a board that is used to corporations that are run in somewhat the same way,'' said one former high-ranking staff member who worked under Mr. Lowry and his predecessor, Richard Oldenburg. Board members point out that Mr. Lowry has included senior curators in the planning and execution of the project. ''He let the curators speak their thoughts,'' Ms. Jakobson said. ''This required making a lot of choices, and I know the senior staff were brought in.'' 
 But Laurent Lapierre, a professor of arts management at the Canadian business school HEC Montreal, who recently completed a case study on the Modern that was published in the International Journal of Arts Management, said that while Mr. Lowry makes decisions in consultation his staff members, he does not work by consensus. ''He is running the show, and he is confident in his decisions,'' Mr. Lapierre said.
 The museum's tax filings from the past few years suggest a shift among the highest paid employees from curatorial staff to management. From 1998 to 2001, for example, only one curator, Mr. Elderfield, was among the five employees with the highest compensation, and in 2002, the most recent year for which records were available, there were none. During the same period, Mr. Lowry's compensation has more than doubled, to $619,663; and that of James Gara, the museum's chief operating officer, has risen by 50 percent, to $300,000.
 Mr. Ross said that it was natural for an institution to change its identity somewhat after such a large expansion. ''The question is whether the economics of managing a facility of this scale will make it more risk-averse,'' he said. 
 One concern, for example, is whether the pressure to keep visitor numbers high will discourage the museum from pursuing critically important exhibitions that do not have a demonstrable popular appeal.
 Still, Robert Storr, a professor at the Institute of Fine Art at New York University and a former curator of painting and sculpture at the Modern, suggested that the museum's staff would be more critical than the Modern's size in determining whether the museum moved in a safer, more conservative direction. ''It's not an inevitable consequence of bigness -- it's a question of will,'' he said. ''It's not institutions that run people, but people who run institutions, and their priorities.'' 
 Of course, the real test will be in the art that goes into the building -- now and in the future. The museum insists that a provocative new display of the permanent collection, and expansive new spaces for contemporary art, will help the institution keep its edge. The Modern's exceptional financial resources may help in this regard: this year several trustees endowed a $1 million fund to purchase artwork created in the last five years. 
 Whatever the result, in rebuilding itself the Modern has indisputably done a lot more than change its clothes. It has become a vastly bigger institution, with all the decorum and responsibilities that come with that status. 
 ''It's going to be the Metropolitan Museum of Modern Art,'' Mr. Ross said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Glenn D. Lowry has led the Museum of Modern Art's $858 million renovation and expansion. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 1)
Agnes Gund -- Banking heir Board member since 1976 Her inheritance also derives, in part, from teddy bears and Sanka coffee.
Donald B. Marron -- Investment banker Board member since 1975 As Paine Webber chief executive, negotiated sale to UBS Bank for $12 billion.
Jerry Speyer -- Real estate developer Board member since 1982 President of Tishman Speyer, whose holdings include Rockefeller Center.
Ronald Lauder -- Cosmetics heir and investor Board member since 1976 Net worth: $2.1 billion. (Photos by Bill Cunningham/The New York Times
source of financial information: Forbes)
Sid Bass -- Oil heir and Texas financier Board member since 1983 Net worth: $1.3 billion. (Photo by Joe Laird/Dallas Morning News)
Richard Parsons -- Time Warner chairman and chief executive Board member since 2001 2004 pay: $9.8 million. (Photo by Associated Press)
Eli Broad -- Real estate and insurance entrepreneur Board member since 2004 Net worth: $6 billion. (Photo by Kim Kulish/Saba)
 Gary Winnick -- Founder, Global Crossing Board member since 2000 Sold $734 million in company stock. (Photo by Jay Mallin/Bloomberg News)(pg. 21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%); TERRORISM (52%) Philanthropy; Finances

ORGANIZATION: Museum of Modern Art (NYC); Museum of Modern Art (NYC)

PERSON: SID BASS (59%); ELI BROAD (59%); RICHARD D PARSONS (58%) Glenn D Lowry; Hugh Eakin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



141 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 7367 words

HEADLINE: The Flu Hunters

BYLINE: By Gretchen Reynolds. 
Gretchen Reynolds is a writer living in Santa Fe, N.M. Her last article for the magazine was about monkeypox.

 BODY:
Dr. Keiji Fukuda is, by nature, composed. His voice is soft and measured. He rarely employs exclamations, never swears. 
 At 49, Fukuda, the top influenza epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, looks distinguished in a scruffy, academic way and reassuring. His face is unlined. His gray hair is close-cropped around his ears, making the top of his head rise like a pale dome above the timberline. He smiles often and gently. So when Keiji Fukuda admits to being as concerned as ''I have ever been,'' people who know him start really worrying.
 In the past year, Fukuda has watched from his office in Atlanta as events overseas have seemed poised to spiral out of control. Between January and the end of October, 32 people have died from avian influenza in Vietnam and Thailand. Tens of millions of chickens have succumbed. Millions of others have been slaughtered. More nations have admitted to outbreaks among birds in more provinces than would have been conceivable even 18 months ago. All of this, Fukuda says, ''certainly increases the possibility'' of a much larger outbreak of avian flu among people. 
 Dr. Tim Uyeki, 45, one of the top epidemiologists who works with Fukuda at the C.D.C., is more excitable and blunt than his boss. ''You have the ingredients in Asia right now for a public health disaster,'' he says. Of long-term concern to him and Fukuda is that the region may be brewing a worldwide flu pandemic. ''It's a mess,'' Uyeki says. He is quiet. ''It would be nice,'' he continues, choosing his words with care, ''to be in the field, to be in Asia, to see firsthand what is going on.'' But he and the other C.D.C. scientists must be invited by other nations to help in disease investigations. Some countries prefer to do the work themselves. Others would like to keep the news of any outbreak off the world's radar screen, a difficult feat in the presence of a large international medical team. 
 Uyeki and Fukuda are 21st-century epidemiologists, and their job is not an easy one. They see themselves first and foremost as scientists. But in a globalized world where peripatetic germs hitch rides in the lungs or luggage of unwitting airline passengers, where sick chickens in Asia can threaten to topple third-world governments, where the role of politics and money can obscure the free flow of medical information, they cannot do their job -- preventing the spread of deadly flu viruses -- by being scientists only. They are medical monitors sitting at their desks, reading e-mail messages, Web sites, faxes and reports in order to track the varieties of flus in the United States and around the world. They are investigators who are prepared to jump on a plane to an outbreak site -- if invited -- and delicately interview the families of flu victims, trying to piece together how and why particular people fell ill and what the implications are for the rest of us. And less formally, they are diplomats, lobbyists, policy advocates, pressing for measures that governments would often prefer not to embrace. 
 While the United States has grappled this fall with a shortage of the human flu vaccine, Fukuda and Uyeki have been preoccupied with broader and more haunting questions. They and the 70 or so other members of the C.D.C. influenza team are the nation's first -- and in a worst-case scenario, last -- line of defense against an influenza pandemic. And as is inherent in such a task, they act from a position of pessimism. They live with the specter of the 1918 flu pandemic, which killed somewhere between 20 million and 50 million people around the world and 500,000 in this country, and with the assumption that another pandemic is inevitable. 
 In their eyes, the vaccine shortage will almost certainly not be what history remembers about influenza from this year and next. The vaccine situation will probably be transitory. It is a matter for lawmakers and regulators. Fukuda, Uyeki and their colleagues fear that influenza itself won't be so amenable. Events in Asia, in particular, are escalating almost daily, with more human deaths, more different species becoming infected and more questions arising about how the virus there behaves. At the same time, some governments in the region are remaining closemouthed about what is happening within their borders. This reticence exponentially increases the difficulty of epidemiologists' work. Flu hunters are expected to forestall any big outbreak. But Fukuda and Uyeki's real fear is that they might not know one is starting until it is too advanced to stop. 
 ''It's spooky,'' Fukuda says, the verbal equivalent for him of rushing about shouting.
September was one of those periods that remind scientists why influenza both compels and worries them. Early in the month, a death announcement appeared on the World Health Organization's Disease Outbreak News, a Web site that typically contains the first official report of unusual flu cases. Fukuda and Uyeki dutifully scanned it. A young man died in Thailand the previous day of avian flu. ''The case,'' the posting read, ''was an 18-year-old male who'd been exposed to sick chickens.'' 
 In a follow-up posting that day, on ProMED-mail, the infectious-disease world's invaluable blog, things got more intriguing. The posting originated from the Thai Department of Disease Control and said that the boy had ''had very close contact to . . . fighting cocks by carrying and helping to clear up the mucous secretion from the throat of the cock during the fighting game by using his mouth.'' 
 That is, the young man -- in a move not uncommon in cockfighting circles -- had cleared the cock's airway by sucking his rooster's beak and then swallowing the spit and mucus. ''That was a risk factor for avian flu that we hadn't really considered before,'' Uyeki told me dryly when we discussed the recent outbreaks this fall. Few people in the world know as much about how influenza can be expected to behave as Uyeki and Fukuda. The two have been on a dozen or so field investigations, jointly and separately, to Hong Kong, Vietnam, Madagascar, Mongolia, the Philippines and China, as well as aboard cruise ships and at hospitals and nursing homes here in this country. Scott Harper, an epidemiologist who works with Fukuda at the C.D.C. said that Fukuda is a brilliant scientist. ''His knowledge of influenza epidemiology is unparalleled.'' Fukuda and Uyeki feel a proprietary fascination for the disease that even their colleagues at the C.D.C. call ''your bug,'' especially when it does something novel.
 In its announcement about the teenager's death, the Thai Department of Disease Control said that the national and local health authority in the province where the young man had lived would study the case. Village chickens would be slaughtered. The young man's neighbors and the doctors and nurses who had cared for him would be put under close observation in case he had passed the infection to them. Another local teenager, whose fighting rooster had become sick and died, was hospitalized with vague symptoms. (He didn't have the flu -- just understandable anxiety.) 
 Uyeki, who has been in the C.D.C.'s influenza branch since 1998, has an 18-page C.V. of a senior scientist but the heavy, beveled black bangs, darty energy and wardrobe of a bright undergraduate. A practicing pediatrician as well as an epidemiologist (many of those at the C.D.C. have M.D.'s and graduate degrees in epidemiology or public heath), he is constitutionally restive, speaking in fast, emphatic sentences. 
 Uyeki is the point man for day-to-day updates on the avian flu in Asia. He reads and files the postings and checks in with friendly colleagues on the ground overseas, one of the benefits of having done fieldwork in several countries. ''I know the scientists in many parts of Asia,'' Uyeki said. ''They know me.'' 
 Epidemiology is a beat-reporter's science. Those who are good at it collect tidbits of information and unofficial rumors. They cultivate confidential sources. They squirrel away everything. But when it came to Thailand this fall, Uyeki felt stymied because he had never been asked to do fieldwork in the country and because the avian flu is such a potent issue there. Until early this year, Thailand was the world's fourth-largest chicken exporter. Its industrial poultry producers employ hundreds of thousands of people. But after it reported on Jan. 23 to the World Organization for Animal Health that avian influenza had been detected in a poultry flock, nations began to bar the import of its birds. There were calls for the prime minister and other officials to resign. 
 As the weeks went by this fall, the Thai government did not release any further report on the cockfighter's death. The previous winter, as Uyeki was well aware, people in Vietnam and Thailand had fallen ill at about the same time as had chickens. Within the space of two months, at least 35 people had developed severe respiratory distress; 23 had died.
 But the number of new human infections mysteriously sputtered and then ceased. The last death came in Vietnam in March. ''There had not been any obvious sustained person-to-person transmission'' during this outbreak, Uyeki said, a requisite for a pandemic to take hold. 
 Then in June, Indonesia reported an outbreak of avian influenza in poultry flocks to the World Organization for Animal Health. Vietnam and Thailand followed in July. China, Cambodia and Malaysia joined them in rapid succession. That same month, the virus popped up again in humans as mysteriously as it had disappeared before. There were reports of human infections in Vietnam, with the first death in early August. Two more deaths followed soon afterward in Vietnam, and then the cockfighting boy in Thailand died on Sept. 8. Uyeki craved details. ''Anytime there's evidence of a developing outbreak, you want to know as much as possible,'' he said.
 On Sept. 27, Thai health authorities reported that a 26-year-old woman living in the Bangkok suburbs had, to all appearances, contracted avian flu from her 11-year-old daughter. The girl, who had been living in a village with her aunt, had helped to dispose of sick chickens. She had then become ill and been hospitalized. Her mother had rushed to tend to her child. She stayed with her, holding and comforting her. The girl died, and the day after her funeral, the mother returned home, started to feel ill and, after severe illness, died. The girl's aunt, who had also been with her at the hospital, got sick too, but she survived. Both the mother and aunt tested positive for avian influenza.
 Uyeki avidly read the case postings on ProMED. He itched to be doing the legwork himself, but settled for calling and e-mailing colleagues. Soon he found out the exact dates of the onset of disease in the daughter and mother and of their hospitalizations and deaths. He learned that the mother had spent about an hour in the village before going to the hospital. Had she picked up a chicken, touched a knife used to slaughter a chicken, walked through a chicken pen? Was there any way she could have contracted the disease from sick poultry?
 ''Possible person-to-person transmission grabs our attention,'' he said. When a virus is able to spread easily between people, it also can move rapidly around the world. It could arrive in the United States within the space of one long airplane ride. (Uyeki and his colleagues were called repeatedly last flu season and over the summer when travelers from Asia arrived in the United States with flu symptoms and were suspected by state health departments of having avian influenza. None of them did.) ''It's something that needs to be thoroughly investigated,'' Uyeki said.
Both Uyeki and Fukuda joined the C.D.C. through its Epidemic Intelligence Service. This program brings in eager physicians, nurses, veterinarians and Ph.D.'s who want to be involved in public health and sends them into the field. Uyeki, whose appointment was in the influenza branch, spent his first two months on the job in 1998 investigating an outbreak of flu among thousands of tourists in Alaska and the Yukon territory. 
 After Fukuda's time with the epidemic service -- his stint, like Uyeki's, was two years -- he studied chronic fatigue syndrome and other illnesses among gulf-war veterans. This was fascinating and worthy work, but his primary interest was in disease control. 
 When a full-time slot opened in the influenza branch, Fukuda was hired. This was in 1996. Until that point, influenza had been a backwater in infectious disease. ''Not many people were interested in influenza in 1996,'' Fukuda said. ''Diseases like H.I.V. had the world's attention.'' That was about to change.
 A year after starting in the flu branch, Fukuda was completing a clinical rotation at a hospital in San Francisco, which he does every year to keep his medical skills up to date. It was now August 1997. ''I got a phone call'' -- saying a 3-year-old boy had tested positive for avian influenza in Hong Kong -- ''a highly unusual event,'' he recalled. ''I thought, Wow.'' 
To understand how staggering this news was, you must understand something of the physiognomy of flu. Influenza viruses are divided into three types: A, B or C, depending on the virus structure. Humans can be infected with all three, although C-class flus are uncommon and influenza B doesn't usually cause severe illness except among children. 
 Influenza A is the monster, in both animals and people, causing, by and large, the most virulent illness. Type A influenzas (unlike B's or C's) have multiple subtypes, identified with maddeningly cryptic names: H3N2, H1N1, H7N2. The ''H'' is for hemagglutinin, a spiky protein on the surface of the influenza molecule. In human flu viruses, the spikes of hemagglutinin connect, like sinister Legos, with matching receptors on the outside of healthy respiratory-system cells. The virus then melds with the healthy cell and begins replicating. Neuraminidase, the ''N'' in the flu name, another protein, uncouples the virus from its host, tearing the cell membrane and allowing the progeny to escape, killing the cell. Loosed, they start repeating the process deeper and deeper into the respiratory tract.
 The little boy in Hong Kong seven years ago had a type A influenza, H5N1, a bird flu. H5N1 wasn't unfamiliar to flu watchers. It had been isolated in wild birds as far back as the early 1960's. But this avian flu had never been known to infect a human being. An avian flu can occasionally jump from a bird to a person. Nature is fluky. The resulting infection is a nasty shock for the patient, but not much of a threat to the rest of us. 
 To cause a pandemic, an entirely new human influenza subtype must emerge, one that most people would never have been exposed to and would not have immunities to. This flu also must be able to be transmitted efficiently from person to person. In recent history, three main types of influenza A have circulated freely in humans. (Many more exist in birds.) Each of these strains caused a pandemic when they were introduced into the human race. The catastrophic 1918 Spanish flu pandemic was caused by H1N1. The 1957 Asian flu pandemic, which killed 70,000 in the United States, was brought about by H2N2. And the 1968 pandemic of Hong Kong flu introduced H3N2. That outbreak killed about 34,000 people in the United States.
 Science doesn't quite understand how a nonhuman flu virus adapts and becomes a human flu, and why more, in fact, don't. But they do suspect that it is a process of gene swapping. If an avian flu infects a person who, coincidentally, suffers from a human flu, the two bugs might exchange genetic material. The resulting virus could be essentially avian, but possessing genetic components of the human flu that would allow it to be easily transmitted from person to person. This is how the Asian flu and the Hong Kong flu pandemics began.
Shortly after hearing about the 3-year-old boy with the avian flu, Fukuda took part in an intense conference call between the C.D.C. and the Hong Kong health department. He was, he said, trying to be judicious, to keep his anxiety and slightly guilty but undeniable excitement in check. ''There was a surge of adrenaline,'' he said. ''But at that point, we had one case. It was an extremely interesting case, but only one.'' He and several C.D.C. colleagues soon left for Hong Kong. 
 For an epidemiologist, fieldwork is grueling, grimy, sometimes dangerous and captivating. It is also, when everything clicks, the surest way to understand the progress of a disease and, in the best of circumstances, to stop it cold. 
 When Fukuda arrived in Hong Kong, he studied the chart of the dead boy. His had been a hard death, which shook Fukuda, the father of two young children. The child had a breathing tube inserted down his air passage and was in great pain. ''As I went over his chart, the case became very unabstract,'' he said. ''It drove home for me how much suffering there might be behind the numbers if this bug took off.''
 Fukuda soon learned that chickens had been dying in the New Territories region of northern Hong Kong. Routine testing of the poultry had turned up H5N1 infection. 
 Delicately, Fukuda had his local colleagues talk to the boy's parents and ask if they had visited the affected region lately or if they had been to a live poultry market. ''This was quite difficult for everyone,'' he said. ''The parents were still very, very upset, as you can imagine.'' But they managed to confirm that there had been no trips to the territories or to markets. 
 The boy had attended day care, however, and when Fukuda and some of the Hong Kong scientists visited the school, they found that the teachers had kept chicks as playthings for the children. Some of the birds had died. None now remained, so no testing of the animals was possible. 
 Though Fukuda surmised that the boy caught the disease from a chicken with H5, the epidemiologists never could establish with certainty how the boy had become ill. There were many other unanswered questions too: Why didn't other children get sick? Had this boy played differently with the bird? At a different time? Fukuda returned home. ''There was a sense, I guess, of incompletion,'' he said, ''of dissatisfaction and some concern. It simply wasn't clear at that time whether this had been a unique, transitory event.''
 Then, three months later, an e-mail message arrived at the C.D.C. from Hong Kong. There was another H5 case. The health authorities there asked Fukuda and his colleagues to return. He readily agreed to go.
 It was now early December. By the time Fukuda and a colleague arrived at the airport, a second human case of avian flu had been confirmed in this new outbreak -- then a third and a fourth. Fukuda and his team of seven others from the C.D.C. set up a war room at the department of health. Each morning, they would tally the new cases. The total kept growing. ''None of us were sleeping much,'' Fukuda recalled. ''The adrenaline was really flowing at this point. A pandemic was suddenly not this misty historical possibility. It seemed very current.''
 The investigators mapped out the homes and haunts of the sick. There was little overlap among the flu victims. The contagion didn't seem to be passing from one person to another. The team checked in with its agricultural counterparts. Veterinarians had found evidence of a recent outbreak of H5N1 in dying chickens in one region of Hong Kong. But few, if any, of the human patients had visited that region. Fukuda and the others determined, however, that most of them had been to a local live poultry market the week before falling ill. 
 On Dec. 28, a Sunday, Fukuda and senior department of health staff members were summoned to an emergency meeting. For weeks, their veterinary counterparts had been working on a frantic, parallel investigation of their own, taking samples of bird feces and blood. The findings, presented now, chilled those assembled. H5N1 appeared to have spread throughout the nation's live poultry markets. ''You have to understand this news within the context of the human-disease situation,'' Fukuda said. Small outbreaks among poultry in May preceded the first case. Now the infection was widespread. 
 ''The solution was obvious but not easy,'' Fukuda said. Hong Kong should slaughter every bird within its borders. 
 There was hesitancy among the scientists at the Sunday meeting. If chicken markets were not the direct cause of the current outbreak -- a possibility that couldn't be shrugged off -- killing poultry would be an enormous economic waste. If, however, Hong Kong opted not to kill the birds and the disease spread . . . this outcome hung in the air. ''When looked at that way, the conclusion became clearer,'' Fukuda said. 
 The scientists decided to recommend that all poultry in Hong Kong be slaughtered. Government ministers were called. Remarkably, they didn't balk. Within hours, preparations started. Poultry markets were shut down and disinfected. Culling began the next morning and was completed in three days.
 Overnight, new human infections ceased. ''I remember it as the most satisfying investigation of my life,'' Fukuda said.
But five years later, everything would be different. In early 2003, Fukuda and Uyeki began hearing rumors from colleagues in Asia of people in southern China falling ill with a mysterious respiratory illness. China's health ministers didn't confirm the outbreak at first. Not until many people had died did officials report to the World Health Organization, saying the country was experiencing an outbreak of what seemed to be a mild type of pneumonia. 
 Soon after, the respiratory illness cropped up at a hospital in Hanoi. In March of that year, Uyeki went to Vietnam as the C.D.C.'s top representative on a W.H.O.-led outbreak team, after that country urgently requested that a group study the unknown pathogen quickly spreading through the hospital. Many at the C.D.C. and elsewhere believed it was flu and possibly H5N1. (Uyeki wasn't among them, he said. He always thought the incubation period and symptoms were wrong.) As it turned out, it was Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome. SARS, which is not as contagious as human influenza, is a different virus. Relatively few people became infected, except in hospitals and a couple of buildings, which made the disease much easier to contain than flu would have been. 
 The worldwide news media, however, repeatedly showed disconcerting images of empty sidewalks and shops and of cities where people who did venture out wore surgical masks. Tourism to the affected areas dried up. Other countries halted or slowed imports from the affected nations. The Hong Kong stock market fell. 
 ''SARS,'' Fukuda said, ''was the next step up in showing how consequential an outbreak could be.'' The virus became, he said mildly, ''interpolated with economic and political concerns.''
 Fukuda is reflexively polite. But as he recalls the course of the SARS investigation, his diffidence is tipped with acid. China did not cooperate in a useful way with the international investigators, as its own health ministers have since acknowledged. Chinese officials released little information about cases among its citizens and declined to have outsiders visit the affected areas. One frustration for modern epidemiologists is that although viruses don't respect borders, doctors must. 
 ''When political considerations begin to outweigh the interests of epidemiology,'' Fukuda said, ''it affects the quickness with which we can respond and our ability to respond at all. It affects how much of the response is built on science versus how much is dictated by other concerns.''
 As Uyeki said, ''We were in some ways very lucky that SARS was SARS.'' If it had been a more infectious disease, he explained, like a new strain of human flu, and if the outbreak had developed in the same fashion, with early denials, delayed release of information and continuing confusion, it could have been disastrous. ''Pandemic flu would have dwarfed SARS. It would have made SARS look like a vacation.''
 Fukuda is less heated but agrees. ''The H5 outbreak in Hong Kong in 1997 caught everybody by surprise,'' he said. ''Politics couldn't keep up with biology. So public health could respond. Now we've seen SARS, and the world is sensitized in a way it wasn't before. It's increasingly difficult to respond to infectious disease in a way that is predominantly science driven. This is a big problem. We can use political responses to deal with political problems. That is not the best way to deal with biological events.'' 
 He paused, then added, ''If we look at the recent avian flu in Asia, we have a really good example of how much more complicated things are now.''
On Dec. 29 of last year, Uyeki was at his desk in Atlanta when he received an e-mail message that made him blink. It was a private, informal request for advice from a virologist at the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology in Hanoi. ''We have some childrent [sic] patients with respirator symtomes [sic],'' she wrote. ''We need to know what's causative of it.'' Several children throughout Vietnam had become so ill that they had been brought to a pediatric hospital in Hanoi.
 Uyeki, as a pediatrician, has a particular interest in influenza's effect on the young. It is one of his specialties, and in the months just past, a number of children in the United States had died after getting the flu. These distressing pediatric deaths had brought him to the office that day during the Christmas holiday to read case reports. When he received the e-mail message from Hanoi, he thought that Vietnam might be dealing with the same virulent human flu and suggested that the virologist test the youngsters for human influenza. 
 He might have urged her to test for bird flu had he had confirmation of any substantial numbers of chicken deaths in the region. There had been rumors circulating among influenza scientists that chickens were sick in Vietnam, Thailand and elsewhere. But no Asian country, except South Korea, on Dec. 17, had reported poultry deaths from influenza to the World Organization for Animal Health. Reporting to this world organization is strictly voluntary. It is also inevitably self-punishing, triggering export restrictions. 
 Though Thai officials had admiited in regional newspaper stories that about 68,000 chickens had died in one of its provinces, they blamed fowl cholera, a disease that rarely makes people sick. 
 The silence from Asia didn't necessarily mean people were covering up chicken flu there, Fukuda said (although that charge has since been publicly leveled by journalists and local activists against highly placed government officials in both Thailand and Vietnam). Most Asian nations don't have sophisticated veterinary surveillance systems for detecting and reporting sickness in animals. Perhaps, too, ''people don't want to know,'' Fukuda said, ''because of the economic and political consequences.'' 
 Near midnight on Dec. 29, Uyeki received another e-mail message from the Vietnamese virologist: ''Dear Tim . . . these childrens . . . have fever, cough, difficult breath . . . some of them have diahrea [sic] after few days of onset and died quickly.'' 
 This was the first he had heard of deaths. Uyeki pressed her again to test further for human flu. 
 On Jan. 8, Vietnam reported for the first time that it had cases of avian flu in chickens, some of which were thought to have occurred as early as Dec. 27. Uyeki shipped the virologist specialized tests to check for a wide variety of influenza A subtypes, including H5. He also sent masks, gloves and gowns, which are sometimes in short supply in Vietnam. 
 A few days later, the children's illness was confirmed. They had H5N1, avian flu. By then, 11 children and 1 adult had died.
 It is impossible to say, in retrospect, whether a speedier diagnosis could have saved lives, although the thought runs through Uyeki's mind. Like many influenzas, H5N1 can be treated with a new antiviral called oseltamivir, though it is still unclear exactly how effective the drug will be against this virus. But Vietnam has limited supplies of oseltamivir. And it is thought that to be effective, the drug must be administered within 48 hours of a person's first symptoms. Many of the children were from outlying provinces. By the time they arrived at the hospital in Hanoi, they had been sick for days. Many worsened and died rapidly. Had doctors known what to look for, perhaps some of them could have been helped or, at least, their suffering eased.
 In any emerging outbreak, as Uyeki points out, there are two levels of medical concern. The first is for those patients who are falling ill at the moment: What can be done for them? The other is for the broader public: What is this bug? How does it move? Is it doing anything scientists wouldn't expect? Could it explode into a pandemic? To answer any of these questions, epidemiologists must have full, accurate disclosure about what, in effect, the bug is doing. 
 On Jan. 12, Japan reported to the World Organization for Animal Health that it had found H5N1 in one flock of hens. Eleven days later, Thailand reported that nearly 9,000 chickens on one farm were infected with H5N1. The following week, it reported that almost 10 million chickens were infected. That same month, Cambodia and Laos reported poultry outbreaks. China and Indonesia soon followed suit. Throughout that time, human cases continued to stream into hospitals in Vietnam and then Thailand. 
 Vietnam asked the W.H.O. to help investigate. Outbreak investigations have changed since Fukuda went to Hong Kong in 1997. On Jan. 18, when he and Uyeki left for Hanoi, they and four C.D.C. colleagues were part of an international team that over the next six weeks swelled to include scientists from France, Japan, Sweden, Holland, England, the Philippines, Switzerland and Vietnam. There were also many Vietnamese bureaucrats interested in the investigation. ''In Vietnam, you have national, regional, provincial, city, district and commune level governments,'' Uyeki said. ''We had to work with all of them.''
 The scientists were operating under the umbrella of the W.H.O. The days when the C.D.C. would send investigators directly to another country are gone. This change was driven by the realization that outbreaks are global threats, and it has had a laudable outcome, Uyeki said: ''We can pool so much knowledge.'' The new global approach, however, has also ensured that investigations now tend to be unwieldy and politicized. 
 Soon after Fukuda and Uyeki arrived in Vietnam, they split up. Fukuda remained in Hanoi, where he was ''providing input on how to do some of the investigations and how to interpret events.'' He was also negotiating various issues with his Vietnamese counterparts. He would help brief government ministers worried about what the scientists were finding (and how the information would be released publicly). He talked with reporters. He conducted conference calls with top flu people in Atlanta and Geneva, who, even from their far vantages, were eager to be involved in operations and decisions. 
 Uyeki went into the field. He joined up with a W.H.O. team investigating cases in the southern part of the country, where several of the H5N1 patients had been infected. 
 One of the first concerns of epidemiology is why a particular person gets sick and not another. If you can identify the behaviors that put someone at risk, you may be able to keep other people from repeating them. Specificity matters. The inquiry is tougher when the flu victim is young or dead. In Vietnam, they often were both. 
 The ramifications of their investigation were also a stumbling block. Vietnam isn't a major poultry exporter. Chickens tend to be raised for local consumption. If avian flu is confirmed in a village, all of the local flocks are slaughtered and burned. Few villagers were eager to talk about sickness and the town's birds.
 ''It's easy when you're on the outside to say these people should do this or that,'' said Fukuda, who advised Uyeki during the investigation. ''It's different when you're actually in Asia and realize resources are so limited. When people open their doors to us, it can have profound impacts. You realize, boy, this is an ethical dilemma.'' 
 But Uyeki pressed on. By the end of his stay, he and his colleagues had uncovered poultry contact for most of the sick people in the region. A 13-year-old boy, for instance, had been secretly involved in cockfighting. Another child, a girl, had bought a duckling from a village vendor. The duckling died. The girl got sick but survived. Her little brother, who also played with the duckling, didn't get sick. Why? The team was only able to speak with the girl's grandmother, who said that the girl buried the duck herself. That was about all they learned. 
 His most frustrating moment came in a dusty village. A 17-year-old local girl had died of avian flu. Uyeki said he had hoped to interview her mother quietly. But when he and his team arrived in full protective gear (gowns, gloves, goggles and masks), bewildered villagers crowded around to watch. At the dead girl's house, an elderly woman came to the door, recoiled and started shouting. She demanded to be left alone. She yelled to her neighbors that her granddaughter had not died of avian flu. She died of natural causes. 
 ''I can't blame her, but it did put us in a bind,'' Uyeki said. Wandering up the road and speaking with wide-eyed neighbors, he and his group learned that the girl had prepared chickens for eating after they had become sick and died.
 But their informants were too far removed to provide other relevant details: Had the girl washed her hands? What kind of knife had she used? Did she pluck the feathers? Did her relatives help?
 Her family might have known. But the mother and grandmother never did cooperate.
 In mid-March, Uyeki left Vietnam. Shortly after, for reasons that he didn't understand, the outbreak simply stopped. It would inexplicably reappear in humans this summer and fall. 
'It's troubling to me that we still don't really know much more about this virus than we did in 1997,'' Keiji Fukuda said about the current state of avian flu research. Fukuda's Hong Kong investigation proved that close contact with sick poultry was a significant risk factor for H5N1 infection. But there is still a lengthy list of fundamental questions that he, Uyeki and their colleagues have about the H5N1 virus. 
 Why haven't poultry workers become ill, for one? Hundreds of thousands of people labor in Asia's live-chicken markets or have helped in the chicken-culling process. ''But hundreds of thousands of people have not died,'' Uyeki said. ''Thousands haven't died. Thousands haven't even been hospitalized. Most of us in influenza think that there have been more cases and more deaths from H5N1 than we've heard about. But there haven't been huge numbers of undiscovered deaths. That's not the kind of thing that could be missed.'' 
 ''Where are the studies being done to learn more about'' transmission? Fukuda asked wearily. ''There's so much ambivalence'' about studying the virus. 
 A 1997 study of blood samples from poultry workers in Hong Kong found that 10 percent had developed antibodies to H5N1. 
 In 2001, Vietnamese scientists, with help from Uyeki, took blood from 200 poultry workers. The data haven't been published or updated. 
 ''We also don't know how the bird virus managed to infect so much of Asia so quickly,'' he said. Not long ago, H5N1 was confined to Hong Kong. But this year, it has spread through chicken flocks so far and so pervasively that the possibility of eradicating it anytime soon seems slight. As New Scientist reported, it is possible that the virus's explosion may be a result of a misbegotten poultry vaccination campaign thought to have been carried out after 1997 in China. In order for avian vaccination to be effective, virtually every bird needs to be immunized, using a vaccine matched as closely as possible to the circulating avian flu virus. The work is extensive and demands standardized veterinary science. Inadequate, unregulated vaccines can create flocks in which some chickens may not look sick but may harbor the virus and, if exported to other countries, may carry the virus with them.
 Another possible explanation for the virus's march, Fukuda said, is that migratory birds picked up the virus in one country and deposited it in another. Or that people unwittingly moved it from place to place. It is thought that under the right climatic conditions, the virus can live for days or weeks in bird feces, even after an entire flock has been culled. If pens and surrounding areas aren't fully disinfected, the flu may be able to hitchhike out on workers' boots or truck tires. 
 Another factor might be that bird smuggling is lucrative business in parts of Asia. Some of the living booty could have harbored H5N1. (In late October, a man from Thailand was detained in Belgium after illegally smuggling two eagles in his luggage; they were infected with H5N1. Although he was hospitalized and tested and the birds destroyed without any apparent spread of the virus, it is exactly this kind of occurrence that keeps Fukuda and his colleagues awake at night.)
 And there are other daunting questions: Is today's H5N1 changing? Influenza viruses mutate constantly. They are unpredictable. But H5N1 seems to be altering in ways that are disturbing, Fukuda said. Another influenza expert, Dr. Robert G. Webster, a virologist at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, a top academic institute that studies catastrophic diseases among children, worries about how the affect of avian flu is changing in certain birds. In the past, waterfowl lived with avian flu without getting sick. In 2002, they began to die of it. Now the virus appears to have altered and birds appear to be living with this more lethal strain. Webster's concern is that they may spread it. (At the end of October, migratory birds in Russia were reported to have avian flu; it was thought that they flew from Southeast Asia.)
 The flu strain has also infected and killed house cats and pigs. This fall, it swept through a zoo in eastern Thailand, killing more than 20 tigers. It has been shown to be transmittable cat to cat, which no avian flu has ever been before. This movement into other species concerns flu hunters for many reasons, but principally because it suggests that H5N1 is becoming highly capable of infecting mammals. Also, some of the infected animals, like swine, can catch both human flus and avian flus simultaneously. So the gene shuffling required to make the avian flu better adapted to humans could take place within a pig. 
 Fukuda and his colleagues also worry that as H5N1 mutates, it will be difficult to make an effective vaccine against it. In May, the National Institutes of Health contracted with companies in the United States to make an H5N1 human vaccine using the avian flu strain that killed people in Vietnam last winter. The vaccine is scheduled to go into trials early next year. But if the circulating H5N1 strain changes significantly between now and then, the vaccine could be rendered less effective before it's even ready. 
 In October, scientists in the C.D.C.'s flu labs genetically sequenced the virus that killed the 18-year-old Thai cockfighter and found that it remains structurally similar to the strain used in the vaccine. Fukuda said that he feels reassured, at least for the moment. 
 Some scientists outside the C.D.C. are less concerned about H5N1 mutating into a true human flu. If it could have, it would have, they argue. There may be something in its genetic structure, they say, that makes the move impossible. Fukuda shrugged. ''That would be nice, wouldn't it?'' he said. ''We have no way of knowing.''
The worst-case scenarios are what haunt Fukuda, Uyeki and their colleagues. ''There's so much reluctance in Asia to look'' for avian flu, Fukuda said, that the particular moment when an epidemic passes into a pandemic may go unnoticed. ''It's quite possible for us to miss the fundamental event.'' The first sustained human-to-human transmissions might start insidiously, perhaps within one family whose infections aren't immediately identified as H5N1. It could spread through their village, reach the nearest city and balloon around the world from there, leaving science no chance to catch up. 
 The impact would be unimaginable, said Fukuda, who imagines it all the time. ''In the beginning of any pandemic,'' he said, ''we would have no way of knowing if it were going to be mild or severe. There would be panic.'' The United States had glimpses of the possible impact last winter and again this fall, when word got out of vaccine shortages. People overwhelmed their doctors' offices, even though last year's influenza season turned out to be only moderately severe and this year's season hasn't even really begun. 
 During an actual flu pandemic, America's emergency rooms would be overrun by frightened people, Fukuda said. Everyone with the sniffles would rush in, convinced they had been infected. It would be physically impossible to hospitalize all the patients who developed acute flu. ''The United States medical system has been moving toward fewer hospital beds, less unused capacity,'' Fukuda said. ''This makes sense from a business standpoint.'' His voice drops to a softer, sadder register. ''I come from a generation of doctors who didn't think of what we do as first and foremost a business. But I suppose we're dinosaurs. We have to operate in the real world where medicine is run on a cost-benefit basis.'' Most hospitals won't add beds and ventilators in anticipation of ''a surge in patients that may not come for months or decades,'' Fukuda said. 
 By the end of October, at least 44 people had been infected since late last year with H5N1 in Thailand and Vietnam and more than 30 had died. Additional infections almost certainly have gone undetected or unreported. ''I find it very curious that only Thailand and Vietnam have had human cases, when the virus is in so many other countries,'' Uyeki said. 
 In early October, 20,000 chickens died in two southern provinces of Vietnam, and farmers were reportedly urged to burn the birds' carcasses. But officials in Hanoi denied rumors that the cause was bird flu. When samples from one commune did show H5N1 in dead birds, a spokesman for the Ministry of Agriculture told a Ho Chi Minh City paper that it was ''impossible'' that thousands of birds could have died in the area. Vietnam had announced earlier that month that bird flu was under control. 
 At about the same time, Thailand's prime minister declared (in response to the case of the mother who appeared to have caught the disease from her child) that his country would be free of avian flu by Oct. 31. To achieve this, he said, he would send out almost a million Thai volunteers to check every household in the nation for sick chickens or people. The patients would be hospitalized; the flocks destroyed. Almost inevitably the volunteers would tromp through village chicken pens. They would stir up bird droppings. They would most likely not have protective clothing. Uyeki winces at the thought. 
 Fukuda, for his part, dismisses the whole enterprise. ''Nice goal,'' he said, ''silly declaration.'' As of the beginning of November, bird flu was still widespread among chickens. 
 ''As a scientist,'' Fukuda explained, ''I am fascinated by viruses and by how to figure out what is going on. That's fun. But when I put on my public health hat and ask, What is the best way to be prepared for bad things? . . .'' He paused. ''Preparedness has to be done as part and parcel of scientific investigations, and that is really vexing now.''
 He would like to be setting up studies in Asia, he admitted. But, like Uyeki, he has to be asked. The amount of virus circulating in the region will likely increase as the weather cools. 
 ''I am,'' Fukuda said, ''more anxious than I would like to be.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The 1918 Spanish flu pandemic, in which between 20 million and 50 million people died worldwide, some 500,000 of them in the United States, haunts modern influenza investigators. This photograph shows victims crowded into an emergency hospital at Fort Riley, Kan. (Photograph from The National Museum of Health and Medicine, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Washington)
Dr. Keiji Fukuda: ''It's spooky.''
 Dr. Tim Uyeki: ''It's a mess.'' (Photographs by George Duncan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (95%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (91%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); VIRUSES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%); DISEASE REPORTING (58%) Influenza; Avian Influenza; Biographical Information; Influenza

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (91%); ARMED FORCES INSTITUTE OF PATHOLOGY (59%) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

PERSON: Gretchen Reynolds; Keiji (Dr) Fukuda; Tim (Dr) Uyeki

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); KANSAS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); VIET NAM (79%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



142 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Europe, Seeking Political Unity, Stumbles Over Issue of Religion

BYLINE: By JASON HOROWITZ

DATELINE: ROME, Nov. 6 

 BODY:
For all the grandiose speeches about political unity at the signing of the European Union's first Constitution in Rome on Oct. 29, it was a bronze sculpture that spoke volumes about the bloc's current identity crisis.
 A statue of Pope Innocent X loomed over 25 European Union leaders as they signed a Constitution that does not mention the continent's Christian roots. The Vatican's repeated calls that it do so did not succeed, and even the hand on the 17th-century pope's statue seemed to extend in a frozen and futile appeal. 
 Instead, the statue was a reminder of Europe's spiritual past at a time when many conservative critics are contending that secularism is getting out of hand. Their suspicions were reinforced when a Roman Catholic Italian minister withdrew his candidacy for a post with the European Commission after being criticized for calling homosexuality a sin and saying that women were better off married and at home. 
 Now a rare debate over social issues has gripped the European Union and added some spice to what is often regarded as a flavorless technocracy. Some commentators say they hope that it will prompt more people to take an interest in European Union politics.
 ''It is much easier for regular people to care about religion and values than technical economic questions,'' said Luca Diotallevi, a sociologist at the University of Rome who has studied the role of social values and religion in Europe. ''It's possible that it will generate more interest in the E.U.'' 
 A strong secularism has dominated European political discourse since the original Treaty of Rome was signed in 1957 creating the European Economic Community, a forerunner of the European Union.
 Because some of the union's pioneers were Catholics who believed that the continent's common Christian roots stretched across national boundaries, the Vatican has long supported the experiment. 
 ''The Holy See has always favored the promotion of a united Europe on the basis of those values that are part of its history,'' Pope John Paul II said after the signing of the constitution. ''Keeping into account the continent's Christian roots means making use of a spiritual heritage that remains fundamental for the union's future developments.''
 The negotiations over the constitution included heated debate over whether Europe's Christian roots should be recognized in the document, though in the end, the opponents prevailed. 
 ''The European Parliament probably would have rejected Bush, but the American people have instead voted for him,'' Rocco Buttiglione, the Italian minister forced to step aside after failing to gain that Parliament's support, said Wednesday in a statement. ''America has shown itself more religious and more attentive to values than Europe.''
 Mr. Buttiglione has become something of an icon for conservative Catholics who contend that strict secularism is damaging Europe. 
 While some European political commentators warn that the battle over Mr. Buttiglione and the European Constitution may undermine Catholic Church support for the European Union, others, like Mr. Diotallevi, see a silver lining.
 ''It's positive,'' Mr. Diotallevi said. ''We will begin to discuss things that have long been taken for granted. Religion was an issue we could not touch -- now we're starting. We're not very good at it, but we're just getting started.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); SCULPTURE (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); CHURCH & STATE (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); TRENDS (60%) Constitutions; Christians and Christianity; Social Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Church-State Relations

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%)

PERSON: Jason Horowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (94%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); HOLY SEE (94%); ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Europe; European Union

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



143 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Ivory Coast Violence Flares; 9 French and 1 U.S. Death

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA; Konate Siratigui contributed reporting from Yamoussoukro, Ivory Coast, for this article.

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal, Nov. 6 

 BODY:
In a swift and alarming deepening of the war in Ivory Coast, airstrikes by two government attack jets killed nine French peacekeepers and an American civilian on Saturday afternoon near the northern Ivoirian town of Bouake. 
 The French retaliated within minutes by shooting down the jets, Russian-made Su-25 fighter-bombers, apparently under direct order from President Jacques Chirac of France.
 [Loud explosions were heard early Sunday in Abidjan, the Ivory Coast's main city, and heavy gunfire could be heard as thousands of anti-French demonstrators marched toward a French military base, Reuters reported. A witness said a French military helicopter fired warning shots into a lagoon crossed by two bridges that lead from the city center toward the French base and the airport.] 
 Col. Henri Aussavy, the spokesman for the 4,500-member French peacekeeping mission in Ivory Coast, said in a telephone interview that 23 French soldiers had also been wounded in the raid. He said it was unclear whether his forces had been intentionally hit. ''We don't know if it is a deliberate attack or an error,'' Colonel Aussavy said. 
 He issued no apology. On state-run television Saturday evening, Desire Tagro, a spokesman for the Ivoirian president, said the raid was aimed instead at a rebel base near Bouake. Mr. Tagro said the attacks on Bouake had been designed to ''reunify the country.'' 
 The Associated Press quoted an Ivoirian government minister as saying it was ''a mistake'' but then questioning whether Ivoirian warplanes were responsible. ''It was a mistake. We didn't aim to hit them,'' said Sebastien Dano Djeje, a cabinet member. 
 The latest development plunges Ivory Coast, the world's largest cocoa-producer, into fresh chaos and threatens to take French-Ivoirian tensions to a new high. Since civil war erupted in 2002, the French, who exercise significant economic influence in their former colony, have been accused of aiding rebels and have repeatedly come under attack by supporters of President Laurent Gbagbo. At an emergency session convened Saturday afternoon, the United Nations Security Council condemned Saturday's air raid, backed the French response and signaled that it would consider ''individual measures'' in the near future -- in other words, possible penalties for individuals who violate international agreements. 
 France also sent three Mirage fighter jets to Gabon in Central Africa, and deployed additional troops to protect its citizens in Ivory Coast.
 Late Saturday, Reuters said the French Defense Ministry and a United Nations spokesman in Ivory Coast had confirmed that French troops had destroyed three Ivoirian attack helicopters in Yamoussoukro. 
 In Abidjan, French and Ivoirian soldiers traded gunfire at the airport, and government loyalists took to the streets, wielding machetes and axes, according to wire service reports. A French school was set on fire. Gunfire could be heard in the capital, Yamoussoukro, on Saturday night. 
 The spokeswoman for the United States Embassy in Abidjan, Ergibe Boyd, said it had received a report from the French that an unidentified American citizen was also killed in the airstrike by the Ivoirian military. The embassy had not yet confirmed the report, she said. ''We have been told an American citizen has been killed,'' Ms. Boyd said. ''We're trying to find out who he is.''
 The war has partitioned Ivory Coast between the rebel-held north and the government-held south, despite a tenuous cease-fire signed in May 2003 and monitored by the French forces and 5,240 United Nations peacekeeping troops. 
 The bombings on Saturday followed two days of air attacks by the government on rebel-held positions in the north of the country. On Thursday, two northern towns were bombed by the same two warplanes. On Friday, the government bombed three other rebel-held towns, according to a spokesman for the United Nations mission in Ivory Coast, and on Saturday, struck three towns with MIG-24 helicopter gunships.
 A United Nations spokesman, Jean-Victor Nkolo, said in a telephone interview that over the past two days, government troops had tried to bypass peacekeepers patrolling the buffer zone between government and rebel-held territory. Ivoirian soldiers on Thursday and Friday crossed into rebel territory, Mr. Nkolo said, but were chased away by United Nations troops.
 The United Nations also reported skirmishes between government and rebel forces near Bouake on Saturday afternoon.
 Reuters reported from Paris that Mr. Chirac had given the orders to strike back at the Ivoirian airplanes that killed the French soldiers. Ivoirian forces later opened fire on French troops at the airport in Abidjan, the news agency reported, citing a French military spokesman in Abidjan. Machete-wielding pro-government supporters rampaged through Abidjan, the agency said, and plumes of smoke rose from the plush Cocody suburb, where a school had apparently been set on fire.
 The French foreign minister, Michel Barnier, said in a statement, ''The Ivoirian head of state should clearly assume his responsibilities and the role that is his to restore calm to his country, in particular to Abidjan.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about airstrikes by Ivory Coast troops that killed nine French peacekeepers and an American civilian included a misplaced sentence in some copies about the absence of an apology for the raids. It was the Ivory Coast government spokesman who issued no apology; the reference was not to the spokesman for the French peacekeepers. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Ghanaian at a United Nations checkpoint in Bania, Ivory Coast. A government attack on a rebel-held city killed nine French soldiers. (Photo by Issouf Sanogo/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)Map of Ivory Coast highlighting Bouake: Water and electricity have been cut off to Bouake since Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); BOMBINGS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (85%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); EYEWITNESSES (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); RIOTS (75%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (75%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (75%); MILITARY BASES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); HELICOPTERS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (66%) United States International Relations; Demonstrations and Riots; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%) United Nations

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (58%) Somini Sengupta

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (52%) COTE D'IVOIRE (99%); FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); GABON (79%); GHANA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); AFRICA (79%) Ivory Coast; France; Ivory Coast

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



144 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I.@WORK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: A Manufacturer Fills the Training Vacuum

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
SOMETIME in January, the 65 machinists who work for Afco Systems, a Farmingdale company that makes racks and cabinets for computers and other high-tech components, will start punching in an hour or so early and perhaps staying a little later. During this extra time they will be offered two courses, one on reading blueprints and the other on metal fabricating. A company foreman will teach the courses in English, and an interpreter will be on hand for Spanish-speaking workers. 
 While in-house training programs have been around for generations, most are aimed at professionals, midlevel managers and floor supervisors, rarely hourly workers. And when training is offered, it usually focuses on teaching the techniques and skills needed to complete the project at hand. 
 Afco's program is open not just to its own employees but also to all factory workers on Long Island, even those working for Afco's competitors.
 Michael Mallia, the president and chief executive of the privately held Afco, has hired John Lombardo, a former math and social studies teacher in Bay Shore, to develop a curriculum that will offer machinists training in skills usually practiced by mechanical engineers, potentially putting them on a professional track paying far higher wages. 
 Mr. Mallia has applied for a $65,000 grant from the State Labor Department to run the program. But if the grant is denied, he said he would offer the classes anyway. Mr. Mallia would like a university to take over the course work and have it certified, so he has approached Farmingdale State University with a proposal to do just that.
 If his dream -- and it is difficult to call it anything less -- works out as planned, Long Island will have begun to develop a new generation of advanced machinists, in the process revitalizing a manufacturing sector that has been dwindling for two decades. 
 According to Gary Huth, a State Labor Department economist in Hicksville, about 170,000 manufacturing employees worked on Long Island in 1986, at the peak of defense contracting. In September 2004, there were about 86,700. 
 The ambitious project has fired the imaginations of a number of Long Islanders who have heard Mr. Mallia or Mr. Lombardo sketch out the scheme. It is backed, enthusiastically, by an influential coterie of engineering school deans, regional business promoters, trade association administrators and government job development officials. 
 ''There is a critical shortage of trained machinists on Long Island,'' and that shortage is restricting the ability of companies to compete successfully for contracts and execute them when they win them, said Patricia Howley, the executive director of LIFT, the Long Island Forum for Technology in Bay Shore, a private group that offers training and other services for high-tech manufacturers. 
 Despite the shortage, she said, ''there is no one offering machinist training on Long Island -- this is definitely something the region needs.''
 Afco was founded in 1971 by Mr. Mallia's father, Vincent, and like other Long Island companies, it has had trouble finding machinists with advanced skills. This is what gave the training program its impetus. 
 Manufacturing here is making a comeback, driven in large part by homeland security contracts and the manufacturing efficiencies provided by a new generation of automated factory equipment. 
 ''If we had the workers,'' Mr. Mallia said, ''we could be growing at an average annual rate of 30 percent.''
 No one could have predicted this a generation ago. After decades of growth by companies like Grumman, Edo and Fairchild Republic, the consolidation and contraction of the defense industry, global competition and the exodus of manufacturing offshore sliced away the numbers of machinists. 
 Another reason is sociological. ''With so many skilled industrial jobs gone, I think people look at manufacturing as yesterday's jobs, which in a way is too bad,'' said Michael Zweig, an economics professor at Stony Brook University and the director of its Center for Study of Working Class Life. ''There is still a healthy demand for machinists, and they command good pay. There are still very good jobs available for highly skilled machinists.''
 Most of the openings at Afco today are filled by immigrants from Latin America, Russia and Poland. ''Even kids who are not going to college, they don't see themselves working in factories,'' Mr. Mallia said. ''They'd rather flip hamburgers.''
 He added that manufacturing's reputation is undeserved. ''People think it's dirty work out there on the factory floor,'' he said. ''But things have changed. Work is more computerized. This is a new era. I believe if people knew about manufacturing firsthand, they would feel differently.''
 Accordingly, Mr. Mallia has been speaking at local schools and colleges, where he touts manufacturing jobs. On Nov. 15, he will be honored for his efforts by Long Island Works in Wheatley Heights, a coalition of educators and business owners who cooperate in building the work force of the next generation. 
 Cheryl Davidson, the group's executive director, said Mr. Mallia's points were on target. ''If you don't know somebody personally who works in a factory and can see what it's like today, you probably won't be thinking of it as a livelihood,'' she said.
 With the decline of manufacturing on Long Island, fewer people than ever know factory workers. ''The older generation of machinists have retired and largely taken their skills with them,'' said Ms. Howley of LIFT. After Grumman and its subcontractors laid off tens of thousands of workers, she added, ''quite a lot of Long Island machinists chose to retire and go down to Florida rather than learn how to operate the computerized equipment.'' 
 These retirements further reduced the pool of qualified machinists. ''For a while, a lot of companies were trying to lure them out of retirement, as the contracts began to come back,'' she said. ''They didn't get many that way.'' 
 So Mr. Mallia's initiative is being greeted warmly. 
 The initiative is ''good news because manufacturing is key to a healthy economy,'' Michael Watt, the executive director of the Long Island Partnership in Hauppauge, a consortium of government agencies, trade groups, employers and academics, said in an e-mail message. ''But it's problematic because there is very little in the pipeline in terms of skilled workers.''
 Afco's initiative, Mr. Watt said, will help the company itself, by building a work force able to handle increasingly more complex projects, and will help machinists develop marketable skills, thus bolstering their own income over the long term.
 Mr. Watt said Mr. Mallia's biggest contribution may be reviving manufacturing as a viable employment choice for young people who do not go to college. ''Mr. Mallia has committed time, money, energy and staff to create and execute a training program that will go a long way toward opening the eyes of young people and older workers looking for a career change to the fact that they can have a rewarding career in manufacturing,'' Mr. Watt said. 
 For his part, Mr. Mallia said, ''We can design all we want, but if we can't build it on Long Island, we aren't going to get anywhere.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Lombardo, above left, and Michael Mallia at Afco Systems in Farmingdale, where Konstanty Zabrocki, left, was putting together a cabinet. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY WORKERS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); CURRICULA (77%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (71%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (62%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (61%) Machinery and Equipment; Labor; Vocational Training; Machinery and Equipment

ORGANIZATION: Afco Systems; State University of New York at Farmingdale

PERSON: Warren Strugatch; John Lombardo; Michael Mallia

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



145 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2056 words

HEADLINE: International Community College

BYLINE: By NATALIE CANAVOR

DATELINE: EAST GARDEN CITY 

 BODY:
BILL MOHR was taking attendance in his course on writing research papers, and because the class had begun only a few weeks earlier, he was still struggling with some of the first names: Sabahattin. Kasinee. Araya. Goeun. Nargiza. Heber. Felipe. Omer. 
 Dr. Mohr was not teaching at an international school. The setting was Nassau Community College, which has become a surprising magnet for thousands of people from all over the world looking for an American education and a better life.
 With no active recruiting and no student housing to offer, last year Nassau ranked No.15 nationally among all two-year institutions in the number of international students, according to the most recent Open Doors Report on International Education Exchange by the Institute of International Education. The Open Doors Report listed 1,040 foreign students at N.C.C., counting those here on official F-1 student visas. (Manhattan Community College ranked 6th with 1,692 F-1 students out of 16,025 total enrollment, and two Queens community colleges, Queensborough and LaGuardia, ranked 9th and 12th, with 1,564 of 11,835 and 1,199 of 12,554, respectively.) 
 But Maria Conzatti, the assistant dean for international education, estimated that when other non-native English speakers are added -- people who are here permanently and whose status may be resident, citizen or ''pending'' -- the total number at N.C.C. is closer to 3,500. That's about one sixth of the current 21,000-member student body.
 Educators and the foreign students themselves say they are drawn by the spread of English as the language of business, the market value of an American college degree and a general internationalizing of the education scene. While Britain, Japan, Germany, Australia and Canada are also popular student destinations, the United States attracted close to 600,000 foreign students to its colleges and universities last year. Of that total, nearly 99,000 were at two-year schools, a 60 percent increase over the past decade. 
 The overall value of foreign students to the American economy last year was estimated by the Association of International Educators, a Washington lobbying group, at $12 billion, making it the country's fifth-largest service-sector export.
 New York State took in more than $1.5 billion of that sum, running second only to California in the number of overseas students studying in its colleges and universities. Recruiting more is a priority of the state Education Department, and the state university system, which includes the community colleges, is negotiating with foreign governments for exchange programs and nudging its schools to get even further into the action.
 For many, this is not a hard sell, because foreign students represent a growth area. And they pay double tuition, just like other out-of-staters. In-state full-time students at N.C.C. are charged $2,900 a year, the others $5,800.
 The international educators' group estimates that Nassau Community College's foreign students contributed $16.3 million to the local economy last year, and that's based only on the F-1 population. And educators agreed that foreign students enrich the educational experience in any college community. John Ryder, director of the office of international programs for SUNY, said, ''In my opinion the educational value foreign students bring to a campus is so great that if the state university wants to provide the best education it can to the children of taxpayers, it must have an international character.''
 But the foreign students are being subsidized even when they pay double, and there remains some question about whether a school established to serve local residents should be spending taxpayer money to educate foreigners.
 Robert Schnitzer, Nassau Community College's associate vice president for finance, estimated the cost of educating a full-time student at the school at $8,200 per year, with state and Nassau County taxpayers splitting the rest of the tab. N.C.C.'s foreign students may actually cost more to educate, Mr. Schnitzer said, since they tend to require more attention and smaller class size, for which the state contributed nearly three-quarters of a million dollars in aid last year for English language training. And N.C.C.'s English Language Institute, where most such instruction is given, charges only the in-state rate. 
 ''A foreign student should pay the full amount his education costs,'' said Jack Martin, director of special projects for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a Washington lobbying group. ''If a school decides that the value of having foreign students is such that they want to attract more foreign students and subsidize them, then put it as a clear issue before the taxpayers. It should not be foisted off on taxpayers through sleight of hand or hiding the costs.''
 But college officials said it was a nonissue. ''I've never seen the question about taxpayer money come up,'' Mr. Schnitzer said. ''Not at the county level when we present to the legislature, or our board of trustees. SUNY is behind it.''
 ''I don't see why it wouldn't make sense to educate them,'' he added. ''There are intangible positives. You don't want all the same students walking around the campus. Maybe they'll stay around. Or if they go home, you hope we've made friends.''
 That community colleges are attracting a growing share of the foreign market is not surprising, said Hey-Kyung Koh, editor of the Open Doors Report, given what the two-year schools offer. ''International students are attracted to community colleges for the same reasons as Americans: a low-cost, quality education, which offers flexible and innovative programs of study not found at the traditional four-year colleges and universities.''
 They also offer the shortest path to a degree. ''Community colleges don't exist abroad,'' Dr. Ryder said. ''There's no functional equivalent of the associate degree. A lot of countries are starting to look at this model for the value it has for their region, and think it's starting to make a lot of sense, but they haven't done it yet.''
 As to how so many foreign students are finding their way to Nassau, no one is really sure. ''Word of mouth is very important,'' said Ms. Conzatti, the assistant dean. ''Students go back to their own countries and communities and are asked what it's like here.''
 Like many of the international students, Hey-Ryoun Hong, a 28-year-old South Korean, had already completed some college studies at home, studying management information systems before deciding she would rather learn English. She came to New York City to do so in 1998. ''It was not easy,'' she said. ''There wasn't a lot of information in Korea. I went to a private agency for help in preparing documentation, and they suggested New York was best.''
 But the language institute she arranged to attend was expensive. A friend in church told her about Nassau Community College, which was not only much more affordable but also looked to Ms. Hong ''much closer than the city schools to my vision of college that I had seen on TV.'' Ms. Hong took E.S.L. classes and then college classes at N.C.C., got her associate's degree and transferred to Stony Brook University, where she earned a bachelor's in linguistics. Now she's back at Nassau C.C. teaching English to new foreign students, and hopes to stay in the United States and earn a master's degree.
 ''It's not that we don't love our country,'' she said of herself and her husband, who live in Queens. ''But we see a better future here for our children.''
 Federica Pomaro, a 21-year-old N.C.C. student who came here in August from Rome and now lives in Queens, plans to study in the United States for three years. ''I want to be an interpreter and translator, and will go back to Italy to work maybe for an international agency,'' she said. ''Here I can learn English very well and also other languages better than at home.''
 Soo-Min Kim, 22, came from Seoul already successful as the owner of several clothing stores. ''I made a lot of money but it wasn't a challenge for me, and my dream, since I was young, is to manage hotels,'' he explained. ''English is really an adventure for me. I have to learn it for my future, my children. So I moved here and will learn it very well and study hotel management too.'' 
 English has become the language of international business. ''It's definitely important to learn English,'' said Felipe Garcia, an 18-year-old from Colombia enrolled in Dr. Mohr's research paper class. ''Improve your skills and it opens many doors in your life. Wherever you are, you have one big plus.''
 As E.S.L. coordinator at N.C.C., Len Durso had for years seen the college turn away students who failed the placement test for English language skills. In 2000 a new English Language Institute was authorized as a continuing education program, meaning its courses did not earn college credit but its tuition was single (currently $2,900 a year) instead of the double rate ($5,800) that foreign students pay for regular credit classes. 
 The institute opened in the fall of 2000 with 300 students, and this semester has 625 students, 38 teachers and 45 tutors and other staff employees. It is a beehive of foreign accents, cross-cultural chatter and racial diversity. Four levels of English comprehension and expression are supplemented by small-group lab time and tutorials. There's also a range of electives in subjects like American history, literature and philosophy, and this year the institute began offering courses in writing research papers and computer-based communication.
 ''The idea is to bring in students who wouldn't come normally, gives them a chance to start their education and pursue the American dream,'' Mr. Durso said. His tracking shows that 30 percent to 40 percent of the institute's students enroll in college credit courses at N.C.C. An additional 30 percent move on to other colleges.
 Roberto Dongo, 19, came from Peru three years ago on a student visa, happening across the language institute after an expected scholarship at another local college didn't materialize. A year later he was taking classes in the regular college as well as the language institute. Mr. Dongo will shortly move on to SUNY Maritime College in Queens, studying international trade and transportation. ''I'll want to find a way to stay here after I graduate,'' he said. But in any case, he said, ''go to any job interview outside the U.S. and say you have a degree from here and it helps a lot over anyone else's degree.''
 There might be even more Mr. Dongos on Long Island this year if not for roadblocks on students entering the United States after 9/11. Visa approvals have slowed and reporting requirements to the government have become more complex. 
 To meet the new requirements, the college created an office of international student affairs. Its coordinator, Rosemary Ortleib-Padgett, summarizes its role as ''a lot of reporting, and also a lot of parenting.'' Her small staff keeps the information flowing to the government and vice versa, and also organizes trips to places like Ellis Island and events like a very popular international Thanksgiving.
 The college hopes to offer student housing soon, and is negotiating with the SUNY College at Old Westbury for dorm space specifically for international students. This would allow N.C.C. to make it first active attempts to recruit overseas, an opportunity that the college intends to exploit, Ms. Orteib-Padgett said. ''It's overwhelming to think of the recruitment possibilities that dorms would open up,'' she said happily.
 Those who teach foreign students say they are happy to have them.
 ''I enjoy them,'' said Richard Newman, an associate professor of English. ''They're good students and can add tremendously. They bring a kind of experience most N.C.C. students don't have, so non-E.S.L. students really have their eyes opened.''
 Arnold Silverman, a sociology professor at Nassau, described the foreign students as ''highly motivated and hard working, good role models,'' adding: ''The college is not a globalizing institution and the number of courses on non-Western societies is very limited. To the extent there is a driving force to get people to see there is a larger world, it's coming much more rapidly from these students than anywhere else.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AT NASSAU COMMUNITY COLLEGE, the English Language Institute, which helps foreign students become proficient in English, opened four years ago with 300 students. This semester it has 625 students and 38 teachers. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
In Bill Mohr's class on writing research papers, the students' names read like a United Nations roster. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 Two English Language Institute students, Rosa Catrambone, left, who is from Venezuela, and Soyeon Joo, who is from South Korea. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN STUDENTS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (69%) Colleges and Universities; Foreign Students; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) Nassau County Community College; Institute of International Education

PERSON: Maria Conzatti; Natalie Canavor

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (68%) Nassau County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



146 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: His Horses Used to Fly

BYLINE: By D. T. Max

 BODY:

THE PACIFIC
And Other Stories.
By Mark Helprin.
366 pp. The Penguin Press. $25.95.
 MARK HELPRIN is both a fiction writer and a political writer. As the latter, he seems to think America is in bad shape. Writing in conservative outlets like The Wall Street Journal's op-ed page, he denounces Americans as pacifist and lacking in ''rigorous thought.'' No bigger put-down appears in his writing than the word ''French.'' His solution is to revive the military virtues -- honor, pride and the disciplined exercise of will. Over the years, he has generally avoided infusing this martial, almost militaristic, worldview into his many novels and stories. Fiction, his work has usually asserted, is about life. It gains power from invention, relativism and even sloppiness. In the 1980 story ''Ellis Island,'' a quick-change artist proves that ''truth is not anchored to the ground by driven piles. It can float and take to the air; it is light and lovely and delicate. It is feminine as well as masculine.'' In the sprawling 1983 novel ''Winter's Tale,'' a horse flies and a thief triumphs.
 In his new collection of 16 short stories, ''The Pacific,'' it is the op-ed Helprin who is in control. These are mostly didactic tales, rigid with anxiety. All but two of them are about men, and though they range from the late 19th century to the present, New York to Latin America to Italy to Israel, he is usually the same man. He is dignified, private and judgmental. If he was not a soldier, he wishes he had been. The people around him don't appreciate his strengths. They care about things, things and more things: ''cars and pools and appliances and Picassos.'' Not the Helprin protagonist. ''What I want I cannot have,'' says the elderly lawyer in the very short story ''Reconstruction,'' ''I cannot ride in my father's arms. I cannot know any of the great store of his memories that he did not tell me.'' The other main characters in ''The Pacific'' are formed -- really deformed -- by similar losses: a father or wife or sister who died too soon, a loss no number of consumer goods can plug.
 We don't find out how the protagonist of ''Reconstruction'' would fill the hole at the center of his soul. But Helprin gives us an answer in other stories. By wanting and renouncing we grow pure, and purity gives us the moral strength and rigor to face our mortality. This is the soldier's answer. Thus in the story ''Sail Shining in White,'' an accomplished sailor awaits a hurricane that is going to hit Florida and destroy his home. The landlubbers, the condo owners, the police, are terrified as the huge storm approaches. Because he alone lives a life free of vanity or possessions, he can save himself. Perhaps for that reason, he chooses not to. More likely, it is because he is haunted by the loss of his wife, Sabrina. In any event, he decides to commit suicide by sailing into the hurricane. At story's end, we leave him doing 30 knots, the sails of his Halifax 40 perfectly trimmed, the ''tritium hands'' of his watch glowing, entering ''a terrible darkness tinged with light.'' 
 Where does Helprin's pessimism come from? It is almost Gallic in its intensity. In ''A Brilliant Idea and His Own,'' an unnamed British officer parachutes into enemy-occupied Italy to help signal allied warships the location of the German artillery. His move appears suicidal but he has something to die for. By contrast, Helprin's other main characters often turn their backs on life to no purpose. Why is all their emotional energy going into the question of mortality, a problem they cannot solve?
 It's hard to say. The characters in these stories live by the credo that the examined life is not worth living. And Helprin wrote these stories over more than 20 years. But in the recent stories he seems to be responding to a change in our environment, and that change is clearly Sept. 11. Before that date, the death wish in Helprin's fiction was held off by the fecundity of his imagination. At times, his characters pledged themselves to purity and honor, but their author was busy playing the life-affirming game of fiction. The result was often quite good: ''Ellis Island'' is a marvelous story; ''A Winter's Tale'' is a prodigious, imaginative vibration of a novel.
 Now after thousands died in a few moments, such play may seem inappropriate to Helprin. ''Monday,'' one of the longer stories in the collection, best illustrates this stance. Fitch, a successful New York contractor, is a man more or less in and of the world. Then he gets a call from a woman named Lilly. He had worked for her and her husband before. Mysteriously, there is no husband now, and Fitch suspects divorce. It emerges that Lilly's husband died in the south tower. Fitch has his own Sept. 11 memory: he was working on Joralemon Street in Brooklyn Heights when the attacks came. He watched the towers fall. Now he embarks on a scheme: he will rehab Lilly's new duplex without charge. His men volunteer to help him in this economic suicide. ''That is still very much in the heart of my country,'' says Gustavo, one of his foremen. In just two months, they build Lilly a perfect space, going beyond her specs. ''She had certainly not ordered a marble floor, nor the beautiful millwork, nor the pinpoint recessed lighting, nor the coco mat flush with the floor,'' Helprin writes. At the end of the tale, Lilly calls Fitch to thank him -- a hint of a future romance is in the air -- but he chivalrously says nothing, ''for he knew that she needed time to regain her composure.'' 
 ''Monday'' is an unappealing story for the same reason ''Sail Shining in White'' and most of the others here are. For one thing, there is the almost Petrarchan condescension toward women: What if Lilly hates coco mats? What does Fitch know about her grieving? And isn't it Fitch, the impacted and angry male, who needs time to regain his composure? The tone of the stories is third person portentous. When Fitch and his team work, ''everything ran at a wheeled pace, and what had to be done was done with energy and rapidity.'' The storm in ''Sail Shining in White'' is ''the kind of storm that alters the scales by which such things are measured.'' Sabrina's husband in that story remembers the way her ''grace and beauty had rolled across the water to him like the flower-scented air that cascades over a beach in the morning.'' 
 Many of these characters -- whether actors, soldiers, impresarios or contractors -- sound the same, as if they were standing on a hill with a pennon defying augury. Perhaps we should expect that from a writer trying to teach us right behavior. As a speechwriter for Bob Dole in 1996, Helprin put in the plain-growling senator's mouth unlikely wishes like ''let me be the bridge to an America that only the unknowing call myth.'' This kind of talk works well at political conventions, but it makes for dull stories.
 Ultimately these verbal flaws reflect a moral one. Helprin's despairing men are there to make a point about America and in doing so they (and he) miss its power. America is unfocused. Its S.U.V.'s and power yachts -- Helprin calls the latter ''hubris in fiberglass'' -- drown out its grief. But this monstrous noise also constitutes our strength: we will defeat whatever threatens us, because we are always moving, always shouting: it is our commercial insatiability that will win in the end, not our martial discipline or our purity. This is not the sort of declaration that makes for good op-eds, the sort in which Helprin calls us ''senescent Ottomans.'' This truth is more like the truth of fiction, hovering above us, not so lovely and delicate as that truth, but nearly as ineffable. In ''The Pacific: And Other Stories,'' Helprin tries to grab it out of the air and drive it into the piles. Unfortunately, he succeeds.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Lisa Kennedy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HORSES (87%); LITERATURE (78%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

PERSON: D T Max; Mark Helprin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



147 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Clueless in New Jersey, Or Refreshingly Out of Touch?

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
POLITICAL candidates in New Jersey, and especially Republicans, like to accuse each other of being ''out of step'' with voters, or ''out of the mainstream,'' and therefore unfit for public office. But if the exit polls from last Tuesday's election are any measure, all of New Jersey is out of step with America. Even the Republicans are. 
 The nation's talking heads -- except maybe for a few who were out of step -- seized upon the finding that ''moral values'' came in ahead of Iraq, terrorism, the economy and everything else when voters were asked to name their main concern. In the poll that the major networks commissioned, 22 percent said moral values was their most important issue. 
 ''Moral values'' were not defined, although it is probably safe to say that these voters were not thinking about Plato. Everyone seems to know, in the context of a poll in the election campaign of 2004, what moral values are. 
 And New Jersey apparently is not too worried about them. Here, just 13 percent of respondents said they were voting primarily on moral values. (Terrorism came in first.) Even of all the blue states, only the voters of New York, at 12 percent, came in below us. 
 So what is wrong with New Jersey? Has this election shown the state's place on the fringes of society? 
 Steven Goldstein says it has. Mr. Goldstein, the gay-rights advocate who helped lead the domestic partnership bill through the New Jersey Legislature last winter, was taking stock the day after voters in 11 states overwhelmingly approved ballot measures to ban gay marriage, 8 of them extending to other forms of legal recognition for same-sex partnerships.
 First, Mr. Goldstein said, that was troubling. ''It's unbelievable,'' he said, ''the fact that I share my home with a partner is more threatening to people in America than Osama bin Laden.''
 But New Jersey, he said, is ''an oasis of justice in a vast cesspool of prejudice.''
 ''Nobody in their right mind has ever even suggested a referendum on gay marriage,'' he said. ''Even the Republicans who are culturally conservative in New Jersey, the few who are, have never used gay rights as a wedge issue.'' 
 And while they were not using terms like ''oasis of justice,'' Republicans in Trenton were friendly enough to the domestic partnership bill, which extended some rights and benefits to same-sex couples. The measure's opponents generally kept their thoughts to themselves. The Senate Republican leader, John O. Bennett, made an appeal for the measure on the floor. State Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., the Republican state chairman, was ''a joy to work with,'' Mr. Goldstein said, even if he did abstain in the floor vote. 
 Senator Kyrillos was cheerleading for his party last Wednesday, happily noting that President Bush lost the state by only 6 percentage points, as against 16 points in 2000, but he had nothing to say about God or gays or abortion. 
 Looking to the governor's race next year, the Republicans are pushing their own idea of moral values, which is refraining from graft.
 As for social issues, when asked why New Jersey bothers to have two political parties, Mr. Kyrillos replied, diplomatically: ''Parties are branded, and national issues and personalities play into it. But I think next year's race, if done smartly, is going to be fought on New Jersey territory, with New Jersey issues and concerns.'' 
 The new Senate Republican leader, Leonard Lance -- more of a cloth-coat Republican than a clear-the-brush Republican -- is generally un-Bush-like on matters of governance as well as social issues. In fact, he calls himself ''the biggest environmentalist in the Legislature'' and has staked out his place over the years as its biggest enemy of deficit spending.
 ''But I also think we respect what the pollsters describe as moral values,'' Senator Lance said, adding, ''not on a woman's right to choose, perhaps, but there are other issues.''
 Asked to elaborate, he paused and then offered, ''The president has set a higher tone in the White House than his predecessor.''
 The New Jersey Republican Party does have a right wing, exemplified by Bret D. Schundler, who plans to run again for governor next year, and whose anti-abortion views, fellow Republicans say, make him a sure loser. 
 But Mr. Schundler is surely, well, out of step with Republicans in Oklahoma, who on Tuesday elected a United States Senator who has urged the death penalty for doctors who perform abortions, or those in South Carolina, whose new senator says that single mothers should not be allowed to teach school.
 And in New Jersey it is hard to picture a Republican candidate -- Senator Lance, say? -- stepping out with rifle and camouflage and dangling a goose corpse for the cameras. 
 In the meantime, the Democrats are trying to protect bears, as many people would say moral values demand.
 You don't have to be a sociologist to know that people in Alabama and people in New Jersey have different perspectives, or that the urban-rural divide does not mean much in New Jersey, the most densely populated state in the nation. 
 The exit poll results were consistent, too, with New Jersey's high proportion of college graduates and Ph.D.'s (the state is No.1 in doctorates per 100,000 people), who across the nation voted disproportionately for Senator John Kerry.
 But New Jersey has a crucial distinction: ''Lack of born-agains,'' said Cliff Zukin of Rutgers, who has polled the state for years and on Tuesday night analyzed the national exit poll for NBC News.
 Mr. Zukin cited another recent survey in which about 26 percent of Americans identified themselves as ''white born-again Christians,'' while in New Jersey only 8 percent did. And it was the born-again Christian voters, Mr. Zukin said, who accounted for the strong showing of moral values in the national exit poll.
 ''In New Jersey we are just not ideological,'' he said. ''We are extremely tolerant. We are the 'whatever' state.''
 If the voters in New Jersey, like New York, showed limited concern about moral values, perhaps it is because they were so much more worried about terrorism, which has actually killed friends and relatives. Or perhaps they are tolerant, but no so tolerant of people they associate with the term ''moral values.''
 Whatever.

+Robert E. Andrews, D*: 193,794 -- 75%
S. Daniel Hutchison, R: 64,038 -- 25%
Arturo F. Croce, I: 1,079 -- 0%

District 2
Reporting: 99%
+Frank A. LoBiondo, R*: 162,673 -- 65%
Timothy J. Robb, D: 82,207 -- 33%
Willie Norwood, I: 1,924 -- 1%
Michael J. Matthews Jr., I: 1,638 -- 1%
Jose D. Alcantara, I: 1,337 -- 1%
Costantino Rozzo, I: 562 -- 0%

District 3
Reporting: 99%
+H. James Saxton, R*: 181,670 -- 63%
Herb Conaway, D: 99,925 -- 35%
R. Edward Forchion, I: 4,544 -- 2%
Frank Orland, I: 835 -- 0%

District 4
Reporting: 99%
+Christopher H. Smith, R*: 184,629 -- 67%
Amy Vasquez, D: 88,815 -- 32%
Richard Edgar, I: 1,865 -- 1%

District 5
Reporting: 99%
+Scott Garrett, R*: 162,467 -- 58%
Dorothea Anne Wolfe, D: 114,809 -- 41%
Victor Kaplan, I: 1,736 -- 1%
Thomas A. Phelan, I: 1,382 -- 0%
Gregory Pason, I: 519 -- 0%

District 6
Reporting: 100%
+Frank Pallone Jr., D*: 149,279 -- 67%
Sylvester Fernandez, R: 69,333 -- 31%
Virginia A. Flynn, I: 2,698 -- 1%
Mac Dara Lyden, I: 2,238 -- 1%

District 7
Reporting: 100%
+Mike Ferguson, R*: 153,639 -- 57%
Steve Brozak, D: 111,413 -- 41%
Thomas D. Abrams, I: 1,972 -- 1%
Matthew A. Williams, I: 1,941 -- 1%

District 8
Reporting: 99%
+Bill Pascrell Jr., D*: 145,144 -- 69%
George Ajjan, R: 60,489 -- 29%
Joseph A. Fortunato, I: 3,739 -- 2%

District 9
Reporting: 99%
+Steven R. Rothman, D*: 136,012 -- 67%
Edward Trawinski, R: 64,643 -- 32%
David Daly, I: 1,424 -- 1%

District 10
Reporting: 97%
+Donald M. Payne, D*: 145,490 -- 97%
Toy-Ling Washington, I: 2,805 -- 2%
Sara J. Lobman, I: 1,878 -- 1%

District 11
Reporting: 99%
+Rodney Frelinghuysen, R*: 187,173 -- 68%
James W. Buell, D: 84,815 -- 31%
John Mele, I: 1,570 -- 1%
Austin S. Lett, I: 1,299 -- 0%

District 12
Reporting: 100%
+Rush D. Holt, D*: 161,602 -- 59%
Bill Spadea, R: 110,285 -- 40%
Ken Chazotte, I: 1,423 -- 1%
Daryl M. Brooks, I: 1,332 -- 0%

District 13
Reporting: 95%
+Robert Menendez, D*: 111,392 -- 76%
Richard W. Piatkowski, R: 32,906 -- 22%
Dick Hester, I: 1,177 -- 1%
Herbert H. Shaw, I: 953 -- 1%
Angela L. Lariscy, I: 820 -- 1%

Map of New Jersey highlighting above mentioned districts. (pg. 6)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Vote for U.S. Congress''Incumbents in all 13 districts were winners.KEY:+Winner* IncumbentDistrict 1Reporting: 100%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); COHABITATION (86%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (86%); LGBT RIGHTS (86%); POLITICS (79%); CONSERVATISM (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); ETHICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORISM (75%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); BALLOTS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); MARRIAGE LAW (68%) Politics and Government; Ethics; Elections; Public Opinion

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%) Laura Mansnerus

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (79%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



148 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; OUTDOORS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Some Special Spots In Shadow of Skyline

BYLINE: By Peter Kaminsky

 BODY:
Among Manhattan's many secret delights, none appear to be lesser known than the opportunities for an evening's fishing after knocking off work. 
 I find this surprising because striped bass, bluefish and albacore cavort from the shoals off Staten Island to the roiling currents beneath the Triborough Bridge in spring and in fall. 
 I first started fishing there 15 years ago with Joe Shastay, a Jersey City fireman and conservationist, and the first of the modern light-tackle captains on the harbor. 
 In those early days, before word got out about the annual local fish riot, one might see one or two anglers on the water. 
 With the explosion in popularity of saltwater fishing, Jamaica Bay and Montauk are now chockablock with sleek fishing craft, but New York Harbor is still very much virgin water. 
 Shastay still fishes exclusively in the Upper Harbor above the Narrows. This constrains, though it doesn't exhaust, flyfishing possibilities. 
 But fly or spin, there is something to be said for the extra jolt of fishing in late afternoon when the slanting sunlight dances around the glassy facades of the financial district. Shastay has grown a bit grayer since we first fished, but remains very much in shape (which he attributes in part to his job and in part to his passion, which is bow hunting for white tail). 
 Last week I took him up on his offer to check out the action. On a cloudy but pleasant day, I hopped on his Steigercraft moored outside the World Financial Center.
 Shastay's two customers arrived presently with a box of still warm pizza that we wolfed down as we glided out of the marina. One of them, Dan Welch, a bond trader, had served in the Navy on the U.S.S. Pargo, a Sturgeon class nuclear submarine. Welch's guest, Sean George, is also a bond trader.
 Within minutes, we found bass right up against the seawall on the north end of Governors Island. George's first cast brought a 20-inch striped bass to the boat. His fishing had been limited to freshwater, so this spunky saltwater fish in a moving tide proved to be quite a thrill. Welch quickly hooked two more fish and was equally pleased. Such nonstop action, so quickly, seemed too good to last, and it was. 
 If it is true, as Robert Frost said, that ''something there is that doesn't love a wall,'' I have found it equally true that something there is that will not allow a watchman to stand by while someone else is having a good time. 
 Sure enough, in short order, a uniformed fellow began pacing up and down the shore waving us away. At the same time, a Coast Guard boat, fitted with a no-nonsense machine gun, approached.
 ''Sorry, guys,'' the flak-vested Guardsman said, ''but you know how things are these days.'' We did not protest.
 We poked around the harbor a bit, heading up the East River toward one of my favorite spots, U Thant Island, just across from the United Nations. That rocky upthrust in the river bottom is quite dependable. Moreover, there is a pleasing symmetry to the annual assembly of migrating fish occurring at the same time that the General Assembly convenes ashore. 
 But, symmetry notwithstanding, the tide had died, and without moving water there was no sense fishing. Shastay spun the wheel, opened the throttle and headed south.
 ''Robbin's Reef?'' I guessed correctly. Shastay made straight for the little lighthouse that marks a rocky ledge about a quarter-mile from the Staten Island shore.
 When we arrived, the tide had just started to trickle in and, like an image taking shape in a slow dissolve, a patch of nervous water became an unmistakable rip as the incoming current washed over the bumps and hills beneath. In the early evening light, the churning rip looked like a black streak on the flanks of a striped bass. 
 Welch and George chucked their jigs over the rip and retrieved them rapidly. When the first half-dozen casts proved unproductive, I thought we might have to try another spot, but Shastay was certain. 
 Certainty in a guide, I have learned, isn't the same as a real world sure thing. Often it means, ''Well, I hope something happens.'' I reserved judgment until the Wall Street twosome had each hooked up a half-dozen times.
 We kept fishing, steadying ourselves every few minutes when a new set of waves lifted us as the Staten Island Ferry made its way back and forth. The Statue of Liberty looked particularly wonderful from that low angle. 
 I thought, as I often do when fishing there, of Kate Walker, who with her husband, John, tended the lighthouse at Robbin's Reef a hundred years ago. She even kept a little garden on a terrace of the tiny home they built at the base of the tower. I have always liked the economy and steadfastness of John's deathbed instructions to his wife.
 ''Keep the light, Kate,'' he is said to have said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (86%); ARMED FORCES (86%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); BONDS (68%); NAVAL VESSELS (68%); ARCHERY (65%); SPORT HUNTING (65%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Sport; Bluefish; Albacore (Fish); Striped Bass

PERSON: Peter Kaminsky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



149 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: The Real National Pastime

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir

 BODY:

AMERICA'S GAME
The Epic Story of How Pro Football
Captured a Nation.
By Michael MacCambridge.
Illustrated. 552 pp. Random House. $27.95.
 WHEN Robert McNair paid $700 million to buy the Houston Texans expansion franchise in 1999, he confessed that he ''went higher than any reasonable person would go'' to get into the National Football League. Several months later, after winning an auction to acquire the Jets, Woody Johnson admitted that he ''flinched the whole way'' before agreeing to write a check for $635 million. What is so special about the N.F.L. that would make sensible businessmen worth billions fork over admittedly illogical sums for a sports team? The question is central to ''America's Game,'' an expansive and detailed history of the N.F.L. told in episodic style by Michael MacCambridge, whose admiration for the league and how it overtook baseball as the national pastime -- largely by making smarter business decisions at almost every conceivable juncture in its post-World War II history -- is evident on every page.
 MacCambridge deftly integrates well-chosen accounts of games with profiles of league visionaries and tales of television negotiations and internal meetings. As he did in ''The Franchise: A History of Sports Illustrated Magazine,'' MacCambridge combines prodigious interviewing and research with a savvy use of anecdotes, like those of a young midshipman, George Allen -- later the coach of the Los Angeles Rams and the Washington Redskins -- knocking on Albert Einstein's front door in Princeton hoping to play checkers and of the inquiry in 1939 by two owners into J. Edgar Hoover's interest in abandoning the pursuit of bank robbers to become commissioner. 
 ''America's Game'' is rarely about players, except for those who became symbols, like the stoic Baltimore Colts quarterback John Unitas, with his crew cut, hightop shoes and quirky delivery, or the rebellious Cleveland Browns running back Jim Brown, who understood the racial politics of his time and retired at the age of 29. Rather, MacCambridge focuses mainly on owners and coaches -- and not always the ones that an aficionado might expect. Founding fathers like George Halas, the Papa Bear, are background players; Dan Reeves, the former Los Angeles Rams owner, is one of MacCambridge's leading men. Reeves was a stockbroker who moved his money-losing Rams in 1946 from Cleveland to Los Angeles, built a glamorous, winning organization and forced the end of league segregation.
 The central figure is Alvin Ray Rozelle, better known as Pete, a lanky, affable public relations man who, soon after the end of World War II, was a student publicist at Compton Junior College, where the Rams held training camp. Fourteen years later, ensconced as the Rams general manager, he was the compromise choice of N.F.L. owners wearied by a 22-ballot deadlock over a replacement for Bert Bell, the commissioner who cried when he did not get his way with owners and died in late 1959 while watching a Philadelphia Eagles game. When Art Rooney, the Pittsburgh Steelers owner, told Frank McNamee, the Eagles owner, that Rozelle's name had been put into play, McNamee said: ''Great. Who the hell is Pete Rozelle?''
 Rozelle was the boy commissioner, 33 years old at his ascension, a chain smoker who was a subtle but hardball negotiator: he learned well and quickly how to make his owners money. His mastery of public relations endeared him to a sports media world that had never made the N.F.L. its priority, and his sophisticated marketing led him to realize that the gospel of pro football he preached would be spread by having its own studio, N.F.L. Films, and licensing division, N.F.L. Properties. He lobbied Congress for one antitrust exemption that let him negotiate a single national television package with CBS, which removed financial disparities between teams and became the wellspring of N.F.L. wealth, and a second one to permit the merger with the American Football League, which he solidified by promising the Louisiana congressman Hale Boggs a team in New Orleans.
 Rozelle was the very model of the modern sports commissioner. He developed the Super Bowl into a secular holiday, extended the league's egalitarian economics (some called it socialism; MacCambridge calls it ''equality of opportunity for all''), helped devise ''Monday Night Football'' and oversaw football's takeover of Sundays in living rooms and bars across the country.
 But all was not ideal. Rozelle greatly regretted his decision to play on the Sunday after John F. Kennedy's assassination -- which, MacCambridge says, can be explained by Rozelle's lack of understanding about the powerful role that television would play that weekend -- and retired in 1989 after a tiring decade pockmarked by player drug scandals, federal lawsuits challenging what Howard Cosell used to call the N.F.L.'s status as a ''duly adjudicated illegal monopoly'' and nearly ceaseless labor wars.
 The story does not end there, but the excitement does. MacCambridge's narrative flags and becomes disjointed in search of a continuing theme after Paul Tagliabue's election as commissioner. In the history of any other league, Tagliabue would be a seminal, singular figure. Over 15 years Tagliabue has overseen labor peace, inaugurated a free-agent system with a salary cap, negotiated $18 billion in television contracts that expire after the 2005 season and created the fledgling N.F.L. Network. But he has only made the league bigger. Rozelle, having come along at the right time, made it big and big-time.
 And if you follow the great-man theory espoused by MacCambridge, there are few great men now. Oh, there is a character like Jerry Jones, the Arkansas oilman who bought the Dallas Cowboys in 1989 and summarily fired one of the great men, Tom Landry (who ran his team for as long as Rozelle was commissioner). Jones's current coach, the nomadic and blustery Bill Parcells, plays a bit part. But there are no modern equivalents in ''America's Game'' of the flinty Paul Brown, for whom the Cleveland Browns were named (as was the stadium of the Cincinnati Bengals, a team owned by Brown's son), and whose ultraorganized approach to football was widely imitated.
 Similarly, there is no 21st-century peer in these pages of Lamar Hunt, the secretive son of a Texas oil tycoon who created the A.F.L. when his hopes of buying an N.F.L. team were spurned, then forged the merger with Rozelle. There is no one like Vince Lombardi, whose strategies redefined teamwork -- his power sweep rushing play exemplified a ''sense of enlightened cooperation for a larger cause,'' MacCambridge writes -- and whose exhortations are currently featured in an N.F.L. ad campaign, 34 years after his death.
 Ultimately, then, it is no surprise that billionaires make huge investments to become owners in the N.F.L. The league has the highest television ratings, the most television money, the best sponsorships, the most sophisticated marketing and public relations, the greatest interest from gamblers and fantasy-sports enthusiasts and the advantage of each team playing one game a week, which makes each one important. I'm not sure there are more reasons than these -- or if Robert McNair or Woody Johnson (or even Paul Tagliabue) thinks of pro football, as MacCambridge does, as ''the perfect symbol for the country's bustling, modernistic urgency, a splendid entertainment, a taxing and transforming profession, and a meaningful metaphor for the most American pursuit of all, those seemingly mismatched but inextricably bound ideas of competition and community.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Stephen Savage)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (74%); BASEBALL (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ROBBERY (63%); LITERATURE (60%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); HOUSTON TEXANS (84%); NEW YORK JETS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (54%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (54%)

PERSON: Richard Sandomir; Michael MacCambridge

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (67%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



150 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: On Waterfronts of the Present, Rail-Bridge Relics of the Past

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
AT two recently built waterfront parks, evocative industrial archaeology -- huge, rusting float bridges, once used for transferring freight cars to and from cross-river barges -- have been made integral parts of the design.
 At the six-year-old Gantry Plaza State Park, on the East River in Hunters Point, Queens, the float bridges are matte black paint and sharp orange lettering. But at the newer Riverside Park South, on the Hudson River below 72nd Street, the 69th Street float bridge is still a derelict amid a sweep of thigh-high grass and stainless-steel park furniture. A visit to both offers the opportunity to ponder our concepts of restoration -- and ruin. 
 The railroad marshaling yards along the Hudson River north of 59th Street show up on land maps of the 1870's, served by cross-Hudson bridges much farther up the river. But other rail operations just across the Hudson in New Jersey made it economical to barge entire rail cars over on car floats and bring them ashore using float bridges -- also called transfer bridges -- that hooked up to the car floats. 
 The early transfer bridges were simple, partly floating decks, hinged at the shoreline, with the water end floating on a pontoon system, rising and falling with the tide. Joining the pontoon end of the transfer bridge to the incoming car float took some time. 
 To speed the operation, several designers developed suspension systems that raised and lowered the transfer bridge from an overhead structure. In 1911, the New York Central Railroad built such a system, designed by James B. French, at the foot of West 69th Street. French patented his design, which uses two separate decks raised and lowered independently and a wide shed running across the top to protect the lifting machinery.
 French's design ''swept the field,'' says Thomas F. Flagg, an industrial archaeologist who has studied and written about transfer bridges for three decades. Mr. Flagg says that such an operation could unload 800 tons of cargo in 15 minutes. To a non-specialist, the rail-car transfer seems unwieldy, but it is faster than a modern container crane, Mr. Flagg says.
 In the mid-1920's, the Long Island Rail Road built several float bridges of the same design on the East River at Long Island City; they accommodated 100-ton cars and could rise and fall 18 feet.
 As American railroading -- and rail freight in the Port of New York -- declined drastically, these float bridges tumbled into disuse, and by the 1970's were wide open for graffiti, vandalism and urban adventure. In 1998, Gantry Plaza State Park opened at 48th and 49th Avenues, succeeding the Long Island Rail Road transfer point there. The landscape architects Thomas Balsley Associates incorporated float bridges into the design. (The park should be a must-see for most Manhattan tourists, in part for the dead-on Midtown Manhattan views.) 
 Anyone who grew up with the mid-20th century parks of the Robert Moses variety may weep on walking through Gantry; it's not that the Moses-era parks were so bad, it's that Balsley's inspired design shows how little extra it would have taken to make them so much better. There are four new finger piers reaching out into the East River. One, the most southerly -- it's called the fishing pier -- has a stainless steel fish-cleaning table in the shape of an amoeba. It also has a 100-foot-plus-long wooden slat bench, a ''wave bench'' that rises and falls through its entire length like mid-ocean swells. 
 Another pier is called the stargazing pier, with soft lighting and, screened from the shore lights, reclined seating -- ''stargazer chaises.'' The park goes down to the shoreline, and it is possible to pick your way through the wild grasses and washed-up timbers to poke a toe in the water -- a possibility unthinkable half a century ago.
 The two float bridges at Gantry have been painted and spruced up, with big red letters spelling ''Long Island'' legible from across the water. Neither bridge has its original decks with rails, but on one the great, bolted steel hangers extend all the way down to a new wooden deck -- but from the side it is obvious that the hangers do not support it but are just tacked on.
 Over on the Hudson, the Balsley firm's design for Riverside Park South is gradually being carried out, although parts have been in place for several years. In the afternoon sunlight, the bright cottony tops of swaths of wild grasses look like a snowfield, and the shore-side walking paths sinuously weave south along the river. 
 The park's modern pier projects far out into the river -- about two dozen New Yorkers went to its farthest end on the morning of Sept. 11, 2001, where they saw the fall of the north tower of the World Trade Center and the smoke and devastation that followed the terrorist attack. As the tower's red and white television tower wobbled, a ring of flame blazed out from 10 floors down, but no one could hear the sound of the collapse -- the air was thick with groans, shrieks and prayers. 
 The pier and its furnishings are more modest than at Gantry, and thus the Hudson River pier seems to focus on the 69th Street transfer bridge -- which looks as derelict as a Rust Belt steel plant decades after the final closing whistle. Just to the bridge's south are two older transfer bridges, both pitching down into the water. One, of half-burned timbers, looks like a 19th-century shipwreck; the other, of deeply rusted plate steel, could be a landing craft abandoned on Iwo Jima.
 Mr. Flagg, who knows the site well, says that the 1911 bridge is much more intact than those at Long Island City -- it still has the actual bridge decks -- and that if someone would free up the gearing and restore the electrical system, it could operate again.
 The city is beginning to develop designs for renovating the West 69th Street float bridge -- and the different structures in the two parks show the importance of context in judging what might otherwise be considered an independent work of architecture.
 At Gantry Plaza State Park, the spiffed up ironwork and fresh paint seem in accord with the spacious, open-sky site, partly raw industrial landscape and partly the two handsome neo-1940's apartment houses put up in recent years at the adjacent Queens West development. 
 But the raw decay of the float bridge on the Hudson River is set against the backdrop just to the east of the growing cliff of the Trump Place apartment towers on Riverside Boulevard, which will someday stretch from 72nd Street down to 59th. Although those buildings are all nominally different from one another, their hard-brick finishes, blank windows and solid street wall form a rather plain vanilla backdrop that contrasts dramatically with the memento mori of this rusty monument.


GRAPHIC: Photos: INDUSTRIAL ARCHAEOLOGY -- Float bridges at West 69th Street in Riverside Park South in Manhattan, left, and at Gantry Plaza State Park in Hunters Point, Queens, bottom
the bridge at 69th Street in 1911, below. The bridges once transferred freight cars to and from barges. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Office for Metropolitan History)Graphs: ''Mortgage Rates'' shows mortgage rates for the New York region since 2001.(Sources by HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); STATE PARKS (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); VANDALISM (89%); RAIL FREIGHT (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); GRAFFITI (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (64%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (64%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Bridges and Tunnels

PERSON: Christopher Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Gantry Plaza State Park (NYC); Riverside Park South (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



151 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 2; Sports Desk; BACKTALK: KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Game Theory Posits Measure of Baseball Players' Value

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ. 
E-mail: keepingscore@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Thresherman's Bakehouse, a coffee shop in Melbourne, Australia, would seem an odd spot for a baseball epiphany. Yet it was over down-under joe that Brian Lonergan, a young economist from Yale, and Ben Polak, his former dissertation adviser, took a bite out of the eternal apple of baseball statistics: determining a season's most valuable player.
 Traditional categories like home runs and on-base percentage are nice, but they represent mere guesses as to how a player's long balls, walks and what-not help his team win. The two game theorists decided several years ago that what the game needed was a system that acknowledged each player's fundamental charge: to do something, large or small and dependent on the situation, to increase his team's probability of winning. 
 So they built it, and now own the most sophisticated method around to measure, among other things, the rightful winners of the 2004 postseason awards, which will be announced starting this week. 
 Were Manny Ramirez's 43 homers and 130 runs batted in truly more valuable to his Red Sox than Gary Sheffield's 36 and 121 were to the Yankees? Did Barry Bonds's whopping 232 walks make him more or less of an M.V.P. than the Dodgers free-swinger Adrian Beltre? And who should take home the American League Cy Young award, the Twins' Johan Santana (20-6, 2.61 earned run average) or the Red Sox' Curt Schilling (21-6, 3.26)?
 The method's logic is actually very simple: every confrontation between pitcher and batter affects, however marginally, each team's chances of winning. With various numbers of outs and men on base, a double or a strikeout or even a runner-advancing grounder either adds or subtracts a specific amount from the inning's run-scoring potential. Depending on the game's inning and score, each of those amounts takes on varying significance to the final outcome.
 ''It's just our way of looking at the world from studying game theory,'' Lonergan said. ''Each team starts the game with even probability, and ends at either 0 or 1. In between, you're looking at what the players are doing for their team.''
 An example: when Beltre stepped to the plate on Aug. 23 with the Dodgers down, 7-4, in the top of the seventh in Montreal, Los Angeles had a 12.17 percent chance of coming back to win. (This percentage, derived from extensive data from the entire season, would have been 1.29 percent if there were two out in the ninth.) Beltre delivered an R.B.I. single, making the score 7-5 and the Dodgers' chances of winning 19.11 percent.
 So Beltre was awarded with the difference in percentages, or 0.0694, of what Lonergan and Polak call Wins Relative to Average Player (WRAP); and on the other side of baseball's double-entry bookkeeping, the pitcher who surrendered the hit, Luis Ayala, was credited with a minus 0.0694.
 Applied to each of the roughly 186,000 major league plate appearances this season -- from every first-inning sacrifice fly to every game-ending home run -- the resulting aggregate WRAP number tells almost exactly how many pieces of victories a player accounted for.
 ''It has to add up,'' said Polak, a British expatriate whose accent makes the analysis of baseball statistics seem almost urbane. ''It has to add up to a team's number of wins above .500. It's quite beautiful.''
 And a great way to assess the award races. WRAP's verdicts follow.
 A.L. M.V.P. Sheffield, with a 5.60 WRAP, edges out the Angels slugger Vladimir Guerrero (4.45). Ramirez ranks sixth because more of his hits came in game situations that did not have a big effect on the outcome of Boston games.
 N.L. M.V.P. Bonds (12.16) tramples the runner-up, Albert Pujols of the Cardinals (6.85), demonstrating that Bonds's walks did indeed help the Giants by setting the table for subsequent, however disappointing, hitters.
 A.L. CY YOUNG Despite having a higher E.R.A., Schilling tops Santana, 5.15 to 5.01, because he often performed in hitter-friendly Fenway Park (yes, WRAP accounts for this) and because he thrived in particularly tight situations. But the two were bested by Twins closer Joe Nathan (5.47), whose 1.62 E.R.A. and 44 saves do not truly quantify how many games his late pitching helped decide. (WRAP leans toward relievers because, although they influence fewer at-bats, the at-bats are inherently more crucial.)
 N.L. CY YOUNG Once again, closers dominate, with the Dodgers' Eric Gagne (5.69) beating the Astros' Brad Lidge (5.55). San Francisco's Jason Schmidt (5.39) wins among starters, well ahead of the more popular candidates for postseason awards, Randy Johnson of Arizona and Roger Clemens of Houston.
 This probability-based approach isn't necessarily new. In 1969, two brothers involved in military computing, Harlan and Eldon Mills, took a similar tack and published a small book, ''Player Win Averages,'' evangelizing their method. 
 ''It didn't catch on,'' said Eldon Mills, now 83 and living in a Florida retirement community. ''I still can't figure out why.'' 
 Other amateur baseball scientists working in anonymity have traveled related roads.
 Lonergan and Polak still have refinements to make. The damage done by fielding errors must be assessed to the culprit. And while WRAP does a great job in determining value in a finished season, its reliance on clutch performance -- which has been proved to be quite ephemeral -- saps some of its predictive possibilities.
 But the method, with its linchpin in logic, will almost certainly find acceptance in baseball's new statistical age. Told of the approach, a high-ranking team executive declined to comment. He simply asked for Lonergan's and Polak's phone numbers so he could be first in line for licensing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); ATHLETES (78%) Baseball; Awards, Decorations and Honors

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (82%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); MINNESOTA TWINS (54%)

PERSON: Alan Schwarz

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%) VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) AUSTRALIA (73%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



152 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 4047 words

HEADLINE: The Confessions of John Patrick Shanley

BYLINE: By Alex Witchel. 
Alex Witchel is a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
How can you pass up a chance to attend a family reunion with an Oscar winner who got up and thanked ''everybody who ever punched or kissed me in my life and everybody who I ever punched or kissed?'' Think of the drama, the intrigue, the ice packs. But in a park in Rockland County, N.Y., on a September Saturday, there was nary an Irish temper in sight. The men in John Patrick Shanley's family toted bags of charcoal, raw meat and tongs. The women, like the Italian characters in Shanley's original screenplay for ''Moonstruck,'' unwrapped enormous bowls of pasta salad and oversize platters of deli sandwiches, more than enough for 40. Everyone shared, hugged, talked, showed pictures and yelled at their kids to stay out of the brook. 
 Shanley, the youngest of five, father of two, drove up from Manhattan with his sons. He traveled light, taking only a badminton set, two sandwiches from Gourmet Garage and a reporter for The New York Times. Within minutes, the rest of the family had swarmed to the far side of the table, a spontaneous quarantine. 
 They knew that come November, Shanley, 54, would have three plays opening in New York. They also knew that the curse of having a writer in the family is that everything -- sooner or later -- becomes material. Witness the new lineup: ''Doubt,'' inspired by a relative's experience with a priest who was convicted of child molestation, opens Nov. 22 at Manhattan Theater Club. ''Sailor's Song,'' a lyrical meditation on choosing to love in the face of death, written after Shanley's mother, father and eldest sister all died within an 18-month period, opens Sunday in a LAByrinth Theater Company production at the Public Theater. And a revival of ''Danny and the Deep Blue Sea,'' Shanley's 1984 two-character play about desperate loners afraid of love (think the very dark side of Nicolas Cage and Cher in ''Moonstruck''), opens on Wednesday at Second Stage Theater.
 They also knew that it was Shanley's tormented relationship with his mother that became the template for many of his physically and emotionally damaged or maimed male characters (remember Cage's wooden hand?) who must face down a profusion of often indifferent, always ambivalent females. No, certainly no need to go there during a family reunion. Though of their mother, Shanley's older brother, Tom, said gallantly: ''Up to and including me, my mom's batting arm was still good. By the time John came along she was worn out. But I always, always felt loved. She probably didn't hit me enough.''
 Shanley only smiled. Those requiring further instruction can refer to ''Where's My Money?'' (2001), his scathing play about divorce, in which a male lawyer says, ''Women consume, and they must be directed what to consume, or they may identify you as lunch.'' From the same play comes one of Shanley's most quoted lines: ''Monogamy is like a 40-watt bulb. It works, but it's not enough.''
 Although it was the angst of finding love in and beyond the kind of volatile Irish-American family Eugene O'Neill would recognize that dominated Shanley's earlier plays, it was his biting humor that aligned his work with the surreal domestic comedies of John Guare and Christopher Durang. Shanley has since found increasingly larger canvases for his rage: in last year's political allegory, ''Dirty Story,'' he portrayed the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as a sadomasochistic relationship between a man and a woman. In The New York Times, Ben Brantley called it ''appallingly entertaining,'' going on to say that Shanley's ''broadening of perspective has led him to create one of the liveliest, boldest and -- against the odds -- funniest studies ever of a subject that even hard-core satirists tend to approach on tiptoe.''
 It surprises no one that Shanley's triple crown -- two new plays and a revival -- skirts Broadway, a bottom-line marketplace where ''tiptoe'' rules, and where his plays have never been produced. As Robyn Goodman, a producer of ''Avenue Q,'' last season's Tony Award winner for Best Musical, said: ''When John wants to make a lot of money, he writes 'Moonstruck.' When he writes from his heart as an artist, he's not thinking of mass appeal.''
 For Shanley, writing was how he learned to make sense of a childhood in which he was always an outsider. Growing up as a son of an immigrant meat packer in the east Bronx in the 50's and 60's put him in ''a very violent neighborhood,'' he said. ''It was extremely anti-intellectual and extremely racist and none of this fit me. I was in constant fistfights from the time I was 6. I did not particularly want to be. People would look at me and become enraged at the sight of me. I believe that the reason was they could see that I saw them. And they didn't like that.''
 His hyperdeveloped skills of observation have afforded him a lifetime of highs and lows. The hard-knocks childhood gave way to a stateside stint in the Marines during Vietnam; a meteoric rise in Hollywood with the success of ''Moonstruck'' led to a meteoric crash after writing and directing the catastrophe that was ''Joe Versus the Volcano.'' An impassioned rededication to the theater followed. Shanley's 23 plays, many of which he has also directed, have been translated into 15 languages, performed in 17 countries and receive about 80 productions a year in the United States and Canada. Both his marriages failed, replaced by, as one theater producer put it, ''a different blonde on his arm every night,'' Kim Cattrall among them. Recently, in a cruel twist, he weathered a siege of glaucoma that has cost him 50 percent of his sight yet, incredibly, has slowed his work pace not at all. 
 With a history this tumultuous, perhaps it is best to trace its particulars away from the convivial crowd by the brook. Though the quarantine held, Shanley's Aunt Peggy, his mother's only surviving sister, did make room on a picnic bench to offer her own assessment of her nephew's work. ''It's all in his head,'' she confided. ''I think every kid thinks he had a hard time.''
 She went on to recall that Shanley's father, who came here at 24 from County Westmeath, used to admonish his youngest son to ''get a real job.'' And he did. Before he won his Oscar, Shanley worked as an elevator operator, a house painter, furniture mover, locksmith, bartender and sandwich maker. But looking and listening and telling a story was the only job that stuck. 
Shanley lives on a sunny block in Brooklyn Heights, in a modest apartment building without a doorman. There is color everywhere; bright blue walls in the living room, bright green in the kitchen. There are two small bedrooms, one for Nick and Frank, Shanley's sons (named for his parents, Nicholas and Frances), who come on the weekends. In the otherwise meticulously clean bathroom, a white strand of dental floss lay on the white tiled floor. Like the white birdie at the reunion that flew at him across the badminton net against the white light of the sky, Shanley could not see it.
 He sat at a large dining-room table across from his desk, which was jammed with scripts. Above his computer, a framed handmade sign read ''Make Me.'' A multicolored glass chandelier from Provence hung in the center of the room; another was in the entrance hall.
 ''That was what they called me in the Bronx,'' he said. ''They said: Your name's Shanley? We'll call you Chandelier. Then it became just 'Lier.' '' He pronounced it ''Leah.'' Along with his huge, bursting laugh, the Bronx comes and goes when Shanley speaks, though it doesn't stray far. The kid from the hot-lunch program who never saw a play until he worked on a high-school production of ''Cyrano de Bergerac'' broke through barriers of class and education to become one of the theater's most successful playwrights. He wears that victory lightly, although the courtly, cagey manners of an outsider -- always gauging a response, planning a parry -- tend to peek through. He rarely disagrees; he simply restates someone else's opinion until it resembles his own. He seems open and often is, displaying the flamboyance, warmth and humor that have shaped many of his characters. Just as frequently, he will catch himself and draw back. His lips purse, a heady, distancing speech begins and he is gone.
 These days, Shanley is dancer thin, and against his graying hair, his blue eyes are vivid. But after five operations they tend to flash unexpectedly, disconcertingly, revealing what look like shards of mirror, a writer's fun-house distortion that seems to dare the person before him: Do you see what I see? 
 From the beginning, Shanley went to Catholic schools. The Sisters of Charity, who ran St. Anthony's Grammar School, which he attended in the Bronx and has written about in ''Doubt,'' were the sympathetic antithesis to the Irish Christian Brothers who ran Cardinal Spellman High School. ''They beat children with their fists,'' Shanley said. ''I saw a 220-pound brother put a boy, a little gangly boy, against a wall and hit him in the stomach as hard as he could.'' 
 Shanley's response to that environment was to become a professional problem child. In religion class, he insisted he did not believe in God. In the cafeteria, he flung mashed potatoes over his shoulder often enough to get banned from the hot-lunch program. He read science fiction books during all his classes and spent five days a week, every week for most of the two years he was there in detention before the brothers finally kicked him out.
 He went instead to the Thomas Moore Preparatory School, a private school with a Catholic orientation, in Harrisville, N.H., which afforded him a few humane teachers. It was their kindness, actually, that was among the reasons he wrote ''Doubt,'' in which a nun suspects a priest of being a bit too interested in a young boy. The strength of the play is how skillfully Shanley exposes the two sides to every suspicion.
 ''It was homosexual teachers for the most part who saved me,'' Shanley said. ''The head of discipline at Thomas Moore was gay, and he was my friend and protector. Did he have his reasons for being interested in me? Everybody has their reasons. Passion fuels many things, and it's used in many ways. Many of these people never cross the line.''
 Shanley's relative, unfortunately, was not as lucky. ''A child in my family was molested by a priest,'' he said. ''The parents went first to the local level, then up the chain of command to a highly placed church official, who took them by the hands and said: 'I'm so sorry this happened to you. I will take care of it.' And then he promoted him. They were so shocked that they left the church for 10 years. But they missed it, so they returned to a parish where the monsignor gave a sermon saying that with these church scandals it was the parents, not the clergy, who were responsible. They had to leave the church again.
 ''And still another reason I wrote this play is that I'm very aware that debate has become the form of communication, like on 'Crossfire.' There is no room or value placed on doubt, which is one of the hallmarks of the wise man. It's getting harder and harder in this society to find a place for spacious, true intellectual exchange. It's all becoming about who won the argument, which is just moronic.'' 
 ''Sailor's Song'' -- an emotionally raw piece about a man whose wife is dying, the nephew who keeps him company during her coma and the two women he meets in a bar, one of whom channels the dead -- mines his grief over his parents' and sister's deaths. When he began to speak about his father, Nicholas, his ''good parent,'' who died in 2001 at 95, he turned away and wept.
 ''He was this guy from the land with the ability to forcefully say the thing that needed to be said or to make the observation that cut away everything and revealed the essence of the situation,'' Shanley said. ''He was very affectionate, but from about 20 feet away. He would scream as if there was a chasm, 'I love you, boy!' He was not violent to me, but my oldest brother, Jim, said a curse word when he was, I think, 5 years old, and my father punched him with a closed fist. By the time I showed up he had deeply mellowed out. He slapped me once at my mother's repeated exhortation -- 'Hit him, Nick! Hit him' -- and I could see it broke his heart to do it. He didn't have it in him anymore.'' 
 Shanley's mother died in 2002. So what was the problem, exactly?
 ''She was a pill,'' he said. ''It took me many years of thinking, reading psychological tomes of various kinds, talking endlessly, writing plays, to finally say: 'You know, she was a pill. That was the problem.' And in my climactic interchange with my mother, she called me up and said: 'What was it? What was so terrible?' And I said very easily, very kindly really, 'Well, you just weren't very affectionate.' And she said, 'No, that's not how I am.' And that was the conversation. To get to that was a byzantine, tortuous road. But that was the crux of it. These things always end up being pretty simple.''
 Not really. In Shanley's ''Beggars in the House of Plenty'' (1991), Pop, a butcher, terrorizes his eldest son with a cleaver and says: ''You'll look for love to stop the starving thing in you that I put there, but nothing will stop the starving thing. I'll never approve of you.'' In the same play, Ma bemoans her recurrent headaches.
 ''My mother wasn't comfortable with me no matter what I did,'' Shanley said. ''When I was a kid, she had these terrible headaches, and was always screaming, 'Jesus, Mary and Joseph, I've got a splitting headache!' And many years later I said, 'Do you still get headaches?' And she said: 'What are you talking about? I don't get headaches.' I said, 'Wait a minute, when I was growing up you had headaches all the time.' And she thought about it and went: 'Oh, yeah. That's true.' I said, 'When did they stop?' She said, 'When you left.'''
 He went on: ''I remember I'd asked if she had seen 'Five Corners,' my first movie. And she said: 'No, I haven't. I understand the mother is thrown out the window in that movie.' And I said, 'Yeah.' That was the end of that subject.'' 
 Not that his father was terribly different. After Shanley's freshman year at New York University, he was placed on academic probation and dropped out to enlist. He returned to school two years later, putting himself through on a combination of the G.I. Bill, loans and odd jobs. In 1977 he graduated as valedictorian. 
 ''My father said, 'It's not too late to join the Sanitation Department,' '' Shanley recalled. ''But he was kind of joking. I would say that my parents were intermittently proud of me. They couldn't hang onto it, you know? It would come and go, like the flu.''
 Well, beside his ex-wives, there must be a long line of women who would have loved to get their hands around his mother's neck. He laughed. ''Absolutely,'' he said, adding dryly, ''although you do tend to wrestle with the same problem, so you often choose somebody who is going to give you something to work with.''
 It was his second wife, the actress Jayne Haynes, with whom he adopted his sons, who are now 12, in 1992. Through open adoption, he agreed to pay the room and board of two pregnant women, assuming one might change her mind. Neither did. 
 ''We got two children, four and a half months apart,'' Shanley said. ''It was very intense and very hard but ultimately great. Nicky is Mexican-American, from just this side of the Rio Grande. Frankie is a blond, blue-eyed Celt from Texarkana. They're joined at the hip.'' 
 After Shanley's glaucoma was diagnosed, however, it wasn't easy to stop two roughhousing boys from climbing all over Dad. ''The really bad three-year period ended about three years ago,'' he said. When medication failed, surgery became necessary. ''They basically had to puncture the eyes to lower the pressure,'' he continued. ''My eyes deflated, and I went blind in one eye, then in the other, fortunately never at the same time. When you have eye surgery, you have to be awake. They use a topical anesthetic, and by the last surgery I'd become immune to it. I was just in agony. But for some reason it always would time out around productions so that I would go blind and then they would be able to bring back the vision just in time for me to go to work. And then I would be blind in the other eye after I finished that job, and then they'd fix that. 
 ''After the last surgery, the surgeon said, 'You'll take these drops, and if the pressure remains constant, then you're out of the woods.' And he thought for a minute and said, 'Actually, you're never going to be out of the woods.' And I said, 'So I live in the woods now.''' He sighed. ''Look, I can read, I can drive, I can direct plays. But I just, you know, live in a delicate eyeball world.''
 And there's no family history of this? He shook his head. ''None,'' he said. ''Except my mother. Late in life.''
On a rainy morning, Shanley went to the Public Theater to hear the first read-through of ''Sailor's Song.'' With three plays opening almost at once, he made the judicious decision to direct none of them.
 Sitting at a large table, two actresses threw some moony looks Shanley's way; hope springs eternal on the first day of rehearsal. The playwright responded not at all, until the reading began and one of those actresses spoke some lines. ''Phony Baloney,'' he wrote in the margin of his script. An actor stumbled on a speech and, like everyone else who made a mistake, looked guiltily at Shanley, whose benign expression never changed. Though at a certain point, when one character said, ''It can be a curse to love,'' it became clear that the soft panting noise in the room was Shanley, bent in his chair, crying.
 When the reading ended, he went into the lobby of the Public and sat at a cafe table. Even within the theater, Shanley is considered something of an outsider, a tough guy; some of its gay denizens refer to him as Manly John Shanley. But while everyone bows to his talent -- and covets his Oscar -- most people don't know him well. Because he has so often insisted on directing his own work (which has earned him some critical slaps for self-indulgence, when the text might have benefited from an outside eye), some charge that he is, at heart, an arrogant control freak.
 ''I find that people who say I'm a control freak are control freaks themselves,'' Shanley said calmly. ''For them it's about power; for me, it's about ideas. Nothing would be better than to learn in wiser hands than mine. In the past I have tried that and found that the news was not good. I waited to see my work expanded, and instead, I saw it become less than.
 ''I have to fight for what I believe. I came from a background that I wasn't going to be able to capitalize on. If I had, somebody could have gotten me into the telephone company or maybe the Fire Department. I was going to be a writer, and I had never met a writer, and I had never gone to the theater. I was completely having to invent this from scratch. It was going to have to be about my craft and my desire to be heard, and you push your way to the front and say, 'Damn it, you're going to do my play.' That kind of braggadocio and aggressiveness, which was in my case based on real conviction -- was very important.''
 Because ''Moonstruck,'' which grossed about $80 million and won three Oscars, was only his second movie, he didn't have to fight as long or as hard in Hollywood. The time for that would have been in 1990, after ''Joe Versus the Volcano'' bombed. But he chose not to.
 ''When I was in Los Angeles, I was in the above-the-line community pretty much all the time,'' he said. ''And it's a very small group of people who basically reassure each other that they must be doing O.K. because they're in the room with these other people. I found it, after a while, just antithetical to my nature. I like to make a good living, but there are limits to how much cash is good for a person to have coming over the transom every day. It's also addictive. Money is like heroin, and I grew up in a neighborhood that was destroyed by heroin. I've watched addiction all my life. Celebrity is like heroin. And constant praise is like heroin. And, you know, no one can resist constant praise. I had to get out.''
 Shanley has written numerous screenplays since then; four have been produced, including ''Alive'' and ''Congo.'' A script he co-wrote for HBO, ''Live From Baghdad,'' about journalists who covered the 1991 Persian Gulf war, was nominated for an Emmy Award. ''I still make an awful lot of money out of Hollywood,'' he said. ''And once in a while they make something I write. But that's not my raison d'etre.''
 That would be the theater. Tony Kushner, who had a big-time show-biz success of his own with HBO's adaptation of ''Angels in America,'' said of Shanley: ''What I admire most are that his plays are beautifully well made, economical, sharp and coherent. I like the toughness of his writing a lot. He's not a misanthrope, but he's in pursuit of why people behave as badly as they do along with having a great compassion for them. That's an unusual and interesting combination.''
 For Shanley, there is no calling greater: ''Playwriting is the last great bastion of the individual writer. It's exciting precisely because it's where the money isn't. Money goes to safety, to consensus. It's not individualism. That's why sometimes I get very frustrated watching plays. I'm like: 'Man, you have the shot here to say anything and this is what you're saying? This boring retread of a play I've seen 500 times, this denatured Arthur Miller? I mean you could do or say anything that's within the bounds of the law if you don't harm anybody physically, and this is what you're doing?'' He shook his head. ''Theater is just too exciting a prospect to be left to dullards.''
 That less-than-collegial attitude may account for the fact that in the 25 years Shanley has been writing and directing in New York, he has never won an award for either. ''Maybe they think I have enough,'' he said easily, getting up to return to rehearsal. ''And if that's it, that's O.K.'' 
As it is, that Oscar of his is still causing problems.
 While even more family arrived at the reunion, Aunt Peggy was recalling that she and her sister Bessie had gone to see each of Shanley's plays, from the very beginning. ''When he won, we were so disappointed,'' she said. ''He never mentioned our names.''
 But her granddaughter, Mary Murphy, chimed in, ''It's very cool, having a star in the family.''
 The star sat alone, watching Nick and Frank play badminton with cousins, uncles and aunts. When they took a break, conversation centered on starting the sixth grade. At Frank's school, students call teachers by their first names. ''We could have done that, too,'' Shanley said amiably, ''but then we'd be put to death.'' 
 Both boys are protective of Shanley, almost tender in their vigilance of him. They continually surround him, seeming to stand sentry. Maybe it's the glaucoma. Maybe it's because he's just not like other dads. When Frank came off the makeshift court -- a patch of grass dotted with rocks -- and Shanley saw his skinned knee, he said, ''You know, in Ireland, kings were kings until they had a physical imperfection, and then they were put to death.''
 His brother Tom quickly interjected, ''Well, Frank, it's a good thing you're not a king.'' But Frank didn't need reassurance. He seems to hear stuff like that all the time. He sat near his father a while longer, then returned to the game.
 Shanley watched his sons. ''They're going to fall in love and have their hearts broken,'' he said quietly. ''I don't think I can take it.''
 The next time it was Nick who left the court. He wore a silver medallion around his neck, a leadership medal he won at camp. As the apparent conscience of the group, he had determined that there were too many questionable calls on whether the birdie was in or out.
 ''Dad, we need more string,'' he said.
 Shanley seemed puzzled and looked toward the net. ''Why? Is it falling down?''
 Nick shook his head. ''No, no, I want outlines,'' he said, gesturing to the court.
 ''Oh, you want boundaries,'' Shanley said and burst out laughing. ''No, I don't have any of those.''
 Nick smiled before turning to go. Actually, he knew that. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Gareth McConnell
 'Moon' Glow: Shanley (top) directing Jayne Haynes and John Turturro in his play ''Italian American Reconciliation'' in 1988, the year he won his Oscar for ''Moonstruck.'' After the eclipse of ''Joe Versus the Volcano'' (bottom, 1990), he renewed his commitment to the theater. (Photograph: top: Gerry Goodstein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FAMILY (90%); THEATER (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); WRITERS (75%); CHILDREN (73%); FILM (69%); CHILD ABUSE (68%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (50%); SEX OFFENSES (50%) Theater; Motion Pictures; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Academy Awards (Oscars); Biographical Information

PERSON: CHER (54%); NICOLAS CAGE (54%) Alex Witchel; John Patrick Shanley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



153 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: After Mixed Results, Suozzi Presses On to Fix Albany

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Nov. 5 

 BODY:
For months, Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, has argued that the state is dysfunctional, and he has called for ousting certain incumbents. He formed the Fix Albany political action committee to support challengers, won backing from former New York City Mayor Edward I. Koch and raised $150,000 for the campaign.
 But candidates favored by Mr. Suozzi, a Democrat, failed to defeat two Republican senators whom he had picked out as targets in his own county, Carl L. Marcellino and Dean G. Skelos, the Senate's deputy majority leader. They won re-election by wide margins. In two other races, candidates he supported claimed victories, though the final results are still not in on one and critics belittle Mr. Suozzi's impact on the other. 
 In the end, though, Mr. Suozzi's campaign to fix Albany might turn out to be not only about changing the dynamics in a capital known for its stagnancy and lack of accountability, but also about catapulting Mr. Suozzi to a position where he can be the fixer-in-chief.
 It is a strategy that has worked for him before. He began as mayor of the city of Glen Cove, inheriting the prior Republican regime's deficit and bad credit rating. He imposed a one-time tax increase, cut the staff, improved services, produced surpluses and revitalized the city.
 Next he turned his skills as a municipal Mr. Fix-It to the huge suburban county of Nassau, where Republicans again had run up a big deficit and damaged the credit rating. His campaign slogan was, ''I can do it because I've done it.'' Elected as the first Democratic executive here in three decades, he repeated his Glen Cove script by imposing a one-time tax increase, cutting the staff, improving services, producing surpluses and working on revitalization. 
 Fixing Albany seems like a natural career progression, but political analysts dispute just how well Mr. Suozzi is doing and the latest election's impact. 
 ''He didn't do much fixing'' in this election, said Dr. Stanley B. Klein, a political science professor at C.W. Post College and a Republican. ''As far as impact, he's a thud.''
 Arthur Kremer, a Democrat and former chairman of the Assembly Ways and Means Committee, says, however, that ''Tom Suozzi is on to something.''
 ''There's a lot of talk now about reform,'' Mr. Kremer said. ''He was one of the earliest and gets part of the credit that it's on the front burner.'' For his part, Mr. Suozzi says: ''Albany is still broken, but now everybody is using the phrase 'fix Albany.' Everybody is at least talking about reform.''
 In the process, he has raised his profile tremendously around the state by making speeches to various groups in upstate cities and appearing on television across the state.
 ''He certainly won the editorial boards,'' Mr. Kremer said of the numerous newspaper editorials that praised Mr. Suozzi.
 A campaign consultant who works mostly for Republicans, Michael Dawidziak, said: ''For a local elected official, he's doing tremendously well. If he continues to ride this issue, in two years we'll see if it has legs. I think it does, frankly.'' 
 That two-year mark is crucial. The next election of legislators is in 2006, as well as the election for governor, an office that Suozzi supporters say he covets. 
 But while he gained visibility and some support in his campaign, he also made enemies by recruiting Charles D. Lavine to mount a successful primary challenge to Assemblyman David S. Sidikman for the party's nomination in the 13th District on Nassau's North Shore. 
 Party officials called Mr. Suozzi disloyal and even barred him from a delegate's seat at the Democratic National Convention. The Nassau County Legislature's presiding officer, Judith A. Jacobs, became Mr. Sidikman's campaign manager.
 Political consultants say that the Sidikman upset was a fluke that Mr. Suozzi pulled off only because the district includes Glen Cove, where he dominates the party organization. A big turnout there propelled Mr. Lavine to a narrow victory for the nomination. He won Tuesday's general election, which was expected, given the district's big Democratic base.
 ''It isn't a big deal,'' Dr. Klein said. He added that Mr. Suozzi was unlikely to repeat that success elsewhere because of the special circumstances of the race.
 Mr. Suozzi also claims partial credit for the strong showing upstate by David J. Valesky, the Democrat who challenged a Republican State senator, Nancy Larraine Hoffmann, in the Syracuse area.
 Mr. Suozzi donated money and made appearances for Mr. Valesky, who led in close voting, with thousands of paper ballots still being counted. Echoing Mr. Suozzi's refrain, he said, ''This was the first important step towards fixing the broken State Legislature in Albany.''
 Whatever the significance of the results of Tuesday's election, Mr. Suozzi clearly has not abandoned his campaign. On Thursday, two days after the election, he was again attacking Albany and its system of financing Medicaid -- the heart of his fix-Albany argument. With Westchester's county executive, Andrew J. Spano, a Democrat, by his side, he called on the newly elected legislators to cap the local cost of Medicaid. He was immediately attacked by Senator Skelos's spokesman, Thomas K. Dunham, who labeled their proposal ''a joke'' that ''doesn't make any sense whatsoever.''
 Mr. Suozzi said the fight continues. He will be saying more about the issue in his new role as president of the New York State County Executives' Association, which starts next month.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas R. Suozzi, left, the Nassau County executive, with Andrew J. Spano, the Westchester County executive, in Mineola, N.Y., last week. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SUBURBS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Election Issues

PERSON: Bruce Lambert; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; Nassau County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



154 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Our Towns; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: A Vision for Saving Iraq by Preserving Bits of Babylon

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: STONY BROOK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
THERE was the Iraq of the presidential campaign, a place, almost an abstraction, that often seemed more about us than about them, where all the casualty figures were American and big ideas of freedom and democracy seldom seemed tied to the agony of a real place with real people.
 And then sitting in a conference room at Stony Brook University, there were Helen Malko, Zaid Ibraheem, Zainab Mohammed and Lina Mahmod, all sharing a goal that seems, at the moment, so distant as to be almost a hallucination. 
 The four are Iraqis studying archaeology under a grant from the United States Agency for International Development, learning modern techniques they can use to train a new generation of archaeologists and museum curators back home. The hope is that one day Iraq's cultural treasures dating back 4,000 years will become tourist attractions similar to the pyramids of Egypt. 
 The war zone that is Iraq is, after all, where civilization began. Elizabeth Stone, the Iraqis' teacher, reminds us that it was home to the first cities, the first people who worked full time making pottery and sculpture, where writing first captured the details and accounts of everyday life, the first place to brew beer.
 So there's something at once utterly rational and achingly quixotic in the program here, whose roots, the students said, began with their own experiences, their own awe, at the thousands of historic sites in Iraq, from Babylon and Kish to Ur and Uruk, from Nippur to Zabalam, many of them now being looted and despoiled.
 They know that Iraq's sharing its history with the world is something far in the future. But they don't think it's an empty dream. 
 ''Maybe one day, but not soon, not soon,'' said Ms. Mahmod, whose words tumble out of her mouth in a rush, like birds escaping from a cage.
 In the meantime, the four, ranging in age from 24 to 31, roam the sprawling state university campus here, Ms. Mahmod and Ms. Mohammed, scrupulously covered, Mr. Ibraheem and Ms. Malko blending in with the other students, all of them studying archaeology, studying us and studying us studying them.
 Since the first gulf war, of course, almost no Iraqis have been able to study in the United States. The four students at Stony Brook are among the first Iraqis to study in the United States since the current war began, part of a program offering grants to five universities.
 Much of their education has to do with the puzzle that is the culture of America, a place they see as different, not better, than their home. 
 Asked what seemed most strange, Ms. Mohammed, said: ''the machines'' -- meaning cash machines and ticket machines at rail or subway stations, vending machines in campus dorms, even the prevalence of computers. ''We don't have that in my country,'' she said.
 But just as odd, they said, was the relative isolation in which Americans seemed to live, compared with the close, extended families, their members all living near one another, that define their world in Iraq.
 And then there was the presidential race. 
 ''This is the first time I've seen the president of a very great country and another candidate, together, discussing things, being told he was wrong,'' Ms. Malko said. ''In my own country, never. If you looked at Saddam the wrong way you could be killed.''
 The task they will face when they return home is beyond daunting. Many important sites, particularly in southern Iraq, are in territory not controlled by the government, and just trying to visit can mean death. Iraq's national museum, ransacked after the fall of Saddam's reign, is still missing thousands of pieces and trying to recover from the vandalism of equipment, files and records.
 And another hurdle looms. Dr. Stone said she applied for the grant, with the understanding it would be a three-year program, the time needed for a meaningful master's program. But the money beyond the first year still has not been appropriated, and she has been told that because of the disastrous course of the war, education may be an unaffordable luxury and the money might go to security instead. 
 All four have lost friends or relatives since the war began. They accept the likelihood that they could lose more. They think removing Saddam was a good thing, but for now things in their country are worse than when he was there -- no jobs, no security, no peace.
 Like many Americans, it seems, they are surer about their religious faith than the world around them, their response to the chaos at home, part anger, part hope, part acceptance. If this quixotic dream of education, restoration and renewal falls through, one suspects they will accept that, too.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Zainab Mohammed, foreground, and Zaid Ibraheem at Stony Brook University. The archaeology students will share what they have learned when they return to Iraq. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); HISTORIC SITES (69%) Foreign Study, Teaching and Travel; Archaeology and Anthropology; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%) State University of New York at Stony Brook; Agency for International Development (Aid)

PERSON: Peter Applebome

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); EGYPT (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



155 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2294 words

HEADLINE: Far West Side Story

BYLINE: By MATTHEW DOHERTY. 
Matthew Doherty, who was a Stegner Fellow in poetry at Stanford University, has written for The Atlantic Monthly, Poetry and Glimmer Train, a literary quarterly.

 BODY:
NO one is in love today,'' says a man selling flowers. It is a brisk Sunday evening, but business is slow. The man stands on a traffic island near the Lincoln Tunnel -- a triangle surrounded by West 36th Street, the Dyer Avenue approach and the ramp from Ninth Avenue. 
 A billboard painted on a nearby building encourages passers-by to ''See yourself in the Bahamas.'' For the drivers mired in the heavy traffic here, imagining themselves in Weehawken would require no less a leap of imagination. Below the ad, a window has been cut out of the black-painted bricks. Red light glows through a curtain, as if the Bahamas themselves were on the other side of the wall. 
 Eventually, the flower man picks up a clutch of roses and wades into the traffic like a fly-fisherman, gliding downstream with the traffic. He makes his way toward the tunnel entrance, ambles back, and works the ramp from Ninth venue. When he comes back to the island, his hands are empty. A dozen roses are making their way under the Hudson. 
 But such iconic scenes of the far West Side may soon be altered or disappear entirely. In June, a few months after the flower man made his hard-won sale, New York announced a sweeping plan to redevelop his neighborhood. The proposal would result in nothing less than the transformation of a 59-block area -- partly in Hell's Kitchen and partly in Chelsea -- that lies west of Seventh Avenue between 30th and 42nd Streets. If it all happens, the revamping would include not only a bigger Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and a new Jets stadium, each costing about $1.4 billion, but also the addition of the equivalent of 13 Empire State Buildings of commercial space and more than 12,000 apartments. 
 Given the sweep of the plan, many New Yorkers, including people who live or work on the far West Side, have strong opinions about it. The Jets stadium in particular has inspired much combat, and by late October the two sides in that battle had spent $11.5 million on television ads and other promotional material. And skirmishes are taking place over many other aspects of the proposal, with critics pointing to displaced businesses and residents, and supporters emphasizing the city's need for office and residential space. State economic development officials approved the Jets stadium last Thursday, and the City Planning Commission is to release its final environmental review of the city's overall West Side plan this week. But those are just two of the many hurdles these hot-button proposals must jump. 
 Often lost in this loud debate, however, is the day-to-day rhythm of the area as it exists now -- the clack of a train on the track, the tap of a stable hand hammering a horseshoe, the ''Next!'' of the hot dog vendor who works near the flower man. These vignettes, drawn over the last 12 months, furnish glimpses of a thriving if eccentric ecosystem, whose roots stretch back to the 19th century, to piers and slaughterhouses, and to the construction of the Lincoln Tunnel.
 With the city's plan looming and with new restaurants, apartments and galleries already sprouting in the area, this patch of small buildings and railroad tracks, of tiny swaths of green, of grit and exhaust, may, in the future, wear a far different face. In that event, these pictures will memorialize as well as describe.
 It is midafternoon. A truck driver is stopped at a light on Ninth Avenue, his tractor-trailer straddling the plastic dividers that separate the main road from a tunnel-only lane, where he does not want to be. An orange pylon has wedged itself under the front bumper of his rig. A pedestrian pauses on his way across the street, reaches under and wriggles it free. He holds it up, where the driver can see. The light changes, and the truck rolls away, a lion to the pedestrian's mouse. The orange thorn is set back down in its line.
 The relationship between walker and driver on the far West Side is not always so symbiotic, especially as the evening rush bears down. Unlike the out-of-town trucker, these drivers know exactly where they need to be. And in their minds many of them are already there, mentally soaring over this familiar crush of traffic. Pedestrians crossing the avenue search hard for the eyes of drivers turning from the street on a green light.
 What the drivers see is not always what it appears to be. At 38th Street, cars roll past a block of buildings that look rundown and abandoned. The words ''Moved to W 36 St.'' have been spray-painted on a boarded-up storefront, as if on a giant Post-It note. 
 But from the far sidewalk, a few green and blue birds can be seen hopping on a windowsill inside a second-floor apartment of one structure. These buildings are not dead. They are being renovated.
 ''This neighborhood used to be crack city,'' says Herminio Torres, who lives in one of the buildings with his family, adding that it wasn't until about 1987 that things began to turn around. This particular block, he says, was ''The Last of the Mohicans.''
 Not just anyone can carry off the nickname T-Bone. But Mr. Torres can, and does. On this day last December, he was sporting a black leather cap, black sunglasses, a few gold chains and a ''T-Bone'' bracelet. ''I've thrown a few people down the stairs,'' he says without affect, describing the days when the area was overrun with drug dealers. 
 Some years ago, while working in a metal shop on his block, Mr. Torres lost part of a leg when a load of metal fell from a delivery truck. ''Everybody said, 'It'll slow T-Bone down,''' Mr. Torres recalls, with only a mild smugness at having proved them wrong.
 While he was recuperating, he wanted to hear birds. Because it was too difficult to go out and walk, he bought some pet birds for his apartment. 
 For the moment, the birds' presence is adequately explained. But there's more to it. 
 When Mr. Torres regained his mobility (he wears a prosthesis), having birds in his apartment was no longer a priority. He offered the birds to another tenant, but she didn't want them. Eventually he gave them to his sister. But the elderly woman to whom he'd offered them later warmed to the idea of having birds, and wound up buying some of her own. 
 ''When I didn't want them,'' Mr. Torres says, ''I couldn't give them away.'' 
 From unwanted to sought after: a parable of Hell's Kitchen.
 In the mid-1930's, wrecking crews began dismantling scores of tenements to make way for the Lincoln Tunnel approaches. A contemporary newspaper account described the clearance project as ''one of the indirect benefits'' of the tunnel's construction. Photos of the time show the damage: surgically precise, devastating in effect. 
 The far West Side retains the legacy of the tunnel's infrastructure: the spaghetti of ramps, odd-shaped parcels of concrete, cross streets tethered to avenues by steel beams. It's as if Hell's Kitchen were an ocean, and this hulking profusion of concrete and steel a sunken ship lying on its floor. But now, 70 years after its abrupt intrusion, some of the tunnel's otherworldliness has been worn away by the incessant activity of its environment.
 One day last winter, Leni Schwendinger was standing in a community garden at 39th Street and 10th Avenue. ''People come down here and say, 'I saw this from the bus ramp; I always wondered what this was,''' she says. The garden and a dog park form an L-shaped oasis. Below the garden, westbound cars emerge into their final daylight before the tunnel, where a sign reads, ''Last Exit in Manhattan.'' Alongside the dog park, buses make their way down a ramp from the Port Authority Bus Terminal. 
 Ms. Schwendinger, president of the Hell's Kitchen Neighborhood Association, and Meta Brunzema, an architect and urban planner, eagerly point out other concrete patches that might be similarly transformed. ''It shows there's energy here,'' Ms. Brunzema says. 
 The energy in Hell's Kitchen is the kind that comes and goes, swells with the crowds of commuters, Ninth Avenue shoppers and Javits Center conventioneers, is changed by its late-night isolation, by the lurking thrum of the Port Authority, vanishes in places, and appears again unexpectedly. 
 On a sidewalk on 38th Street near 11th Avenue on this day last January, the club crowd has already disappeared. But not all is quiet: the ping of a hammer can be heard through the open door of a building where a man is tacking horseshoes onto a carriage horse. Along the side of the building, hay sticks out of small arched windows. The occasional junkyard dog prowls ''the cut,'' the depressed railroad right-of-way that crosses under the street. To the east, Midtown is an impressive incongruity.
 Trains and tracks are a large presence in parts of the far West Side. ''The cut'' is the less exalted brother of the High Line, the unused 1.5-mile railroad viaduct built about 70 years ago that extends from the West Side Yards to Gansevoort Street. Both were constructed in the 1930's, part of an initiative called the West Side Improvement Project that removed freight trains from city streets. 
 Down below 40th Street, along ''the cut,'' a message has been painted on a wall beside the tracks: ''If you lived here, you'd be home by now.'' The tracks here have been built over, but the light comes in through an open patch, where the upper floors of some residential towers are cast against blue sky. A disused section of track is covered with trash -- old cushions, clothes, baby strollers, suitcases, an empty bottle of orange wine. A spur goes off to the west, toward a place where a slaughterhouse used to be. An Amtrak train comes through on the main track, loud at first, then a hushed string of silver passenger cars. 
 Then the place is quiet again, a library of graffiti and darkness.
 Tony Guida was born in 1927, in a cold-water flat on West 33rd Street, and he has lived in Hell's Kitchen nearly his whole life. One day last winter, Mr. Guida was recalling when Ninth Avenue was crowded with pushcarts from Paddy's Market, when trains plied the surface track along 11th Avenue (then labeled ''Death Avenue'' because of all the train-related accidents), and when bakers and butchers delivered to people's apartments by horse and wagon. 
 ''My father worked for the New York Central, unloading trains,'' Mr. Guida says, in a classic New York accent. He remembers when the circus arrived in town at the New York Central's yard. The workers and the animals would sleep in their respective railroad cars at night, and the animals would be marched to the circus through the streets. 
 In those days, goods that had ''fallen off a truck'' might actually have so fallen, and the men who pulled freight off trains and loaded it on trucks often went home with errant produce that had been slipped into a satchel before an inspector could seize it. In the years before refrigeration, fish were often transported live, on specialized cars that were, in effect, rolling aquariums; Mr. Guida remembers an eel that spent some time swimming corkscrews in the bathtub of his family's apartment.
 The railroad yards have changed a lot since the mid- to late 1800's, when the Hell's Kitchen Gang and the Gophers routinely raided the trains there. The raids stopped around 1910, when the New York Central Railroad established a special police force that was as formidable as the gangsters. 
 The site, also known as Hudson Yards and the John D. Caemmerer Yards, is now owned by the Long Island Rail Road, and is used to maintain, repair and store trains. 
 Brian Dolan, a spokesman for the Long Island Rail Road, was walking through the yard one day last December, acting like a homeowner showing off a new addition. The L.I.R.R. opened the yard in 1987, after six years of construction. Before that, morning trains into the city had to return to Long Island before coming back for the evening rush. Now the trains wait here, like parents outside a Blink-182 concert, until it's time to take commuters back to Long Island. ''By 5:30, this place will be empty,'' Mr. Dolan says, but in midafternoon trains fill most of the yard's 31 tracks. 
 In the yard's vast flatness, it's easy to forget that you are in Manhattan. It will be even easier if the place is decked over and the Jets stadium is built on top of it.
 On 42nd Street near 12th Avenue, next to the Chinese consulate and across from the new River Place residential tower, stands a brownstone with a white facade and lime-green fire escapes and windowsills. It was a gray day last November. 
 ''Thirty-seven years I've been here,'' says Louis Gritsipis, taking a break inside his restaurant on the building's first floor. Mr. Gritsipis, who is in his early 60's, owns the building and lives with his wife and two children in one of three upstairs apartments. ''I had difficult years, with the drug dealers and criminals,'' he says. ''The 60's, 70's -- forget about it. They used to cut the roof, break through the wall. I would open the store at 5:30: no eggs, no ham, no cash register.'' Mr. Gritsipis taps two fingers to his temple. ''Seven times I was held up.'' 
 The strain of those encounters doesn't show in his face. But his expression tightens when he talks about certain changes in the neighborhood. The area has been cleaned up, and it is much safer, improvements for which he credits Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Yet it's not just the bad characters who have been swept out. ''Lunchtime used to be all locals, packed in like sardines,'' he says. Now, he relies on tourists. ''I prefer to have my neighbors know each other. We used to know each other.
 ''But this building,'' he continues, gesturing toward the tower across the street, ''I don't know if it exists or not. These big buildings, I call them 'mountains.' This one: 900 apartments, but I don't see any people.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article in this section on Nov. 7 about development pressures on the Far West Side of Manhattan referred incorrectly to Leni Schwendinger of the Hell's Kitchen Neighborhood Association, who pointed out potential sites for small parks or gardens. She stepped down as president in June 2003. She founded the group in 1993 and was president for 10 years.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ON THE ROAD -- Miles from Midtown in vibes if not distance, the far West Side has a feel of ''passing through.'' (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 CHANGES AFOOT? -- Low slung and sparsely peopled now, the far West Side may get higher and more hectic if plans to build a Jets stadium, and other initiatives, come to pass. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); RETAILERS (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); APPROVALS (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CITIES (60%) Javits, Jacob K, Convention Center (NYC); Football; Housing; Retail Stores and Trade; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%) New York Jets

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: Matthew Doherty

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



156 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Toward a 24-Hour Downtown Hartford

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: Hartford 

 BODY:
THE focus of Hartford's transition from staid insurance capital to diverse 24-hour city is shifting from revenue-producing commercial ventures like the Convention Center and Marriott Hotel at Adriaen's Landing, due to open in June, to the creation of downtown housing and retail activity. 
 This is in its early stages, to be sure. Much of the housing is still under development, and there are no modern food stores downtown. 
 What's more, finding an apartment takes some doing, since all the major residential real estate firms are in the suburbs. ''Not enough people live downtown to justify an office,'' said Larry Celella at William Raveis Real Estate in West Hartford, making a point that was echoed by other real estate agents. 
 Until that changes, the developers rent, sell, market and save on commissions. Nevertheless, they say the level of residential development is the greatest it has been in decades.
 Dean Pagani, spokesman for the Capital City Economic Development Authority, or Cceda (pronounced as though there are two e's rather than two c's), said: ''The state has invested $1 billion in downtown housing, for demolition, construction, parking and housing subsidies for Cceda's completed projects and those in various stages. Leveraging private investment, we have created public-private partnerships.''
 He added that ''60 percent of people taking these condos or apartments are older, selling suburban homes, divorced, grown kids or no kids.'' 
 The rest are mostly young professionals, said Susie Hatch, an agent in the West Hartford office of Coldwell Banker. Through newspaper ads, she said, ''I've placed doctors, policemen and corporate employees in condos and rentals.''
 She sold Dennis House and his wife, Kara Sundlen, both news anchors at the CBS affiliate, WFSB-TV, a 3,000-square-foot, eight-room brownstone for $129,000. ''Hartford is in the middle of a renaissance,'' Mr. House said. ''We want to stay here and raise kids downtown. There are great magnet schools.''
 A steady stream of developers are building some of the 3,000 units of downtown housing that Mayor Eddie Perez wants. ''The current count is 985,'' the mayor said, ''and it's a seller's market with more demand than supply.''
 Projects can be new or conversions from office buildings, department stores and factories and often feature something besides apartments.
 In the case of the Civic Center, Hartford's architectural monster and former mall, trade show and concert venue, a $169 million conversion by the Northland Investment Corporation of Newton, Mass., began by ripping out the concrete fortress facade and commencing work on a 36-story tower of 232 apartments rising over a base of 93,000 square feet of offices and 38,000 square feet of street-level shops and restaurants. Inside the structure, an existing 800-car garage and the Veterans Memorial Coliseum, managed by Madison Square Garden on a ground lease with the city, will remain for sports and concerts.
 The site, said Peter Standish, senior vice president at Northland, ''surrounds us with the Bushnell theaters, the Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford Stage, Riverfront Recapture Park, Pratt Street shops, night life on Allen Street and Union Station, all within a few blocks.'' 
 He discounts the lingering skepticism about the city. ''There is a stale perception among suburbanites that downtown Hartford is a 9 to 5 office park,'' he said. ''They haven't seen what has been taking place.''
 One example is the $50 million conversion of the Sage-Allen department store, built in 1898. It will result in 78 market-rate apartments and 12,000 square feet of retail space on Main Street, and a platform on top of the 340-car garage to be built behind the store will support 44 four-bedroom town houses. They will be rented at low rates, comparable to dorm rates, exclusively to university and college students in winter and to corporate interns in summer. ''These are young people who otherwise fend for themselves in a city where they know no one,'' said Marc Levine, the developer in partnership with Philip Schoenberger. ''A study was done on the need for this.'' The projected completion date is the fall of 2005. 
 Another noteworthy project, this one costing $40 million, involves two neglected landmarked homes at 25 and 31 Lewis Street. Situated behind Trumbull on the Park, an 88-unit apartment house under construction with shops and restaurants at street level, the houses have been adopted by the building's developer, Martin Kenny, who will restore their Victorian charm and convert them into 12 apartments. Lewis Street is a quaint one-block lane, which, he said, ''we will make pedestrian friendly for use only as a drop-off point and for residents using the main building's 600-car parking garage.''
 The Waterford Group, master planners of downtown Hartford, is gearing up to build 200 apartments at the rear of the defunct Hartford Times building. The front portion will serve as offices, a restaurant and retail shop for the Wadsworth Atheneum, America's oldest art museum, which is a half a block away. 
 Other projects include the Hartford Electric Light Company building, to be renovated as apartments by David Nyberg, who converted the elegant Southern New England Telephone building to 135 apartments now called 55 on the Park. They sold out last year.
 And the three-story, 100,000-square-foot Capewell Manufacturing Company, a former horseshoe nail factory, is to become a condominium with 92 lofts and flats developed by John Reveruzzi.
 Apartment sizes and rents in these projects are similar, ranging from 730 to 3,000 square feet for studios to three-bedrooms, with projected price tags of $900 to $3,000 a month. The Capewell condos would be $100,000 to $185,000.
 All this activity has quickened interest in some existing downtown housing like the upscale Bushnell Towers and Plaza condominiums, built in 1967.
 Dr. James Louman, president of the residents' association, said: ''A lot of seniors who have raised their families are coming into town and buying up two and three units here, combining them to accommodate the possessions they bring in from large homes. Some of them are doing awesome rehabs with $40,000 kitchens.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: FROM FORTRESS TO HOMES -- Above, the Hartford Civic Center Mall will be replaced by a 36-story apartment tower rising over offices and shops
below, Lewis Street. (Photos by Steve Miller for The New York Times, above
 Trumbull on the Park L.L.C., below) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RETAILERS (77%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (72%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (62%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (50%) Housing; Brokers and Brokerage Firms

COMPANY: NORTHLAND INVESTMENT CORP (60%)

PERSON: Eleanor Charles; Eddie (Mayor) Perez

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Hartford (Conn) 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



157 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; IN BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Asking the 'What Ifs,' Case Study by Case Study

BYLINE: By JEFF GROSSMAN

DATELINE: PURCHASE 

 BODY:
CLUSTERED around their makeshift conference table, Allie Feiner and her seven teammates pushed aside breakfast and got down to business. Spread out before them were sheets of information about Model E, an Internet-based car leasing service: the company had been in development for almost a year; its corporate backers were lined up; and a half million dollars had been invested. A case study, Model E offered the team of students a chance to think as if they were company executives, challenging them to pinpoint problems and solve them.
 Ms. Feiner, a 16-year-old junior at New Rochelle High School, and her fellow students had never heard of the Model E company before that morning. As participants in the second annual Youth Business Skills Olympics, organized by the African American Men of Westchester, the students, all sophomores, juniors and seniors, were getting a lesson in corporate decision-making in a practical setting. New Rochelle was one of nine school districts in Westchester County that fielded teams in the event, held at Purchase College late last month. 
 And the first problem confronting the New Rochelle students: Just weeks before its official public affairs campaign was to begin, details about the company had inadvertently been released to the news media.
 Ms. Feiner's reaction was prompt. ''I think it's important that we get our message out there, but properly,'' she said. ''The problem with the leak is that people find a little thing and they run with it, and they might speculate that we're something we're not.''
 That is just the kind of thinking that Dr. Bettye Perkins, who supervised the panel of judges for the event, encourages. 
 ''You can be very smart, and you can leave school with a 4.0 or 3.5,'' Dr. Perkins said, ''but if you don't understand all of these other things that can happen in the business world, then you will not be as successful as you could be.'' 
 She is executive director of Today's Students, Tomorrow's Teachers, an organization that provides scholarships, mentors and placement assistance for college students who plan to teach in the Hudson Valley schools. The event was also presented by the Regional Partnership of Schools and Colleges.
 Each team was assigned a case study originally developed by the Harvard Business School for its own use. The case studies were distributed to the students two or three days before the event -- to discourage advance planning, Dr. Perkins said. Once they arrived at Purchase, the students had the morning to think about the problems. Their analysis was presented to a four-judge panel in the afternoon. The Model E case study had 15 pages of background information; one about human resources at Microsoft had 19. All of the studies included technological and traditional business elements.
 Each school district was encouraged to use its own criteria in selecting its team members, who did not meet until the day of the competition.
 ''When you go into a work situation,'' Dr. Perkins said, ''you're not going have that warm fuzzy feeling that you're there with your classmates. You're there with all new people, trying to get the lay of the land, you're trying to work within the structure, the culture of a corporation.''
 Yonkers entered the largest team, with 11 members drawn from 5 schools. ''They were enemies as of this morning,'' said Ken Texler, head of the computer science department at Gorton High School in Yonkers. ''The only time they met was on a sports field. This was the first time they got to collaborate and be teammates, and show what the Yonkers public schools can do when we all come together.'' 
 Kevin Tribble, a 17-year-old senior at White Plains High School, and his three teammates made up the smallest delegation taking part in the event. He said the density of the material did not intimidate him because he had learned that the first step in confronting any business problem was to ''analyze, analyze, analyze.'' 
 Matt Kolb, a business law teacher who previously ran a Deutsche Bank brokerage office in New York City, selected the New Rochelle team. ''This gives them an opportunity not only to see how good they are, but also to give them a feel for a picture of the world as competitive, diverse and extremely exciting,'' he said. ''They see that there are other kids like them at other schools who are sharp. When these presentations are made, they're going to say, 'Oh wow, those guys are good, too.'''
 Each team was assigned an executive from a local company who worked with them for the day to ensure that their discussions stayed on track.
 The African American Men of Westchester, founded in 1987, says it aims to promote economic development for African-Americans and to heighten awareness of social and cultural issues, according to its Web site, www.aamw.com.
 The organization came up with the idea of the olympics to allow students to practice working through business problems as part of a team, said Bernie Thombs, a group member who is chief executive of Bernard Raymond Inc. in Valhalla. 
 One goal of the olympics, added Mr. Thombs, its lead organizer, is to help students ''look beyond the issue of race, or their ethnic background or gender, and focus more on what their talents and skills are -- and how they can use those talents and skills to demonstrate, and to participate and to give to the best of a project.'' 
 The Yonkers team studied the issues surrounding Sony's release of its PlayStation 2 game system in the United States, acting out -- rather than simply standing at the microphone -- its analysis as a mock board meeting. The team placed first, with Mount Vernon second and Valhalla third. The students were judged on their ability to work as a team, to identify the issues embedded in the text, to come up with practical solutions and to convey their ideas. 
 Besides providing a learning experience, Mr. Thombs explained, the business skills olympics is intended to act as a forum for students' talents in front of local entrepreneurs. ''We'd like to try to encourage the businesses that are participating in this to look at these students as potential future employees,'' he said, ''and also interest the students in possibly looking at Westchester and these businesses as potential places to work.'' 
 One businessman who was considering the students as future employees was Christopher Furey, chief executive of Savvy Networks in Tarrytown and a judge, who said he hoped to recruit interns for his Internet services company. 
 ''I just love the idea of getting them while they're young, before they're set in their ways and formed their ideals,'' he said, ''understanding that they've got options, and then putting them on a career path to be able to explore.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Luvaghn Brown, far right, a member of the African American Men of Westchester, meets with students at the Youth Business Skills Olympics at Purchase College. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CASE STUDIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); JUDGES (63%) Executives and Management; Contests and Prizes; Education and Schools

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York at Purchase; African American Men of Westchester (Orgn)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: Jeff Grossman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



158 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Erin Wile, Marc Thomas

 BODY:
Erin Heather Wile and Marc Reginald Thomas were married yesterday. The Rev. Albert C. Mickel, a Missionary Baptist minister, officiated at Montegut House in New Orleans. 
 The bride, 33, is a freelance production manager for television commercials made in New York. She graduated from Ohio University in Athens, Ohio. She is the daughter of Karin E. Wile and Dr. John H. Wile of Stony Brook, N.Y. Her father is the president of the Economic and Management Consulting Group, based in Stony Brook, which advises governments and companies on energy issues. Her mother is a psychotherapist in Stony Brook and in Sayville, N.Y.
 The bridegroom, 34, is a freelance television editor and graphic artist in New York. He received a film studies certificate from New School University. He is the son of Nicole and Robert C. Thomas of Montreal. His mother retired as the human resources manager at International House, a residence and activities center in New York for foreign students. His father retired as a jazz drummer with the Billy Taylor Trio in New York. He was also the musical coordinator for ''A Chorus Line'' on Broadway.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); FILM SCHOOLS (71%); HUMAN RESOURCES (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); VISUAL ARTS (68%); FILM (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MANAGEMENT CONSULTING GROUP PLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: MMC (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



159 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Wendy Rothschild, Jason Heltzer

 BODY:
Wendy Charlotte Rothschild, a daughter of Betty Rothschild and Judge James S. Rothschild of Short Hills, N.J., was married last evening to Jason Marc Heltzer, a son of Ruth and Lester A. Heltzer of Potomac, Md. Rabbi Michael P. Sternfield officiated at the Harold Washington Library Center in Chicago. 
 The bride and bridegroom, both 30, met at the University of Chicago, where the bridegroom received an M.B.A. and the bride is a candidate for both an M.B.A. and a doctorate in economics.
 The bride graduated from the University of Pennsylvania. Her father is a New Jersey Superior Court judge in Newark. 
 The bridegroom makes and oversees investments in private companies for OCA Ventures, a venture capital firm in Chicago. He graduated with highest distinction from the University of Michigan. He is a son of Ruth and Lester A. Heltzer of Potomac, Md. His mother is an office administrator at KAI Research, a clinical trials company in Rockville, Md. His father is the executive secretary of the National Labor Relations Board in Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); JUDGES (88%); VENTURE CAPITAL (86%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (86%); PRIVATE EQUITY (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



160 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Vera Wu, Harold Spiegle

 BODY:
Vera Y-E Wu and Harold Mark Spiegle were married yesterday by the Rev. Dr. J. Anthony Zito, an interfaith minister, at the Pratt Mansions in New York.
 Ms. 
Wu, 35, will keep her name. She is a senior manager in strategic planning at Pfizer, the pharmaceuticals company in New York, where she looks for and recommends new technology. She graduated from the University of Delaware and received an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania. 
 She is a daughter of Sophie Chang and Peter Ting-Kai Wu, both of Taipei, Taiwan. Her father is the president and chief executive of China Synthetic Rubber, a manufacturer in Taipei. Her mother is on the board of the Women's Society Foundation in Taipei, which provides financing for shelters and career counseling for victims of domestic abuse. The bride is a stepdaughter of Dr. Morris Chang.
 Mr. Spiegle, 36, is the worldwide financial controller for Ethicon, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson that manufactures sutures and other medical products, in Somerville, N.J. He graduated summa cum laude from Trenton State College and received an M.B.A. from New York University. He is also a certified public accountant. He is the son of Rita Spiegle of Brick Township, N.J., and the late Irwin Spiegle. His mother is a substitute teacher at the Lakewood Elementary School in Lakewood, N.J. His father was a supervisor in the unemployment section of the New Jersey Department of Labor in Trenton.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (74%); RELIGION (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (65%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (65%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (72%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (57%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (72%); PFEB (BRU) (72%); PFE (NYSE) (72%); JNJ (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (72%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (72%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (91%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



161 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Careers; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1816 words

HEADLINE: The Enlightened M.B.A.

BYLINE: By Pagan Kennedy. 
Pagan Kennedy is the author, most recently, of ''Black Livingstone: A True Tale of Adventure in the 19th-Century Congo (Viking).

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
IN an empty conference room at Harvard Business School, two students were redesigning the Ukrainian health care system. Dr. Ed Kanalosh, who trained to be a doctor in Ukraine, paced the room, keeping a tight grip on his Diet Coke as he practiced his pitch. He was explaining -- to an imaginary audience of judges -- how to fix his country's medical morass. 
 ''When you walk into the examining room, you see a doctor and nurse together,'' he said. ''They're doing weird stuff, writing on papers and barely paying attention to you. After a while, the doctor starts doing what nurses should do, like measuring weight and blood pressure.'' In clinics left over from the Soviet era, he said, doctors expect bribes from patients, walls crumble, floors may be filthy. People survive, on average, into their 60's. He hoped to improve the dismal system by introducing a new model of care. Affordable private clinics with short waiting times, polite staff, gleaming equipment and an efficient division of labor among doctors and nurses, he argues, will attract patients. 
 Dr. Kanalosh flipped through PowerPoint screens full of graphs, describing how he and his partners would begin with three health care centers designed with the help of experts from the Mayo Clinic. Eventually, they would expand to 150 centers. Other entrepreneurs, inspired by their success, would jump into the market. 
 Across the room, Shuhrat Kuziev, from Uzbekistan, swiveled back and forth in his chair as he called out suggestions. ''Dude,'' he said, pointing up at the chart glowing on the wall, ''I think you should narrow down that number.'' 
 In a few days, the two would present their proposal to a panel of judges. Like other students who compete in Harvard's annual business-plan competition, they would try to prove that their idea could turn a profit. But because they were billing themselves as social entrepreneurs -- visionaries who mix business acumen with a desire to distribute vaccines, educate low-income children or fight racism -- they would also be judged according to another set of criteria. They would have to prove that their plan could save the world, or one small part of it. 
 ''As people who come from developing countries, we feel we are lucky to be here,'' Mr. Kuziev explains later. ''We need to give back.'' 
 Harvard Business School has just celebrated the 10th anniversary of its Initiative on Social Enterprise, a program that aims to prepare M.B.A.'s like Mr. Kuziev and Mr. Kanalosh to manage nonprofit enterprises, oversee philanthropic activities or start scrappy companies that attack social ills. The effort unofficially began in 1989, when an assistant professor, J. Gregory Dees, proposed a new class that would teach students to blend the best of the nonprofit and commercial sectors, using their business skills to solve problems like hunger and illiteracy. ''Many folks advised me not to do the class because it would be detrimental to my academic career -- it would put me on the margins of business-school faculty,'' says Professor Dees, now teaching at the Fuqua School of Business at Duke. Indeed, Harvard at first turned down his proposal. 
 As it is defined today, social enterprise can mean just about anything. ''At one end of the spectrum, you could have a soup kitchen in the basement of a church, where all the labor is volunteer and all the materials are donated -- pure charity,'' says James E. Austin, faculty chairman of the program. ''At the other end of the spectrum, you have a for-profit company that is engaged in an undertaking that has some embedded social purpose'' -- for instance, a Body Shop or a Starbucks, with their stated mission of helping disadvantaged communities or preserving the environment.
 Ten years ago, few business schools offered formal education in social entrepreneurship; now just about every first-rate business school does. Stanford, Columbia and Duke have embraced the idea. Oxford University in England opened the Skoll Center for Social Entrepreneurship last year with a grant from Jeffrey S. Skoll, eBay's first president. 
 Professor Dees sees this trend as a response to 90's exuberance. ''We had the fall of the Soviet Union, a sense of triumph for capitalist democracies, a lot of respect for what businesses had been able to accomplish,'' he says. ''The 90's were a heyday for entrepreneurs.'' So why couldn't that spirit of innovation help fix the public schools, provide Haitians with clean water or bring phones to rural villages in India?
 Some business leaders had already attacked these questions with stunning success. ''The Grameen Bank, in particular, created a very interesting model that caught the imagination of lots of business folks, who saw it as a market-based solution to poverty,'' Professor Dees says. In the 80's, Grameen began extending loans to poor women in Bangladesh, allowing them to buy sewing machines or cows to start their own businesses. 
 Students continue to be enthused about such market solutions, Professor Dees says, despite the dot-com bust and scandals that have gripped corporate America. ''The students are pulling the faculty along in the direction of social entrepreneurship,'' he says. ''There may be something about this generation; they're trying to figure out a way to make their mark.'' 
 Also, students are frustrated with the traditional methods of doing good. ''The old expectation that government or charities can take care of social problems is not being met,'' Professor Austin says. Several Harvard students who have worked for nonprofits came away from those jobs convinced that some good-hearted organizations suffer from terrible management. 
 Before enrolling at Harvard Business School, Misha Simmonds taught seventh and eighth graders at a small private school in Newark that offered scholarships to needy residents. ''The school I was working in was well run, but it was an island in a vast abyss of failure,'' he says. Mr. Simmonds says he decided to join those who are tweaking the business model in the hope of transforming education. ''It's not enough just to try to do good,'' he says. ''You have to succeed at doing good.'' With a fellowship from Harvard Business School, he is working at the NewSchools Venture Fund, an organization that ''invests'' in promising teachers and nonprofit groups by handing out grants. The organization is modeled on a venture capital fund. 
 In fact, the old designations -- nonprofit, for-profit, private, public -- often no longer apply. ''Sector bending'' is what Professor Dees calls the tendency for organizations to step out of their usual roles. Private companies run charter schools. Nonprofits start businesses. Activist groups become corporate shareholders. 
 In his new book, ''How to Change the World: Social Entrepreneurs and the Power of New Ideas,'' David Bornstein calls this mishmash of well-meaning institutions the ''citizen sector.'' He says that the citizen sector is the fastest-growing part of the economy, but the trend is so amorphous as to defy measurement. ''We are still in a transition period,'' Professor Dees says. ''This is just starting.'' 
 And as corporations and nonprofits begin to adapt to the citizen sector, so too are M.B.A.'s. In an auditorium at Harvard Business School last March, Thomas J. Tierney paced the stage, his hands shoved into the pockets of his khakis, talking about his own identity change. Mr. Tierney left his job as chief executive at Bain & Company, an international consulting group, and founded a nonprofit. While it's common for executives to devote themselves to public service when they retire, Mr. Tierney followed a different script. He made the switch in his 40's. 
 On this day, he was speaking to a packed house -- the Social Enterprise Conference had drawn about 1,000 people, twice the number as the year before. The men and women spilling out into the aisles made a good advertisement for enlightened business. They were ethnically diverse, fresh-faced, name-tagged and dressed in sober suits and navy pumps. 
 Mr. Simmonds, former head of the Social Enterprise Club, the sponsor of the conference, says he knows many young executives who expect to follow Mr. Tierney's example, moving back and forth from the profit-seeking and nonprofit sectors in their lifetimes. ''People used to say that you spend the first third of your life learning, and then you spend the next third earning and then in retirement you serve the community,'' Mr. Simmonds says. ''But there's a problem with that: by the time you get around to serving, you're not as effective as you could have been if you'd learned all along about nonprofits.''
 How many of these M.B.A.'s will still be willing to save the world when they find out just how little it pays? M.B.A.'s can earn hundreds of dollars an hour consulting at private-sector companies, but those expectations are not realistic when they're working for nonprofits, says Jonathan Harrison, business development director of the Mountain Association for Community Economic Development, a group that tries to help local businesses and entrepreneurs in eastern Kentucky and central Appalachia. Recently, Mr. Harrison ran a nonprofit with the mission of pairing new business-school graduates with small businesses in the Delta region. 
 ''I found it very difficult to attract M.B.A. students from the top 50 business schools'' with a nonprofit salary, he says. ''In my recruiting experience, M.B.A. graduates with a social conscience not only want to do good, but also to do well, too. Generally, they price themselves out of the nonprofit market.'' 
 At Harvard, the number of students who directly enter the public sector remains small -- 4 percent in 2003. 
 This year, one of the few is Martin Curiel, a 2004 graduate who founded a nonprofit group called the Migrant M.B.A. Project. He grew up hauling bags of peaches through the orchards of California; his mother still works at a peach cannery. His nonprofit will help migrant workers find their way to business school or to become entrepreneurs. 
 As for Mr. Kuziev and Dr. Kanalosh, both are working in the investment community -- Mr. Kuziev with the public-sector International Finance Corporation. In their spare time, they are trying to advance their health care proposal, which took second place in Harvard's competition (first prize went to a solar-power start-up). But it goes slowly, they say.
 Professor Dees acknowledges that the kinder, gentler M.B.A.'s aren't yet a force in the market, although he says that business students keep pushing for classes that address social issues. ''What excites them is the potential for bringing together two worlds,'' he says. ''How do you incorporate social values as well as economic values into decision-making? That's absolutely a question that's in the air right now. I hope whatever's in the air stays in the air.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: NONPROFIT MOTIVE: Ed Kanalosh, center, who trained to be a doctor in Ukraine, with other business students who participated in Harvard's annual social- enterprise competition. (Photograph by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)
Semifinalists in the business-plan competition, from left: a health-care initiative in Ukraine
a solar-power start-up
a bridge between black grad students and the community.
 J. Gregory Dees (Photograph by Chris Maynard) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CHARITIES (83%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); PHILANTHROPY (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%) Philanthropy; Business Schools; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); MAYO CLINIC (54%) Harvard University

PERSON: Pagan Kennedy; J Gregory (Prof) Dees

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UKRAINE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



162 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2646 words

HEADLINE: One True Thing

BYLINE: By Anemona Hartocollis. 
Anemona Hartocollis is a Times reporter and the author of ''Seven Days of Possibilities: One Teacher, 24 Kids and the Music That Changed Their Lives Forever'' (PublicAffairs).

 BODY:
As my oldest child was about to enter Booker T. Washington Middle School on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, a friend warned me, ''Whatever you do, you don't want Chaka Ann as your teacher.'' Chaka, the friend said, was tough, overbearing, too demanding. I could believe it, just by the sound of her name. 
 Chaka Ann turned out to be a petite former Peace Corps worker with tremendous energy, a zany sense of humor and boundless enthusiasm for her subject (humanities) and her students. Her real name was Ann Puddu, but she had grown tired of being called Mrs. Purdue Chickens or Miss P.U. and reinvented herself as Chaka, loosely based, she says, on an African word meaning teacher, warrior, leader. She told parents of sixth graders that she was going to get their children ready for college, and boy, did she mean it.
 ''Write more,'' she used to scribble at the bottom of my daughter's homework papers. And writing more meant thinking more. My son taught himself ''Greensleeves'' on the guitar to accompany the class in a raucous performance of ''Romeo and Juliet,'' in which every student had a role. Many will remember their lines for the rest of their lives. 
 I'm sure she shaped the educational future of my children -- and many others -- for years to come.
 As an education reporter for seven years, I would often talk to people about teachers I have known. Policy makers and politicians invariably reacted cynically to stories of Chaka Ann and teachers like her -- surely one teacher cannot make that much difference, they would say. Besides, there aren't that many brilliant teachers out there. And how do you replicate them?
 Instead, fixing public education seems to involve a constant quest for the one true thing, the magic bullet, what experts call systemic reform -- higher standards, proven curriculums, small schools, large schools, even uniform dress codes. Yet the one true thing never appears. 
 But many children and their parents think they have found the one true thing. They remember a great teacher and, if they are lucky, more than one. It is the teacher who made them understand algebra for the first time, or love literature, or feel as if they would grow up to be somebody worthwhile. Ask any parent how school is going this year, and if they're happy, the first thing they say is that their child has a great teacher. No one remembers a great school system or a great chancellor, a great textbook, or a great curriculum that came straight out of the can, with little room for deviation or idiosyncrasy.
 Ideally, the measurable outcomes of teaching, like test scores or graduation rates or college entrance rates, would correlate somehow with the teachers people remember. How to measure the impact of a teacher is a tricky question, though experts are trying. Ronald F. Ferguson, an economist who does research in education at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, correlated teachers' test scores with the test scores of their students, and found that teacher expertise accounts for more difference in student performance -- 40 percent -- than any other factor. 
 Through surveys and interviews in six states, Dr. Ferguson has mapped out a constellation of factors that characterize good teachers, all falling into the categories of subject knowledge, pedagogy and the relationship between students and teachers. He views relationships as one of the most important elements of what happens in the classroom. Some academics regard that ''as touchy-feely stuff with no clear evidence that it makes any difference,'' he says. But, he adds, ''We're trying to really test the proposition.''
 In general, Dr. Ferguson has found that effective teachers not only know their subjects but also have high expectations, do whatever it takes to help children understand the material and don't let them give up. 
 Douglas E. Wood, executive director of the National Academy for Excellent Teaching, which operates under the aegis of Teachers College at Columbia University, has this view: ''It goes back to what kind of kid you want to produce. If you want kids to achieve on standardized tests and that's all you want, then you can be very clear about what makes an effective teacher. If you also want them to be able to think in creative ways about solving problems, that's not necessarily measured by a test. Then that changes the definition of what constitutes an effective teacher.''
 Further eluding science is that extra spark, what educational researchers call ''value added.'' In teaching, as in many creative endeavors, effectiveness depends to some degree on personal chemistry in the classroom.
 But can you teach someone to be the kind of teacher who makes a difference? 
 Jay Mathews thinks so. Mr. Mathews, a Washington Post columnist, wrote an inspirational book about Jaime Escalante, the maverick math teacher at Garfield High in East Los Angeles who served as the basis of the film ''Stand and Deliver.'' He tells how a struggling teacher named Ben Jimenez went to Jaime Escalante for help, and Mr. Escalante was able to turn him into a strong teacher, though not a clone of his own showbiz personality. ''You can't teach the sort of natural effervescence and humor of Jaime Escalante,'' Mr. Mathews says. ''But you can certainly teach how to organize a class, how to care about kids, how to set goals and stick to them, and that's the essence of a great teacher.''

Migdalia Pagan
Orange County Public Schools
Orlando, Fla.
 The worst day of Migdalia Pagan's life came in fourth grade at Public School 61 on the Lower East Side of New York. She was 9 or 10 years old, in a class for Spanish-speaking children struggling with English, and her teacher, Sam Horowitz, held her back.
 ''I was furious about that, because I loved my teacher and I trusted him, and when he held me back it was such a letdown for me,'' says Ms. Pagan, who is known as Maggie. ''I felt like I was a failure, and my dream was to be a teacher.'' Ms. Pagan realizes now that her teacher probably felt as bad, and as helpless, as she did. Looking back, she also realizes that he changed her life. He pushed her to do well and, in the end, she fulfilled her dream of becoming a teacher.
 Mr. Horowitz was not the only teacher to influence the young Maggie. He sent her to a reading clinic, where her teacher was Mabel Christie Dennison, who later helped found a small private school called the First Street School. (Mrs. Dennison's husband, George, wrote a 1969 best seller, ''The Lives of Children,'' about the school.)
 ''On the first day, Mabel Dennison wrote me a little message on a colored index card: 'I can't wait to start reading and sharing books with you,''' Ms. Pagan recalls. She carried that card with her for years.
 Mrs. Dennison took Maggie to the library for her first library card. Every Wednesday, instead of going to religious instruction, she would sneak off to the library and take out six books. One time, she forgot to return a book, and nobody seemed to notice. After that, she would check out six books a week, hide one under her bed, and return the other five. It was only when her mother received notice of a huge library fine that Maggie realized that her large collection of pilfered books had not magically become hers. 
 Despite opposition from her parents, who, she says, thought the role of a good Puerto Rican daughter was to get married and raise children, Ms. Pagan went on to college. There, too, she had help: Mr. Horowitz pushed her to fill out the application, and Mrs. Dennison helped her find work as a nanny. 
 Mrs. Dennison died in 2001. Ms. Pagan has not seen Mr. Horowitz in 30 years. ''I have thought of her so often,'' says Mr. Horowitz, 72 and now retired. ''She had guts. She had the horrible experience of having me as a first-year teacher. But whatever I lacked in ability, I made up for because the kids knew I wanted them to learn.''
 Ms. Pagan went on to teach elementary school in New York and then in Orlando, where she taught for 19 years. Echoing her childhood experience, she has stressed teaching English and reading skills to Spanish-speaking children. Now 54, she travels around the country as a literacy consultant. Among her awards is ''teacher of the year'' from Aloma Elementary School in Orlando. But it matters less to her than bumping into her former students, now grown, and having them tell her how she made them love learning.

Jane Andrias
Public School 28, Wright Brothers School
New York City
 A great teacher can spring up like the wind-blown seed of a rare flower in the barren soil of an otherwise inhospitable school. That was the case with Jane Andrias, who began teaching at P.S. 28 in Harlem in 1969, when schools were at the center of the cultural and political battles of the 1960's. Community activists in black and Hispanic neighborhoods were fighting the teachers' union and the mayor's office for control of schools. Amid the political turmoil, Miss Andrias was trying to change the culture of the classroom, putting children at tables instead of desks, urging them to write poetry instead of reading textbooks.
 She remembers 1970, when she was 23 and in her second year of teaching, as the most stressful and embattled of her career. ''We were clearly outsiders,'' she says today. 
 Yet it was also the year that a boy named Robin D.G. Kelley, now a professor of anthropology at Columbia, began staying after school in her third-grade class, to clap erasers, clean the blackboard and bask in her presence. ''Here's this young teacher standing there in her stylish short skirt, having to deal with, basically, a tornado,'' Mr. Kelley says now. He describes the class: ''Basically poor, extremely poor. They were mostly African-American and Puerto Rican children in a period of time when heroin was ravaging the neighborhood. People just look rough.'' 
 Miss Andrias (the children called her ''Miss,'' even though she was married) was different from Mrs. Klein, who had put Mr. Kelley in a class for slow learners, or another teacher who humiliated the children. Robin was a shy child who did not speak up much in class. But after school, Miss Andrias ''would ask about my mother, tell me a story about her family, introduce me to a new book or poet or artist, ask me questions about class, or work alongside me in silence,'' Mr. Kelley wrote in an essay called ''First Crush,'' included in a 2003 book called ''In Praise of Our Teachers.''
 Miss Andrias says she always tried to connect with children, even going to court with one of her students when he was in trouble. The alternative -- being a teacher at a remove -- was frightening. ''I realized that I have this terrible power that I can do great damage with,'' she says.
 Although he did not see his teacher again for 20 years, Mr. Kelley acknowledged her in every book he wrote. Like many teachers, Miss Andrias was unaware of her impact on one small boy. Until they met as adults, she says, ''I had no idea how he felt about me.''

Harry Cisler and Victor Motta
Renaissance Charter School
New York City
 Every year for the past 12 years, Harry Cisler has posted these questions on the board in front of his high-school humanities class: ''Who am I? Why am I here? Where am I going? How do I get there?''
 ''I know they're the basic questions that make people happy,'' he says, ''and Aristotle says that happiness is the goal of life -- not just doing what makes you happy, but what you should do, virtue.''
 They are questions that Celeste Howard, an unhappy teenager caught in an ugly tug of war between her parents, took to heart. When she was 13, her mother and father separated and fought for custody of her. Celeste chose to live with her mother. Her father felt rejected and angry, and the tension showed at school, where her grades plummeted.
 Eight years later, Ms. Howard credits two teachers -- Mr. Cisler, funny and full of showmanship, and her more retiring math teacher, Victor Motta -- with reviving her interest in school, convincing her that she was capable of doing well and ensuring that she graduated. (Her three older sisters never finished high school.) Both are the kinds of creative teachers that the Renaissance School in Queens nurtures. Mr. Cisler, who at 61 will retire this year after 40 years, credits his ability to empathize with children's fears and vulnerabilities. ''If a teacher is attuned to that, if a teacher has suffered a little bit and gone through disappointments, he will be more sensitive to the students,'' he says. ''They've all been hurt somehow or other, so they get that. They know I'm talking from someplace that's real. That makes a magic moment.''
 Ms. Howard says that Mr. Cisler, a former Marist monk, taught philosophy and psychology at a high level yet never doubted that she could understand it. ''He taught us Freud, Plato, Aristotle, stuff that we really had to sit down and think about,'' says Ms. Howard, now 21.He was really prepping us for college.'' But Mr. Cisler did not pester students about homework. Whether they did it was up to them. They were in charge of their own destinies.
 With Mr. Motta, she understood algebra for the first time, and qualified for an advanced chemistry course. ''He gave everybody in class, not just me, individual attention,'' she says. When she tried to sneak out after school, Mr. Motta's teaching assistant would grab her by the elbow and drag her back into an after-school homework-help program. 
 Ms. Howard graduated in 2002 and took a test to become a special officer in a city homeless shelter. She scored 86 of 100 and began training this fall. Mr. Cisler and Mr. Motta, she says, ''gave me a sense of myself.'' She has also reconciled with her father.

T.S. Grant
New Era Academy
Baltimore, Md.
 Carlise Addison didn't like her history teacher very much when she entered ninth grade last year at New Era. But then, the whole school rubbed her the wrong way. She had to wear a uniform. If she didn't do her homework or arrived late, she was given detention. ''Here they enforce the rules,'' she says. T.S. Grant was one of the enforcers.
 Ms. Addison, 15, nearly failed history. Mr. Grant expected his students to remember dates, names and places, and she wasn't accustomed to memorization. She was not alone, and at the end of the year Mr. Grant offered an extra-credit assignment to students who wanted to pass. They had to write about the Vietnam War after reading material from ''A People's History of the United States,'' by Howard Zinn. Many of her classmates balked; they had to buy the book or check it out of the library. But Ms. Addison spent $19 on it, and she passed. She considered it money well spent.
 By then, Mr. Grant had won her over because he seemed to understand what it was like to be her. Ms. Addison's mother was murdered when she was 9; an aunt has reared her. Mr. Grant, 34, grew up in a New Haven housing project and was put in a school for developmentally disabled children when he was 9. He was arrested for breaking into a Woolworth's when he was 11. He managed to graduate from high school; he joined the Air Force, worked as a minister and comedian (he had been class clown) and finally, in 1998, entered City University of New York. This year, Mr. Grant became assistant principal. Looking back, he credits one of his own teachers, Barbara Carpenter, with helping him overcome the stigma of being labeled a behavior problem. ''She took me to restaurants and let me know I was O.K.,'' he says. ''She wasn't patronizing.'' 
 He also says that his father, though brusque and difficult, instilled the values of hard work and independence in him. When Mr. Grant wanted pocket money, his father handed him a shoeshine kit and told him to go out and shine shoes. Mr. Grant did, and once earned a $50 tip. 
 As for Ms. Addison, she was elected student government president this year.


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)
Maggie Pagan leading a teacher's workshop in Orlando, Fla. (Photograph by Gregg Matthews for The New York Times)
Jane Andrias with Robin D.G. Kelley outside P.S. 28 in Harlem. Miss Andrias was Mr. Kelley's third-grade teacher -- and first crush. (Photography by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)
A daring duo: Victor Motta, left, and Harry Cisler. (Photography by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)
 Carlise Addison disliked her history teacher, T.S. Grant -- at first. (Photograph by Mary Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CURRICULA (89%); HOMEWORK (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Tests and Testing; Special Sections; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (57%)

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



163 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Endpaper; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Dear Mr. President

BYLINE: By Jamie Patrick Chandler

 BODY:
COLLEGE students may be the hot demographic for politicians, but they're a tough group for pollsters to track down. The reason is simple: most lack the home phone number needed for random sampling. To get a sense of what the cellphone generation is thinking, Education Life conducted face-to-face interviews in October at 10 campuses: Princeton, Harvard, Ohio State University, Baylor University (Waco, Tex.), University of Texas at Austin, University of Florida, University of Georgia, University of California at Santa Barbara, University of Illinois at Chicago and City University of New York-City College. Interviewers questioned 112 women and 121 men, freshmen to seniors. The students were asked what personal and political issues mattered most to them, about the war in Iraq and about long-term job prospects. In general, they were a hopeful bunch; more than 80 percent were optimistic about their futures. The looming exception was jobs, which more than 40 percent thought would be hard to find after graduation.

Students were asked what the president should focus on first. These issues were mentioned most: The New York Times Jamie Patrick Chandler is an adjunct lecturer in American politics at the City University of New York.

1. Education/tuition
2. Iraq
3. Economy
4. Career/job prospects
5. College studies
6. Draft
7. Environment
9. Morality/gay marriage
10. Health care
11. Civil liberties/rights
12. National security
13. College life
14. Presidential leadership
15. Women's issues
16. Foreign policy
17. Terrorism
18. No worries
19. Ennui
20. Immigration

The issues that concern me most are those surrounding inequality and personal freedom; i.e., homosexual civil union, Patriot Act, crime, poverty and corporate crime.'' - Jason Kinney, 18 University of Georgia

The decline in morality and increasing liberality. Is that a word? Liberalness, maybe. - Jasmine Dowell, 19 Harvard

I worry most about the economy and the employment rate. I worry that all my money spent on college might be wasted.'' - Dionysios Tsalcalis, 26 Ohio State University

Rising tuition cost because of insufficient federal funding.'' - Linda Do, 20 University of Texas at Austin

I think that eventually it will get to a draft. The way we struggle to keep control in Iraq, the way we keep dedicating military power around the world, more people will be needed. The prospect of a draft is a political tool.'' - Jeff Krisko, 18 University of California at Santa Barbara

I am currently an engineering major, and I don't want to have my job handed to someone in another country just so companies can increase profit. It happened with computer science. It can happen to engineering. - Urribarri Abhay, 17 CUNY-City College

As a double major in economics and political science, the issue that worries me the most would have to be the subpar operation of the Federal Reserve in that it has kept the prime rate too low for too long, thereby creating the potential for hyperinflation.'' - Joseph Siegrist, 21 Ohio State University

First, kill the terrorists before they kill me. Second, the meltdown of our culture due to the idea of relativism. - Mark Roehrenbeck, 22 Ohio State University

Speaking up more during discussions. Getting to class on time, especially when I have only 10 minutes between classes. Time management. - Angie Nguyen, 18 University of California at Santa Barbara

I'm a pretty free-go-lucky guy. I'm not really worried.'' - Sam Yoffe, 19 University of Florida

I feel that most Americans are so uninvolved with the political aspect of their lives. They're complacent with others deciding for them and then ultimately deciding for me. That's alarming.'' - Kimberly Blitch, 18 University of Georgia

Please think about education! Wars, terrorism, whatever -- do that on your own time, Mr. Pres. - Travis Moak, 22 University of Georgia

Education is the key to helping solve problems in the world, such as global warming, globalization, gene therapy and cultural toleration. Equalizing the opportunity for education to all should be the president's No. 1 issue. Education should not be last on the list when it comes to budget expense and first on the list when it comes to budget cuts. - Jill Smiley, 21 Ohio State University

Medical care. I don't have health insurance. I don't have a job either, and I don't have financial aid. I have a baby and a husband who is working 14 to 16 hours a day so that he can support us. - Celina Mejia CUNY-City College

Some immigrants, like myself, have to pay for other's broken dishes. Post 9/11, many doors of opportunity have closed on immigrants, thus making things difficult in reaching the goals we came here to achieve. - Hector Camarillo, 19 CUNY-City College

Students were asked to name which issues personally concerned them most. These were mentioned most:

1. Iraq
2. Economy
3. Foreign policy
4. National security
5. Education
6. Jobs
7. Health care
8. Welfare/poverty
9. Morality/gay marriage
10. Terrorism
11. Immigration
12. Social Security
13. Presidential leadership
14. Civil liberties/rights
15. Draft
16. Environment
17. Women's issues
18. Personal safety
19. Nuclear proliferation
20. Insufficient foreign aid


GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Oscar Sosa for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); ENGINEERING (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (79%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); WOMEN (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); COHABITATION (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); IRAQ WAR (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); IMMIGRATION (64%); US PATRIOT ACT (64%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); MARRIAGE (50%); TERRORISM (50%) Colleges and Universities; Special Sections; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (57%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

PERSON: Jamie Patrick Chandler

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



164 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Auditioning for the Part Of Selling Toys in a Store

BYLINE: By LOUISE KRAMER

 BODY:
At a downtown Manhattan theater one recent morning, Parisse Atkinson, a passionate collector of toy action figures, nervously waited with a dozen other hopeful souls to audition for a role he knew he would be perfect for: a toy salesman.
 He was awake until 3 a.m. the night before in anticipation of his big chance to wow the casting directors. He even brought one of his own toys, a 6-inch action figure, to use as a prop. 
 When his name was called, he got up on stage and delivered his lines. ''My knees were knocking,'' he said as he emerged from the theater. ''I wish I had talked more about salability.'' 
 It didn't matter. Mr. Atkinson, who had been unemployed for four months, got the part-- but not for a children's play. It was a sales job at F.A.O. Schwarz, the famed Fifth Avenue toy emporium that is reopening in time for the holidays after a multimillion-dollar makeover. In an unusual approach to retail hiring, F.A.O. Schwarz is using casting calls to screen hundreds of applicants and fill 350 jobs. The store is one of several retailers opening stores this fall in Manhattan that are taking a cue from the theater world to hire employees for jobs ranging from doormen dressed as toy soldiers, to sales clerks, department managers and concierges. 
 The Walt Disney Company staged auditions in the last few months to cast 20 actors to play roles like Mickey Mouse, Cinderella, Lilo and Stitch at its revamped store on Fifth Avenue. 
 The language of Broadway also runs through newspaper classified ads for Bed Bath & Beyond, the home furnishings retailer, which is ''holding casting calls for experienced retail department managers'' to ''play a leading role'' at its new store on the Upper West Side.
 But Bed Bath & Beyond's advertisements are simply a play on words, said Lisa Hoffman, a company spokeswoman. ''We're not asking people to pirouette and sashay to get a job working with us,'' she said.
 In contrast, F.A.O. Schwarz is giving applicants less than five minutes to talk about their work history and to pretend to sell a toy, either one from a table crammed with dolls and games or one they have brought. Applicants who make the first cut are called back for a more traditional job interview with a department manager at the company's offices.
 For now, at least, the casting call approach is likely to be useful only for specialty stores that have enough time and money to stage such events, said Daniel Butler, vice president for retail operations at the National Retail Federation, an industry trade group. ''They are trying to fill specific jobs in a one-of-a-kind store,'' he said. ''It is not an efficient way to screen if you are a large company and have 150,000 employees.''
 F.A.O. Schwarz is under pressure to give a stellar performance. Specialty toy stores have been losing ground for years to discount giants like Wal-Mart Stores and Target, and many have closed. F.A.O. Schwarz, which dates back more than a century, has been through two recent bankruptcies. The parent company, FAO Inc., sold the flagship Fifth Avenue store and a store in Las Vegas to D.E. Shaw Laminar Portfolios, a New York investment firm, in January.
 Shaw closed them for overhauls and is now reopening them, with new cafes, demonstration areas and display space for items like a Porsche-licensed miniature sport utility vehicle for $425 and a Barbie Doll-theme handbag for $395. There are also upscale versions of more mundane toys. 
 F.A.O. Schwarz is hiring amid growing competition for retail employees in New York. Monster.com, the online job posting board, listed 8 percent more retail jobs in New York City in September than in the month a year earlier. 
 Howard Davidowitz, chairman of Davidowitz & Associates, a retail consulting and investment firm, says F.A.O. Schwarz needs to find top employees who can sell high-end merchandise. ''The customer who is going to buy is the customer who is going to demand to be served,'' he said. 
 At each casting call, several top executives sit in the audience, including Nanette DiFalco, vice president for corporate services and special events.
 Ms. DiFalco says that at a casting call she can tell in 20 seconds if a job seeker has the necessary spark. ''Normally, you would have to give them 30 to 45 minutes in a meeting.''
 Not all applicants are likely to relish being on stage, particularly those seeking management jobs, says Robert Kerson, chairman of Kerson Partners, an executive recruiting firm based in Greenwich, Conn., that specializes in retailing. ''I can see it if they need a certain amount of panache and charisma for salespeople,'' he said. ''I certainly don't think it's for very senior executives. Some people might be turned off.''
 Kim Richmond, executive vice president for marketing at F.A.O. Schwarz, said, ''very few people'' had walked out when they realized they had to perform. She said the auditions trumpet the F.A.O. Schwarz corporate culture to all employees, no matter what their role. ''Every day will be being on stage with our customers,'' she said. ''This process sorts out people who many not feel comfortable with that.'' 
 Some actors have come to the auditions, but applicants have many backgrounds. Among the candidates with Mr. Atkinson on a recent Thursday was Corey Smith, a baggage screener at La Guardia Airport and a veteran of the Persian Gulf war who was looking to start a management career. He got on stage with a doll in a carrying case and discussed the advantages of its portability. At last check, he had not been called back. Still, he said, he had enjoyed the experience.
 ''I thought it was a great concept,'' he said. ''This is the first time I've ever seen this.''
 The auditions are giving some job seekers a chance to tap into their inner Ethel Mermans. Kevin Mast, who sang in a choir in high school, has worked in retail management for 15 years at companies like Saks and Neiman Marcus. At his audition, he sang a song he wrote -- with help from his 10-year-old niece -- about F.A.O. Schwarz, Barbie and SpongeBob SquarePants. That, along with his retail experience, got him a job as assistant general manager for merchandising and customer service.
 Now Mr. Mast sits in on the auditions. ''I've never experienced something this intriguing and this inventive,'' he says. ''It really gives you a picture of the personality of someone going for a retail position.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Mast, an assistant general manager at F.A.O. Schwarz, got his job after auditioning. He says he sang a song he and his niece wrote about the store, Barbie and SpongeBob SquarePants. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); CHILDREN (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (68%); CHRISTMAS (67%) Toys; Hiring and Promotion; Retail Stores and Trade; Christmas

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (66%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Fao Inc; Schwarz, F A O (Store)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (66%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (66%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (66%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (53%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (53%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%)

PERSON: Louise Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



165 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; SundayBusiness; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Finding a Role Model For the Health Industry

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Is Kaiser the Future of American Health Care?'' (Oct. 31):
 If integrated delivery systems like Kaiser Permanente are the right idea (which I think they are), why haven't they grown to cover most Americans? The main answer is that most employers do not offer employees the choice, or any choice, of delivery system. These prepaid group practices are affiliated with their own insurance arm, and most employers want to offer a single carrier. Most employers who do offer choices contribute more for higher-cost health care, like 80 percent to 100 percent of the premium, blocking the ability of prepaid group practices to market their superior value for money. 
 Our employment-based system is a failure and must be replaced by a system in which every person has a choice and an opportunity to keep all the savings if he or she makes an economical choice. Kaiser-like systems do very well in such environments. Less than 10 percent of employed Americans are in such environments now.

Alain Enthoven
Stanford, Calif., Nov. 2


GRAPHIC: Photo/Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Kaiser Permanente

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (93%)

PERSON: Alain Enthoven

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



166 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 2; T: Living Magazine; The Remix; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Hidden Valley

BYLINE: By Christine Muhlke

 BODY:
About three hours' drive north of San Francisco, the Anderson Valley is to Napa what the North Fork of Long Island is to the Hamptons: smart and blissfully unpretentious, the land that yuppies forgot. Thanks to its remote location and a local economy favoring the barter system, this is where you can trade a few cases of your vineyard's pinot noir for midwife services. The valley's neighboring ''towns'' -- Boonville and Philo (combined population: 1,400) -- offer food and wine with a rich-hippie flourish. It's the ideal place to drop out and fill up for a weekend. Some local attractions:

The Apple Farm
18501 Greenwood Road, Philo; (707)895-2461; go to www.philoapplefarm.com. In 1994, Sally and Don Schmitt were tired of running their Yountville restaurant, so they sold it to Thomas Keller and joined Sally's daughter on this orchard, offering weekend cooking classes and a low-key inn.

Navarro Vineyards
5601 Highway 128, Philo; (707)895-3686; go to www.navarrowine.com. Philo's favorable growing conditions, combined with Navarro's sustainable business (pickers get health insurance), have yielded 12 varieties of award-winning wines. Available only at select restaurants (like Daniel and Union Square Cafe) and by mail order; you can also sample and buy at the vineyard.

Lazy Creek Vineyards
4741 Highway 128, Philo; (707)895-3632. Call ahead, or, if the gate is open, drive in for big wines made on a small scale, like an oak- and butter-free chardonnay and unfiltered, dry-farmed (i.e., intense) pinot noir.

Libby's Restaurant
8651 Highway 128, Philo; (707)895-2646. This Mexican restaurant dishes up scrumptious carnitas, mole enchiladas and chile rellenos. Not to be missed.

The Boonville Hotel
14050 Highway 128, Boonville; (707)895-2210. Some locals roll their eyes at the zippy redesign of this hotel and restaurant, but guests certainly don't mind. The chef, John Schmitt, who grew up cooking with his mom, Sally, at the French Laundry, dreams up lush California comfort food. On Saturdays from May to October the farmer's market takes over the parking lot.

Boonville General Store
17810-B Farrer Lane, Boonville; (707)895-9477. Don't let the down-home name fool you: this shop offers sophisticated soups, salads, grilled sandwiches and sometimes homemade ice cream. The store also stocks local wines, olive oils and kitchen and garden tools. Christine Muhlke

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); FARM LABOR (77%); OILS & FATS (71%); WINERIES (71%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (70%); MIDWIVES (56%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

PERSON: Christine Muhlke

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Napa (Calif); California

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



167 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Page Two: Election 2004; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 26 words

HEADLINE: TWO RED STATES RAISE WAGES

 BODY:
Voters in Florida and Nevada raised their states' minimum wage, from $5.15 to $6.15, despite claims by business groups that the increase would hurt the economy.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



168 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; TRAVEL ADVISORY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Seek Profits in Exotic Places

BYLINE: By AMY GUNDERSON

 BODY:
IT'S a slip of an island, some 30 miles off the coast of Honduras. Unless you are a scuba diving aficionado or a reality TV fan, you may not have ever heard of Roatan. But that didn't stop Continental Airlines from adding direct service to the island once a week out of Houston in June. 
 ''It is a growing resort area that was underserved by air service,'' said Julie King, a spokeswoman for Continental, noting that the route has proved popular enough to increase flights to twice a week this winter. And the fact that the island was the location for the Fox television show ''Temptation Island 3,'' hasn't been bad for business either. 
 ''But that wasn't the driving reason for the flight,'' Ms. King said. ''It's very popular. A lot of celebrities go there.'' 
 From tiny Caribbean islands to big cities in China, airlines are beefing up their international routes, so that it is now easier to reach obscure or distant destinations, often without a layover. 
 On the domestic front, airlines face tough low-fare competition, but international routes are a different story. United Airlines, facing a losing battle on many routes in the United States, announced plans to reduce its domestic service in favor of focusing more on international service.
 Among all airlines, 67 new international nonstop flights from the United States were started this year, according to data provided by Back Aviation Solutions, a consulting and data information company. These included nine direct routes out of New York-area airports. 
 But the reasons behind the addition of destinations to an airline's lineup often go beyond simple financial gain. Everything from the influence of Hollywood to an effort to win the race into a new market can play a role in an airline's decision to add a new route. 
 For instance, in September, right after President Bush revoked the United States trade embargo on Libya, Continental applied for permission from Washington to fly from Houston and Newark to Libya via Amsterdam and a code-share flight on KLM. 
 There is likely no better example of movies influencing travel than the ''Lord of the Rings'' trilogy. With the release of the second film in the series, Air New Zealand started a promotional partnership with New Line Cinema. 
 Now, the airline is further tapping into the growing market for tourism generated by the series with a new flight from Los Angeles to Christchurch, on the South Island, eliminating the need to make a stop in Auckland, on the North Island. 
 ''The South Island is where a lot of 'The Lord of the Rings' was filmed, so more people are spending time there,'' said Lucy Powell, a spokeswoman for Air New Zealand. 
 But it is not just remote destinations that are now more accessible. Airlines are taking advantage of rebounding European travel with direct flights on routes where there is little or no competition. Continental plans to add two German cities next summer, with direct flights to Hamburg and Berlin from Newark, while Delta will fly from Kennedy to Berlin beginning in May. 
 On Nov. 1, Malaysia Airlines began flying from Newark to Stockholm -- a route previously served only by SAS -- on the way to Kuala Lumpur. Continental plans a Newark-Stockholm route next summer, too, and beginning in May, service to Belfast from Newark, the first direct flight from the United States to Northern Ireland. 
 The biggest and potentially most lucrative market is Asia. In July, the United States and China signed an agreement that will gradually increase the weekly flights between the two countries as well as the number of carriers flying those routes. 
 On Oct. 31, Northwest Airlines began serving Guangzhou, the third largest city in China, via Tokyo. United Airlines is seeking to follow with flights there next year, and then with direct service from San Francisco in 2006. United also began expanding its reach into China at the end of October with nonstop service to Shanghai from Chicago.
 Vietnam is another emerging market that will get the first air service by a United States carrier in 30 years when United begins flights to Ho Chi Min City via Hong Kong in December. ''We have a great interest in developing ties to the country, given that it has a growing economy and there is a huge Vietnamese-American community,'' says Stephan Roth, a United spokesman.
 But strong demand doesn't always have to be present for an airline to start a new route. Take South African Airways. It launched a direct flight to Dakar, Senegal, out of New York last year. 
 ''It is part of our plan to set up a connected Africa,'' says Roberto Cuesta, a vice president for marketing for South African Airways. Dakar will be the carrier's West Africa hub. 
 While the flight from New York has hardly been at capacity, the number of travelers on the flight, offered three times a week, has been steadily increasing. Also, there is a segment of North American travelers always looking for the next hot vacation spot. Dakar, already popular with French tourists, just might be it, Mr. Cuesta said.
 ''One of the busiest Club Meds in the world is a Club Med in Senegal,'' he said. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: This market in Dakar, Senegal, is just a single flight from New York. (Photo by Andrew Burke/Lonely Planet Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIR SERVICE (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); WATER SPORTS (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); SCUBA DIVING (78%); AIR FARES (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (74%); FILM (67%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); AIR NEW ZEALAND LTD (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Back Aviation Solutions

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); AIZ (ASX) (57%); AIR (NZX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (51%)

PERSON: Amy Gunderson

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHRISTCHURCH, NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (66%); DAKAR, SENEGAL (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); HONDURAS (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SENEGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



169 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: For Activist, the Battle Comes Home

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
It is decidedly not typical behavior to enjoy a court fight with your landlord. Then again, Florence M. Rice is not a typical woman.
 For the last five decades, Ms. Rice has been something of a one-woman consumer dynamo in Harlem, fighting utility companies, credit agencies, even furniture stores and banks on behalf of the poor. At 85, she still wears pins reading, ''Economic Racism.'' She is known uptown as the Ralph Nader of Harlem. 
 Now, Ms. Rice is fighting her own fight. 
 On Nov. 16, she will go on trial in the city's Housing Court, accused by her landlord, 536-540 West 158th Street L.L.C., of not paying her full rent. She, in turn, has accused the landlord of destroying her apartment, under the guise of renovating it, and forcing her out.
 ''I'm really glad it happened to me,'' Ms. Rice said the other day in the cafeteria of the Adam Clayton Powell Jr. State Office Building on 125th Street.
 ''I knew I could get support to expose this sort of problem. If it hadn't happened to me, it would have happened to someone else my age who might have ended up in a hospital or a nursing home.''
 Ms. Rice's troubles have attracted the attention of elected officials and ordinary people alike. A woman who once produced the graphics for her protest signs has agreed to testify on her behalf, and politicians, like State Senator David A. Paterson and State Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr., have written letters of support to the court. 
 ''Her activism, especially in the energy department, goes way back,'' Mr. Farrell said. ''She was bringing fights against Con Ed years ago.''
 ''She's very tenacious,'' he added. ''When Florence came out against you, you knew you were in trouble -- no matter how big the utility or the battle.''
 Ms. Rice's problems began in April when she discovered that her landlord had served her with eviction papers, claiming that, for almost three years, she had underpaid her rent by nearly $200 a month. Her legal guardian, Beverly Griggsby, said the landlord had illegally raised Ms. Rice's rent from $291 a month to $458 and, moreover, failed to inform her of the change.
 Jesse Baker, a lawyer for the landlord, was on vacation and could not be reached last week. Another lawyer at the landlord's firm -- Guttman, Mintz, Baker & Sonnenfelt -- did not return telephone calls on Thursday and Friday. 
 In August, after a protracted court scuffle, the landlord agreed in a legal stipulation to repair Ms. Rice's apartment one room at a time so that she could remain while the renovations were being made. According to the stipulation, the landlord agreed to correct several housing violations in the apartment, ''starting in the kitchen and the dining room, then bathroom, then first bedroom, then hallway, then master bedroom, then living room.''
 However, when the workmen arrived at Ms. Rice's apartment on Sept. 1, they immediately gutted it, Ms. Griggsby said. They stuffed Ms. Rice's belongings into plastic bags, she said, and tore down the walls so thoroughly that one could stand at the front door and look through an empty apartment at a toilet.
 ''When I opened the door,'' Ms. Griggsby said, ''there were no walls in the bedroom. Not only were there no walls in the bedroom, there was no bedroom. There was no closet. No sink. No bathtub. Everything was gone.''
 Ms. Griggsby contends that the landlord planned to refurbish the apartment and force Ms. Rice to leave so it could be rented at a higher rate. She claims the apartment was segmented into three separate bedrooms, each with its own lock, suggesting that at least three separate tenants were planning to move in.
 Ms. Griggsby acknowledged that the landlord had offered Ms. Rice another apartment in the building, but Ms. Griggsby refused to allow her to take it because it was on the fifth floor and Ms. Rice, she said, could not climb stairs. 
 For the last two months, Ms. Rice has been dividing her time among her family and friends, moving from place to place. She is bowed but clearly undefeated.
 ''They'll be sorry they ever messed with me,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Florence M. Rice in the kitchen of her apartment in Harlem, where renovations have forced her to move. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EVICTION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); TESTIMONY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); WOMEN'S MARKET (73%); FURNITURE STORES (57%) Housing; Aged; Evictions

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); DAVID PATERSON (57%) Alan Feuer; Florence M Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



170 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World: Linked Fates; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: Israel, the U.S. and the Age of Terror

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
Roger Cohen writes the ''Globalist'' column for The International Herald Tribune.

 BODY:
THROUGHOUT its first term, the Bush administration held that the road to Jerusalem passed through Baghdad. Even before the 9/11 attacks, but especially after them, it shunned the very term ''peace process,'' which it saw as a synonym for sterile Middle Eastern chatter. The new approach was firm: only a regional democratic transformation, beginning in Iraq and extending to a corrupt and terror-tainted Palestinian Authority, could unlock the door to an Israeli-Palestinian settlement.
 But with the symbol of that corruption, Yasir Arafat, comatose in a Paris hospital, Iraq mired in conflict, Europe pressing for a signal of a new George W. Bush, and images of violence in Gaza feeding anti-American sentiment in the Islamic world, the question was asked last week: Has the time not come for the administration to adjust its approach to Israel and put peace in Jerusalem first?
 Two new seasons seem to have come at once -- the post-Arafat era and the second Bush term. Their promise for the Middle East, and beyond it the war on terror, may prove fleeting if different times do not also bring different policies. 
 After all, in historical terms, Mr. Bush's largely uncritical embrace of Ariel Sharon's Israel is an anomaly. The emergence of the Jewish state in 1948 was greeted with ambivalence in Washington; Secretary of State George Marshall argued against the immediate recognition that President Harry Truman gave.
 Soviet support of radical Arab regimes during the cold war slowly dissolved American uncertainty, replacing it with active backing of Israel. But aid was not unconditional. After the 1967 and 1973 wars, the United States became the most credible broker of ''land for peace,'' a position that, during the presidencies of Mr. Bush's father and Bill Clinton, involved a measure of prodding of both sides. Perhaps it is inevitable that the pendulum will swing back toward such a stance.
 But the arguments against a change of policy remain vigorous; they begin with the conviction that the current approach is working and that the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks changed the world, giving the United States and Israel a shared vulnerability to terrorism, and what they have called a shared stake in smashing it. 
 Three years later, Prime Minister Sharon, strengthened by robust backing from Mr. Bush, has suppressed Palestinian violence, decimated the leadership of the militant group Hamas, and demonstrated that the military road leads nowhere for the Palestinians. Even before Mr. Arafat collapsed, his rule had done so, prompting a growing internal debate on Palestinian governance and leadership.
 Conservative supporters of Mr. Bush scoff at the suggestion, embraced in every European and Arab capital, that the American tilt toward Israel and the failure to move toward a settlement are the most important single factors in feeding the anti-American radicalism that produces terrorism.
 ''It's fantasy land to think some change in Middle East policy would have an effect on the terrorists,'' said Max Boot, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. ''For years, you had Bill Clinton focusing like a laser on an Israeli-Palestinian settlement, and did that discourage bin Laden from plotting to destroy us? These people want Israel eradicated, so there's no way you can accommodate them.''
 In this view, Mr. Bush and Mr. Sharon may have shunned a process, but they have achieved a degree of peace, or at least relative peacefulness. By beginning to focus on changing autocratic Arab societies, the argument goes, Mr. Bush has also undermined those societies' debilitating tendency to divert attention from internal problems through hate-Israel campaigns.
 Whatever the adjustments Mr. Bush makes to his second-term cabinet, these arguments will continue to carry weight, not least because they have also proved resonant in domestic political terms.
 Mr. Bush may feel a personal inclination to respond to Prime Minister Tony Blair's insistence, in a congratulatory message after the election, that Israeli-Palestinian peace is ''the single most pressing challenge in our world today.'' But Mr. Bush's own political landscape -- complete with Israel-loving Christian evangelicals and Jews who voted for him in Florida -- is very different from that of his British ally.
 Still, the coincidence of the start of a second Bush administration and a seemingly inevitable change in Palestinian leadership appear to make some modification of America's Middle Eastern role inevitable.
 In his June 24, 2002, speech setting out the two-state solution that became known as the ''road map,'' Mr. Bush said: ''In order to achieve peace and for a Palestinian state to be established, a different leadership is required. I call upon the Palestinian people to choose new leaders who do not compromise on the issue of terror.''
 A solution to that leadership issue, or at least a change, now appears imminent. For the past few years, the United States has been stymied by a basic contradiction: It has dismissed Mr. Arafat as anything but a statesman while demanding of him the ultimate act of statesmanship -- stepping aside for a younger leader. It was not surprising that nothing good happened in Ramallah.
 Now ''an elegant way for the United States to become re-engaged has emerged,'' said Jonathan Eyal, a British foreign policy expert. ''Mr. Bush has to try to make sure the right Palestinians take over, and that economic and administrative reform in the West Bank and Gaza are advanced.''
 Just who those Palestinians are is not clear. A measure of chaos is probably inevitable. Gaza and the West Bank could go different ways. Extremist groups could get the upper hand. Turbulence might start with the vexed question of where Mr. Arafat should be buried (what price Jerusalem?).
 But in Prime Minister Ahmed Qurei, former Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas, the former security chief Muhammad Dahlan and the jailed Palestinian favorite Marwan Barghouti lie rich and diverse possibilities. The need for American help in organizing a Palestinian election next year also appears pressing. Without such a vote, the Palestinian leader's legitimacy will be lacking just as a planned Israeli withdrawal from Gaza makes it a requirement for stability.
 But greater involvement in Palestinian politics will not achieve much without some review of policy toward Israel. When Mr. Sharon briefly appeared in 2003 to have a moderate Palestinian interlocutor in Mr. Abbas -- one embraced by Mr. Bush -- he did little or nothing to help the new prime minister, apparently preferring a policy determined by Israeli acts (building a fence-cum-wall, for example) to negotiation.
 Abdel Monem Said, the director of the Al-Ahram Center for Strategic Studies in Cairo, suggested that Mr. Bush could go to Mr. Sharon and make this case: We've stood by you, Ariel, and now it's time for you to help us. Moderate Palestinians will win out only if you give them a serious opportunity to negotiate a settlement. That's in your interest. We pay a price for our support of you in terms of the hatred out there in the Arab world. So it's also in our interest to move this forward.
 But Mr. Said added: ''When I consider such a possibility, I sometimes feel I am daydreaming. I don't think Mr. Bush realizes that at least 50 percent of the hatred of America in the Arab world is linked to Israel. America has no colonial record in our part of the world. It's unconditional support of Israel that does it.''
 THAT American support for Israel remains something of a mystery to Arabs, as it does in a Europe now more inclined to embrace the plight of the Palestinians than the fight of a plucky Jewish people living on a small sliver of land in an isolated Middle Eastern democracy. Indeed, it is a striking characteristic of the history of the conflict that France began by embracing Israel in the 1950's as America wavered, but French support has drained as America's has intensified.
 Behind the shift lie many factors, among them the significance assumed by the Holocaust in American life, the legacy of the cold war, an increasingly influential American Jewish community and, most recently, the forging of a sense of shared struggle after the trauma of the 9/11 attacks.
 Those foundations of American support for Israel will almost certainly continue to outweigh any calculation of the costs, even with Osama bin Laden's attempt last month to justify his attacks by referring to the ''injustice and tyranny of the American-Israeli alliance against our people in Palestine.''
 That said, the question today is: How will support of Israel be calibrated? Small signals will be closely watched at this pivotal juncture. Assuming Mr. Arafat dies, two issues will be critical: What stand will the United States take on Mr. Arafat's desire to be buried in Jerusalem? Who will the United States send to his funeral?
 There are many in Mr. Bush's entourage of Middle East experts, including Elliott Abrams at the National Security Council, who tend to see Mr. Arafat as little different from Mr. bin Laden. If their views prevail, the post-Arafat era will probably begin without the gesture Mr. Blair seeks as evidence of a new start. Baghdad will prevail over Jerusalem as the unlikely starting point for regional peace.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Terrorists use the American alliance with Israel as a grievance, feeding anti-American sentiment in the Arab world. Supporters of Palestinian Islamic Jihad staged this rally in Gaza in August. (Photo by Adel Hana/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); COLD WAR (77%); HAMAS (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); RELIGION (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%) Terrorism; Palestinians; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINIAN ISLAMIC JIHAD (59%) Palestinian Authority

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) Roger Cohen; George W (Pres) Bush; Yasir Arafat

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPE (79%) Iraq; Israel; Jerusalem; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



171 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTION; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: In Election's Wake, Some Democrats to Keep an Eye On

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Here's a look at party leaders who are likely to play key roles in the coming years. Others not pictured are: Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, who is expected to become the new minority leader, and Govs. Mark Warner of Virginia, Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan. And one other senator: John Kerry of Massachusetts, who aides say will be reporting for duty when Congress convenes in January. ADAM NAGOURNEY


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hillary Rodham Clinton
Howard Dean
Evan Bayh
Barack Obama
Bill Richardson
John EdwardsChart:Hillary Rodham ClintonHere she comes to save the day? Mrs. Clinton would have to be the favorite for the 2008 nomination
 she has money and support. But she might be the Republicans' favorite as well: easy for them to try to paint as a secular, Northeast liberal, identified with big government and the kind of cultural shifts the Democrats are trying to get away from.Howard DeanThe former Vermont governor started it all with his high-powered campaign for president. Dr. Dean has a clear vision for the party and a network that is likely to translate into money and votes should he seek to play a big role in rebuilding the party. The rapid deflation of his campaign, though, raised questions about his strength as a candidate.Evan BayhThe first-term Indiana senator has been at the forefront of efforts to move the party to the center. He has ties to the moderate Democratic Leadership Council, the group that supported Bill Clinton's presidential campaign. He is the son of a famous senator, Birch Bayh, and Democrats view him as someone to watch.Barack ObamaHe has yet to be sworn in to the Senate, but Mr. Obama has been embraced by a party hungry for new faces, and described by almost everyone who has met him as a rising star. His commanding address at the Democratic convention proved one of the week's more memorable moments. But, his political experience consists of serving as a state senator from Chicago, and running one losing bid for the House.Bill RichardsonThe garrulous governor of New Mexico -- a former energy secretary and United States ambassador -- has made little secret about his national political ambitions. Mr. Richardson, who is Hispanic, is pushing the party to renew its appeal in the West and to Hispanic voters, two areas where Republicans have made continued inroads. He said this fall that he was confident about delivering New Mexico for Mr. Kerry. Maybe next time.John EdwardsThe North Carolina senator has been looked at as a comer in his party for a few years now, but his ascension may not have been helped by this campaign. Mr. Kerry picked Mr. Edwards with the hope that he could help pull in rural voters and even in some Southern states. But he does not seem to have helped Mr. Kerry much. Mr. Edwards is losing his Senate seat, so he will need to find a role to keep a foot on the stage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%) United States Politics and Government; Biographical Information

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); EVAN BAYH (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HARRY REID (71%); BIRCH BAYH (57%); MARK WARNER (54%); JANET NAPOLITANO (53%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (53%) Adam Nagourney; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Howard Dean; Evan (Sen) Bayh; Barack Obama; Bill Richardson; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



172 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Rove's Revenge

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD. 
E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Just how much did Karl Rove hate not being one of the cool guys in high school in the 60's? Enough to hatch schemes to marshal the forces of darkness to take over the country?
 Oh, yeah.
 A supporter of Nixon against Kennedy at 9, the teenage Karl was, in his description, ''a big nerd,'' a small guy with a pocket protector, briefcase, and glasses almost as big as his head. 
 Even as a high school debater in Salt Lake City, ''Rove didn't just want to win; he wanted the opponents destroyed,'' write James Moore and Wayne Slater in ''Bush's Brain.'' ''He would defeat them, slaughter them and humiliate them.'' 
 The Boy Genius, as W. calls him, the ''architect'' who helped him get the second term he dearly wanted to surpass his father, is happy to crush the liberal elites inspired by Kennedy's New Frontier under the steamroller of 19th-century family values. 
 Like the president, vice president and defense secretary, General Karl wanted to wipe out the gray, if-it-feels-good-do-it, blame-America-first, doused-in-Vietnam-guilt 60's and turn the clock back to the black-and-white Manichaean values of the 50's.
 W. and Karl played up western movie stereotypes. After 9/11, the rugged frontier myth, the hunter/Indian-fighter hero in a war of civilization against savagery worked better than ever. But this White House's frontier is not a place of infinite progress and expansion, stretching society's boundaries. It doesn't battle primitivism; it courts primitivism.
 Instead of the New Frontier, Karl and W. offer the New Backtier.
 Even as a child, I could feel the rush of J.F.K.'s presidency racing forward, opening up a thrilling world of possibilities and modernity. We were going to the moon. We were confronting racial intolerance. We were paying any price and bearing any burden for freedom. We were respecting faith but keeping it out of politics. Our president was inspiring much of the world. Our first lady was setting the pace in style and culture.
 W.'s presidency rushes backward, stifling possibilities, stirring intolerance, confusing church with state, blowing off the world, replacing science with religion, and facts with faith. We're entering another dark age, more creationist than cutting edge, more premodern than postmodern. Instead of leading America to an exciting new reality, the Bushies cocoon in a scary, paranoid, regressive reality. Their new health care plan will probably be a return to leeches. 
 America has always had strains of isolationism, nativism, chauvinism, puritanism and religious fanaticism. But most of our leaders, even our devout presidents, have tried to keep these impulses under control. Not this crew. They don't call to our better angels; they summon our nasty devils. 
 Jimmy Carter won the evangelical vote in 1976, and he won it in Ohio. He combined his evangelical appeal with a call for social justice, integrating his church and laboring for world peace. But W. appealed to that vote's most crabbed insecurities -- the disparaging of the other, the fear of those godless hedonists in the blue states out to get them and their families. And the fear of scientific progress, as with stem cell research.
 When William Jennings Bryan took up combating the theory of evolution, he did it because he despised the social Darwinists who used the theory to justify the ''survival of the fittest'' in capitalism. Bryan hated anything that justified an economic system that crushed poor workers and farmers, and he hated that the elites would claim there was scientific basis for keeping society divided and unequal. 
 The new evangelicals challenge science because they've been stirred up to object to social engineering on behalf of society's most vulnerable: the poor, the sick, the sexually different. 
 Yet the Bush conservatives do their own social engineering. They thought they could toughen up the American character with the invasion of Iraq. Now they want to reshape the country on ''moral'' issues -- though their morality seems to allow them to run a campaign full of blatant distortions and character assassination, and to mislead the public about the war. 
 Back in 1994, Newt Gingrich said he wanted the government to mold the moral character of Americans and wipe out remnants of the ''counterculture McGoverniks.'' He got derailed, but now he and his pious friends are back in full cry, messing with our psyches and excluding themselves from the rules they demand others follow. They'll eventually do themselves in, but will they do us in first? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (84%); POLITICS (75%); FAMILY (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); RACE & RACISM (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); CREATIONISM (60%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: KARL ROVE (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%) Maureen Dowd; Karl Rove; George W (Pres) Bush; George (Former Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



173 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Upside To a Dollar That's Falling

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE stock market is rising, but the dollar is falling. And the decline of the dollar is more likely to continue than the rally of the stock market.
 Investors have focused on the benefits of the re-election of President Bush, the fact that there was no postelection challenge and the recent drop in oil prices. That led to a 3.2 percent jump in the Standard & Poor's 500 last week. 
 But the dollar hit a low against the euro on Friday. While it still has a way to go to reach the low it fell to against the yen after World War II, the dollar is nearing the low it reached in April.
 More important, many analysts say that now that the election is over, the Bush administration may signal soon that it is willing to let the dollar fall further.
 Such a decline, if it is orderly, would not be all bad, although it would hurt those who travel abroad -- and everyone who buys imported items. A weaker dollar would help American exporters, and it would help automakers and other companies compete domestically with imports from Europe and Asia.
 Why would the administration abandon what has become known as the strong dollar policy? 
 Because a fall in the value of the dollar is not only good for business at home, but would also help to reduce the record current-account deficit -- the broad gap between the nation's exports and imports of goods and services.
 That gap, which should top $600 billion this year, needs to be covered by net inflows of capital from abroad. Even though that foreign flow is still strong, it is slowing down. 
 In addition, a change in tone by the administration may make it possible for the dollar to decline in an orderly way. If the administration just ignored the growing current-account deficit, it is possible that its size could lead to a much more disruptive fall of the dollar.
 ''The early part of a presidential term is a natural time for a change of tone,'' Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP, wrote to his clients last week. ''If you must run the risk of financial market turbulence,'' he added, ''it's better to do it at the beginning of a four-year term rather than at the end.''

FED ON DECK -- Policy makers meet on Wednesday and are expected to raise their benchmark interest rate a quarter-point, to 2 percent, the fourth consecutive rate increase.
 Friday's jobs report, which showed that 337,000 jobs were created in October, almost twice what was expected, makes it likely that the Fed's policy makers will raise rates another notch in December.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to dollar since 2003.Graph tracks net foreign inflows since 2003 (12-month periods).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (71%); EURO (70%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); WORLD WAR II (55%) United States Economy; Currency; Stocks and Bonds; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Jonathan Fuerbringer; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



174 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Political Points; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Now That the Dust Has Settled

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY; Marian Burros and Brian Wingfield contributed reporting for this column.

 BODY:

WINNERS
 Karl Rove and Matthew Dowd. Reporters listened skeptically the week before the election when the Bush campaign's two leading strategists insisted they were comfortably ahead in Florida and were leading in Ohio, but it doesn't look like spin anymore. At a lunch with reporters five days before the election, Mr. Dowd correctly predicted that Mr. Bush would win the popular vote nationwide by three points. 
 Real estate agents in Manhattan, Malibu, Marin County and Tuscany. Assuming the Bushophobes keep their promises to go into exile, and the commission on a $2.5 million home is at least 4 percent, then . . .
 Jonathan Rauch. The columnist for The National Journal predicted more than a year ago that Mr. Kerry would not become president because of Rauch's Law, a rule about a politician's shelf life that Mr. Rauch derived after crunching a century's worth of numbers. 
 ''With only one exception since the presidency of Theodore Roosevelt,'' he explained, ''no one has been elected president who took more than 14 years to climb from his first major elective office to election as either president or vice president.'' The only exception was Lyndon B. Johnson, who took 23 years to go from congressman to vice president.
 ''Americans like fresh presidents: people with some experience, but not too much,'' Mr. Rauch wrote, and Mr. Kerry did not fit the bill. ''Sorry, John,'' he said to the senator last year, noting that Mr. Kerry's 19 years in Congress meant that he was well past his ''sell-by date.''
 Professional Bush-Bashers. They may weep for America, but their literary agents are calculating the royalties and chanting, ''Four more years!''
 Family Circle Readers. In the magazine's First Lady Cookie Cook-Off, readers voted for Laura Bush's chocolate chunk recipe over Teresa Heinz Kerry's pumpkin cookies, the fourth straight time they have picked the election winner since the contest began in 1992 (when Hillary Rodham Clinton baked cookies to atone for a disparaging remark about housewives). 
 Mrs. Heinz Kerry tried -- in vain, apparently -- to distance herself from the pumpkin recipe, which she said she had never seen, let alone tested. It was submitted by a staff member after Mrs. Heinz Kerry's original entry, an oatmeal-coconut cookie, was rejected by the magazine because it contained an ingredient, Lyle's Golden Syrup, not readily available in supermarkets.
 The what-if's will doubtless haunt Kerry campaign officials for years to come. For want of a syrup ... 
 Fox News. The first to call Ohio. As Brit Hume, a Fox News Channel anchorman, said the day before the election, when executives from the networks kept saying they did not want to be first in calling states: ''Everyone's lying. We all want to be first.'' 
 Economic indicators. The rule about the consumer confidence index -- if it is above 90 during the third quarter, the president has always been re-elected -- held up once again. And Ray Fair, the Yale economist with a formula involving indices of inflation and economic growth, correctly forecast a Bush victory. 
 Non-exit pollsters. For all the talk about polls no longer being reliable, most of the election-eve polls showed Mr. Bush ahead. Two of them (the Pew Research Center and the New York Times/CBS polls) had the margin exactly right at three points.
 Futures Traders. Throughout the summer, as the polls oscillated and journalists vacillated, the speculators betting money in the online political markets remained consistently bullish on Mr. Bush. 
 When the Iowa Electronic Markets closed on Monday, the traders expected Mr. Bush to get 50.5 percent of the vote, coming within about 1 point of his share the next day. 
 On the InTrade market based in Dublin, traders not only expected the Bush victory but also showed a preternatural ability to anticipate the outcomes in battleground states. 
 Hillary Clinton. The speculators at InTrade have already made her the favorite (John Edwards is a distant second) for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008, and they are giving the Democrats a better-than-even chance of regaining the White House.

LOSERS
 John Zogby. In what he described as a ''bungee jump,'' the pollster flatly predicted in May that Mr. Kerry would win the election. He went on maintaining through the summer that the race was ''Kerry's to lose.'' Then, even though his own election-eve poll showed Mr. Bush a point ahead, Mr. Zogby took an even bigger plunge on Election Day. 
 Late Tuesday afternoon he predicted that Mr. Kerry would win Florida, Ohio, Iowa and New Mexico (none of which he did) and get at least 311 votes in the Electoral College, while Mr. Bush was assured of only 213. (Mr. Zogby modestly declined to forecast the remaining 14 electoral votes). 
 ''I did something I shouldn't have,'' Mr. Zogby cheerfully confessed on Thursday. ''I am a better pollster than predictor.''
 He said that his Election Day prediction was inspired not by the faulty exit polls but mainly by his own polling among young voters and field reports of high turnout among the young. 
 ''I don't know that anyone was hospitalized over my prediction,'' he said. ''If there are any orphans that are out there, from the bottom of my heart I apologize. We'll try to start up a fund.''
 The Swift Boat Veterans and the Band of Brothers. What will they do when they don't have each other to kick around?
 George Soros. There are some things in life $27 million can't buy. 
 Exit pollsters and the pundits who trusted them. 
 The youth vote. The unprecedented get-out-the-vote campaigns turned out so many young Americans that their share of the electorate went from 17 percent in 2000 to 17 percent in 2004. 
 Bob Shrum. The Democrats' most coveted consultant toned down his trademark populism after the primaries, but he could not shake certain habits: one more Social Security scare, one more presidential candidate who did not make it to the White House. He's now 0 for 8.
 The Incumbent Rule. Undecided voters always end up breaking against the incumbent, except when they don't.
 Those ''accurate predictors'' of re-election prospects. The president's job approval rating was just 49 percent going into the election, and only 43 percent of Americans thought the country was on the right track, but somehow he still got 51 percent of the votes. 
 The Redskins Rule. If the Redskins do not win their last home game before the election, an incumbent president will lose. Thus it had been for seven decades.
 So why did Mr. Bush win despite the Redskins' loss to the Green Bay Packers? Could it have been Mr. Kerry's referring to Lambeau Field as ''Lambert Field''? Statistical diehards can hang on to the rule by adding a clause: except when the opposing candidate misidentifies the home stadium of the visiting team while campaigning in that state.
 The entertainment industry. Except for country music singers (''Please show Mr. Gatlin to the Lincoln Bedroom''), activist entertainers emerged from the election with two problems to consider. 
 One is the possibility that their fervent endorsements might have cost Mr. Kerry the election (Mr. Bush loved rallying crowds in battleground states by denouncing Mr. Kerry's ''Hollywood values''). The other problem -- one that their managers were probably trying to mention between the flights of political rhetoric -- is that these entertainers have now certifiably irritated more than half of American consumers of entertainment. 
 But then, like Jerry Lewis, they will always be huge in France.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); LITERATURE (63%); LITERARY AGENTS (56%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); KARL ROVE (73%); JOHN F TIERNEY (58%) John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



175 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Geography Is Destiny; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: The Real Divide: Waterside Voters Versus Inlanders

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE ancient Greeks divided the world into four elements, but American voters seem to have made this presidential election a choice between just two of them: Water versus Earth.
 Look at a national map showing how each county voted, and you see a mostly red expanse except for blue Democratic clusters along the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, the Great Lakes, the Gulf of Mexico, the Mississippi and other rivers. Look at California and you see a mostly red state, with the Democrats concentrated along the coast while Republicans dominate the inland counties on the other side of the mountains. 
 So, while political analysts have been busy dividing the electorate by race and religion and age, perhaps the United States electorate is divided by something more elemental: location, between those who live on the water and those who do not. 
 This pattern can seem, at first glance, like the ancient distinction throughout the world between liberal cosmopolites and traditionalist farmers. The inlanders have always doubted the morals of merchants in port cities. And the urbanites have always considered the inlanders backward. One Democratic author, John Sperling, called this election a contest between Metro and Retro America. But as the election results showed, the water people are not exactly in the vanguard of history, at least not now, when you consider where people and industries are moving. 
 While some of the old port cities grew during the stock market boom of the 1990's, since 2000, their population has generally either been falling (as in Boston, Baltimore, Chicago and San Francisco) or growing relatively slowly (as in New York) in comparison with places like Fort Worth and Phoenix. 
 ''The new frontier is inland,'' said Joel Kotkin, a fellow at the New America Foundation and author of of the forthcoming book, ''The City: A Global History.'' He says that port cities like Boston and San Francisco, and to some extent New York, have become what he calls ''boutique cities'' that appeal to the ''hipocracy'' -- the young, the childless and the affluent in search of quaint neighborhoods and lofts with a view. 
 ''The coastal cities,'' he said, ''have generally been settled longer, and you see a bifurcated pattern in the real estate: rich neighborhoods with ocean views and poor neighborhoods with closed factories and service workers. The intelligentsia and the nomadic rich in these coastal cities don't mind the lack of economic growth; in fact, they often fight growth. But middle-class families are moving to cities and exurbs in the interior.''
 Of the major cities, the ones with the smallest ratios of children to adults are all on the water: San Francisco, Seattle, Honolulu, Boston and Portland. ''Your hip, well-educated, 20- and 30-somethings come to the great cities to get their career cards punched and meet mates,'' said Fred Siegel, a fellow at the Progressive Policy Institute and the author of ''The Prince of the City,'' a forthcoming book on Rudolph W. Giuliani and New York. ''But if they marry and have children, they tend to leave, unless they're what I call trustafarians -- people with a lot of money that was made somewhere else.''
 The port cities originally became bastions of the Democratic Party by appealing to upwardly mobile families whose money came from factory jobs in the booming urban centers. But now that the factories have closed and most new jobs and homes are being created in the inland suburbs and exurbs, the Democrats living in cities often seem out of touch with middle-class values and the mainstream economy.
 ''It used to be that the port cities were a microcosm of America and the suburbs were different,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution. ''Now the suburbs are a microcosm and the port cities are different. They have some minorities, young people there during their single years and the well-educated and well-off elites that can afford to live in the best cities. That's become the Democratic base.'' 
 Meanwhile, the Republicans have been courting the middle classes in the interior, a region with a very different culture because of both geography and history. Much of it was settled by clans of Scots-Irish fundamentalists whose values and traditions, like country music, spread from Appalachia throughout the heartland. 
 Compared with the European Catholics, Jews and WASPs living in port cities, these inlanders were much less likely to look to union leaders, party bosses or government officials to solve their problems, said James Webb, a former secretary of the Navy and author of the new book, ''Born Fighting: How the Scots-Irish Shaped America.'' 
 ''The Scots-Irish have historically been against centralization of power,'' Mr. Webb said. ''Scotland was formed from the bottom up through the clan system and loyalty to local leaders. This culture has always mistrusted elites and aristocracies. They combine Calvinist religiosity with populism. They're more individualistic and less collectivist than the immigrants who settled in cities.''
 Senator John Kerry, the Boston Brahmin and Washington veteran, did not have much luck on Tuesday appealing to the heartland, but some Democrats say that it's not an impossible feat. After all, the inlanders are being exposed more than ever to cosmopolitan ideas from the port cities, both through the news media and through the coastal dwellers moving to the interior. 
 The young urbanites who move out with their families may bring their tolerance for gay rights with them; the Hispanics and other immigrants moving from the cities to the exurbs may keep their habit of voting Democratic.
 But there's also the chance that these migrants will absorb the values of their new neighbors inland. Children and mortgages can promote Republican values. Latinos living in exurbs or cities like Phoenix tend to vote more Republican than Latinos in Los Angeles or New York.
 ''The people who are leaving Los Angeles for Nevada for economic reasons,'' Dr. Frey said, ''will be simpatico to the conservative portion of the Republican agenda, like lower taxes and more local control. But they'll bring with them their blue-state social agenda, like support for gun control and gay marriage. That's where the Democrats can make gains.''
 Mr. Kotkin says there could be a blending of the two cultures in the next generation of inlanders. ''They could be fiscal conservatives with strong family values, but more tolerance for other cultures,'' he said. ''But for the coastal Democrats to make any inroads, they'll have to stop assuming that anyone in Fargo is an uncultured boob.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Robert Grossman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CLASSICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); OCEANS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRITERS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); FAMILY (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); RELIGION (54%) Presidential Election of 2004; Maps; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (78%) John Tierney; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Northeastern States (US); Pacific Northwestern States (US); California; Atlantic Ocean; Pacific Ocean; Great Lakes ; Gulf of Mexico; Mississippi River

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



176 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; Economic View; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Taxes and Consequences: The Second Term Begins

BYLINE: By Daniel Altman

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH began his first term with projections for $5.6 trillion in budget surpluses. Though he will start his second term facing at least $2.3 trillion in deficits, according to the Congressional Budget Office, his tax-cutting ambitions are even greater. Here are some of the initiatives that he's likely to push, and the unanswered questions that go with them.

PRIVATIZATION OF SOCIAL SECURITY -- President Bush said he wants to give workers an opportunity to divert part of their payroll taxes to individual investment accounts, in the hope that the financial markets would pay higher returns than the existing Social Security system. That money would otherwise have gone to pay benefits for current retirees, however. How would the administration close the gap? Also, who would choose where workers could put their money? Would they have been able to invest in Enron? What about investing abroad? And finally, what would happen if financial markets crashed? In Chile, whose private pension system has been cited as a model by President Bush, some retirees saw their benefits drop by 7 percent in 2001. Could that happen here?

SIMPLIFICATION OF THE INCOME TAX -- It is not completely clear what the president means by this oft-heard campaign promise. Simplification could take several forms, from closing loopholes and streamlining rates (as in the 1986 restructuring), to a complete overhaul resulting in a flat tax. So, which is it?

MAKING THE 2001, 2002 AND 2003 TAX CUTS PERMANENT -- The president has repeatedly voiced his determination to achieve this goal, but the medium-term cost could be huge. According to the Congressional Budget Office, making the tax cuts permanent would increase the projected federal debt by a third, or about $2.2 trillion, by 2014. Without any indication that the budget gap will eventually close, interest rates could rise as investors here and abroad become leery. Is this change worth the risk?

TAX-FREE SAVING ACCOUNTS -- The Bush administration proposed an enormous expansion of saving accounts similar to Roth IRA's, where after-tax income funneled into a special portfolio would generate tax-free returns. Individuals would be able to salt away up to $15,000 a year, under the initial proposal. Most families, assuming they opened accounts for their children, would be able to shelter their entire portfolios from taxes within several years. Financial assets generated about 12 percent of individuals' taxable income in 2002. Could the government afford to forgo the resulting revenue? If there are projected benefits for the economy, how big are they?

ABOLISHING THE TAX ON DIVIDENDS -- The White House sought to eliminate this form of ''double taxation'' in 2003. In the end, Congress cut tax rates on dividends and capital gains, but didn't abolish the taxes. Economists have not seen a marked improvement in household saving as a result of these changes, however, so the argument to go further will not be straightforward. With big deficits already on the way, how would the administration justify revisiting this tax?
 Several of the above, except for the changes to Social Security, are likely to find themselves rolled together in a gargantuan tax overhaul. For a start, a big bill would allow for more horse-trading, which may be needed to secure the 60 senators' votes needed to make permanent changes to the tax code. Such a bill would also make a good capstone for a second-term president who is trying to secure his legacy.
 A major tax restructuring would throw up some more unanswered questions, though. Virtually all of the proposals above would increase inequality in incomes. Greater inequality can harm the economy, as poor but talented people find it difficult to develop their potentials and follow through on their creative ideas. That could shrink the pool of skilled labor available to run the nation's cutting-edge manufacturers and service providers. 
 The administration has not showed much eagerness to deal with these issues. ''We can't let the perfect be the enemy of the good,'' said Peter R. Fisher, then the Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance, in an interview in January 2003. By trying to rebalance the tax system to reduce inequality, he added, ''you kind of invite a level of complexity back at you that you don't necessarily want.''
 Perhaps more important, a few of these proposals would tend to shrink the tax base. Should taxes on income from financial assets fall or disappear, the federal government would have to make up the shortfall somewhere. So far, there's little sign in Washington of an inclination to cut spending. In that case, the government would have to borrow much more or raise rates on those Americans who still pay taxes.
 Wall Street rallied on Wednesday as the answer to the big question -- who would be president for the next four years -- came much more quickly than in 2000. But investors and money managers will train their eyes sharper than ever on Washington, looking for the spiraling deficits that would send interest rates sky-high. The president will have to be that much more mindful of the consequences of his actions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); FAMILY (71%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Taxation

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush; Daniel Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



177 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad Airport: 5 Miles. Proceed With Caution.

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq 

 BODY:
THE first real sign that I was back in Iraq came about three miles down the road from Baghdad International Airport. On the north side of the highway sat the scorched hulk of an armored Humvee. It was mid-September, and I had flown in right after one of the insurgency's bloodiest days, with scores killed in attacks across Iraq. In one assault, guerrillas detonated a bomb next to an American military convoy along the airport highway.
 The charred Humvee reminded me of my previous entry into Iraq, during the ferocious uprising last April, when on the day of my arrival, a bombing on the same road killed an Iraqi man who was driving by. His blood was splattered across his white sedan. 
 For those entering or leaving Iraq by air, these are often the first or last images. Nineteen months after toppling Saddam Hussein, the American military and Iraqi forces have yet to secure what is arguably the country's most important stretch of road -- the five-mile umbilical cord connecting Iraq to the world, the transit point for diplomats, business people, aid workers, security contractors and journalists. The security vacuum along it is emblematic of the sheer inability to maintain control over key areas of the country.
 Like an initiation rite, they have to run a gantlet on the six-lane highway before they can even begin work here. The assaults are frequent and varied: insurgents with Kalashnikovs staging coordinated ambushes using four or five cars, or popping up on an overpass with rocket-propelled grenades, setting off chains of artillery shells buried in the ground. Over nine weeks last summer, the military recorded 200 attacks.
 Last month, at least two dozen major attacks took place along the east-west artery and nine inside Camp Victory, the operations center of the American-led forces next to the airport, according to an analysis by a Western security contractor. Those numbers are almost certainly a gross underestimate, said a security adviser for a Western television network.
 As recently as Wednesday, a car bomber in what witnesses said was a gray sport utility vehicle tried swerving past a line of cars at the first airport checkpoint. He detonated himself as a British security contractor walked up to the car. The explosion killed the contractor, injured at least nine Iraqis and forced a shutdown of the airport, trapping one of my colleagues, who had just flown in from Jordan, inside.
 ''I was sitting inside a pickup waiting in line when I felt the explosion,'' said Muhammad Gizar, a construction worker hit in the head with shrapnel, from a hospital bed. ''There were too many wounded to count.''
 In September, Iraqi Airways resumed service to Amman, Jordan, and Damascus, Syria, after being grounded through 14 years of war and economic sanctions. This sent a ripple of optimism across Iraq, but assaults on the airport highway are already draining the company of workers. Last month, gunmen fired on a bus with two dozen women who work for the airline, killing one and injuring 14 others. 
 ''I put my hand on my heart the moment we leave home,'' an Iraqi Airways employee said. ''You should see the driver. He drives so fast down the road just to reach the first checkpoint, where we spend 20 minutes in terror because it's a really dangerous point. You don't feel safe for a single second on this road.'' 
 The First Armored Division tried controlling the highway, then the First Cavalry Division, to no avail. American soldiers cleared out trees and walls along the sides to prevent insurgents from hiding. Still the mortars and ambushes kept coming.
 An Iraqi police officer who gave his name only as Major Ahmed, for fear guerrillas will track him, said policemen from three stations were supposed to help secure the road. Most insurgents come from the Amariya neighborhood of western Baghdad, he said, and they attack in the morning, as American convoys roll down the highway and Iraqis make their commute.
 Coming or going, I usually catch a Royal Jordanian flight in the afternoon rather than morning, because I value my sleep and because of the lower chance of attacks. I ride in an armored sedan with a second car following, Iraqi guards with Kalashnikovs in each vehicle. I count the seconds until I get through the checkpoint to the terminal. 
 Even then, I don't really let my breath out until the plane climbs up beyond the range of surface-to-air missiles.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ROAD WARRIORS -- Driving on the highway to the Baghdad airport is frightening and dangerous. Top left, standing guard near a burned-out American military vehicle on Sept. 12. Top right, an Army transport truck was attacked on the airport highway on April 12. An Iraqi man ran away with bottles of oil he looted from the truck before it blew up. Bottom left, troops arrive at the scene of a roadside-bomb explosion on July 16
an American soldier was injured. Iraqis passed a sport utility vehicle, bottom right, that was hit by a roadside bomb on Oct 27. (Photos by Bob Strong/Reuters
Top left, Ceerwan Aziz/Reuters)
(Photos by Hadi Mizban/Associated Press
top left, Ceerwan Aziz/Reuters
top right, Akram Saleh/Reuters
 left, Bob Strong/Reuters)Map of Baghdad highlighting the area around Airport Road.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); EYEWITNESSES (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%) United States Armament and Defense; Baghdad International Airport; Roads and Traffic; United States International Relations; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) Edward Wong; Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); JORDAN (92%); SYRIA (79%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



178 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Labor-Backed Third Party Emerges as Statewide Force

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN

 BODY:
With all the attention focused on the re-election of President Bush and the record voting for New York State's senior United States senator, Charles E. Schumer, the hidden winner of last Tuesday's election may well have been the Working Families Party, which established itself as an emerging political force statewide by getting a little-known candidate elected district attorney in Albany County.
 The small grass-roots party, which has strong ties to labor, had already helped defeat an incumbent in the Assembly, elected a member of the New York City Council and pressed the State Legislature to pass an increase in the minimum wage. But before Tuesday, it had never flexed its political muscle so far outside the downstate region.
 Suddenly, what seemed to be a city-centered political phenomenon became a potential statewide force. Although the Nassau County executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, has talked about beating incumbents in his Fix Albany campaign, his results have been limited. But the Working Families Party has, more often than not, succeeded by backing candidates who go on to do well at the polls. 
 In so doing, the party has rekindled a New York tradition of strong third parties, one that has faded with the collapse of the Liberal Party, an identity crisis within the Conservative Party and the lack of a popular leader for the Independence Party. New York is unusual among states in that it allows third parties to cross-endorse major party candidates.
 ''Clearly they are in the ascendancy at the moment,'' said E.J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group, who said the real test of the Working Families Party would be in how it fares during the 2006 election for governor.
 The party emerged last week not only as a powerful organizing force in helping elect David Soares district attorney in Albany County, but also as a crucial second line on the ballot for candidates in close races.
 State Senator Nicholas A. Spano, a Westchester County Republican seeking re-election, earned the party's endorsement for his support for raising the minimum wage, and landed about 1,500 votes on that line. The winner of Mr. Spano's race has still not been determined, but if he wins, it will mean the Working Families Party will have given him a critical advantage and perhaps even the margin of victory. 
 ''They have connected a set of clear and understandable moral and political principles to a political machine with enormous muscle,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who is considering running for attorney general in 2006. ''It is an irresistible combination.''
 The Working Families Party was started in 1998 by a coalition of labor and community groups that were looking to advance an agenda focused on typically liberal issues, like the minimum wage and overhauling the strict Rockefeller-era drug laws. Structurally, the party is a hybrid, charging its members dues, about $5 a month, while also having a line on the ballot, which it won in 1998 when it backed the City Council speaker at the time, Peter F. Vallone, in his campaign for governor. The party also gets financial support from labor and other organizations.
 The group, which was built around a core that included the Communications Workers of America, the United Automobile Workers and the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, known as Acorn, agreed to be focused and disciplined in its agenda. It has, for example, largely set aside liberal social causes that might alienate some of its target working-class audience. The goal, founding members said, is to build a party that will attract blue-collar Republicans as well as liberal Democrats, along with the growing pool of independent voters.
 So far the formula appears to be working. Though the Working Families Party has just 20,000 registered members, Senator Schumer drew about 150,000 votes on the party's line, a record for it. But the Democratic presidential candidate, Senator John Kerry, won only 120,000 on the party's line, suggesting, party officials said, that some or all of 30,000 voters who chose Mr. Schumer on its line also voted for President Bush.
 Dan Cantor, executive director of the party, said those who vote on its line are ''culturally conservative but economically populist: white working-class people who think the Democratic Party is distant from them.''
 And, he said, ''we get a lot of votes in 'of color' turf. Blacks and Latinos don't like to be taken for granted by Democrats and don't want to throw their votes to Republicans.''
 Political analysts said the Working Families Party stands out because it has succeeded where the Democratic and Republican Parties have largely failed in New York State, getting back to basics, relying heavily on door-to-door operations with very strong grass-roots organizing. 
 At the moment the Conservatives still draw many more votes on their line, making them an important player for Republicans. This year, they ran their own candidate for the Senate, Dr. Marilyn F. O'Grady, who got more than 200,000 votes. 
 If the Working Families Party has a weakness, it may be its structure as a coalition, which requires consensus among varied groups. But Bob Master, political director for the Communications Workers of America District 1 and a co-chairman of the party, said having a ballot line is an incentive that keeps people committed to finding compromise.
 ''This is the best coalition that any of us have been in because nobody wants to walk away permanently,'' he said. ''Progressive coalitions tend to fall apart because people get angry, they walk away, they take their marbles and go home. Because of the power of the endorsement, the line has so much power that no one feels they can walk away.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Working Families Party executive director, Dan Cantor, says it attracts ''culturally conservative but economically populist'' voters. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); COUNTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); CITIES (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) District Attorneys; Third-Party Moves (US); Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: Working Families Party

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Michael Slackman; david soares

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; Albany County (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



179 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Living Magazine; The Remix; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Air Supply

BYLINE: By Sara Dickerman

 BODY:
Among other enticements, it was spices that sent Christopher Columbus sailing west and da Gama around the Cape of Good Hope. And it is spices and other exotic, hard-to-come-by ingredients that make the contemporary restaurant kitchen the center of its own global economy.
 Ludovic Lefebvre, who recently replaced his fellow Frenchman Alain Giraud as the chef at Bastide, the tony haute-cuisine retreat in Los Angeles, sees the merits of outsourcing. His appetite for the new has transformed the menu from dishes rooted in the flavors of Provence to a more picaresque cuisine, worldwide in its influences. To find novel flavors for Bastide's clientele, Lefebvre leans on his favorite purveyors, like Jing Tio, the owner of the Santa Monica food boutique Le Sanctuaire. ''I push him to find unusual ingredients,'' he says. Tio has helped him to discover the flavors of Australia, from the pure lemon scent of lemon myrtle to the roasted-coffee aroma of wattleseed, which comes from a variety of acacia. 
 Not everything Lefebvre cooks with comes from far-flung spots: he works in California, after all, the cradle of the local-foods movement. With the help of a produce forager (a chef's answer to a personal shopper), Lefebvre can get most of his staples -- herbs, onions, lemons, carrots and the like -- straight from the Santa Monica farmer's market, where growers from Salinas to San Diego gather every Wednesday. But when it comes to sexy showcase ingredients, Lefebvre isn't limited to what can be grown in terra cognita.
 Like many chefs, he is reliant on a seamless international chain of food transport for chanterelles gathered by foragers in Saskatchewan; Indian cumin; and milk-fed veal raised near Scranton, Pa. To get a sense of just how much diners have come to rely on well-traveled ingredients for their eating pleasure, we have tallied the total number of miles traveled by the ones in a single veal entree at Bastide. The distance -- 66,584 miles -- is well over two trips around the equator. SARA DICKERMAN


GRAPHIC: Photo: Roasted Veal Tenderloin with Lemon Myrtle Leaves, medjool dates puree and lemon confit. Total mileage: 66,584 miles.: Spring onions, Valley Center, 98 miles. Cumin, India, 8,264 miles. Leeks, Santa Maria, Calif., 152 miles. Garlic, Gilroy, Calif., 274 miles. Shallot, Canada, 1,833 miles. Star anise, China, 6,581 miles. White wine, France, 5,729 miles. Carrot, Oxnard, Calif., 46 miles. Onion, Valley Center, 98 miles. Parsley, Oxnard, 46 miles. Fennel, Santa Maria, 152 miles. Thyme, Oxnard, 46 miles. Fresh coconut, Mexico, 1,227 miles. Bay leaf, Turkey, 7,119 miles.Meyer lemon, Valley Center, Calif., 98 miles. Sugar, Crockett, Calif., 347 miles.Lemon myrtle leaves, Australia, 8,016 miles. Black pepper pericarp, Sarawak, Malaysia, 8,438 miles. Veal tenderloin, Honesdale, Pa., 2,384 miles. Butter, Winnsboro, Tex., 1,329 miles. Medjool dates, Mecca, Calif., 137 miles. Sherry vinegar, Jerez, Spain, 5,888 miles. Amchur powder, India, 8,282 miles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SONG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); SPICE FARMING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAILERS (74%); BEEF (69%) Restaurants

ORGANIZATION: Bastide (Los Angeles Restaurant)

PERSON: MILES D WHITE (79%) Sara Dickerman; Ludovic Lefebvre

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (78%); SALINAS, CA, USA (54%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (77%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (74%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (66%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (56%); EQUATOR (50%) UNITED STATES (97%); MALAYSIA (79%); CANADA (77%); SPAIN (59%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



180 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 11-7-04: ENCOUNTER; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: A Last, Lonely Dissident

BYLINE: By Eric Umansky. 
Eric Umansky is a columnist for Slate.

 BODY:
As she strolls through Old Havana, wearing two-tone Jennifer Lopez-style sunglasses, Claudia Marquez Linares seems like a member of Cuba's tiny elite. And in many ways she is. At 27, she is already regarded as one of the country's leading independent journalists. For her efforts, she has lost friends, effectively her husband and, perhaps soon, her homeland. 
 Officially, there is only one type of media in Cuba: state-owned. Journalists writing elsewhere -- in foreign publications and underground magazines or on the Internet -- have long lived in a sort of gray zone, often tolerated but usually harassed. In the 1990's, though, the state temporarily relaxed its grip as it sought to open its economy and survive the collapse of the Soviet Union. 
 Marquez was introduced to the Cuban opposition by her husband, Osvaldo Alfonso Valdes, an aspiring politician. ''He taught me the word 'dissident,''' she says. Like many independent journalists, she came to reject the ossified polemics that have become the signature of Castro and his hard-line foes in the United States. ''I don't like communism,'' she says. ''But nor do I like extremist thinking of any ideology.'' Instead, she explored the gritty side of Cuban life ignored by the official press.
 In short, tart articles -- mostly for CubaNet, a nonprofit, nonpartisan news site based in Florida that Cuba's government brands ''counterrevolutionary'' and blocks -- Marquez has detailed the unacknowledged glass ceiling facing female workers, the failure of a machismo-filled culture to acknowledge a rise in H.I.V. rates connected to gay prostitution and the disillusionment of Cuba's young. In person, Marquez is upbeat and prone to joke. But her work shows a sharper edge. In an article about Cuba's decrepit bus system, she writes, ''There are trips that last 43 years,'' alluding to Castro's long reign. ''And even if they move a bit, they lead nowhere.'' 
 Such critiques and jabs were heard often from opposition writers. But on March 18, 2003, Castro cracked down. With the world fixated on the impending invasion of Iraq, which would take place the next day, the Cuban government rounded up almost 80 dissidents. Marquez herself wasn't arrested, probably because of her sex. (Only one of the 75 eventually sentenced was a woman.) In the ensuing show trials, only one dissident apparently ''confessed'' or expressed remorse: Marquez's husband. 
 ''In our intent to undertake a peaceful struggle, we have responded in one way or another to the interests of the United States,'' Alfonso said during his trial, parts of which were broadcast on national television. The ''confession'' was a boon to the Cuban government, and Havana's foreign minister cited it in a news conference. Following his statement, Alfonso received an 18-year sentence in lieu of the typical 20, and unlike the others, he was sent to a jail close to Havana. 
 The seemingly subtle self-denunciation left many reeling, including Marquez. ''I felt disillusioned,'' she says. ''I always had an image of Osvaldo as a strong and valiant man. After more than a year, I still don't really understand what happened.'' 
 Alfonso himself now feels ashamed of his statement, Marquez says. ''Whenever I visit him, he's always sad, and he cries. I think he feels culpable'' -- a position Marquez herself seems to endorse. ''My compassion for him has been restrained. It's been very difficult.'' (In the fall of 2003, Alfonso tried to commit suicide, and he is now on a cocktail of antidepressants.)
 While on trial, Alfonso asked Marquez to stop working. A few months later, their 7-year-old son, Cristian, said much the same when Marquez told him his father was in jail. ''Mommy, don't you speak evil of Fidel,'' Marquez recalls Cristian telling her. ''They will take you away, too. And I will be crying a lot.'' 
 Before the arrests, Marquez contributed to one of Cuba's best samizdat publications, De Cuba -- ''Of Cuba.'' After the crackdown claimed much of the staff, she tried to keep the publication alive. With help from another nonincarcerated editor, Tania Quintero, they cobbled together an issue that focused on the prisoners. Marquez and Quintero kept the original editors listed on the magazine's masthead, putting next to their names ''(imprisoned).''
 Despite such successes, pressure mounted on Marquez. Alfonso's confession and his slightly lighter sentence caused anger and distrust among some dissidents. ''Some people suspected Claudia was working for state security or at least had been weakened to the point where she was helping them,'' says Sauro Gonzalez, a researcher at the Committee to Protect Journalists, who adds that the suspicions don't appear to have any basis in fact. ''The state managed to drive a wedge between the families.''
 Soon after De Cuba was printed in October 2003, Marquez was brought in for questioning by state security officers and threatened with imprisonment. ''They asked me if I loved my 6-year-old son,'' she once recalled. 
 Marquez was shaken. Since the interrogation, she has lowered her profile. She is still writing, but not as often. ''Sometimes I feel sad and I don't want to look at my computer,'' she says. In March, Marquez applied to immigrate to the United States. ''I have always said I would never leave my country,'' she says. ''But now I am skeptical about the future. I don't think the government will ever accept the dissidents.'' 
 Recently, when she was visiting her husband in prison, a security agent brought Marquez into another room for questioning. He pointed out that agents are still following her work. ''I don't know what they want,'' says Marquez, who needs the government's permission to leave. ''But I am so afraid. And I don't know what to do.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Alyssa Banta)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); WOMEN (86%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (69%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); SENTENCING (60%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%) Freedom of the Press; News and News Media; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: De Cuba (Magazine)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (73%) Eric Umansky; Claudia Marquez Linares; Osvaldo Alfonso Valdes

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (71%) Cuba; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



181 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: The Election's Over. Are You Still Losing It?

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
STEVEN STOSNY, a psychologist and anger specialist in Washington, began treating patients with political rage problems during the battle over President Bill Clinton's impeachment. After the presidential election on Tuesday, he started receiving calls once again from livid Democrats, including a Kerry campaign staff member who said she was furious with George W. Bush, and was taking it out on her husband.
 ''These political families are collapsing at the finish line,'' said Dr. Stosny, the author of self-help books like ''The Powerful Self.'' ''They just can't take it anymore.''
 Both political parties could probably use a little time on the couch just now: therapists say the 2004 campaign was one of the most disturbing, hate-filled contests on record. Voters on the left frequently admitted to fighting for Senator John Kerry's election simply because they wanted ''anybody but Bush.'' Conservatives, on television and on Web sites, regularly impugned Mr. Kerry's patriotism and what they saw as his lack of core beliefs. 
 Now, however, might be the time to kiss and make up. After all, medical studies have shown that anger can lead to heart disease. And it's hard to get anything done if you hate the people you work with. Who wants to live in a country filled with road-raging Volvo peaceniks and gay-marriage opponents who think ''Will & Grace'' recruits people to homosexuality?
 ''If we just stay in this negative place, it will take a toll,'' said Dr. Redford B. Williams, director of the behavioral medicine research center at Duke University. ''There's been a trauma here, and if we don't recover -- if we continue to ruminate about it -- there will be health and social consequences.''
 Dr. Williams, an author of ''Lifeskills,'' a guide to conflict prevention, offered a handful of ways to deal with negative emotion. Hitting a pillow is out; deep breathing is in. Suggestions for redirecting negative emotion toward constructive action -- even writing a letter to Congress, as feeble as it may seem -- now dominate the therapeutic literature.
 But such solutions may require an epic force of will. For some, the frustration has been building since the 1960's. Fred Siegel, a senior fellow at the Progressive Policy Institute, a centrist research center, said many Democrats were still reeling from the party's losses to Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan. Many felt last week as if they were overdue for a win, after the Clinton impeachment fight, Mr. Bush's victory in 2000 and the rise of Arnold Schwarzenegger. The latest loss, he said, has given Democrats a sense of injustice bordering on the biblical.
 ''This is Jacob and Esau,'' he said, citing the Old Testament story of the competing sons of Isaac. ''Esau's sense of himself as the rightful heir was in some ways legitimate, and yet he didn't get the prize. How is that kind of resentment slaked?''
 The partisan divide tends to make the anger especially intractable. Consider the word ''polarization.''
 ''It has two definitions,'' said Jonathan Lear, a professor of social thought at the University of Chicago, ''One is the standard idea that both sides of the country have gone out to further extremes. But 'polarized' sunglasses let in less of what's outside. Part of polarization is not taking in certain things.''
 This blinding tendency tends to make the anger self-perpetuating. Each side bores in on the other's failures. Emotions are stirred to fever pitch; self-examination is lost.
 No one, apparently, is immune. Peter Wolson, a psychoanalyst in Beverly Hills, Calif., said that several colleagues at a recent conference accused the Bush administration of being intolerant and fascistic while ''they themselves were vilifying the Republican Party en masse.''
 ''It was irrational black-and-white splitting,'' he said. ''The good and bad guys. For the Democrats the 'evildoers' became the Republicans.''
 Anger may feel justified and to a degree righteous after a political loss. But consider the health consequences. Several studies have connected anger with an increase in the risk of heart disease. One landmark report that tracked 13,000 patients, published in the journal Circulation in 2000, found that participants with high anger traits were nearly three times more likely to suffer heart attacks or require bypass surgery than those with less.
 ''If any election had the potential to activate this health-damaging tendency,'' said Dr. Williams of Duke, ''this would be it.''
 Luckily for the Incredible Hulks in the population, who could explode at any moment with comic-book intensity, there are ways to manage anger. Therapists vary their focus, but all seem to agree on what not to do.
 Forget throwing darts at a picture of the candidate you loathe, for example, or punching a pillow. Studies show that such violent actions ''create a habit of being aggressive,'' Dr. Stosny said. ''You're training your brain to be more offensive.''
 Nor will it do any good to obsess about mistakes made by those outside your control, be they Mr. Kerry or the young voters who failed to turn out as expected. Alcohol, a depressant, will not help either.
 Rather, anger specialists said, Democrats ought to redirect their rage toward constructive action. Phil Towle, a performance coach whose intervention with the warring members of Metallica was the subject of a documentary film this year, said that emotional intensity can be valuable only when correctly focused.
 ''One of the things we did with Metallica was help them understand that they could create music that had the edge but that was motivated by love and passion as opposed to disrespect or hate of each other,'' Mr. Towle said. ''The people who lost or won -- both parties really -- need to take their energy and find a way to keep the anger alive through passion, through conviction, through belief.''
 A first step: expanding the focus beyond electoral politics. ''What you do is write letters to Congress,'' Mr. Towle said. ''You change your own behavior. You change your own environment. You can take any of the issues that you care about and find a way to do something.''
 Dr. Williams, in ''Lifeskills,'' describes conversational tactics that can prevent conflicts that lead to outbursts. ''The first is speaking clearly in ways that increase the likelihood your message will be heard,'' he said. ''Wrong: 'You just want to give a big tax break to your rich friends.' Better: 'I'm concerned that giving 40 percent of the tax break to people making over $200,000 per year is unlikely to produce increased spending that we need to help the economy.' ''
 Listening skills, he said, also help defuse ticking tempers. People should keep quiet till the other person finishes, ''something Ann Coulter is constitutionally unable to do,'' he said, after admitting that he is a bit peeved himself about the election.
 Angry partisans should also appear interested in what those on the other side are saying. ''When they finish, tell them what you have heard,'' he said, and stay open to opposing arguments. ''Be prepared -- only open to the possibility, you don't have to be changed -- to be changed by what you hear.''
 This of course assumes that furious Democrats want to talk politics at all. That may not be the case. Matt Aydelott, an academic administrator in Southern California, said he first started to feel the anger rise like bile when Florida's vote total tipped toward Mr. Bush. And by the next afternoon, despair and disbelief had curdled into rage.
 As he put it in an e-mail message during Mr. Kerry's concession speech, ''I can't decide whether to cry or punch somebody in the face.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Gary Vestal/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); WRITERS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (78%); MARRIAGE (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); RELIGION (66%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Anger (Emotion); Therapy and Rehabilitation

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Damien Cave

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



182 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 ELECTION: THE TERM AHEAD; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Bush Prepares for Changes In Programs and Cabinet

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; David Johnston contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 6 

 BODY:
President Bush's aides are preparing the groundwork to move ahead with his plans to overhaul the tax code and Social Security, as cabinet members await signals from him about who will remain on his second-term team, Republican advisers and officials said.
 Mr. Bush was spending the weekend at Camp David, and he said Thursday that he would use his time there to begin thinking about personnel decisions. In Washington, administration officials said they were gearing up for what they hoped would be a fast start to the new term, accelerating work on the budget Mr. Bush will present in February and beginning to sketch out themes for his Inaugural Address. 
 Mr. Bush has made clear that he wants quick votes next year on issues that were blocked by Democrats in the Senate, including bills that would limit lawsuit awards against doctors, an issue Mr. Bush highlighted consistently on the campaign trail. And to some degree, his legislative strategy will depend on whether he starts the year making a nomination to the Supreme Court, a possibility given the illness of Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist.
 But the administration has yet to settle a number of issues about how to proceed with the most ambitious parts of Mr. Bush's domestic agenda -- his call for a simpler tax code and his proposal to add personal investment accounts to Social Security.
 A Republican adviser to the White House said there were two distinct strains of thinking within the administration about tax simplification. 
 One group, which the adviser said included Vice President Dick Cheney, supports throwing out the existing tax system and replacing it with a new one, built around the idea of exempting savings and investment from taxation and effectively levying a tax only on consumption. The new system, in this view, could be either a national sales tax or a single-rate flat income tax that as a practical matter only applies to income that people do not save or invest. 
 The other group, which the adviser said includes Treasury Secretary John Snow and Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, prefers an approach styled after what President Ronald Reagan and Congress did to reshape the tax code in 1986. They want to keep in place the progressive income tax structure, but to reduce rates and offset the foregone revenue by closing loopholes, cutting out special interest tax breaks and eliminating most deductions except those for home mortgage interest and charitable giving.
 ''That's the debate,'' said the adviser, who spoke on the condition of anonymity so he would not run afoul of the White House, which prefers to announce policy decisions only after internal differences have been ironed out.
 There are similar differences within the administration on how to cover costs of shifting to a system in which workers can invest a part of their Social Security payroll taxes in private retirement accounts. 
 Creating the new system would divert some of the payroll tax revenue that now goes to paying benefits to current retirees into the private accounts, meaning the government would have to find money from somewhere else to pay the benefits. Estimates range up to $2 trillion over several decades. 
 Some officials said one camp within the administration was comfortable with borrowing the money, with the idea that the loan could be paid off over the long run by the savings to the system from increased returns from the investment accounts. But they said other officials, especially some political advisers to the White House, feared that any increase in the national debt or the budget deficit, even if advertised as a step toward improving the nation's fiscal condition in the long run, would run into strong opposition from budget conservatives on Capitol Hill.
 Mr. Bush plans to name a bipartisan commission by the end of the year to explore the possibilities for changing the tax code, and is not likely to make any decisions until the commission reports sometime next year, administration officials said. 
 Some officials said any decisions about how to proceed on Social Security were sure to wait until the White House had had a chance to consult closely with members of both parties in Congress, where most Republicans support personal accounts but most Democrats oppose them.
 The outcome of the internal debates could depend on the composition of Mr. Bush's second-term cabinet. Some officials said they expected substantial changes in the economic team, possibly including Mr. Snow's departure. Others said they expected Mr. Snow to stay. Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans, one of Mr. Bush's closest friends, is weighing whether to return to Texas or stay on, officials said.
 The adviser to the White House said administration officials were looking for Democrats who might be willing to serve in the cabinet. Among them, the adviser said, is John B. Breaux of Louisiana, who is retiring from the Senate and is a possibility to become energy secretary. It is not clear whether Mr. Breaux is interested. His spokeswoman did not return a call.
 Mr. Bush's top aides said he intended to settle personnel issues quickly, and to seek to avoid too much turnover at the same time. Even so, some of the most senior members of Mr. Bush's cabinet appear to be waiting anxiously for signals from the White House. 
 For months, Attorney General John Ashcroft's associates had been saying that he was preparing to step aside, weary after waging an aggressive campaign against terrorism. They said he longed for a quieter life, especially after his gallbladder surgery in March.
 At the White House, no one seemed prepared to argue with Mr. Ashcroft. Officials there complained to friends that Mr. Ashcroft had made himself a fractious political issue as he embraced the Patriot Act and other Bush initiatives against terror.
 But Mr. Bush's victory seemed to reinvigorate Mr. Ashcroft, the officials said. Religious conservatives were a crucial part of Mr. Bush's margin and they have not wavered in their support for Mr. Ashcroft, who was first chosen by the Bush team in part because he was a favorite of evangelical Christians. Associates said Mr. Ashcroft might rethink his plans and was awaiting word from the White House on his future.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush is expected to deal shortly with staff decisions. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX REFORM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); TAX RELIEF (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); LITIGATION (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); CHARITIES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); CORPORATE TAX (63%) United States Politics and Government; Taxation; Social Security (US); United States Economy; Presidents and Presidency (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); DICK CHENEY (59%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



183 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; The Week Ahead; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 497 words

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:

MOSH EARLY AND OFTEN -- Eminem's ''Mosh,'' a video screed against President Bush that has been racing around the Internet, may not have prompted a groundswell of youth voting but it created enormous interest in his forthcoming record, ''Encore.'' The Detroit rapper moved up the record's release date four days, to this Friday, in part because the Bush video is not the only thing being downloaded. Much of the new album was on the Web last week, free for the grabbing.
 In addition to his rapping-fire assault on the president -- ''Strap him with an AK-47, let him go fight his own war, let him impress Daddy that way'' -- Eminem takes on Michael Jackson, Jessica Simpson, Hilary Duff and the Olsen twins in ''Encore,'' his fourth record for Interscope, in a career that has produced 50 million in worldwide sales.

GETTING HOT IN HERE -- A four-year study on global warming commissioned by eight countries with Arctic territory -- dubbed the Arctic Council -- will be out on Tuesday. According to portions of the study provided to The New York Times, it concludes that heat-trapping gases have contributed to significant shrinkage in glaciers, sea ice and permafrost, which have led in turn to changes in the atmosphere and weather.
 The Bush administration acknowledges that global warming may be a problem, but maintains studies of the underlying causes are inconclusive. Some Europeans involved in the study charged that its official release -- originally scheduled for September -- was delayed till after the presidential election, but the Icelandic chairman of the council said the charge was unfounded.

THE BUCK STOPS -- Late last month, Fidel Castro announced that the United States dollar, a staple of the Cuban economy, would be officially worthless inside Cuba as of Monday. He said he was responding to President Bush's decision to limit the amount of money Cuban-Americans can send back to Cuba, while imposing heavy fines against banks that transfer dollars to Cuba. Cubans will be charged a 10 percent surcharge to exchange dollars for Cuban pesos, which have no value outside Cuba.

THE FLU BUS -- On Monday, North Dakotans worried about the flu can board a bus in Grand Forks chartered by Paul Emmer, a Winnipeg entrepreneur, to travel to Winnipeg for flu shots. Lunch at the Olive Garden or Red Lobster is included in the $99 price.

FEDERAL CASE -- Consumers, who are paying more for many good and services, may also be anteing up more for loans after Wednesday, when the Federal Reserve is expected to raise the cost of short-term interest rates. The Fed is worried that a rising Consumer Price Index will boost inflation.
 The economy added 337,000 jobs in October, the biggest increase since March, the Labor Department reported. Orders for consumer goods rose in September for the third time in four months, as did sales of new homes. September orders for durable goods also rose-- led by military hardware and business equipment -- according to the Commerce Department.


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECORD RELEASES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (87%); GLOBAL WARMING (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); RAP MUSIC (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (68%); US DOLLAR (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); INFLUENZA (64%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (61%); FINES & PENALTIES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ARCTIC COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JESSICA SIMPSON (55%); HILARY DUFF (55%); ASHLEY OLSEN (52%); MARY-KATE OLSEN (52%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (91%); ICELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



184 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; WHAT'S DOING IN; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1850 words

HEADLINE: Little Rock

BYLINE: By RUTH ANN HENSLEY. 
RUTH ANN HENSLEY is a writer who lives in Dallas.

 BODY:
Six bridges span the scenic Arkansas River in downtown Little Rock, but soon there will be a new bridge in town -- one that wasn't built to cross a body of water, but instead to connect Little Rock to the rest of the world.
 On Nov. 18, the William Jefferson Clinton Presidential Center and Park will be unveiled on a roughly 30-acre site on the eastern edge of the downtown River Market District. Mr. Clinton will be there, and President George W. Bush and former chief executives have been invited. The ''bridge to the 21st century'' theme of the Clinton presidency inspired the bridgelike design of the library building. 
 Although the economic revitalization of Little Rock, the state capital, began shortly after Mr. Clinton chose it for the project in 1997. New hotels have opened and old ones have been restored. Museums and galleries have attracted big-city-caliber collections, and condominiums and restaurants breathe new life into old warehouses and storefronts. 
 And a $20 million trolley system has been installed to link the city's bustling River Market District to major hotels and attractions. The trolley also crosses the tree-lined Arkansas River to the Victorian neighborhoods, shopping and expansive parks of North Little Rock, forming a pedestrian-friendly connection between the two cities.

Events
 The opening of the Clinton Presidential Center will be celebrated Nov. 14 to 18 with events all over town, including Aretha Franklin with the Arkansas Symphony ($115 to $300), on Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. at the Robinson Center Music Hall, 426 West Markham, (501) 666-1761, and ''An Evening With Al Franken'' ($50 to $150) Nov. 15 at 7:30 p.m. in the Arkansas Repertory Theater, 601 Main Street, (866) 684-3737, or visit www.therep.org.
 ''Art and the White House: Presidential Selections 1960-2000,'' at the Arkansas Arts Center, MacArthur Park at Ninth and Commerce Streets, (501) 372-4000, www.arkarts.com, is an exhibition of works that presidents from Kennedy to Clinton borrowed from museums for display in the White House during their administrations. Included are a collection of American Indian-themed oil paintings by the American artist George Catlin, which the Reagans once borrowed from the National Gallery of Art, and the 1782 oil painting ''Benjamin Franklin,'' by the French artist Jean-Baptiste Greuze, displayed during the Ford and Carter administrations. It runs Nov. 19 to Jan. 25. ''Diana Walker: Photojournalist,'' Nov. 19 through Feb. 27, displays her engaging views of presidents' public and private lives. Admission is free. Closed Mondays and major holidays.
 The River Market, 400 President Clinton Avenue, (501) 375-2552, www.rivermarket.info, is the be-there spot, day and night, in the heart of downtown's arts and entertainment district. A Presidential Pavilion fall market, featuring the works of Arkansas artisans and fresh produce, will be held Nov. 16 to 18. Restaurants, bars and museums surround the market building and keep the area humming from early-morning coffee at the Andina Cafe to late-night live music across the street at Sticky Fingerz Rock 'n' Roll Chicken Shack, 107 Commerce Street. Vendors operate year-round in the Market Hall. 
 LeAnn Rimes's ''Symphonic Christmas'' opens the holiday concert series of the Arkansas Symphony, (501) 666-1761, or visit www.arkansassymphony.org, on Dec. 4 at 8 p.m. in the Robinson Center, 426 West Markham. Tickets are $36 to $100, The symphony's annual Yuletide Spectacular features a new collection of holiday music, gospel favorites and klezmer music, Dec. 17 and 18; $16 to $54. 

Sightseeing
 The $165 million Clinton Center includes the presidential library and museum, the nation's largest presidential archive, a restored 1899 railroad station affiliated with the University of Arkansas that houses the Clinton School of Public Service, and an 1899 railroad bridge converted to pedestrian use that will connect the park to 15 miles of riverside trails. There is also a replica of the Oval Office and the Cabinet Room, with interactive displays. General admission is $7. The center is at 1200 East President Clinton Avenue, (866) 773-7542, www.clintonpresidentialcenter.org. Open daily, except holidays, beginning Nov. 19. 
 Little Rock's rich history is showcased at the Old State House Museum, 300 West Markham Street; (501) 324-9685, www.oldstatehouse.com. Majestic columns lining the front of the museum exude a Southern pride befitting one of the nation's oldest state capitol buildings. The multimedia museum houses a Civil War collection, a tribute to Arkansas music and rooms reflective of bygone eras. Open daily; free.
 While in a Southern mood, take a camera and explore the Old Mill, Fairway Avenue and Lakeshore Drive in North Little Rock, (501) 791-8537, www.northlr.org, a faux 1880's gristmill shot on location for the opening scene of ''Gone With the Wind.'' A sculpture garden, abundant with flowers and streams highlight the destination.
 Among the choices from Little Rock Tours, (501) 868-7287, www.littlerocktours.com, are ''Bill Clinton's Little Rock'' ($25) and ''The Presidential Tour'' ($69), which features a trip to the former president's birthplace of Hope, Ark., and his boyhood town of Hot Springs. Tour buses pick up visitors at the River Market and most major hotels. 
 In September 1957, all eyes were on Little Rock Central High School, 2125 Daisy L. Gatson Bates Drive, (501) 374-1957, www.nps.gov/chsc, the site of a crucial desegregation crisis during the heat of the civil rights movement. Across the street a Mobil gas station, restored to its 1957 appearance, serves as the visitors center and museum. Free admission. Closed holidays.
 Five minutes west of downtown Little Rock on Cantrell Road lie two distinctive neighborhoods, Heights and Hillcrest. The drive itself affords notable views of the rolling riverside hills and well-maintained historic homes. The banner-lined Kavanaugh Boulevard, which circles the Heights, contains upscale clothing stores, an independent bookstore and eclectic restaurants. Hillcrest, a few blocks south of Cantrell on Kavanaugh Boulevard, boasts a youthful, bohemian assortment of coffeehouses, cafes and after-hours hangouts like the jazz bar Afterthoughts, 2721 Kavanaugh Boulevard, and Ciao Baci restaurant, 605 North Beechwood Street. 

Where to Stay
 In the historic Quapaw District, the Empress of Little Rock, 2120 South Louisiana Street, (501) 374-7966, fax (501) 375-4537, or visit www.theempress.com, has undergone a major restoration to reflect its Victorian origins. Completed in 1888 and built exclusively with Arkansas materials like blue granite and cypress, it features five spacious rooms, each with a private bath and Victorian decor. Three large suites are scheduled to open in December in an adjacent historic building. Nonsmoking. Rates are $125 to $195 for two, with breakfast. 
 Budget: The Holiday Inn Presidential Conference Center, 600 Interstate 30, (866) 900-7625, fax (501) 374-9045, www.hipresidential.com, near downtown, has recently undergone an $11 million renovation. The 150 rooms and 11 suites are clean and comfortable. Amenities include WiFi access and a small workout facility. Request a room on the hotel's quieter west side. Rooms, $79 to $119.
 For a view of the Arkansas River, try the Wyndham Riverfront, 2 Riverfront Place in North Little Rock, (501) 371-9000, fax (501) 907-4800, www.wyndham.com/hotels/litno/main.wnt. Standard rooms ($69 to $84) are clean and functional, but it's worth upgrading to a larger executive-level room ($79 to $94). 
 Luxury: The Capital Hotel, Markham and Louisiana, (800) 766-7666, fax (501) 370-7091, or visit www.thecapitalhotel.com, has stood as Little Rock's signature first-class hotel since it opened in 1876. This hotel, on the trolley line a few blocks from the River Market District, has achieved a delicate balance between preserving its historical ambience and providing modern amenities such as free Internet connections, 24-hour room service and an intimate wine cellar with a hidden plasma screen TV. The 126 rooms have an airy, open feel with high ceilings. Doubles are $199 to $219. 
 Just across the trolley track, a legendary Southern tradition from nearby Memphis continues at the Peabody Little Rock, 3 Statehouse Plaza, (800) 732-2639, fax (501) 375-4721, www.peabodylittlerock.com, with the daily parading of the ducks at 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. The luxurious new kid on the block, the Peabody completed a major renovation of the former Excelsior hotel in 2002. In addition to the health club and 24-hour room service, the 418 warm-hued rooms each offer the trademarked Peabody Dream Bed, cordless phones and a view of the river or city. Deluxe rooms are $199 to $239. 

Where to Eat
 Local power brokers congregate at Vermillion Water Grille, 200 South Commerce Street, (501) 371-9600, particularly at lunchtime for a menu that changes monthly, or for the blue-plate special for $9.95. But the only blue you'll see in this sleek, chic destination is the vivid aquamarine-mosaic tile on the walls and the swirling, sea-blue painted floor. Blackened baked catfish is served with Asiago cheese grits and spicy greens with mango butter; among the desserts is a warm Granny Smith apple tart topped with cinnamon jalapeno ice cream. Dinner for two, about $60. Lunch and dinner weekdays, dinner Saturday. 
 A riverfront patio, decadent seafood and Mason jars full of Play De do (a rum cocktail) draw throngs to Cajun's Wharf, 2400 Cantrell Road, (501) 375-5351. Openers like spicy shrimp and crayfish cakes, perched atop a Cajun cream sauce, whet the appetite for specialties like coconut-pecan sauteed talapia with a mango-chipotle reduction. Large wooden beams and high ceilings create a casual feel. Dinner for two with wine, about $75. Dinner nightly except Sunday. 
 Just up the river at Brave New Restaurant, 2300 Cottondale Lane, (501) 663-2677, the menu changes frequently as the chef, Peter Brave, takes advantage of the freshest ingredients. Entrees include shrimp with Vestal tomatoes, both farm-raised in Arkansas, served with fresh basil atop angel hair pasta. The decor is earth-tone minimalist with soft lighting and there are river views. Dinner for two with wine, about $85. Lunch and dinner weekdays, dinner Saturday. 
 Doe's Eat Place, 1023 West Markham Street, (501) 376-1195, popular with local legislators and corporate heavyweights, specializes in tamales and in steaks served by the pound. Ask to see the private back room where Governor Clinton used to politic over porterhouse. Dinner for two, about $50. Doe's isn't dressy and neither is the neighborhood, but that's half the fun. Lunch and dinner weekdays, dinner Saturdays.
 When in Razorback country, one must dine on some swine, like the barbecue served at the trophy-lined Whole Hog Cafe, 2516 Cantrell Road; (501) 664-5025. The Whole Hawg Platter includes baby back ribs, beef brisket, pulled-pork, three sides and a roll and a choice of six sauces (if you want the volcano sauce, ask for it at the counter). Dinner for two, about $20. Lunch and dinner Monday to Saturday. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Old State House. Clinton future: the Clinton Library, which will be dedicated Nov. 18, has a bridge motif. Clinton past: a popular dining spot of the former governor. (Photographs by Spencer Tirey for The New York Times)Chart: ''Vital Statistics'' lists travel information and statistics on Little Rock. (Sources: Little Rock Convention Center, Little Rock National Airport, local businesses)Map of Little Rock shows tourist attractions and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LIBRARIES (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); RETAILERS (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); NATIVE AMERICANS (60%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (50%); THEATER & DRAMA (50%) 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); AL FRANKEN (50%) Ruth Hensley

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (95%) ARKANSAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (56%) Little Rock (Ark); Arkansas

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004



185 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; AUTOS ON MONDAY/Technology; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: A Car's New Job: Checking Its Own Tires

BYLINE: By IVAN BERGER

 BODY:
DRIVERS aren't doing it for themselves, so the government plans to reassign the job of checking tire pressures. The cars will do it.
 The proposal for a new regulation, issued by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration on Sept. 15, would require new cars and trucks weighing less than 10,000 pounds to have systems that monitor tire inflation and warn the driver when the pressure is 25 percent below the automaker's recommendation. Installation would begin with the 2006 model year and the monitors would be required on all new cars by 2008. 
 More than a quarter of all cars and trucks on the road in the United States have at least one substantially underinflated tire -- defined as 8 or more pounds per square inch below the recommended pressure -- according to a government study. 
 Underinflation is a serious safety hazard; the rollover crashes of Ford Explorer S.U.V.'s in the 1990's were attributed partly to tires that overheated and failed because of low pressure. Tires with insufficient air pressure also impair handling, hurt fuel economy and wear unevenly.
 Tire makers suggest checking air pressure at least once a month, just before long trips and whenever the car will carry extra loads. 
 About 10 percent of new vehicles sold in the United States today have pressure monitors, either as standard equipment or as an extra-cost option. Among other applications, the monitoring systems are needed in vehicles that use ''run flat'' tires, a type that can be driven even after a puncture has allowed all the air to escape. High-performance sports cars like the Chevrolet Corvette and Dodge Viper use run-flat tires to eliminate the need for a bulky spare. 
 Monitors are also available for use in existing cars, trucks, recreational vehicles and motorcycles from tire retailers and accessory companies. Such systems cost about $200 to $400, plus installation of the sensors and receiver unit. 
 The regulations originally proposed by the safety administration allowed a choice between two monitor types, either direct- or indirect-reading. Indirect systems work by comparing the relative turning speeds of the wheels, using data that are collected by sensors for the antilock brakes. When one tire softens enough to reduce its diameter, making it turn faster than the others, the driver is alerted by a light on the dashboard. 
 The indirect system is simple and inexpensive, and it needs no additional sensors or batteries in the wheels, but it is also less informative: no warning is sent until one tire is at least 20 percent low. Nor can the system report which tire needs air. And because it works only when the tires are rolling, it cannot issue a warning when the car is standing still. 
 Direct-reading monitors have pressure sensors inside each tire, attached to the valve stem or the wheel -- or, in the case of Tire IQ, a system being developed by Goodyear and Siemens, an electronics supplier, built into the tire itself. The sensors measure the actual pressure and transmit the information by radio signal to a display. 
 In response to widespread criticism and court rulings, the government's revised proposal allows only direct-reading pressure monitors. The safety administration estimates the systems will add about $70 to the cost of each new vehicle.
 In early systems, pressure sensors had to be moved from wheel to wheel when tires were rotated; later designs can be reprogrammed for the wheels' new locations or even sense them automatically. The first direct sensors used small radio transmitters with batteries rated to last 5 to 10 years. Newer passive systems are read by radio-frequency identification devices similar to those in toll payment systems like E-ZPass.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Diagram: ''Letting Drivers Know When the Tires Are Low''Low tire pressure affects a car's handling and may reduce its ability to make an emergency maneuver. An underinflated tire also generates a great deal of heat, which can cause it to fail, often resulting in a loss of control. As of next year, the government plans to require sensors on new cars to monitor pressure and signal the driver when a tire is low.DIRECT-READING MONITORSThe monitoring systems that will be required by law (and are already in use in some models) use a sensor in each wheel to measure inflation pressure. A small radio transmitter relays pressure levels to a receiver in the car at regular intervals. A warning signal is displayed when inflation falls below safe levels.INDIRECT-READING MONITORSA loss of air pressure reduces the rolling diameter of a tire, requiring it to rotate faster to cover the same distance as normally inflated tires. Some vehicles with antilock brakes use the braking system's sensors to detect the mismatch of rotational speeds and alert the driver with a dashboard light.Diagram of automobile highlighting the location of the following:Valve stemPressure sensorTire (Sensors in each wheel transmit tire pressure to a dashboard display)Underinflated tire(Source by National Highway Traffic Safety Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); TIRES (89%); PRESSURE SENSORS (89%); SPORTS CARS (87%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); TIRE DEALERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); TIRE MFG (73%); RETAILERS (65%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (50%) Automobiles; Tires

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (91%)

PERSON: Ivan Berger

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004



186 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Fed Expected to Stay the Course for Now

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7 

 BODY:
If there is a good rule of thumb about the Federal Reserve, it is this: A startling economic report is not enough to sway policy. 
 When the Labor Department reported on Friday that employment surged by 337,000 jobs in October, far faster than most forecasters had expected, market speculators immediately raised their bets that the Federal Reserve would not pause in its course of gradually raising interest rates. 
 Fed officials have left no doubt that they will raise short-term rates on Wednesday by a quarter point, to 2 percent, but they are still keeping their options open for December and next year. 
 By most measures, the Federal Reserve is less than halfway through a course of gradually ''normalizing'' short-term interest rates from the rock-bottom level of 1 percent of earlier this year. 
 Even if the central bank announces another rate increase on Wednesday, as most analysts expect, ''real'' short-term rates will still be slightly below zero after subtracting the effect of inflation. 
 Historically, the real federal funds rate, the rate charged on overnight loans between banks, has averaged about three percentage points above the inflation rate. While Fed officials have warned that there are no clear rules for a neutral or normal rate, they have made it clear that today's rates are low enough to aggravate inflation if left unchanged. 
 The question is how fast the rate increases should occur and whether, after four rate boosts from June through November, the central bank can pause next month or next spring while it assesses the strength of the economy. 
 Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor and now head of Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting company, said the Fed chief, Alan Greenspan, was essentially on autopilot until the overnight rates climbed to 2 percent. 
 For now, Mr. Meyer said, officials have room to moderate the pace of additional rate increases in response to signs of slowing growth or faster inflation. 
 In a speech on Oct. 21, Janet L. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said, ''We must remain very watchful as developments unfold, and be prepared to consider modifications in our course of action as needed to ensure price stability and full employment.'' 
 But the Fed's pattern this year has been to adhere to its basic plan, even when confronted with unexpected turns in the economy.
 Friday's unexpectedly strong employment report was the Federal Reserve's third surprise this year, and the report suggested that economic growth would be strong enough to easily withstand an uninterrupted series of rate increases over the next year. 
 Neither of the first two surprises persuaded the Fed to change its course, and Mr. Greenspan and other Fed officials went out of their way to play down the significance of earlier reports. 
 Whether by luck or design, the economy seems to be more or less where officials thought it might be before the surprises took place. 
 The first surprise came in February and March, when job creation and consumer prices jumped faster than officials had been expecting. With short-term rates then still at 1 percent, the lowest level since 1958, many critics accused the Fed of waiting too long to head off inflationary pressures.
 Mr. Greenspan and other Fed officials resisted, insisting that the whiff of inflation was largely transitory, and not the start of a trend. Bucking criticism from many bond investors, who are acutely sensitive about inflation, the Fed waited until June 30 before raising rates for the first time. 
 The second surprise came in June and July, when soaring oil prices and growing uncertainty suddenly slowed economic growth and hiring. Mr. Greenspan insisted the slowdown was merely a temporary soft patch and proceeded with three consecutive rate increases despite slower growth and weak job creation.
 Ben S. Bernanke, a Fed governor, acknowledged last month that high oil prices had made a significant dent in economic growth. But he also contended that oil prices should have little direct effect on monetary policy, and he reaffirmed the goal of raising rates at a ''measured'' pace. 
 The third surprise came on Friday, when the Labor Department reported that payroll employment shot up by 337,000 jobs in October, more than twice the consensus forecast on Wall Street. 
 Although job creation got a lift from hurricane-related reconstruction, the Labor Department also increased its employment estimates for August and September.
 Despite the strong numbers, which analysts said were broad-based and reflected more than just hiring connected to reconstruction efforts after the recent hurricanes, the economy is still showing signs of fragility. At the same time, inflation pressures have receded, removing pressure for the Fed to act pre-emptively. 
 ''The key issue is whether economic growth is at trend or above trend,'' said David Hale, a long-time Fed watcher in Chicago. 
 The ''trend'' growth rate is about 3 percent a year, Mr. Hale said, which would probably mean modest growth in employment and relatively little pressure from workers for higher wages. 
 ''If growth is at trend, the Fed will be under less pressure to act against inflation and can afford to wait for more data,'' he predicted. 
 So far, consumer spending has continued to climb even as rising gasoline prices have reduced disposable income. 
 But much of the recent spending was on new cars during the summer, and that in turn was prompted by a rash of buying incentives from the big carmakers. 
 Based on an expectation that higher oil prices will dampen consumer spending and growth in the months ahead, economists at Citigroup cautiously predicted on Friday that the Federal Reserve would pause after its November meeting.
 ''While it is a close call, we currently believe that officials will hold steady next month,'' wrote Robert DiClemente, senior economist at Citigroup.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Laurence Meyer, a former governor, said the Fed had room to moderate its pace. Janet Yellen of the Federal Reserve in San Francisco said it would be ''watchful.'' (pg. C5)Chart: ''Less Than Zero''When adjusted for inflation, basic interest rates have been less than zero for more than two years. That is likely to change as the Federal Reserve continues to tighten monetary policy in the months ahead.Graph tracks real federal funds target rate (adjusted by year-over-year change in the consumer price index) since 2001.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%) United States Economy; Labor; Interest Rates; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004



187 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Automobiles; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Driving Without Air, but Driving

BYLINE: By IVAN BERGER

 BODY:
KNOWING that a tire is losing air may be useful, but it doesn't solve the essential problem. Sooner or later, the leak must be plugged or the tire replaced.
 That repair can be much later -- more than 100 miles down the road -- if the tire is a ''run flat'' design that lets a driver keep motoring, though at a slower speed. Run-flat tires also make a lot of sense for sports cars like the Chevrolet Corvette and Dodge Viper, which have little space to carry a spare. 
 Most run-flat tires sold today are the self-supporting type, their sides reinforced to prevent them from collapsing against the wheel when they are deflated. Not surprisingly, the stiffer sidewalls usually result in a firm ride. 
 A new run-flat tire from Michelin called the PAX system was designed with sidewalls of normal flexibility to give a more comfortable ride. Its ability to keep rolling without air results in part from special wheels that lock the tires in place, keeping them from squirming off the wheel after the air has escaped. 
 In addition, a plastic ring around the wheel's center provides support after deflation. It is lubricated to prevent heat buildup caused by friction between the ring and tire. 
 The weight saved by eliminating the spare tire is mostly offset by the added weight of the PAX tires and wheels. Storage space usually reserved for the spare is reclaimed, but more important is the safety and convenience of not having to change a flat alongside a busy highway. And with no requirement for a spare, designers are free to call for front and rear tires of different sizes. 
 When a self-supporting run-flat tire is punctured, it can be removed and reinstalled like a standard tire -- or replaced with a conventional tire if a duplicate is not available. Removing a PAX tire from its wheel takes special tools, so the service is available for now only at about 200 Michelin tire dealers in the United States or from one of Michelin's roadside service trucks; the PAX wheel cannot be fitted with a regular tire. To service 2005 Honda Odyssey minivans equipped with the PAX tires, Honda dealers will stock ready-to-roll wheel and tire assemblies. 
 So far, the only aftermarket run-flats are snow tires and replacements for cars originally sold with this technology. 
 Like the space-saver spares supplied on most new vehicles, deflated run-flat tires can be driven a moderate distance to a repair shop. Depending on the tire, vehicle and load, self-supporting tires can run about 50 to 150 miles at up to 55 miles an hour. PAX tires are rated for 125 miles at 50 m.p.h., Michelin says. 
 Cars with either type of run-flat tire feel little different when the tires deflate. So tire-pressure monitors are mandatory on cars with such tires, to make sure drivers don't roll on blithely until the tires fail entirely. IVAN BERGER


GRAPHIC: Photo: An internal support ring enables a vehicle with Michelin's PAX tires to be driven 125 miles after a puncture. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TIRES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); TIRE DEALERS (78%); ROADSIDE SERVICES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (76%); MINIVANS (76%); SPORTS CARS (75%); NEW CAR DEALERS (66%) Automobiles; Tires

COMPANY: CIE GENERALE DES ETABLISSEMENTS MICHELIN (86%)

TICKER: ML (PAR) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (86%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (86%)

PERSON: Ivan Berger

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004



188 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; East Williamsburg Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: A Longtime Brooklyn Company That's Known for Its Sesame Sweet

BYLINE: By CHARLES DELAFUENTE

 BODY:
These are the seeds that make the halvah that comes from the house that sesame built.
 More than 350 tons of sesame seeds sit in a nondescript factory building in Brooklyn waiting to be roasted and ground, then turned into paste, candy or halvah. It may look like a sesame tsunami, but for the Joyva Corporation it is little more than a month's supply. 
 Joyva and Brooklyn are ''intertwined,'' said Richard Radutzky, a third-generation member of the company's founding family, and the connection is more than geographic. 
 ''There seem to be transplanted Brooklynites all over the world,'' he said. ''And when they see halvah, there is a sense of familiarity and of coming home and of nostalgia and tradition that's not just talk. It's something tangible.''
 Joyva is a manufacturing holdout in a city that has steadily lost those types of jobs, employing anywhere from 40 to 90 workers, depending on the time of year, at its factory complex in East Williamsburg.
 According to Ken Adams, president of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce, manufacturing is the borough's fourth-largest economic sector, accounting for about 9 percent of its 400,000 jobs. And Joyva, he said, is ''a typical kind of survivor in a very difficult environment.''
 ''Ethnic and specialty food manufacturing,'' Mr. Adams said, ''is one of the most vibrant parts of the city's remaining manufacturing economy.''
 Joyva was started in 1907 by Nathan Radutzky, who brought a recipe for halvah with him from Kiev, Ukraine. Nathan's four sons all joined the company. Milton Radutzky, 83, the company's president and the last surviving son, still goes to work at the plant every day. ''He's at work before I am,'' said Richard Radutzky, his son. 
 Halvah, still Joyva's signature product, is a confection made from crushed sesame, corn syrup, sugar and oil. And while other brands of halvah, from Lebanon, Turkey and Greece, can be found in Middle Eastern groceries in the New York area, Richard Radutzky said, Joyva is the largest halvah producer in the United States.
 Joyva's signature image -- a turbaned figure with a handlebar mustache that Richard Radutzky calls the sultan or the genie -- can be found on its products in supermarkets and specialty stores throughout the United States and Canada. 
 And Joyva does not live by halvah alone. The company's other treats include sesame candy bars and small sesame crunch candies. It also makes chocolate-covered jellies and marshmallow candies. The market for those specialties peaks at Passover, and the factory gears up in November or December so it can meet that demand.
 Joyva also produces tahini, a sesame puree often used in hummus and baba ghanouj. In addition to being sold in North America, the tahini and the sesame crunch are exported to most of Western Europe and parts of South America.
 In a diet-conscious nation, Richard Radutzky said, products with sesame seeds are holding their own. ''They're an antioxidant, they're polyunsaturated, they're high in protein,'' he said. ''They're a good bet.'' 
 The 200 to 250 bags of seeds used daily at the factory come from Port Newark on container ships from China, India, Ethiopia, Sudan and various South American nations. In the warehouse, the seeds are shelled, soaked and roasted. 
 What strikes a visitor the most, though, is not the mountains of seeds but the aroma of the dark chocolate being melted to coat the candy and some halvah bars.
 ''Everyone who comes in, whether they are a supplier or a customer of ours or a family member or even my children's friends,'' Richard Radutzky said, ''they say, 'Wow, it smells great in here.'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers at the Joyva plant in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, from left, Maritza Saavetra, Rosa Gomez and Maria Gonzalez making halvah bars.
 Up to 250 sacks of sesame seeds are used daily by the Joyva company to make halvah and other products. (Photographs by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); FOOD MFG (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%) Halvah; Halvah; Factories and Industrial Plants; Sesame Seeds

COMPANY: JOYVA CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Joyva Corp

PERSON: Charles Delafuente

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (92%); TURKEY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GREECE (52%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004



189 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; New Economy; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: A battle over copyright infringement on the Internet heats up. No, not over music. Over the classic 'Gone With the Wind.'

BYLINE: By Victoria Shannon

 BODY:
PROJECT GUTENBERG, the volunteer effort to put the world's literature online, may be the latest victim in the Internet battle over copyright. 
 Earlier this year, the Australian affiliate of Project Gutenberg posted the 1936 novel ''Gone With the Wind'' on its Web site for downloading at no charge. Last week, after an e-mail message was sent to the site by the law firm representing the estate of the book's author, Margaret Mitchell, the hyperlink to the text turned into a ''Page Not Found'' dead end.
 At issue is the date when ''Gone With the Wind'' enters the public domain. In the United States, under an extension of copyright law, ''Gone With the Wind'' will not enter the public domain until 2031, 95 years after its original publication. 
 But in Australia, as in a handful of other places, the book was free of copyright restrictions in 1999, 50 years after Mitchell's death. 
 The case is one more example of the Internet's inherent lack of respect for national borders or, from another view, the world's lack of reckoning for the international nature of the Internet, and it is also an example of the already complicated range of copyright laws. 
 The issue of national sovereignty over the Internet has not been firmly established, either by trade agreement or by court precedent, some legal experts say, and conflicts continue to be settled individually. But there are much bigger copyright battles looming as more material, including songs by Elvis Presley and the Beatles, approach public domain in countries around the world.
 ''I don't think we're alone with this problem,'' said Thomas D. Selz, a lawyer with Frankfurt Kurnit Klein & Selz, the New York law firm that represents the Stephens Mitchell Trusts, which owns the copyright to ''Gone With the Wind.''
 Already the copyright battle is brewing in Europe, where the International Federation for the Phonographic Industry, a trade group in London for record companies, is urging the European Commission to extend copyright protection for performers from 50 years to 70 years, or even to the 95 years generally given to sound recordings in the United States.
 Without that extension, recordings from musical artists of the 1950's and 1960's will start entering the public domain in the 20 European Union nations this decade and next, allowing anyone to profit from them without paying performer royalties. 
 The first prominent rocker to be affected, according to the federation, is Elvis Presley, whose 1954 single ''That's All Right'' is set to become copyright-free in the European Union in January.
 More important -- at least to EMI Records -- the Beatles catalog would begin to fall into the public domain in the European Union starting with ''Love Me Do'' in 2013, although the publishing rights would remain intact. In the United States, performer rights are protected for 95 years. 
 Terry Carroll, an intellectual property lawyer who teaches copyright law at Santa Clara University School of Law in Santa Clara, Calif., said there was no clear legal trend in resolving Internet copyright conflicts.
 This is not the first time that ''Gone With the Wind'' has been at the center of copyright action. The Mitchell estate took the Houghton Mifflin Company to court in 2001 over the publication of ''The Wind Done Gone,'' a novel by Alice Randall set on the same plantation but told from the perspective of a slave. After an initial legal victory for Houghton Mifflin, that copyright infringement case ended with an out-of-court settlement with the Mitchell estate that allowed the book to be published.
 Mr. Selz, the lawyer with the firm that represents the Stephens Mitchell Trusts, said the law firm and the estate were still exploring what action to take in the Australian case. 
 He said his firm had merely exchanged e-mail messages with Project Gutenberg and was surprised to hear that the ''Gone With the Wind'' text was no longer accessible. The project's founder, Michael Stern, did not reply to e-mail messages requesting comment.
 But in a radio interview this year, Col Choat, the coordinator of Project Gutenberg in Australia, said that about 300 books on his site were free of copyright protection in Australia but not in the United States. Among them were Hitler's ''Mein Kampf,'' ''My Brilliant Career'' by Miles Franklin, ''1984'' by George Orwell and the Sherlock Holmes books by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Those texts were still at www.gutenberg.net.au last week. 
 ''It may be that just the threat of pressure was enough incentive to get it removed,'' Mr. Carroll, the California lawyer, said. ''Project Gutenberg is made up of volunteers and doesn't have deep pockets.''
 Another reason for the quick removal of the book may be a trade agreement, expected to be ratified by the United States and Australia this year, that would require Australia to enforce a copyright limit of 70 years after the death of the author. 
 That duration would be stronger than existing Australian law, but not as protective as current United States law and would put ''Gone With the Wind'' back under restrictions in Australia until 2019.
 The world's protection of creative content may eventually settle at around the same level, say, life plus 70 years, Mr. Carroll said. The danger, he added, is that the most restrictive governments will be the ones setting that level. 
 ''National laws are going to infringe on copyrights around the world,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPYRIGHT (92%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (92%); COPYRIGHT LAW (91%); LITERATURE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); MUSIC (86%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (86%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (85%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); WEB SITES (72%); RECORD REVENUES (69%); POP & ROCK (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Books and Literature; Copyrights; Books and Literature; Computers and the Internet; Project Gutenberg; Law and Legislation; Books and Literature

COMPANY: FRANKFURT KURNIT KLEIN & SELZ PC (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%)

PERSON: Victoria Shannon; Margaret (1900-49) Mitchell

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (53%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (53%) Australia; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004



190 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Plan to Give Environment Rules a Free-Market Tilt

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER and MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7 

 BODY:
With the elections over, Congress and the Bush administration are moving ahead with ambitious environmental agendas that include revamping signature laws on air pollution and endangered species and reviving a moribund energy bill that would open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to energy exploration.
 In addition, the administration intends to accelerate conservation efforts by distributing billions of dollars to private landowners for the preservation of wetlands and wildlife habitats. The White House also plans to announce next month a new effort to clean up the Great Lakes. 
 The groundwork for the push was laid down in the past four years even as environmental groups, Congressional moderates and the courts put the brakes on major changes. But the election returns that gave Mr. Bush a clear victory and expanded the Republicans' majorities in Congress have emboldened those determined to hard-wire free-market principles into all environmental policy. 
 ''The election is a validation of our philosophy and agenda,'' Michael O. Leavitt, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, said in an interview. ''We will make more progress in less time while maintaining economic competitiveness for the country. That is my mission.''
 Representative Joe L. Barton of Texas, chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, said he was eager to get the process started and encouraged the environmental groups and Democrats who typically oppose Republican initiatives ''to come out of the trenches and meet me halfway.''
 But with industry groups anticipating relaxed regulations and environmental groups fighting to retain stiff regulations, the environmental debate over the next four years could be contentious. 
 ''What you're going to see is an administration focused on setting broad goals and then letting states and companies and individuals work to achieve those, within an economic framework,'' said Charles Wehland, a lawyer for Jones Day in Chicago who represents clients like the OGE Energy Corporation and the Great Lakes Chemical Corporation. But Phil Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust, a nonprofit group, warned the White House and Congressional leadership that it would be risky to further push the agenda of the last four years.
 ''George Bush doesn't have to run again, but Republican lawmakers do,'' Mr. Clapp said. ''They know there is a cost to their political association with rolling back environmental laws.''
 Nationally, the environment was a sleeper issue that never awoke. But concern for environmental and conservation issues was sometimes visible at the local level. Montana voters, for instance, rejected an initiative to overturn a ban on a form of mining cyanide, effectively blocking a large new mine on the Blackfoot River.
 Bush administration officials say that among the first measures moving toward enactment will be those that govern air pollution levels. The administration initiative known as Clear Skies, which generated lukewarm support in Congress during Mr. Bush's first term, is about to come out of mothballs. Will Hart, a spokesman for Senator James M. Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican who is chairman of the Committee on Environment and Public Works, said it was Mr. Imhofe's ''No. 1 environmental issue.''
 Clear Skies establishes lower emission standards for pollutants like nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide and mercury, but environmental groups complain that it does not reduce them as much or as soon as levels set forth in a competing bill or by enforcement of the Clean Air Act.
 Senator James M. Jeffords, the Vermont independent who is the ranking minority member of the committee and a co-sponsor of the competing bill, said it saddened him that Mr. Bush was leading efforts to undermine air standards that his father, the first President Bush, supported. Citing the new alignment in the Senate -- 55 Republicans, 44 Democrats and himself -- Mr. Jeffords said, ''We have the power to block any measure detrimental to the environment.'' 
 But even if a Clear Skies bill fades again, Mr. Leavitt said he intended to enact its regulatory equivalent, the Clean Air Interstate Rule, a ''cap-and-trade'' approach to lowering emissions that would set pollution levels for 29 Eastern states and the District of Columbia, by the end of the year. Such approaches allow companies flexibility on how to meet standards, including trading pollution credits.
 For now, the Bush administration has no intention of regulating the heat-trapping gases, like carbon dioxide, which scientists believe contribute to global warming.
 A top priority of powerful Congressional Republicans is the 31-year-old Endangered Species Act. Representative Richard W. Pombo of California, chairman of the Committee on Resources, has made efforts to raise the hurdles that scientists must clear to ensure a government determination that a species is endangered and cut back the amount of critical habitat required. Habitat designations pave the way for land use controls.
 ''We will put these back together and really start trying to figure out how we can put together a bipartisan compromise,'' Mr. Pombo said in a recent interview. 
 On issues like ranching, hydropower and logging, he said, humans are competing with other species in the same territory. ''It's unrealistic to say that humans are not part of the environment and are not going to have an impact,'' he said. ''We need to say, 'These two trains are on the same track; how do we get them not to crash?'''
 The energy bill will pass, he said, adding that any bill produced in the House would open 2,000 acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for energy exploration.
 A third priority, Mr. Pombo said, is a package of legislation dealing with ocean resources, including issues like the controls appropriate for commercial and sport fisheries, the protection of endangered marine mammals and the mandate of the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration.
 Dana Perino, a spokeswoman for the White House Council on Environmental Quality, said in an interview on Friday that the administration, like Mr. Pombo, put a high priority on the energy bill and the oceans issue. Ms. Perino also said the administration was eager to disburse the unspent portion of the $40 billion appropriated by Congress for conservation initiatives undertaken by farmers and private landowners.
 Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton, through her spokeswoman, Tina Kreisher, declined to be interviewed about her agency's top priorities until Mr. Bush decided who would serve in his new cabinet.
 Several pending actions to open up wild areas of the West to energy development could be made final in the coming weeks, touching on areas like Roan Plateau in Colorado and Otero Mesa in New Mexico.
 David Alberswerth, an expert on public lands issues with the Wilderness Society, agreed that the Republican gains in Congress had increased the difficulty of blocking a law opening the Alaska refuge, but he cautioned that some Bush voters already opposed energy development projects in their regions.
 ''When the Bush administration came into office four years ago, you didn't have ranchers and farmers and hunters and anglers upset about their energy agenda,'' Mr. Alberswerth said. ''The administration will continue to pursue the same policies they have pursued, and I'm confident that if they do, they will encounter opposition from that quarter.''
 Jim Range, the chairman of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership, a coalition of hunting and fishing groups whose members include some staunch conservatives who are also conservationists, said energy development would be ''an issue that hits the ground running.''
 Mr. Range's group is split over the Alaska issue and would probably sit out that debate, he said. ''But in regard to other energy development, particularly on federal lands,'' he said, ''there's a consensus that we ought to do energy development but we ought to do it right.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. Perhaps 2,000 acres of the refuge would be opened for energy exploration like oil drilling under a Republican initiative in Congress. (Photo by Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); AIR QUALITY INSTRUMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); WETLANDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WATER QUALITY (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (62%); CYANIDES (61%) Environment; Election Issues; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Wetlands; Water Pollution ; Environment

COMPANY: OGE ENERGY CORP (64%); CHEMTURA CORP (64%); JONES DAY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: OGE (NYSE) (64%); CHMT (PAR) (64%); CHMT (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (64%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (64%); NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (64%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MICHAEL O LEAVITT (73%) Felicity Barringer; Michael Janofsky; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (94%) United States; Great Lakes 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004



191 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: Big Tax Plans, Big Tax Risks

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7 

 BODY:
Hardly anybody likes the current tax system. But as President Bush undertakes the potentially historic task of coming up with something better, he is confronting an issue that is more ideologically explosive, politically risky and economically complex than he let on during the campaign.
 In the days since his re-election, Mr. Bush has signaled that he is serious about following through, highlighting the topic in both his victory speech on Wednesday and his news conference on Thursday. 
 He has been vague about what he has in mind, but Republican advisers to the administration say the White House is debating whether Mr. Bush should back ambitious, even radical proposals like a national sales tax or a flat tax on income. By doing so, he would blast away a philosophy that has governed tax policy since Woodrow Wilson was in the White House: that higher levels of income should be taxed at higher rates. 
 By the end of the year, Mr. Bush intends to name a bipartisan commission to study the issue and make specific recommendations sometime next year. He has already laid down some markers; he wants to retain two of the most politically popular breaks in the tax code, the deductions for mortgage interest and charitable giving, and he wants any overhaul of the system neither to raise taxes over all nor to cut them. 
 Karl Rove, the president's senior adviser, told ''Fox News Sunday'' that Mr. Bush ''believes we need to step back and look at the code in it entirety and discuss and have a dialogue as to what is necessary to keep this economy flexible and dynamic and growing.''
 Even before the election, Mr. Bush's aides were studying the issue intently, grappling with the most elemental question: should the nation improve the existing tax code, built around the progressive income tax, or throw it out and start over?
 There is plenty of sentiment inside the administration for going the latter route, but even though the White House has been studying the issue for several years, no decision appears imminent. Among those who favor scrapping the current system -- a group said to include Vice President Dick Cheney -- there is a raging debate over what should replace it, with the basic options being some sort of national sales tax or a single-rate flat tax on income.
 The list of hurdles to any change is long. Any overhaul of the system would ignite a battle by special interests to hold on to the tax breaks that now clog the tax code. With the government already running a big deficit, there would be little or no money available to grease the legislative wheels by providing new breaks. Democrats, even in the minority, could make it hard to pass legislation.
 ''It's difficult bordering on impossible to find a broad tax reform that does not either explode the deficit or create tens of millions of losers,'' said Gene Sperling, who was director of the National Economic Council in the Clinton administration. ''If you are lowering taxes on people in the top 20 percent, then either the deficit is going up or more of the tax burden will fall on people in the lower 80 percent. There's no way around that.''
 Most Democrats view a national sales tax and a flat tax as thinly veiled efforts to cut taxes on the wealthy and shift more of the burden to those who earn less. They argue, for example, that the burden of a sales tax would fall hardest on low-income people who spend everything they earn. Most flat-tax plans envision a rate of about 20 to 25 percent, meaning that some people who are now paying tax at a 10 or 15 percent rate would pay a higher rate, while wealthy people who are paying as much as 35 percent on some of their income would pay at a lower rate.
 Advocates of both options, though, say they could be structured to exempt many low- and-middle-income people and would give the economy a substantial boost by effectively eliminating taxes on savings and investment, creating a bigger pool of capital to finance business expansion, technological innovation and better productivity. And Republicans say the election results favor the bold. They point to Senator-elect Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, who won on Tuesday despite being attacked by his opponent for his support of a national sales tax.
 On ''Fox News Sunday,'' Mr. Rove did not directly answer when asked whether Mr. Bush would back either a national sales tax or a flat tax. The questions that need to be answered, Mr. Rove said, are: ''How can we encourage savings? How can we encourage ownership? How can we encourage a dynamic, growing economy and do so in a fair way that requires a minimum amount of paperwork and compliance costs?''
 The issue leave many Democrats in a bind. They are suspicious of the Republican approach, believing that it will amount to another tax cut for the wealthy, but fear being seen as defenders of the Internal Revenue Service. As a result, Democrats appear to be moving toward a position that changing the tax system is good policy and good politics but only if it can be done in a way that keeps the progressive income tax system, focuses on simplification and concentrates the benefits on the middle class.
 ''It strikes me that there's consensus in the country, and hopefully in Washington, that the tax system is too complex, that it's full of loopholes that are exploited by special interests and that we need to simplify them,'' said Senator-elect Barack Obama of Illinois, a Democrat who won easy election to an open seat.
 Mr. Obama, speaking on ''This Week'' on ABC, said, ''If we can arrive at a tax simplification agenda that is not resulting in a shift toward a more regressive tax system, but is instead genuinely making it simpler for ordinary Americans to file their tax returns without a lot of paperwork and gobbledygook, then I think that's something we could work together on.''
 Should the administration choose to take a relatively simple and bipartisan approach, it could develop a proposal that addressed both the complexity of the tax code and a growing problem for many middle- and-upper-income families: the alternative minimum tax. The minimum tax was established to ensure that wealthy people would not be able to escape income taxes through use of deductions and shelters. But the income levels it applies to were not adjusted for inflation, so every year it applies to more and more people, increasing the complexity of their returns for many people and often resulting in a higher tax bill.
 The next most ambitious approach would be one modeled on the 1986 tax package worked out by President Ronald Reagan and with bipartisan support from Congress. It reduced tax rates and eliminated or tightened many deductions and loopholes. Such an approach could have bipartisan appeal, but it would no doubt set off a furious fight by all kinds of special interests intent on making sure their tax breaks are not eliminated in the name of lower rates.
 Should Mr. Bush choose to go all the way and create an entirely new way of raising revenue for the government, he would face not just a special interest battle but also a furious ideological fight over ending progressive taxation. 
 The sales tax and the flat tax are built on the same idea, that the tax system should encourage more savings and investment and that taxation should therefore be largely or wholly focused on consumption. The sales tax accomplishes that goal in a straightforward way, by only taxing consumption. The flat tax gets to the same place less directly; by allowing taxpayers to deduct any income that goes to savings or investment, it would subject to tax only what is left, which by definition would be money that people spend.
 There are numerous variations and combinations of the sales and flat taxes, including some that include a value-added tax on businesses. 
 Supporters of a national sales tax and supporters of a flat tax say the rates could be made low enough and enough transactions or people exempted that the systems would be attractive to nearly everyone. 
 Critics say the rates would inevitably have to be so high that many people, especially middle-income people, would end up worse off, or at least would not benefit as much as wealthier people, who would pay lower rates on much of their income.
 The House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, also appearing on ''Fox News Sunday,'' said there needed to be a national debate about several types of tax systems that might replace the income tax. ''You know, when we get done looking at it, maybe we can say we can't do it,'' Mr. Hastert said. ''Maybe the entrenched groups that have their pieces in the tax bill won't let that happen. But I think we need to have a long, serious look at it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Barack Obama, left, says he favors making taxes less complicated. Karl Rove says President Bush wants to look at the tax code in its entirety. (Photo by Nam Y. Huh/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Greg Wahl-Stephens/Associated Press)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); SALES TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); CHARITIES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%) Taxation; Tax Deductions; Sales Tax; Flat Tax; Taxation

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); KARL ROVE (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004



192 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Editorial Desk; How the World Watched the Returns; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Starting From Here

BYLINE: By A.N. Wilson. 
A.N. Wilson is the author of ''London: A History'' and the forthcoming novel ''A Jealous Ghost.''

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
We do not live in an age of great politicians. If that means we do not have a Roosevelt or a Churchill, it also means there is no Stalin or Hitler; you win some, you lose some. 
 To an outsider, the American electorate seemed to have been forced to choose between two lackluster figures. Yet those of us Europeans who love the United States, and think of it historically as a home of pluralism, variety and tolerance, had been hoping for a change of president. Instead, those Europeans who think of America as a gun-happy land of religious maniacs now have the satisfaction of having their prejudices confirmed. 
 We Europeans were probably wrong to think that American foreign policy would have changed radically under Senator John Kerry. While it was easy for Democrats to give the impression (like the man in the joke directing the stranger who had got lost) that they wouldn't have started from here, we are here: the battle for Falluja is joined, the Palestinians are in disarray and the messy business of Israel's withdrawal from Gaza will go on come what may. 
 For the British, as for the Israelis or the Iraqis, life would not, I suspect, have been so very different with a Democratic president. 
 But if today I were a gay American, or an American murderer on death row, or an American unemployed single mother wanting a job or an abortion or both, then I should have been desperate to say goodbye to President Bush.
 Therefore, as an outsider (but an outsider with a newborn American granddaughter) I do feel a profound sympathy with my American friends who have a White House and a Congress -- and will have a Supreme Court -- dominated by Mr. Bush's right-wing faction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) A N Wilson; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (90%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004



193 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: American Values And the Democrats

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''No Surrender,'' by Paul Krugman, and ''O.K., Folks: Back to Work,'' by Bob Herbert (columns, Nov. 5): 
 It's tempting to just give up. It's not really my problem anyway. I turned 70 in September, and will start a retirement furlough next fall. But my children and younger people will inherit the mess made by the current administration. This is no time to quit. 
 I don't do much. Mostly I just write letters to newspapers and people in Congress.
 Yes, I think Osama bin Laden did hand President Bush the election, and Mr. Bush was able to capitalize on patriotic fervor and fear. But while Mr. Bush has made much of being a war president, that doesn't really drive Republicans. Their basic agenda is to make wealthy people wealthier. Probably they would just as soon gain their wealth without hurting others, but that reality doesn't stand in their way. 
 The health and education as well as economic standards of large numbers of Americans are in jeopardy as a result of the recent election. Until the next one, we must all do whatever we can to limit the damage. Thank you for the psychological flu shot.

Charles R. Cowley
Ann Arbor, Mich., Nov. 5, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INFLUENZA (50%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%) Charles R Cowley; Paul Krugman; Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004



194 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: The More Free Agents the Merrier, for the Owners

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
MORE than a quarter of a century later, Major League Baseball club owners are coming closer to Charlie Finley's idea, the one that his fellow owners thought was outrageously stupid but in actuality was brilliant.
 Finley was the maverick owner of the Oakland A's who once suggested that all players should be free agents after every season. That never happened, but considering the number of free agents available the past two off-seasons, the owners seem to be moving in Finley's direction.
 This week is the lull before the free-agent storm. General managers, who convene today in Key Biscayne, Fla., for the start of their annual meetings, are already free to talk to free-agent players and their agents about their desire to play for specific teams next year. But the two sides can't talk money until Friday. 
 Even at that point, the best -- read: the most expensive -- free agents aren't expected to sign anytime soon. Many of the elite free agents are now signing later and later in the off-season, especially those with Scott Boras. And Boras represents this year's top free agents.
 For the second straight year, more than 200 players have filed for free agency this year -- 204 as of yesterday, compared with 210 a year ago. In the first five years of the 30-team major leagues (1998-2002), the free-agent classes averaged 141 players and didn't exceed 157. 
 Want a shortstop? More than a dozen are available. Need a catcher? Four front-line catchers are on the list, which also includes another dozen or so backups.
 Some of the players have become free agents because their teams did not exercise the option years in their contracts, and still more will join the field when their teams do not tender them contracts by Dec. 20.
 The more the merrier? That's what Finley believed, except he also believed the more there were, the cheaper each would be.
 In 1976, after an arbitrator, Peter Seitz, opened the door to free agency by ruling for Andy Messersmith and Dave McNally in what was probably the most significant legal confrontation in sports history, labor representatives of the owners and the players were locked in a bargaining struggle in dealing with the decision.
 Finley was not part of the owners' negotiating team, but he offered his assistance to the process. And he suggested that all players be free agents every year.
 His fellow owners, who always objected to Finley's ideas (orange baseballs, for example) in knee-jerk fashion, rejected the idea as insane. They could never tolerate having no control over the players.
 But Marvin Miller, the players' labor leader, understood. He knew that if all of the players were free agents each year, the demand for any one player would be less.
 ''Privately,'' Miller recalled yesterday, ''I felt this would be terrible. It would remove an awful lot of the bargaining power for the free agents if owners had knowledge that everyone would be available every year.''
 Miller was concerned that if the owners' representatives picked up on Finley's idea, he would be trapped.
 ''Here we had been talking about inequities in the reserve clause for 100 years,'' Miller said, ''and now if they offered us freedom every year,'' how could he reject it? ''So I worried.''
 Miller didn't have to worry long, because the owners just didn't get it. Baseball games aren't played with orange baseballs, are they?
 ''I came to the conclusion,'' Miller said, ''that they could not see the economic advantage of it, even though it was there, because they were so afraid of the loss of power, the loss of control over the players.''
 The owners, of course, have lamented the loss of control over the players anyway. Players became free and salaries have escalated, except for the collusion years in the late 1980's.
 The last couple of years, since the 2002 labor agreement was negotiated, the owners have been able to slow the escalation. The average salary last year rose 4.6 percent, compared with a 17.7 percent increase three years earlier. One of the reasons the clubs were able to slow the escalation was their approach to nonstar players. They began signing them to cheaper, shorter-term contracts, many for one year.
 That's one of the primary reasons the number of free agents has escalated. Players accept these shorter, cheaper contracts because more players are available as free agents. If a player balks at signing on those terms, a club will often go to the next player on its list.
 An increasing number of players become free agents because clubs are less willing to pay what they consider high salaries that they included in contracts for option years. They decline to exercise the option, pay the player the buyout stipulated in the contract and, in some cases, try to sign the player for a lower salary.
 These practices are perfectly legitimate if clubs follow them independent of others. If, however, officials in the commissioner's office have orchestrated developments, meaning clubs are acting in concert with each other, the union could smell collusion.
 ''We certainly hope not,'' Donald Fehr, head of the union, said when asked about possible collusion. ''Obviously, this is going to be a very important year.''
 He cited this year's record attendance and resulting increased revenue as reasons agents that expect clubs to be willing to give players higher salaries.
 ''It was a great year for baseball,'' Fehr said. ''We would therefore look for this to be a vigorous free-agent market. Obviously, we're going to look at it closely.''
 Management labor officials were either said to be unavailable yesterday or did not return calls seeking comment.
 The sides, however, are already engaged in ongoing meetings stemming from the union's suspicion of collusive activities the past few years.
 Fehr acknowledged the existence of the meetings but declined to comment on them. Free agency has come a long way from Finley, but it can still be a thorny procedure.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nomar Garciaparra is among the elite players who will be testing the free-agent market this off-season. (Photo by John Gress/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); OAKLAND A'S (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004



195 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: The Times Sells Its Main Building To a Developer of Office Space

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Tishman Speyer Properties signed a contract Sunday night to buy the current home of The New York Times Company in Times Square for $175 million and convert it to an office building.
 The deal for the 15-story building on West 43rd Street, between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, is expected to close by the end of the year. But The Times will remain in the building, which opened in 1913, until sometime in 2007, when the newspaper plans to move to a new skyscraper across Eighth Avenue from the Port Authority Bus Terminal. 
 Tishman Speyer made a pre-emptive offer for the 750,000-square-foot building last week just as the property was entering the second stage of an auction, according to three real estate executives. The company outmaneuvered about nine other prospective developers, including Vornado Realty Trust, Boston Properties, Arthur Cohen and the Wilf real estate family, by offering more money.
 Robert Speyer, a senior managing director of Tishman Speyer, said the building was an extraordinary opportunity, given its location, its landmark facade and the current state of the office market.
 ''It's obviously a great location,'' Mr. Speyer said. ''Think about all the corporations that have moved into Times Square over the last 10 years. As the economy grows, there'll be spillover requirements.''
 The other bidders were considering converting the building to a hotel or an apartment house, as well as office space. Mr. Speyer said his company planned to renovate the entire structure, building a new lobby and installing new elevators. The building's loading docks on both 43rd and 44th Streets will be turned into retail stores, he said.
 Mr. Speyer said he expected that the property would be owned by a joint venture of Tishman Speyer, the New York City Employees' Retirement System and the New York City Teachers' Retirement System. The three groups also own the ''lipstick building'' on Third Avenue.
 The Times Company and its partner, Forest City Ratner, are in the early stages of building a 52-story skyscraper on the east side of Eighth Avenue, between 40th and 41st Streets, that will become the news media company's first headquarters outside Times Square in the past century, if only by a block or two. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (75%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); RETAILERS (63%); JOINT VENTURES (62%) Relocation of Business; Relocation of Personnel; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (92%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (69%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Times; Tishman Speyer Properties

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (92%); VNO (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%)

PERSON: Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004



196 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Iran Claims Draft Accord With Europe On Uranium

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi of Iran on Monday praised the outcome of weekend talks with European negotiators, saying that a preliminary agreement had been reached to suspend Iran's production of enriched uranium immediately. But he emphasized that any suspension would be only temporary.
 ''We hope that the deal between Iran and Europeans can be finalized and create necessary confidence,'' Mr. Kharrazi said of the 22 hours of difficult negotiations in Paris on Friday and Saturday between an Iranian delegation and senior officials of France, Germany, Britain and the European Union. 
 But, he added, ''The talk is about continuing the suspension for a short period to build confidence.''
 Paradoxically, Mr. Kharrazi and his negotiator in Paris, Hussein Mousavian, were more optimistic in public than the Europeans in describing the negotiations. The two Iranians described the result as a ''preliminary agreement,'' while all of the European participants said only that ''considerable progress'' had been made toward a ''preliminary agreement.''
 That seems to indicate the desire of the Iranian officials to push the agreement through Iran's murky political leadership, where agreement is universal that Iran has the right to produce enriched uranium and must not agree to a permanent ban.
 Mr. Kharrazi's comments in Tehran to state-run television underscored the fact that the Europeans had given in on the issue of whether Iran's suspension of uranium enrichment would be permanent, European officials said. But the Europeans also resisted Iran's demand that the suspension last only six months, the officials added.
 Instead, the suspension will continue only as long as Iran and the Europeans are involved in negotiations for a comprehensive package of rewards for Iran in exchange for a suspension of its production of enriched uranium, which can be used in civilian and military nuclear programs.
 The Iranian side is studying a draft agreement that was discussed over the weekend, and European officials said areas of disagreement between the two sides remained when the talks broke up.
 But the Iranians have made clear in public statements before and after the negotiations that they want a deal.
 If a deal is in place by the time the 35 countries that make up the leadership of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency, meet Nov. 25 in Vienna, it will block a move by the United States to send the Iran problem to the Security Council for possible penalties.
 In Brussels on Monday, Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, said an agreement would make referring Iran to the Security Council unnecessary. ''I think if we get an agreement we will not see any reason why,'' he told Reuters.
 In Australia on Monday, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei, called the agreement ''a step in the right direction,'' adding that he hoped that a deal would be completed in ''the next few days'' and that it would lead Iran to suspend its nuclear enrichment and reprocessing programs.
 Mr. Kharrazi's call for the need to ''build confidence'' is code for the Iranian demand that it be given a package of rewards as proof that it is not suspending its enrichment program and getting nothing in return.
 Among the incentives proposed to Iran by the Europeans were the reaffirmation of Iran's right to a nuclear energy program for peaceful purposes; support in Iran's acquisition of a light water research reactor; resumption of talks on a trade agreement between the European Union and Iran; support for Iran's membership in the World Trade Organization; continuation of a policy defining as a terrorist organization the Iranian opposition group known as Mujahedeen Khalq ; access to imported nuclear fuel at market prices for Iran's reactors; and help with regional security concerns, including combating drug trafficking.
 In Iran on Monday, the hard-line daily Jomhuri-e-Eslami denounced the talks on its front page and criticized the Iranian negotiators who conducted them.
 ''Despite the fact that the Europeans cannot be trusted has been proven to all, unfortunately these people have again reached agreement with these three traitor European countries,'' the newspaper said.
 In October 2003, Iran and the same three of European countries reached agreement in Tehran for Iran to suspend uranium enrichment and to accept stricter international inspections of its nuclear sites. But Iran violated the agreement this year, charging that the Europeans had reneged on their promises of economic and political incentives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (84%); FOREIGN POLICY (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (69%); TERRORISM (59%) Atomic Weapons; Uranium; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%) United Nations; International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: JAVIER SOLANA (59%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (58%) Elaine Sciolino; Kamal (Min) Kharrazi

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAN (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Iran; Europe; Iran

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004



197 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Ivoirian Throngs Assemble to Shield President From the French

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA; Warren Hoge contributed reporting from the United Nations for this article.

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
French and Ivory Coast military commanders appealed for calm Monday in Abidjan, as government supporters, whipped into a frenzy by reports that French tanks were assembling near the home of President Laurent Gbagbo, gathered by the thousands to form a human shield around their leader's neighborhood. 
 French soldiers fired in the air to disperse the crowds, and helicopters hovered overhead, witnesses and news agency reports from Abidjan said. For much of the day, as state-run radio urged government supporters to protect the president from French action, angry mobs ran through the streets taking aim at French citizens and anyone else mistaken as French. 
 France took pains to say it had no intention of deposing Mr. Gbagbo (pronounced BAG-bo). The spokesman for the French peacekeeping force in Ivory Coast, Col. Henri Aussavy, insisted that his troops had not surrounded the president's residence. ''We have absolutely no tanks in front of his residence,'' he said by telephone from Abidjan. 
 The spokesman for the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Abidjan said 750 foreigners, mostly French, were taking shelter in the United Nations compound there. Hundreds of others sought safety at the French military base. 
 By the end of the day, French and Ivoirian military officials said, some of the protesters had begun streaming back home. But the streets were far from calm. 
 In New York, France pushed for swift action by the United Nations Security Council to impose sanctions, including an arms embargo and travel bans for individuals who violated an international cease-fire in Ivory Coast. China asked for more time to decide whether to support immediate sanctions or try to negotiate a grace period to measure compliance before sanctions take hold. 
 The Council is scheduled to meet Tuesday to discuss the violence in Ivory Coast. The African Union is expected to send South Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki, to seek a political solution. Meanwhile, United Nations agencies drew up plans to evacuate nonessential staff. 
 The anti-French violence erupted Saturday after an air raid by Ivorian warplanes killed nine French peacekeepers and France retaliated by destroying most of the country's air assets, including the two Sukhoi attack jets used in the bombing. 
 The attacks against the French military base followed two days of heavy bombing by government warplanes against rebel-held towns in the north and signaled the total collapse of an 18-month-old French-brokered cease-fire between Mr. Gbagbo's government and his rebel foes. 
 ''We flirted with catastrophe,'' Ivory Coast's army chief of staff, Gen. Mathias Doue, said after meeting with French and United Nations commanders, according to Reuters. ''We are calling on all for calm and asking for everything to be done as soon as possible so normal life can resume.''
 The crisis in Ivory Coast, the world's largest cocoa producer, prompted a sudden rise in world cocoa prices by more than 9 percent on Monday, the largest gain in five years. About 40 percent of the world's cocoa comes from the West African country, going into chocolate made by Nestle and Cargill. 
 The International Committee of the Red Cross estimated that more than 500 people, an overwhelming majority of them Ivoirians, had been wounded in Abidjan alone since Thursday, when government forces broke the cease-fire and began an all-out offensive in rebel-held territory. There have been no reports of foreign casualties.
 The resumption of military action in Ivory Coast does not bode well for a region whose porous borders have for years circulated guns and gunmen from one country to the next. For more than a decade, a cycle of revenge and greed has led government leaders and their insurgent foes to provoke rebellions in one another's countries. Of particular concern now is the fragile peace secured not long ago in neighboring Liberia and Sierra Leone. In Guinea, to the north, peace is also precarious. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); RIOTS (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); ARMIES (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); ARMS EMBARGOES (64%); HELICOPTERS (56%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%) Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Demonstrations and Riots; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Politics and Government; International Relations

COMPANY: JOHNSON CONTROLS INDUSTRIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%) United Nations

INDUSTRY: NAICS333912 AIR & GAS COMPRESSOR MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3563 AIR & GAS COMPRESSORS (54%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (58%) Somini Sengupta; Laurent (Pres) Gbagbo; Henri (Col) Aussavy

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (99%); COTE D'IVOIRE (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%) Ivory Coast; France; Abidjan (Ivory Coast); Ivory Coast

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004



198 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 880 words

PERSON: NAOMI EHRICH LEONARD

HEADLINE: Dancing to That Robotic Engineering Beat

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J. 

 BODY:
AMIND as supple and creative as Prof. Naomi Ehrich Leonard's, one that allows her to chart the patterns of schools of fish and then construct underwater gliders that mimic their movement, would seem to be at odds with her surroundings. 
 ''Every wing is denoted with a letter,'' she said, walking down a dreary yellow cinder-block hallway where she works at Princeton University's engineering quadrangle. ''But in case you forget the letter of your wing, each is painted in its own color.'' 
 Professor Leonard strode down the empty corridor. The rectangular outline of the cinder blocks, repeated throughout the complex, created a dull pattern of uniformity, broken only by the offices identified with small numbers and nameplates. She chatted about her children, her work, her plans for research, and the lilt of her voice somehow softened the narrow confines of the hallway.
 She has been able to transcend the boundaries of her physical surroundings, as well as the traditional boundaries of her discipline, as a professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering. She has interwoven control theory, fluid mechanics, robotics, computer science, oceanography and biology. 
 Her work has shattered barriers and helped her design new sensing systems that replicate the coordinated behavior of flocks of birds and schools of fish. The advances she has made, which recently led to her being awarded a MacArthur fellowship worth $500,000, have been found to apply far beyond robotics, extending control theory to all mechanical systems.
 ''It comes from having many interests,'' she said modestly. 
 Her work has wide uses, including allowing oceanographers to send out undersea robotic gliders that send back a constant stream of data on temperatures, currents and concentrations of phytoplankton. She held one of the white plastic gliders in her hands in her lab and spoke of it as if it were alive, a work not of mechanics, but of nature. 
 ''We released little guys like these from a boat into Monterey Bay in California last summer,'' she said. ''It was a calm, beautiful, sunny day. We pushed them gently off the back of the stern and waited 40 minutes to make sure they were functioning. We saw a school of dolphins and someone spotted a blue whale. It was phenomenal. You start to think about them as part of the natural world.''
 She has been able to develop the gliders and design their intricate motion by observing how fish and birds work as a group, what their traffic patterns are like and the techniques they use to blanket an area to search for food. The self-directed undersea robots she programs operate in a similar manner, moving in mechanical schools through the water to collect data for scientists.
 Professor Leonard, 41, who has two daughters, ages 4 and 7, and whose husband, Tim Leonard, teaches economics at Princeton, grew up by the ocean in Marblehead, Mass. Her father, an engineer who designed jet engines for General Electric, used to write out math problems to amuse his daughter. She was on the high school math team, which, she admitted, ''was not one of the coolest things.''
 ''We would play math games while we waited to be served in a restaurant,'' she recalled. 
 But, not surprising, she said she was ''one of those kids who liked a lot of things.'' She played the piano and was ''a total dance fanatic.''
 She added: ''I love dance. I watch performances and then go back to see them again. The beauty of the lines and forms and motion of dance remind me of the aesthetics of mathematics. It is abstract, yet well engineered. It is structured, yet original.''
 She danced ballet as a girl, and again as an undergraduate at Princeton. She has recently resumed taking ballet classes. ''I am one of the old ladies now,'' she said, ''but it is still fun.''
 She has also started playing the piano again, buying one last year as a gift to herself for her 40th birthday. 
 ''Now that I have established my career and my children are older, I can bring back these other parts of my life,'' she said.
 THE computers in her laboratory are named after choreographers like George Balanchine and Martha Graham, something she says she originally did for ''creative inspiration.''
 ''I thought this might also inspire some of my graduate students to see more dance,'' she said, laughing, ''but this plan didn't work out too well.''
 She majored in mechanical engineering at Princeton and after graduation went to work as an engineer for a company that ''was small enough so I could do everything.'' She went back to school at the University of Maryland to get her doctorate in electrical engineering and became an assistant professor in 1994 and a full professor in 2003.
 Professor Leonard's field is not one that has traditionally attracted women, something she is trying to change by helping Princeton recruit prospective engineers. 
 ''People hear the term mechanical engineering and they think we wear jumpsuits, carry wrenches and fix cars,'' she said. ''It is hard to enter a field where they are few other women, but once we get people to think beyond these old-fashioned labels, once we show people how engineering is interdisciplinary, how it can be a bridge even into the humanities, we will attract diverse students. We need people who think broadly and deeply.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: NAOMI EHRICH LEONARD (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (90%); ROBOTICS (90%); FISHES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (88%); CHILDREN (78%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); BIOLOGY (73%); PHYSICS (68%) Science and Technology; Engineering and Engineers; Mathematics; Women; Fish and Other Marine Life; Dancing; Fish and Other Marine Life

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%) Leonard, Naomi Ehrich (Prof); Princeton University

Chris Hedges

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004



199 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Shares Mixed as Drop in Oil Prices Offsets Profit Taking

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Investors turned to profit taking yesterday, leaving stocks mixed after nearly two weeks of solid gains. Another drop in oil prices limited the downward pressure on the market.
 With the major indexes up 6 percent to 7 percent since Oct. 25, analysts said some selling was expected, though earnings and economic fundamentals remained sound. Some investors were hedging against an anticipated increase in benchmark interest rates after the Federal Reserve meets tomorrow. 
 ''We had such a beautiful confluence of events last week, with a smooth election, with Bush winning a second term, and with Friday's outstanding jobs report,'' said Joseph Keating, chief investment officer at AmSouth Asset Management. ''Now we're seeing a very healthy pause as investors start to plan for the long term, as opposed to last week's knee-jerk reactions.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 3.77 points, or 0.04 percent, to 10,391.31. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.28 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,164.89, and the Nasdaq composite index inched up 0.31 point, or 0.02 percent, to 2,039.25.
 Crude oil futures declined as investors, reassured by last week's oil inventory figures, grew more confident that the United States would have enough heating oil for the winter. A barrel of light crude was quoted at $49.09, down 52 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 ''I think this is a good day, even if the market isn't up,'' said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Corporation. ''So long as oil remains stable at or near these current levels, the market's likely to manage any round of profit taking the way it has so well today.''
 Trading was expected to moderate after last week's heavy volume, as investors prepared for tomorrow's Fed meeting. An increase of a quarter percentage point in the benchmark interest rate, to 2 percent, is considered a given by Wall Street.
 Investors were expected to look closely at the Fed's policy statement, due to be released after the meeting, for insight into the direction of the economy.
 A number of stocks were pressured by disclosures of government investigations.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating trading practices at brokerage firms, including Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch and Charles Schwab, believing that they processed trades to benefit themselves rather than their clients. Morgan Stanley dropped 82 cents, to $52.93; Merrill Lynch lost 60 cents, to $55.82; and Schwab fell 9 cents, to $9.63.
 H&R Block gained 22 cents, to $49.59, despite news that the securities regulator NASD accused Block of fraudulently promoting Enron bonds shortly before Enron declared bankruptcy.
 Microsoft announced a $536 million settlement with Novell over allegations of anticompetitive practices by Microsoft in Europe.
 Novell, however, said it would file its own United States antitrust case against Microsoft this week. Microsoft slipped 3 cents, to $29.28, while Novell rose 65 cents, to $7.51.
 Investors were encouraged by McDonald's sales figures for October, which showed a 7 percent increase in outlets open at least a year. McDonald's gained 14 cents, to $30.20.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 11/32, to a price of 100 8/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.22 percent from 4.17 percent on Friday.
 Here are the results of the three-month and six-month Treasury bill and the three-year note auctions:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.489	98.868	High Rate	2.045	2.260	Investment Rate	2.084	2.318	Low Rate	2.010	2.230	Median Rate	2.030	2.250	Total applied for	$46,696,223	$41,666,811	Accepted	$27,991,893	$25,784,041	Noncompetitive	$1,445,258	$895,453	

Both issues are dated Nov. 12, 2004. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 10, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on May 12, 2005.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.744
High Yield: 3.090
Low Yield: 3.020
Median Yield: 3.060
Total applied for: 54,472,789
Accepted: 27,301,239
Noncompetitive: 357,634
Interest set at: 3%
The 3-year notes mature Nov. 15, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''Hogh rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills from July through October. (October: 2.045%)(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); FUTURES (79%); SECURITIES LAW (79%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (79%); HEATING OIL (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Dow Jones Stock Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Government Bonds; Credit; Finances; Interest Rates

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (80%); GLEACHER & CO INC (66%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (59%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (59%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); NOVELL INC (50%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%); H & R BLOCK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (80%); GLCH (NASDAQ) (66%); SCHW (NYSE) (59%); MS (NYSE) (51%); HRB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (50%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004



200 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Riding a Write-In Wave to the Brink of City Hall

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Chris Dixon contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
San Diego, long ago dubbed America's Finest City by its boosters, may soon have America's gnarliest mayor.
 Donna Frye -- city council member, environmentalist, gadfly, surf shop owner and wife of Skip Frye, the legendary surfer and surfboard shaper -- is clinging to a small lead in the mayor's race as city officials painstakingly tally tens of thousands of write-in and provisional ballots.
 The result may not be known for days or even weeks, and legal challenges are likely.
 But if Ms. Frye wins, it will shred the political culture of San Diego, the nation's seventh-largest city, and deliver a jolt to its business establishment, which generally supported the re-election of Mayor Dick Murphy, a Harvard-educated, middle-of-the-road former Superior Court judge. A third candidate, Ron Roberts, a conservative San Diego county supervisor, trailed in the voting and conceded last week. 
 The mayoral race is nominally nonpartisan, but Ms. Frye is a Democrat and Mr. Murphy and Mr. Roberts are Republicans.
 Ms. Frye, 52, entered the race as a write-in candidate just five weeks before Election Day, running a populist campaign against what she called gross mismanagement of the city's finances and excessive secrecy in government. 
 Ms. Frye said she had joined the race at the urging of constituents and activists who were troubled by multibillion-dollar deficits in the city's public employee pension and retiree health care accounts and a laissez-faire attitude in city hall. She was the only person on the eight-member council last year to vote against a plan to increase benefits to city workers and retirees and to underfinance the pension accounts. That plan led to the city's current financial crisis and a sharp downgrading of its credit rating. The city must find millions of dollars in budget cuts to get the money to strengthen the pension accounts.
 The United States Attorney's office and the Securities and Exchange Commission are investigating the pension fund matter. The debacle has already tarnished the image of the city, which some are now calling Enron-by-the-Sea.
 As of Monday, Ms. Frye had 136,458 votes, or 35 percent, to Mr. Murphy's 132,728, or 34 percent. Some 162,000 ballots remain to be counted. The new mayor will take office on Dec. 6, if the vote counting and any litigation are finished.
 ''This is just an amazing story,'' she said in an interview in her city hall office on Monday morning. Her blond hair cascaded down the back of a conservative gray pantsuit. Her piercing blue eyes twinkled from her weather-beaten face as she described the reaction of the city fathers when she announced her candidacy.
 ''They portrayed me as an environmental wacko, and they just laughed at me,'' she said. ''It really is a new day in San Diego. The public is going to take back their city.''
 Ms. Frye added: ''That's what they have to get over. It doesn't belong to them. It belongs to the people. They need to get over themselves.''
 An added twist is that Mayor Murphy and San Diego business interests sponsored a successful ballot initiative to change the city's head of government from a city manager to a strong mayor.
 The change will give the next mayor, who most people at the time expected to be a re-elected Mr. Murphy, stronger powers to handle city finances, personnel policies and contracts, starting in 2006. Ms. Frye opposed the measure, saying it was poorly written and left too many legal questions unanswered.
 Mr. Murphy, in brief remarks to reporters on Monday, said that he was gaining votes as the counting went on but that it was too soon to predict a winner. ''In my opinion,'' he said, ''it would be best for everyone to complete the vote count before considering legal options.'' Supporters of the mayor have hinted at a possible legal challenge to Ms. Frye's candidacy and to the validity of some of the write-in ballots.
 Ms. Frye, a recovering alcoholic who said she left an abusive marriage 25 years ago, began her unlikely political odyssey a decade ago when her husband and several other local surfers contracted serious bacterial infections. The Fryes determined that the illnesses were probably caused by pathogens dumped into the ocean from leaky sewer pipes. She formed a group called Surfers Tired of Pollution, or STOP, and browbeat city and state officials to clean up the water.
 She dogged Brian Bilbray, who then represented the area in Congress, to push for quicker action on the sewage dumping. To make her point, she put a toilet with a life-sized effigy of Mr. Bilbray emerging from it in the doorway of the surf shop she and her husband own.
 Her campaign eventually won passage of new water-monitoring standards and sparked construction of a new drainage system to more effectively protect the beaches from sewage, agricultural runoff and motor oil. Ms. Frye was elected to the city council in 2001 in a special election and re-elected in 2002.
 The walls of her office are covered with pictures of Skip Frye surfing and awards from state and national environmental organizations. She also has a small plaque with her favorite saying from Gandhi: ''First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you and then you win.''
 Ms. Frye has not won the mayor's office yet, but she has already upended San Diego politics, said Steven Erie, a political scientist at the University of California, San Diego. 
 Ms. Frye was among the first to call attention to the city's fiscal meltdown, and she has not been shy about using her perch on the city council to assail city officials who she believes have given away the store to the city's sports franchises and real estate developers, Professor Erie noted.
 ''With a new form of government and potentially Donna Frye as mayor, we are looking at a regime change here,'' he said. ''Now the liberals will be saddled with dealing with the fiscal mess.''
 Skip Frye, 63, who was working on one of his prized custom longboards on Monday, said that the possibility of his wife becoming mayor was ''kind of surreal.''
 ''I'm just a simple surf guy,'' he said. ''Surfing still doesn't get its due as far as respect. In the old days, I could see that, because it was a bunch of rough people. But now it's doctors and lawyers, and maybe even a mayor.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Donna Frye, an environmentalist, gadfly and surf shop owner, is leading as the votes are counted for mayor of San Diego. She entered the race as a write-in candidate just five weeks before the election. (Photo by Jack Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (93%); MAYORS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SURFING (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); PENSION FUNDS (86%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (86%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); REFERENDUMS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BUDGETS (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); JUDGES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) Elections; Mayors; Referendums

COMPANY: STATON INSTITUTE INC (58%); AMERICA'S FINEST PRODUCTS (58%); PURESPECTRUM INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541990 ALL OTHER PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (58%); NAICS335129 OTHER LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3648 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: John M Broder; Chris Dixon; Donna (Councilwoman) Frye; Dick (Mayor) Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Diego (Calif); San Diego (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004

 
