

1 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 33; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Advice From the Trenches

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle; Louis Uchitelle reports on economics for The New York Times.

 BODY:

MOVING MOUNTAINS
Lessons in Leadership and Logistics
From the Gulf War.
By William G. Pagonis
with Jeffrey L. Cruikshank.
Illustrated. 248 pp. Boston:
Harvard Business School Press.
$24.95. 
 HAVING kept American forces well supplied during the Persian Gulf war, Lieut. Gen. William G. Pagonis now offers corporate America lessons in innovative management. "Moving Mountains: Lessons in Leadership and Logistics From the Gulf War" is not a modest book. General Pagonis maintains that, in effect, his achievements as the leader of a huge Army logistics team rank him among the nation's more imaginative and effective top executives.
Military memoirs, in his view, are no longer the preserve of combat commanders like General Grant or General Eisenhower or, most recently, General Schwarzkopf. Supplying military expeditions in the post-cold war era is also heroic, he believes, and the Army's performance in the gulf is evidence that America is supreme in that field. "Our logistical successes in the gulf war," General Pagonis writes, "suggest to me that our colleagues in the private sector may now get some good guidance from us." In the 19th century European generals came to this country to learn something about moving and supplying large, complicated forces by observing P. T. Barnum's maneuvers with his vast circus. Now American industry, the general suggests, should look not only to Japan and Germany for lessons in efficiency, but also to the United States Army.
That would be quite a spinoff victory from the gulf war, if it were true. But while General Pagonis is clearly an effective executive, his management precepts are already known to corporate America, or should be. More than a decade of self-analysis and self-criticism for having lost the industrial lead to Japan and Germany has produced a huge volume of literature on how to manage workers, reorganize and inspire them, and how to keep strategic goals simple and flexible.
"Moving Mountains," written with Jeffrey L. Cruickshank, a communications consultant, is a bracing review of these lessons, even offering an original management tool: 3-by-5 cards, each with a handwritten message, that General Pagonis and his corps used by the thousands to keep information flowing rapidly. But such management agility is now standard in corporate America, and "Moving Mountains" is far from being a breakthrough book.
Disconcertingly, General Pagonis shifts back and forth from memoir to management textbook, with the latter occupying two-thirds of the book. The memoir is more vivid, anecdotal and instructive. For months William (Gus) Pagonis was billed in the news media as the logistics genius who, as head of the Army's 22d Support Command, had fed, housed and equipped more than half a million American troops on short notice. As he notes, moving that large a force and all its equipment was like moving the whole state of Alaska and everything in it around the globe and then keeping it going. How did he do it? General Pagonis offers a broad outline, but starves his readers for detail.
One lesson comes through loud and clear. Saudi Arabia turned out to be a well-equipped and friendly staging area for a war. When the general arrived with a skeleton staff, he rented Saudi buses to transport the thousands of troops piling up on airport tarmacs without a clue about what to do next. And he secured 10,000 Bedouin tents to help house them.
The greatest feat, getting so many Americans and so much ammunition and equipment from the United States to Saudi Arabia in a few weeks, is not the subject of this book, and that is disappointing. Others managed this aspect of the operation; the general and his men -- a corporate work force, so to speak, that reached 50,000 people -- handled the distribution within Saudi Arabia.
And for all their organizational skills, they might have failed if the Saudis had not made available deep-water ports with excellent docks and huge warehouses, fresh food and thousands of trucks and buses that were rented, each with a driver, from the Philippines, Korea, Turkey or Bangladesh. The same war, staged from a much less friendly country like Jordan or Syria, might not have made the 51-year-old General Pagonis such a management hero.
MOVING tanks hundreds of miles to the front line, for example, was a major problem. Under their own steam, the tanks would have torn up the asphalt highways or burned too much fuel and created too many maintenance problems. General Pagonis urgently needed big transport trucks, and the Army had only 112 in Saudi Arabia. "We were able to assemble a fleet of nearly 1,300 H.E.T.'s [heavy equipment transporters] and tractor trailers, most of which came equipped with experienced third-country national drivers," the general reports. And on to the next problem.
Zahir Mastri, a friend of King Fahd, solved General Pagonis's fresh-food problem. As the general tells the story in an amusing section of the book, troops waiting months in the desert for the war to start required a diet that went beyond dry Army rations, and Mr. Mastri's company, Astra Foods, operated the largest covered farm in the world. Soon Astra Foods and the Pagonis team had mess halls everywhere as well as mobile fast-food canteens, with King Fahd paying most of the bill. King Fahd, the good Arab host, had sent Mr. Mastri to the Americans.
A successful company, of course, is not only efficient but profitable. The gulf war's urgency saved General Pagonis from budget constraints, and the Army's buying power was a magnet not only for Saudi merchants but also for suppliers in neighboring countries. "Word spread like wildfire that the American military was paying in Saudi riyals -- a desirable currency -- and that payment was made every two weeks," General Pagonis writes. "Since the Saudi Government was in the habit of paying its vendors only once or twice a year, we were suddenly the favorite clients on the block."
And in the end it is that buying power that makes Army executives, even those as skilled as General Pagonis, less than credible as management gurus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MOVING MOUNTAINS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); GULF STATES (88%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); GULF STATES (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ALASKA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); DESERT STORM (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COLD WAR (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; PAGONIS, WILLIAM G (MAJ GEN); CRUIKSHANK, JEFFREY L WILLIAM (GUS) PAGONIS (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



2 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 31; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2355 words

HEADLINE: Impressionist Master

BYLINE: By William Grimes; William Grimes is a culture reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Out on the campaign trail, the voters are getting a double dose of the character and trust issue, the family-values issue, the come-clean-on-the-draft issue. But on stage at Stand-Up NY, a brick-walled comedy club, a familiar-sounding figure is getting right down to bedrock, lambasting Bill Clinton's economic program. "I call it Elvis economics," says the shrill and insistent voice of George Bush, "a reckless policy of excessive spending that causes the Government to get fatter and fatter until one day the economy just falls off the toilet and dies."
The line is funny, but not, by itself, hysterical. What has the audience doubled over are the voice and the mannerisms, the grin that wanders up the right side of the face, the hectoring tone that slides right into a whine, the short intakes of breath after every third word to buy precious time in the desperate struggle to hold syntax together. It is a trulyPresidential performance, one that Jim Morris, a political humorist who specializes in impressions, has refined for a dozen years now. 
 The ridicule is bipartisan. Suddenly, Bill Clinton, his voice hoarse and slightly weepy, is fielding questions about his draft record. "If you're going to go back into someone's past, then you must view their actions in the light of that time, not what they look like 23 years later, when I'm 46 and running for President of the United States," Morris says, all earnest appeal, a little like a televangelist soliciting love offerings. "Twenty-three years ago I wore a Nehru jacket, but today I'm not running for Prime Minister of India."
Campaign '92 has been tough enough for Bush and Clinton. For Morris it has been hell. Consider the problem. Ross Perot was in, out and then in again. At one point, the Democratic pack included, besides Clinton, Paul Tsongas, Douglas Wilder, Jerry Brown, Bob Kerrey, Tom Harkin. Each with a distinct voice and manner. Each a potential winner. Each a mammoth homework assignment for Morris.
"It's a very nervous time, because I'm thinking, 'Will I have a career next year?' " says Morris, sitting in the Frank Sinatra Room of the Friars Club in midtown Manhattan the day after his appearance at Stand-Up NY. "This time around I was thinking, 'Cuomo, I don't know how I'm going to do him.' His waffling drove me crazy, because for me to work up an impression takes hours and hours."
Morris, 35 years old, is dark-haired and slim. He stands 6 feet 2 inches, the same height as the President, which helps when it comes to projecting the loose, gangling Bush. Offstage, he is quite shy and soft-spoken, and high-strung. He is a chronic worrier. Things are going well now. A resident of Los Angeles, he has appeared on "The Tonight Show," "Comic Relief" and "Larry King Live." On CNN's "Crossfire" he has withstood fierce questioning as all three candidates. He is in high demand for political banquets, corporate functions and funny television commercials.
But national politics can be unpredictable and cruel. Richard Gephardt, whose nonappearance in the 1992 Presidential race Morris greeted with profound relief, could rise again. And the white-bread, no-there-there specter of Dan Quayle in '96 disturbs his sleep.
Overall, the Republicans have been very good to Morris. Eight years of Reagan were an impressionist's dream. At this point, Morris does not even have to open his mouth to get the character across. At Stand-Up NY, he begins his act simply by going through the full panoply of Reagan expressions, his favorite being the open-mouthed look of surprisewhen a thought flies right out of the Gipper's leftear. In his full-length solo show, Morris routinely scores big with a silent-film-style vignetteof Reagan rising and preparing for the day.
Bush has been a piece of cake. Morris got him down pat back in 1980, when Bush's chances for the Presidency looked fairly good. It's safe to say that today he pretty much owns the Bush franchise. Dana Carvey, who does Bush on "Saturday Night Live" and worked as a comedian in San Franciso at the same time Morris did in the early 80's, has tried to worm the secret out of him, to no avail.
But Bush faded, as Vice Presidents are wont to do, so Morris had to put him on the back shelf for eight years and concentrate on Ronald Reagan. Both men now loom large in his stand-up act, in which he draws on the day's headlines and reworks them in the voices of the major political players, as well as broadcasters like Ted Koppel, Sam Donaldson, Dan Rather and Tom Brokaw. If Clinton should prove victorious, Morris says, he will phase out Bush slowly. Perot will probably exit more quickly -- stage left, arms waving.
Like many other Americans, Morris was floored when he found out that Bill Clinton didn't inhale. It was a turning point in the campaign, the moment when an absolutely critical piece of information brought the candidate's character into focus.
To demonstrate, Morris lapses into Clinton-speak. "Folks, Ah feel yur pain, Ah know what yur goin' through." The voice starts out strong but quickly softens to a raspy whisper, an insinuating, intimate delivery, with just a hint of sob. A normal person would have taken a breath to power the second half of the sentence. But Clinton doesn't inhale.
"I discovered that if I just breathe out, I can still get the nasal quality and the hoarseness," Morris says. He also throws in a few of the Clinton mannerisms. First, there's the back-and-forth head wag -- "there's a little cockiness there," Morris points out. He also bites his lower lip when rounding off a phrase, a movement that pulls his eyebrows down to project extra sincerity and compassion. But the breathing is the subtle touch that finishes off the impression. "That's the whole sexual thing," says Morris. "I think he's really got something there."
MORRIS STARTED SMALL, WORKING UP impressions of his parents and relatives in Boston. In his junior year of high school he successfully ran for class president. For his campaign, he stood before the assembled classmates and offered up endorsements of himself in the voices of the school's teachers. He was elected to two terms.
Morris took a few stabs at college, then lit out for Europe. He returned about a year later, just as the comedy-club scene began taking off in Boston.
What happened next is almost too good to be true. A friend asked Morris to come with him to a club called Comedy Connection in 1978. Throughout the evening, Morris pestered the club owner to allow him onstage. At the end of the night, he got his wish.
"I just got up there, and all this stuff that had been pent up for years came pouring out of me," he says. He did impresions of local and state politicians, and threw in Julia Child for a bonus. "I brought the house down. I've worked ever since."
Although Morris retains not a trace of a Massachusetts accent, he has made a minor specialty of Boston politicians, including former Gov. Ed King and former Mayor Kevin White. He also does Senator Ted Kennedy, Michael Dukakis and Paul Tsongas. On one occasion, he used the voice of White to fix two restaurant reservations for himself and a friend at Durgin Park, but he says "that's about as far as I've gone in abusing my talent."
His Tsongas impression is so good -- it's a ballet of bizarre upper-lip movements -- that he has kept the erstwhile candidate in his act. A sure-fire laugh comes when Tsongas says, "I dropped out of the campaign for lack of racehorses." Morris explains that the word is what the rest of us know as "resources."
Morris left Boston for San Francisco in 1980, where he worked comedy clubs and, over a period of about four months, developed a Reagan impression that was good enough to build a business around, called Rent-a-Reagan.
In 1982, Morris moved to Washington. "I decided Reagan was not giving enough press conferences, and I thought, 'Why don't I go to Washington and give them myself?' " he says.
In fact, Morris came no closer to Reagan than watching him pass by in a motorcade down Pennsylvania Avenue. But he has served up the full Bush impression to the President on three occasions. In 1989, he was invited to the White House correspondents dinner, a Washington power occasion that the President usually attends. This was red meat toMorris. "It was like starting in the All-Star Game," he says. "I could say I did an impression of the President to his face and retained my citizenship."
The stakes were high, as Morris realized when he left the dais to visit the men's room and found himself surrounded by three Secret Service agents. He returned, took the microphone and simply became George Bush.
"As soon as I opened my mouth, I was the one who had the power, I was the President," says Morris. Giddy with his newfound sense of Presidential privilege, he pressed his advantage. He began pointing to Cabinet members in the audience and calling them by their first names. Then he leaned over and addressed the President:
"This imposter sitting on my right thinks he's the President. Well, I have news for him. Read my lips. I know the President, and I am that man."
Bush loved it. Morris asked Barbara Bush if she minded his making fun of her husband. Not at all, it turned out. "She said, 'Yes, you're making fun of him, but you're not cruel. You don't do it in a mean way.' " Most comedians would have taken this as a compliment. Not Morris. "I was hurt," he says. "My mission is to make these people look as foolish as possible."
MORRIS BUILDS HIS IMPRESSIONS SLOWLY and painstakingly. He begins with a perception of character that allows him, as he puts it, to "hook into" a personality. Take Michael Dukakis, whose candidacy Morris dreaded, because it meant having to inhabit the soul of the man.
"I'm no authority on how he feels; only he knows that," Morris says. "But I have to feel certain things. I saw arrogance, a dour, scowling manner, as though he was thinking: 'Why do I have to deal with this problem? I don't see why I have to campaign this way. I know best.' " For Dan Rather, the hook was intensity. The key to Bush, whose voice and mannerisms Morris describes as a cross between John Wayne, Jack Nicholson and Liberace, lies in the President's acute sense of discomfort when forced outside the confines of his social class.
"He's a guy who really doesn't want to have to mix with the common folk, answer questions and press the flesh," Morris says. "There's this tension in his face. Sometimes he clenches his teeth when he smiles, so he gets that crooked grin. It's a fissure in the facade, and that's an opening for me."
Once he has established a hook, Morris begins the careful work of assembling videotapes of his subject, replaying them over and over, and compiling a repertory of sounds, which he then puts together to make a word, a phrase and finally a sentence. In difficult cases, he draws a chart with vocal sounds and makes annotations.
"A good impressionist," he says, "will point out certain foibles, quirks or mannerisms the audience never knew the person had, but once they see it, they say, 'Oh yeah.' " Morris noticed thatatnews conferences Bush has a habit of parking his tongue between his teeth on the left side of his face when waiting for a question. So he used that.
"For Ted Koppel, I found the key to the impression was holding my head absolutely still," he says. Morris always includes a bit in which, as Koppel, he recites "Light My Fire" by the Doors. It is funny for reasons neither the audience nor Morris understands.
The work never ends. Morris constantly tinkers, refines and fusses. As he travels, he carries a Sony Watchman so he can tape news broadcasts and press conferences. He also carries his own study tapes. On stage, he makes slight adjustments and corrections as he speaks.
He writes his own material, drawing on the daily newspapers, magazines, network news, C-Span and CNN to keep the material current. Some of Morris's best bits begin with a quote from a candidate. "Once there were three policemen for every crime," he says, borrowing Clinton's line. "Now there are three crimes for every policeman. In Surf City, U.S.A., there used to be two girls for every boy, according to Beach Boys statistics. You can see how badly things have gone awry under the Bush Administration."
Morris likes the news-conference format, with questions thrown out by the audience. He has an acute sense of the political language that allows him to answer -- and evade -- with the slickest of them.
When an audience member asks an uncomfortable personal question of Bush -- "Are you having an affair?" seems to pop up fairly often -- Morris is ready: "I'll repeat that question for those of you who may not have heard it. The question was, 'Are you a good President?' And the answer is, 'Yes, I am a good President.' "
For tough questions on the economy, Morris has a bipartisan answer that he can use either as Bush or Clinton. Generally, it's triggered when someone asks what he intends to do about the deficit.
"Well, that's a very good question, and I think the answer to that question is that what we need to do for the economy is to see to it that whatever it is that needs to get done gets done, so that one day we'll be able to look back and tell our kids andtell our grandkids and tell our grandkids' kids that when it came to doing something about the economy, we did whatever it was we thought we had to do to try to see to it that whatever it was that needed to get done got done."
When Morris's Clinton delivers this, it is genuinely impassioned -- and quite moving. "I'm in overdrive on Clinton right now, trying to pick up everything I can," Morris says. "I like it when he gets all weepy. When he's sincere. He's very good when he clasps his hands together, sort of a Southern church thing, like he's going to heal the nation."
The prospect of a Democratic victory in November bothers him not in the least. The comic possibilities look very, very good -- and the motivation never changes.
"It's always fun when someone's in the hot seat to make them suffer a little more."

GRAPHIC: Photos of Jim Morris (Photographs by Michael O'neill for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; IMPERSONATIONS; HUMOR AND WIT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MORRIS, JIM; GRIMES, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (90%); JAMES T MORRIS (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JERRY BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



3 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 20; Column 1; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: Battling British Tradition

BYLINE: By Susan Chira

 BODY:
TWO young student guides raced through a tour of their school, clearly at home but still a bit in awe at the riches within: computers everywhere, inside classrooms and out. Breakfast for everybody, offered in a sleek, modern space with wide tables, where students serve themselves. A library where books are checked out like groceries, with a bar code.
This is the Kingshurst City Technology College, an alternative inner-city high school in Solihull, England, near the industrial city of Birmingham, that is challenging traditional notions of what school should be. 
 Kingshurst is actually an incorporated company, founded with donations from British businesses. The business link is important: Kingshurst emphasizes math, science and technology, and it was corporate money that outfitted the school with high-technology equipment, including one computer for every four students. Many of the technological specialists, mathematicians and scientists on staff were hired from companies, not out of education schools. And many of the students take advantage of the workplace experience that Kingshurst, with its business ties, can offer.
There are other innovative practices at Kingshurst. Teachers, for example, are paid according to performance, while students attend classes an hour longer each day and 15 days more each year than is usual for their age and grade. The school offers day care for children of employees and older students.
Many of these ideas are exactly what President Bush had in mind when he called for "New American Schools" -- a rethinking of how schools can best serve children, families and employers in the late 20th century. Like the framers of an ambitious school reform effort now under way in Britain, President Bush believes that such institutions could serve as a model and goad to schools still clinging to the old ways.
They haven't yet in Britain, and Mr. Bush's critics are skeptical about model schools changing the vast majority of schools in the United States.
So far, Kingshurst and the 12 other city technology colleges now open in Britain appear to have inspired more resentment than imitators. Nor have businesses anted up as much money to found new schools as government leaders had expected.
 
Passionate Allegiance
 But the schools have the passionate allegiance of students, parents, teachers and administrators, who believe they are charting a course that will convince the doubters. "In this country, we are only successful with the top 10 or 20 percent," said Valerie Bragg, Kings hurst's principal. "I want to prove to this country that all children are talented." That is a particularly important task in Britain, where only 20 percent of students go on to higher education, and in the area around Birmingham, where only about 20 percent of students stay in school through age 18.
City technology colleges try to reverse these trends by combining academic and vocational training, which in Britain are usually separated. They are supposed to serve inner-city students and, among those who apply, must accept youngsters with a wide range of abilities. Mrs. Bragg was otherwise free to create any school she wanted, using ideas she had garnered from a long career as a principal of conventional schools.
Mrs. Bragg recruited more than 70 corporate sponsors, who paid 20 percent of the $19 million cost of building Kings hurst. While the Government gives Kingshurst the same yearly allotment as other schools, the sponsors have donated about $950,000 a year to pay for such things as computers, software and field trips.
With this money, Mrs. Bragg designed a building defined by space and light -- with a curving roof of glass like a greenhouse, walls of windows and classrooms shaped like hexagons instead of squares.
Students use technology in every aspect of their work, from writing papers to designing lighting for the school stage. Their courses have a heavy dose of business, including food and textile technology, information processing, simulations of stock markets. And students have much more freedom than they usually get in British schools -- to learn at their own pace, use computers scattered at will or stay inside when most schools chase students out for recess or after hours.
Four years after Kingshurst opened in 1988, Mrs. Bragg says she has students who are not only motivated, but also aggressive about making sure they learn. "I am convinced what learning is about is getting children to enjoy learning," she said. "If you show them how to learn, those skills can be used for all sorts of things."
As one example, Mrs. Bragg encourages every member of the school, including the custodian, to teach "enrichment" courses, ranging from pottery to kite-making to Italian, which students take several times a year during the school day.
Her students love the school -- and these are children from poor and working-class backgrounds who are usually shunted onto vocational tracks and whatever low-level jobs exist. Nearly a third of the students' families are unemployed, 40 percent live in single-parent homes and 35 percent have such low family incomes that they qualify for free meals.
 
'Allowed to Think'
 "You're treated differently here," said Aimee Weir, 12 years old, who started her second year at Kingshurst this fall. "You're allowed to think. In my primary school, the teachers gave you a book and taught. Here, you've got to find your own way."
A quick tour of Kingshurst conducted by Aimee showed a purposeful, lavishly equipped school. In one room a student sat alone, practicing on a tuba. In a religious studies class, students who had examined the character of Henry VIII were writing autobiographies.
Few outsiders dispute that Kingshurst has captured the imagination and allegiance of students who often hate school by this stage. But scholars and Government education inspectors charge that it has not lived up to its billing, primarily because it has not served as a catalyst for change.
Two scholars from Aston University, in Birmingham, studied Kingshurst and concluded in a book published last year that the school is cut off from other schools, parents and community leaders and has not prompted changes elsewhere. They and other scholars say that many schools resent Kingshurst, accuse it of creaming off the most motivated students and believe it does better because it has better facilities.
"City technology colleges have been a policy failure," said Geoff J. Whitty, a professor of education policy and management at London University's Goldsmiths College, who has also examined these schools. "There is no real mechanism for networking. Local schools just say the city technology colleges have much better budgets."
These are precisely the objections that critics have made to President Bush's idea of New American Schools. Model school projects in the past, they say, have created a handful of wonderful schools that remained isolated enclaves.
While most scholars praised the quality of education at Kingshurst, a report last year by Her Majesty's Inspectorate, a Government school inspection team, said the school offered good information technology but faulted its training in design technology and languages. Mrs. Bragg said the criticism was unjust. The book was based on Kingshurst's first year, she said, and the inspectors came on a day when several language teachers were out sick. She believes that Kingshurst's approach is indeed swaying other schools, particularly in its decision to offer several alternatives to the traditional "A" levels, the examinations that lead to college entrance in Britain.
 
'International' Degree
 Instead, students may study for an "International Baccalaureate" that qualifies them to enter both British and foreign universities, or a business diploma that includes work experience and job placements that Kings hurst helps to arrange.
Mrs. Bragg and her students clearly feel the strain of being a closely watched, highly politicized national experiment. But students say the pressure makes them more determined to prove their school works. "Because we're given so much responsibility, we don't want to muck around," said Chantal Jackson, a 13-year-old in her third year there.
Still others say Kingshurst has invited criticism by grandiose claims. "It's partly because of the boasts made -- letterheads saying, 'The future of education has arrived,' " said Martin Dobson, an 18-year-old studying for the International Baccalaureate.
The future of such schools is not clear in Britain. The victory of the Conservative Party in last spring's elections insures that the Government will have the power to continue the market-oriented changes it believes will transform British education. But in the meantime, the successes and failures of the city technology colleges may offer lessons for Americans as this country begins to move down a similar path.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I want to prove to this country that all children are talented," said Valerie Bragg, headmistress of Kingshurst.; Students at Kingshurst City Technology College, an alternative high school in Solihull, England, emphasizing math and science.; Alex Evers, a 17-year-old Kingshurst student, manipulates the arm of a robot as it handles a cup. (Photographs by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: KINGHURST CITY TECHNOLOGY COLLEGE (ENGLAND) KINGSHURST CITY TECHNOLOGY COLLEGE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: KINGHURST CITY TECHNOLOGY COLLEGE (ENGLAND) KINGSHURST CITY TECHNOLOGY COLLEGE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; GRANTS (CORPORATE AND FOUNDATION); SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; EDUCATION (SECONDARY); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); MATHEMATICS (75%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); TRENDS (71%); CHILD CARE (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



4 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 26; Column 3; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: The Apprentices' Youthful Tale

BYLINE: By John Holusha

 BODY:
CHRISTOPHER BARTO was "extremely bored" with the academic program at Hughesville High School, near Williamsport, Pa., after his sophomore year. Most of the teaching and reading, he said, involved "just letters and numbers; a lot of things not related to the real world."
So he decided to do something other than slog his way through the remaining two years or drop out. When a guidance counselor described a new program designed to combine schooling with a factory job, he decided, in his words, "to go for it." 
 Now he attends a specially tailored education program during the school year and works part time at Tempella Power Corporation in Williamsport, a producer of industrial boilers. If he stays with the program for four years, he will wind up with an associate's degree from a junior college, a certificate of mastery of industrial technology from the state and, almost certainly, a job as an operator of computerized design and manufacturing equipment.
The Pennsylvania Youth Apprenticeship Program is one of a handful of efforts around the nation to prepare young people not planning to attend a four-year college for the high-technology, self-directed workplace of the future. It is both an attempt to prepare youths for high-skill, higher-paying jobs and to persuade them of the relevance of the academic subjects they are studying.
Worker training has become an issue in the current Presidential campaign. The Democratic candidate, Gov. Bill Clinton, promoted apprentice programs in his home state of Arkansas and advocates a national apprentice system as part of a broader worker-training program. President Bush has been less vocal, but has included apprentice demonstration projects in efforts intended to ease the school-to-work transition.
Proponents of apprenticeship programs say they provide high-status alternatives to traditional academic curriculums, which are taught by college graduates who stress college preparation to the exclusion of other tracks. "Our system is very elite-oriented," said Anne Heald, a program officer with the German Marshall Fund, a foundation that has underwritten apprentice programs. "There is no strong path for the mainstream of youth." Ms. Heald noted that only about half of high school graduates go on to college and not all of those complete their studies.
 
The 'Forgotten Half'
 Indeed, educators often refer to the noncollege bound as the "forgotten half" of the school population. Most have trouble finding jobs that pay well, because a high school diploma is not highly regarded by most employers and the skills students acquire at part-time work during school do not prepare them for jobs offering a decent income. "Flipping hamburgers does not prepare young people for jobs with a future," said Stephen F. Hamilton, chairman of the Department of Human Development at Cornell University. "They lack the technical knowledge, social skills and work attitude necessary to succeed."
The new types of youth apprentice programs, chiefly involving modern industrial technology, differ from traditional union-based apprenticeships, such as in plumbing or tool making. For one thing, they are aimed at a younger population. According to Esther Whitten, a spokeswoman of the National Tooling and Machining Association, the average age of people in traditional programs is 27.
The new programs, typically financed and organized by some combination of state governments and foundations, are aimed at easing the transition from school to work by focusing on young people in their middle years of high school. Supporters of the programs say that working in an industrial setting, where understanding and applying highly technical specifications is essential, usually supplies the answer to students' age-old question, "Why do I have to learn this stuff?"
Most of the new plans are modeled on apprentice programs in Germany and elsewhere in Europe that train a majority of youngsters for employment. "In Germany, two-thirds of the kids go through apprentice programs," Ms. Heald said. "Most economies cannot employ much more than 25 percent of the work force as college graduates. We need an alternate that gives people self-respect, as well as economic success."
In the United States there are as many as 40 such apprentice programs enrolling about 1,000 young people, said Hillary Pennington, president of Jobs for the Future, a foundation-supported organization that promotes the development of apprenticeships. "Our objective in 10 to 20 years is to have apprenticeship as a viable option for 15 to 25 percent of the school population."
 
How Program Works
 In the Lycoming County, Pennsylvania, apprentice program, based in Williamsport, students enroll after 10th grade for four years. They sign contracts with employers and spend about half their time on the job and the rest in a specially designed curriculum taught at the Pennsylvania College of Technology in Williamsport. They are paid stipends of $80 a week for their efforts.
The curriculum is designed to give apprentices the necessary technical and verbal skills, but without the trappings of a standard high school that most of them resented. "There are no bells," said Tom Paternostro, one of the teachers in the program. "They are expected to do their work without somebody standing guard and watching them. And most of them have."
Instruction in different subjects is carefully linked to demonstrate its relevance. One day a history teacher talked about Revolutionary War and Civil War battles that had been fought in the area. The math teacher followed with a discussion of how to calculate the trajectories of cannon balls. Then another teacher helped students construct a small catapult and fire a golf ball across the room. The students then collected data on where the ball landed, using the same statistical control charts found in factory operations.
"They ended up doing history, English, math and physics, and probably did not realize it," said Robert Vandine, director of the local Industrial Modernization Center, which helped organize the program. Mr. Vandine said the purpose of these apprenticeships is as much to preserve the manufacturing base in the area as to provide jobs for young people.
"The current high school system produces people suited for the old, low-skill manufacturing system," he said. "But now to be competitive in the world, manufacturers need people with better technical skills and the ability to work in groups without a lot of supervision."
Greater skills also command higher pay. Professor Hamilton, who is involved in an apprentice program in the Binghamton, N.Y., area, said a technician capable of repairing and maintaining complex biotechnology and life-support equipment represents "real value" to a hospital. That technician, he said, "would make $40,000 a year on a full-time basis."
Christopher Barto said that a year as an apprentice at Tempella Power, had already broadened his options. "I started out in welding and general manufacturing," he said. Then he was taught how to operate a computer-controlled metalworking machine.
When he completes the apprenticeship program he will have even more opportunities. "I could go to a four-year college," he said, "or finish up at Penn Tech. Or I can go to work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher Barto says his apprenticeship has broadened his options. (Guy Cali for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (66%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA; EUROPE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (66%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LABOR; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; VOCATIONAL TRAINING HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); CURRICULA (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (71%); BOILER MFG (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN BILL CLINTON (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



5 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 20; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: ON LANGUAGE;
Retronym Watch

BYLINE: By William Safire

 BODY:
THe story is told of a modern mother laying a guilt trip on her grown-up son: "You never call, you never write, you never fax. . . ."
If he sends her a fax in response, we have a name for what she receives: fax mail. And if he leaves a message on her answering machine, that is becoming known as voice mail. But what of the stuff that comes in a paper envelope along with the greeting cards, bills, catalogues, charity solicitations and junk mail? 
 We can no longer call that plain mail. "Recently I received a fax message," writes Gary Muldoon of Rochester, "with the words 'land mail to follow.' Mail is now land mail." But that locution, evoking the days of the Pony Express, won't fly; so much domestic mail is sent by air that we no longer specify airmail, and land mail would be a misnomer.
This question has also puzzled John W. Nason of Jericho, L.I.: "Mail used to be what the postman (now letter carrier) deposited in your mailbox. Now that there's voice mail and E-mail, I wonder what all those bills and other stuff that come through the U.S. Postal Service will be called in the future. Real mail?"
Nope -- real mail doesn't eat quiche. Post is a possibility, from the Italian posta, "a station along the way," from its Latin root, meaning "place"; it came to mean a series of places in a system of communication. As a verb, it gained a meaning of "to send," as in Hamlet's condemnation of Queen Gertrude for her willingness "to post with such dexterity to incestuous sheets" (don't fax that to your mother). The post is now British usage for "the mail," and might serve Americans well to signify old-fashioned mail.
But it lacks the quality of a ret ronym. We have two-word names now for many things that have been overtaken by events. The classic was acoustic guitar, which replaced guitar when the electric guitar came along; this change quickly led to analog watch, which showed its face when the digital watch threatened its existence. Recently, with the introduction of the laser printer, the plain old printer that used to stand next to your creaky old 286 computer became an impact printer. Now that fancy restaurants are advertising free-range chicken, I don't know how to order the other kind. Domesticated chicken?)
The idea of a retronym is to downdate: to modify a familiar term in a way that calls attention to its not being the updated version. As Andrew Pollack wrote in The New York Times a few years ago, "Voice mail users now talk about two kinds of telephone communications -- voice mail, which is communicating by message, and 'real-time' communications, once known as conversation, in which both parties are on the line at the same time." To use retro nyms in a sentence: "The female nurse went to a day game and ordered health food." (Don't look up downdate: I can't wait for the dictionaries.)
In some of these retronyms, the modifier mocks the noun: Tom Pribek of the University of Wisconsin at La Crosse notes the redundancy in religious holiday and handwritten manuscript.
Back to the handwritten, or hand-typed, or impact-printed mail. The emergent idea plays on the traditional contrast between hard and soft. In politics, hard-liner led to soft-liner; in computer lingo, hardware spawned software; contrariwise, the old hard money, meaning "specie" or "an anti-inflationary policy," led to the new soft money, meaning "contributions not counted against a candidate's limits in a campaign." In newsrooms, hard copy was printed out and available to be held in the hand as if to be read, while the newscaster read the soft copy on the prompter screen.
The solution: voice mail and its accompanying voicephone number to print on your business cards; fax mail (two words destined to become one) and its companion fax number, and the unreal-time communication that enlivens and enriches this column, hard mail.
 
THE NEW OMICS
 REALPOLITIK -- PRONOUNCED ray-ahl-pol-ih-TEEK, so as not to confuse it with "real politics" -- was coined by Ludwig von Rochau in 1853 to describe Bismarck's hardheaded policies in the years leading to German unification. In American political usage, it means "international diplomacy based on strength rather than appeals to morality and world opinion" and -- with Tony Lake, a key Clinton adviser, apparently on the way in -- it may be on the way out (the policy, not the word).
A coinage based on realpolitik is likely to be used in think tanks and academic seminars if the Clinton-Gore ticket wins. That term is real economik, set forth by Susan and Martin Tolchin in a book that a new Administration's insiders would be reading, "Selling Our Security: The Erosion of America's Assets" (Knopf). The approach rejects the "Nations have no friends, only interests" summation of Viscount Palmerston's remark; instead, they write, "The U.S. needs a new vision, a 'real economik' that addresses its need to regain economic ground; otherwise, its role as a world leader will surely diminish over time."
The popularity of another coinage will be inevitable in a Clinton Administration: Clintonomics. For the omics suffix to work, the President's name must end in an n. This all began when some of us in 1969 began pushing Nixonomics. (Although Johnsonomics would have been an effective neologism, it was not used, suggesting that Nixonomics was the form's first Presidential use.) Although there was some straining for Fordonomics and Carternomics, neither got off the ground because of the lack of the concluding n.
With Reagan came, of course, Reaganomics. In 1992, Democrats wishing to criticize George Bush's economic policies did not want to evoke the popular former President's name, and there was no Bush onomics; they had to settle for trickle-down economics, a coinage probably used first by Democrats in the 1932 campaign against Herbert Hoover. (The theory under attack was also expressed then as "feeding the sparrows by feeding the horses.")
Now we are likely to have Clinton omics, described breathlessly at first as a new approach, and hailed when the economy turns upward; then, when the business cycle pushes the pendulum back the other way, Republicans will seize Clinton omics as their term of attack. Some linguistic trends are predictable.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES COMPUTER PRINTERS (84%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); POSTAL SERVICE (71%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (65%); RESTAURANTS (65%); POULTRY (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



6 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 33; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: ARTS/ARTIFACTS;
Chairs That Aren't for Sitting, and Other Fantasy Furniture

BYLINE: By RITA REIF

 BODY:
Throughout history, the most outrageous and romantic forms of fantasy furniture have flourished when the economy sagged and dreams flourished. In the late 1930's, for example, Helena Rubinstein acquired a flamboyant suite of shell-shaped furniture for her New York apartment. And in 1938 Jean-Michel Frank, the French decorator, commissioned Salvador Dali to design a sofa shaped like the mouth of Mae West for the showroom of Schiaparelli, the Paris couturiere.
"Fantasy furniture is more popular now than it's ever been," said Bruce M. Newman, a New York dealer and collector of such exotica. He and his wife, Judith, have written a book on the subject, "Fantasy Furniture," and they have recently donated 16 exuberantly embellished pieces to the Brooklyn Museum, where they are now on permanent exhibition. 
 The collection includes five types of fantasy furniture from the 19th century. The Venetian grotto style is represented by a curvaceous shell chair and a table with a dolphin-shaped base. The Black Forest style -- surprisingly all such furniture is Swiss, not German -- is typified by a bench flanked by two robustly carved bears. From Germany comes a lethal-looking smoking stand in the horn-and-antler style. Also from Germany there is a table designed for calling cards, on which a leering beast appears to be chewing up the top; the piece is an example of the mythological style.
The most romantic objects from the collection are a pair of nymph-embellished Art Nouveau chairs, carved in France at the turn of the century in the Belle Epoque style. The silvered wood seats simulate lily pads, the backs large leaves and the legs thick clusters of sturdy vines. "These chairs are so sinuous they seem alive," Mr. Newman said.
Also from the Belle Epoque period is a far more restrained French plant stand, with a wrought-iron frame that suggests vivid red and green branches, leaves and flowers.
A carved mahogany dragon chair is a tour de force of undulation. The dragon's tail forms a headrest, its exposed spine the back and its grinning face the footrest. "The creature is smirking," Mr. Newman said. "When you look at that chair, you feel decadent. If you sat on it, you'd hurt yourself. It was never meant for sitting. Some British lord with a sense of humor may have commissioned it to stand in the corner of his library -- daring someone to try it."
Peacocks probably inspired the Florentine craftsman Andrea Baccetti to carve the splendid feather-surfaced chair and table on view and to paint them red, silver and peacock blue. After completing the table, which has a treelike base, he added a pair of peacocks to the top, carved so that their tails and beaks are joined. The chair is shaped like a peacock, too, its wings spread to form the seat, its tail feathers the fanlike back and its long legs the feet.
Mr. Newman said that he first realized how witty and enchanting fantasy furniture can be during a visit in 1950 to the Royal Pavilion in Brighton, the country mansion built and extravagantly furnished by the man who later became George IV of England. "I thought it was the surrealist land of Oz," he said. "The Prince Regent, who built the place, certainly had a sense of humor."
And presumably so did Ludwig II, the Bavarian aristocrat with a taste for the bizarre in palaces and furnishings. "These two men gave people in the 19th century a license to live a fantasy life," Mr. Newman said.
According to Kevin Stayton, the museum's curator of decorative arts, the ambiguity of fantasy furniture is part of its charm. Among the exhibition's images open to interpretation is the layered detailing on the legs of a silvered Austrian chair. Mr. Stayton sees them as feathers, Mr. Newman as leaves.
Mr. Stayton is also unsure as to what is depicted on the vigorously carved calling-card stand. "The gargoyle figure may be an insect, beast or dragon," he said. "Not knowing exactly what the image is blurs its reality and increases its attraction."
His favorite piece in the collection is a late-19th-century Japanese desk with a three-dimensional rendering of mountains, pavilions and a bridge in cinnabar lacquer. "By replacing the desk's superstructure with a dream landscape," Mr. Stayton said, "something new and mysterious was created."
The collection represents a delightful addition to the Brooklyn Museum's holdings. "We had lots of technologically innovative pieces from the period but nothing as engaging as these pieces," Mr. Stayton said. "Most people view the 19th century as straitlaced and somber. This collection is chock full of whimsy, which helps us understand that the Victorians were human, too."
And it appeals to people of all ages, even the very young. "My 7-year-old nephew saw the show's brochure," Mr. Stayton said, "and asked me to buy some of it for him for Christmas."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, a French plant stand, in the Belle Epoque style. At left, a German fruitwood table, circa 1890, at the Brooklyn Museum. Above, a detail of a table by the Florentine craftsman Andrea Baccetti that features peacocks joined at the beak. (Photographs by Newel Art Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN MUSEUM BUSINESS FURNITURE INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN MUSEUM

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: FURNITURE; REVIEWS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (71%); 

PERSON: REIF, RITA; NEWMAN, BRUCE M; NEWMAN, JUDITH SALVADOR DALI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



7 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2315 words

HEADLINE: Trading Low-Income Housing for Bonuses

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:
EARTHMOVING equipment is shifting tons of material on a full block near Lincoln Center for the Lincoln Square project, a $234-million complex that will be 20 percent larger than normal zoning would allow because of low-income housing built on 104th and 107th Streets.
On West End Avenue, a few blocks from Lincoln Square, a $180-million complex is planned to include 1,000 rental apartments. Because 20 percent of the apartments in the development, which is called Manhattan West, are to be rented to low-income tenants, the project's owners will pay no city property taxes on their building for its first 10 years and will not be taxed on the basis on its full value for 20 years. 
 Both complexes are reflections of the city's attempt to find ways to provide low-income housing through bonuses and benefits to market-rate developers at a time when traditional funding sources for housing programs have all but dried up and commercial development has slowed to a standstill. While some city planners cite the incentives as examples of government innovations in an especially difficult time, others criticize them as unnecessarily generous to developers.
The Lincoln Square project, which will combine apartments, offices and retail space and a movie complex, will have a total of 666,000 square feet of space above ground -- 111,000 more than could have been built without the bonus for what is called inclusionary housing. Lincoln Square is the largest project to date to benefit from the city's five-year-old inclusionary housing zoning bonus.
Manhattan West, on a site just to the west of West End Avenue between 61st and 64th Streets, is to be a mixed-use complex that will have 1,000 rental apartments, 38,000 square feet of retail space and a 350-space parking garage. Twenty percent of the apartments in the $180 million complex will be rented to low-income tenants in exchange for a 20-year city property-tax abatement on the project.
The developers of the site, the Brodsky Organization, decided to go ahead with Manhattan West after the State Legislature last July approved the city's initiative to extend a part of the 421a tax benefit from 10 to 20 years. The 421a tax abatement program has been used by the city to stimulate the development of housing for all income levels.
"The zoning bonuses and tax abatements now in place," said Philip E. Aarons, a principal with Christopher M. Jeffries in Millenium Partners, the developers of Lincoln Square, "are the best programs so far to stimulate the development of low-income housing." Such housing, he said, can be "built without a direct government subsidy because the revenue from the sale of the credits pays for most of the building costs. The risk as to whether these certificates are used is the developer's, not the city's."
As president of the real estate division of General Atlantic Corporation, Mr. Aarons was the first developer in the city to build low-income housing for tax and zoning bonus credits. Millenium Partners is using credits bought from General Atlantic and other developers in the bonus for Lincoln Square.
Despite the enthusiasm expressed for the incentive programs by Mr. Aarons, a former president of the city's Public Development Corporation, and others, questions remain as to how programs that depend on new development can be viable in a city where construction has slowed to a trickle. Moreover, some planners question whether the impact of the bonus is too great in the neighborhoods where these large projects rise.
"There is no doubt that the city needs more housing," said Norman Marcus, former counsel to the City Planning Commission and now in private practice with the firm of Bachner, Tally, Polvoy & Misher. "But if as-of-right development does not permit the bulk for these projects, then the 20 percent bonus is allowing overbuilding to pay for amenities, like legitimate theaters, improved subway stations, plazas and low-income housing, that the city otherwise would not be able to afford. And the 20 percent extra bulk is one more indigestible element in the stew."
But Robert Flahive, director of the Manhattan office of the Department of Planning, said that currently there were no plans to alter the inclusionary housing zoning bonus.
So far, according the the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, the inclusionary zoning bonus has led to the construction of 140 units of low-income housing, resulting in 646,228 square feet of zoning bonus space. Of the bonus space generated, 455,811 square feet have been transferred to market-rate developments. Among them are the rental apartment buildings at 350 East 79th Street and 200 East 87th Street.
According to Roz Post, a spokeswoman for the city's housing agency, there are currently few low-income housing projects in the pipeline that would generate zoning bonuses. Among them is a plan by the Y.M.C.A. of Greater New York to expand its building at 5 West 63d Street. The Y expects to get a modest zoning bonus for the 65 units of permanent low-income units it will include in its redevelopment plan.
ELIGIBILITY for low-income housing is set by the city under a compex formula involving a percentage of the mean income for the area. Current eligibility for a two-bedroom apartment for a family of three, for example, is limited to those with a household income below $29,592.
Both the inclusionary housing bonus and the 421a tax-abatement program were born of the realization by public officials that without incentives or substantial government subsidies the cost of development in New York City made it less and less likely that even the most basic type of housing could be produced by the private sector. As Federal housing funds shrank in the 80's, the city struggled for ways to fill the gap between what the city could afford and what was needed.
In July 1987, the city added inclusionary housing to its list of zoning bonus incentives. The new zoning code provided a menu of options and a sliding scale of bonuses for on-site and off-site new construction and rehabilitation. Each square foot of low-income housing developed or rehabilitated generated a prescribed amount of bonus space.
A developer could add four feet of space, up to 20 percent of the maximum allowed by the zoning rules, for every square foot of new low-income housing built on a privately owned site. The rehabilitation of publicly owned housing produced a 2.2 bonus, which allowed 2.2 square feet of additional space for every square foot of rehabilitated space.
On a site where the zoning called for an FAR, or floor-to-area-ratio, of 10, the inclusionary housing bonus could bring it up to a maximum of 12 FAR. In the FAR zoning equation, 10 square feet of building is permitted for every square foot of land.
To make the incentive more palatable to developers, the zoning resolution allowed the low-income housing to be built or rehabilitated at a location other than the new development site as long as it was in the same community board jurisdiction or within a half mile of it. Moreover, a developer using the bonus would not have to put up the low-income housing himself, but could buy certificates for housing already completed.
A requirement that the low-income housing be completed and approved before the developer could get a certificate of occupancy for his market-rate project was the safeguard that insured that the low-income housing was completed to the city's satisfaction.
In the Lincoln Square project, for example, the inclusionary housing bonus will add 111,000 square feet of space to the 555,000 permitted for its 10 FAR zone.
The zoning bonus credits come from two new low-income residences. One is the 17-story, 29-unit building at 171 West 107th Street, completed in 1990, with the facade of a Consolidated Edison substation that stood on the midblock site. The building, which has mostly two- and three bedroom apartments, is managed by the West Side Federation for Senior Housing. The other is the 10-story, 56-unit residence at 123 West 104th Street. The building, completed earlier this year, was developed in partnership with Grace United Methodist Church next door, which was also rebuilt as part of the project.
In addition, Lincoln Square received 421a tax-abatement certificates as a result of the development of Gerard Gardens, a 120-unit low-income complex near Yankee Stadium built by General Atlantic in partnership with the Related Housing Companies.
Mr. Aarons said that he had left General Atlantic not because the market for low-income housing credits had dried up, but to pursue other development opportunities. But Mr. Aarons said that after he left, General Atlantic decided to close its real estate development division in New York City.
DANIEL BRODSKY, who is developing Manhattan West, said the project would have been too risky without the 10-year extension of the 421a tax benefit program approved last summer.
"Even with the drop in interest rates," he said, "which helped bring down development costs, the project's financial viability would have been questionable without the extension of the tax benefit."
One factor, Mr. Brodsky said, is that rents, even for luxury buildings, are not increasing at the same rate they did in the 1980's.
"With the old 421a formula," he said, "a developer could expect that by the time the full tax on the building had phased in, tenants would be paying rents that were high enough to cover the higher tax bill. But we cannot assume that will be the case in the near future. Rents have even come down a bit in the past few years."
The city has long used 421a tax incentives to encourage developers to build housing. But in response to critics who charged that in some areas 421a was a giveaway to real estate developers who could benefit from it even in luxury developments, in 1985 the City Council altered the program. The incentive was withdrawn for developments between 14th and 96th Streets in Manhattan. But the amendments allowed builders of market-rate housing to take advantage of the 421a tax break if they agreed to make low-income housing 20 percent of their projects. The low-income units could be part of their developments or built elsewhere. It enriched the value of the 421a tax break the developers are getting.
With the enriched 421a, Manhattan West will benefit from 10 years of full property-tax abatement on the buildings, starting when the project gets its certificate of occupancy. The full abatement under the previous 421a program was for two years. In the 11th year, assessments will start to be phased in gradually until full assessment is reached in the 20th year. While the building itself will not be taxed for 10 years, and not fully taxed for 20, the owner will be assessed for taxes on the value of the land. The current tax on the Manhattan West property is about $837,650.
New York is not alone in its effort to use private development to generate housing for its middle- and low-income residents.
In New Jersey, for example, the State Supreme Court's Mount Laurel decisions require communities to provide the opportunity for a certain proportion of low- and moderate-income housing. Under the policy, communities are allowed to pay for construction of up to half of their required quota of such housing in other areas; frequently, for example, funds from a development in the suburbs will be used to construct low-income housing in an urban area.
"The weak economy has slowed the production of low- and moderate-income units," said Sidna Mitchell, a spokesman for the Council on Affordable Housing in Trenton, "but we think that Mount Laurel and the Fair Housing Act have been successful in that exclusionary zoning has been broken down."
In Boston, where the concept of private developers' participating in creating low-income housing is known as linkage, commercial developers have put $75 million into a housing development fund since 1985. It has come from a $6-a-square-foot linkage fee on all commercial projects over 100,000 square feet.
"ONE rationale in this initiative," said Peter Dreier, director of housing for the Boston Redevelopment Authority, "is that any new development puts pressure on the housing situation. So developers share some of the responsibility in mitigating the impact of their new projects.
"They also are beginning to understand," Mr. Dreier continued, "that in order to have a healthy business climate, the city must have housing for a broad range of incomes; not just executive but salesmen but secretaries and stock clerks as well."
In another component of linkage in Boston, the city awards the linkage fund deposits to institutions most active in low-income neighborhoods.
While the current sour economic climate is not the best atmosphere in which to judge New York City's low-income housing incentives, some observers are confident that when development picks up, builders will embrace them.
Mr. Brodsky says another reason the low-income housing bonus will be used is that banks are more reluctant to give full financing to real estate projects.
"Banks have pulled way back on their real estate lending," he said, "so government programs will be more important."
Michael Parley, an urban planner and consultant to many of the city's largest development companies, also believes the market for tax and zoning benefits generated by low-income housing will pick up when the recession ends.
"Developers will want them," said Mr. Parley, "if for no other reason than the fact that they will need them. The list of zoning bonus options, for example, has been whittled down to the point where low-income housing nearly stands alone. The plaza bonus is not completely gone, but its use has been limited and there are fewer and fewer sites large enough for it to be used effectively."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Credits for constructing two low-income building more than 30 blocks to the north gave the Lincoln Square developer 20 percent more space -- adding 111,000 square feet above ground to the zoned 555,000. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Model of Manhattan West, which has a 20-year tax abatement because 200 of its 1,000 apartments will be for low-income residents. ( 1992 Nathaniel Lieberman)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (52%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%); BRODSKY ORGANIZATION (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; PROPERTY TAXES REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ZONING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G PHILIP E AARONS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



8 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Senate Choice: Mr. Inside or Mr. Outside

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON

 BODY:
THE first question in the televised debate between the state's United States Senate candidates last Monday was about converting Connecticut's military industries to peacetime uses, but Brook Johnson began his response with two statements: he has lived in Greenwich since 1978, and he has never shipped an American job overseas.
The moment was awkward for Mr. Johnson, the Republican candidate, a businessman who had spent $1.6 million of his own money on television advertisements to make himself known. Because of attack ads by his Democratic opponent, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Mr. Johnson seemed compelled to begin by defending his legitimacy as a resident of the state and as a pro-American businessman. 
 Mr. Johnson and Mr. Dodd are spending a total of $5 million on their Senate race, much of it on television, and the war of the airwaves has shown once again how television can cut two ways, especially for a candidate like Mr. Johnson, a newcomer to politics relying on it to establish his identity and to make his case against Mr. Dodd. In a recent Quinnipiac College poll, 94 percent of those surveyed had heard of Mr. Johnson, compared with only 60 percent seven weeks earlier, before he won the Republican primary against State Representative Christopher Burnham. But as Connecticut residents were learning about Mr. Johnson, their perceptions were being shaped not only by his own advertisements, but also by Mr. Dodd's. Between Oct. 16 and 26, as Dodd commercials accused Mr. Johnson of living in Florida until May and attacked his record as a textile executive, the Republican's unfavorable rating in Quinnipiac polls rose to 35.8 percent, from 25 percent, nearly equaling the 36.9 percent who viewed him favorably.
Mr. Dodd, seeking his third six-year term in the Senate, was also feeling the effects of Johnson commercials attacking him as a big-spending career politician who cared more about his salary than about his recession-stricken state. But Mr. Dodd was maintaining a nearly 20-point lead in polls as he campaigned on his record of fighting successfully for Connecticut interests like the Seawolf submarine, widening eligibility for financial aid for college students from middle-class families and pushing legislation for child care and family leave programs. This year challengers across the country based their hopes on a supposed anti-incumbent fever to sweep officeholders out of Congress, but in Connecticut the voters appear to be putting a premium on experience. Both parties say the incumbents in the House of Representatives appear to be safe, unless the volatility of the Presidential election spills over to other contests on the ballot.
At stake on Tuesday, in addition to the Senate and House offices, will be both houses of the General Assembly, two proposed amendments to the state Constitution and a scattering of local questions. The polls will be open from 6 A.M. to 8 P.M.
The main unknown, for Connecticut politicians, is how Ross Perot voters will complete their ballots on Tuesday, giving or denying Democrats in the state a landslide.
In the General Assembly, the Republican State Chairman, Richard Foley, is predicting Republican gains in both houses, where Democrats now hold majorities of 88 to 63 in the House and 20 to 16 in the Senate. The state income tax, he said, is one factor, but Mr. Perot is another.
"No one knows where the Perot vote will go," Mr. Foley said. "I think it will tend to vote Republican, because we are closer to Perot than the Democrats are."
The Democratic State Chairman, Edward Marcus, predicted only that his party would maintain its majorities in the legislature. With 100,000 new Democratic voters registered in the last five months, he is counting on a big Clinton vote.
"I do not see the race tightening," Mr. Marcus said. "I see people leaving Perot for Clinton, and leaving Bush for Perot."
He discounted the impact of lingering anger over the income tax, which Republicans had hoped might lead to a revolt against Democrats like that in New Jersey in 1991. Instead, he said, the 90 Democrats who are also listed as candidates of A Connecticut Party may well gain from that association.
"Connecticut's economy has been so decimated, and people accept as a fact that it's the result of the actions or lack of action of the Bush Administration, that the issue has totally overwhelmed any other in this state," he said.
In the United States Senate race, experience is the clearest distinction between Mr. Dodd and Mr. Johnson, who substantially agree on many issues, from the need to address the Federal deficit to the right of women to seek abortions.
Mr. Johnson, who takes pains to criticize evenhandedly Democrats and Republicans in Congress, and Gov. Bill Clinton and President Bush, has attributed the Federal deficit to special interest groups that have a firm grip on Washington insiders like Mr. Dodd, who has served in the House and Senate for 18 years. In closing the debate, Mr. Johnson stated the choice simply:
"I am definitely an outsider with no political background and no political experience. Chris is definitely a political insider with a lot of political background and political experience. I am a businessman with a background in creating jobs, building factories, creating products, and trying to invest in America and internationally. One thing that we must determine is what is the expertise we need in America today to stop the growing deficit."
 
Familiarity With Congress
 Mr. Dodd, however, has sought to use his experience to great advantage. Widely recognized in Washington as a Senator who can build coalitions across party lines, he points to the coming battle over military spending and suggests his contacts and reputation on Capitol Hill will be a great asset in defending Connecticut's defense-related jobs.
While Mr. Johnson, in three debates between the candidates, focused on reducing the deficit through devices like a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution, caps on the growth in Federal spending, and term limits for Congress, Mr. Dodd displayed a rich familiarity with the actual work of Congress.
That characteristic of Mr. Dodd could also work against him, though, reinforcing the politician image that Mr. Johnson was polishing for him.
At one point on Monday, after one lengthy Dodd response, Mr. Johnson succeeded in putting him on the defensive by saying, "It's a great disadvantage for a businessman who's used to saying yes or no being in one of these timed debates."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Christopher J. Dodd, above at left, the Democratic incumbent, and Brook Johnson, right at center, the Republican challenger, campaigning last week around the state. (Photographs by Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY SENATE CHOICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FAMILY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, BROOK; DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); JUDSON, GEORGE CHRISTOPHER DODD (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



9 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Hartford's Cityscape Keeps Artist Inspired

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN

 BODY:
FOR three decades Richard Welling has been sketching the buildings of downtown Hartford, the old ones that have come down and the new ones that have gone up.
In one respect he is the darling of the business establishment. A great many of his intricate line drawings are commissioned works that hang in boardrooms and banks and lawyers' offices throughout downtown. When the city's biggest hotel, the Hartford Sheraton, opened a decade and a half ago, each of its rooms contained not one but two Wellings. The drawings have provided his living. His prices start at $500 for the original drawing and $200 for limited-edition copies. 
 In a larger sense, though, Mr. Welling has been the unofficial artist-historian of a city during its greatest period of transition. And in that role, he is sometimes dismayed at what has happened in the name of progress.
One part of a new exhibit of Mr. Welling's work, at a Hartford restaurant, Picasso's, includes a section titled "Lost Hartford." The drawings are of some of the graceful structures that have been destroyed in the last 30 years.
"Don't get me wrong," Mr. Welling said. "I have nothing against skyscrapers. I like tall buildings." He has even learned to enjoy City Place, the modernist structure that deposed the Travelers Tower, which he dearly loves, as the city's tallest building, 535 feet to 527 feet.
And he enjoys radical new architecture. One of his favorite buildings is that of the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company, commonly known as the boat building, because it looks like one and from the air appears ready to slide into the Connecticut River.
But those are exceptions. So many of the modern structures that sprang up during the city's era of redevelopment are really awful in Mr. Welling's judgment.
One of the most awful, he said, is the Travelers Plaza building between Prospect Street and Columbus Boulevard. It looks like a giant radiator cover, he said. Another is 1 Financial Plaza, headquarters for the United Technologies Corporation and commonly known as the Gold Building for its skin of collector panels. He described that as the dullest building in Hartford. A third is the boxlike building he called ugly that was built as an adjunct to the Aetna Life and Casualty Company's old Colonial-style home office.
But the building that has most bothered him of late is a simple one at Main and Asylum streets, the crossroads of the city since Colonial days. It is a farmers' market. "That's like putting up a hot dog stand on Wall Street," Mr. Welling said.
 
City's First Skyscraper
 The farmers' market was created to get rid of a major embarrassment to the city, a great hole in the ground that remained after the landmark known as the Hartford-Aetna Building was imploded on April 1, 1990.
That 11-story building, the city's first skyscraper when it was erected in 1912, was owned in recent years by the Society for Savings, which planned to put up a 45-story office tower on the site. The Greater Hartford Architecture Conservancy put on a spirited campaign to halt the destruction of the old building, assisted by many others like Mr. Welling who felt it was an important structure, architecturally and historically. Their efforts were to no avail.
"I wrote a letter to the paper and said the skyscraper scheduled to replace it was just junk," Mr. Welling said. "I went to see bank officials, and I sent a drawing of the Hartford-Aetna Building to City Council members. I heard from no one. I could have chained myself to the door of the building, but I'm not that crazy."
The skyscraper was not built, however, due to financial problems that developed at the Society for Savings. Hence the farmers' market plan, worked out by the lending institution and the city.
If the city has lost part of its character with the loss of many of its older buildings, it has acquired a real character in Mr. Welling. With his long hair and beard and casual clothes -- his idea of dressing up is to wear a great floppy sweater -- he better fits the image of an artist in Paris than one in Hartford, with its button-down image as an insurance and business center.
 
Changing His Approach
 It was not always thus. Thirty years ago, Mr. Welling was a 36-year-old clean-shaven freelance graphic artist living in suburban Farmington with his wife and four children and commuting daily to a studio in downtown Hartford.
One day he discovered something that fascinated him and in doing so changed his approach to art and work. It was Constitution Plaza, the city's first big redevelopment project.
He did some drawings of the work in progress and realized that it was a lot more fun than working on advertisements or logos back at the studio, he said. He decided to try to sell his drawings, of new buildings going up and the old buildings they were replacing, hoping to find a market for them somewhere. He discovered that developers would sometimes pay for many sketches, occasionally more than 100 of them, of new buildings in various stages of completion. He also discovered that many people were interested in sketches of the older buildings, as reminders of a city that was starting to disappear piece by piece.
He became a familiar sight, the man with the drawing pad on the sidewalk, while pedestrians swirled around him, or perched on a roof, sketching away. He would go almost anywhere to get the best angle for a sketch. One time he felt that the best place to draw a building under construction was from an upper window at the Americana Hotel at Constitution Plaza. The hotel, however, would not let him use a vacant room for a few hours for sketching. So he checked in as a guest.
Over the last couple of years he has not had to worry much about angles for sketching buildings, he said, because there aren't many to sketch in downtown, either going up or coming down, because of the depressed economic climate.
 
Losing Homes to Progress
 "Building is nearly at a standstill," lamented Mr. Welling. Since 1976 he has done a year-end sketch of the Hartford skyline. "But now it doesn't change. Instead of the skyline last year, I did the interior of the State Capitol. This year I don't know what I'll sketch."
The lack of recent redevelopment has, at least, lessened Mr. Welling's concern about a place to live. While the city was almost obsessed with change, he had to move his studio out of four buildings scheduled for demolition. "Everywhere I went, they were knocking down the buildings on me."
In the late 1970's -- he was divorced and his children grown -- he moved from suburbia into the city. His present quarters, a combination of living place and studio, is a loft apartment in an industrial building near the railroad station that was converted to residences.
The apartment would do credit to Montmartre. The motif is Christmas -- complete with decorated tree, cards, even a mask of Ebenezer Scrooge -- year round. Mr. Welling did the decorating for Christmas four years ago, decided he liked what he saw and left it up. "Christmas is a nice season," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Welling, an artist-historian of Hartford. (pg. 1); Richard Welling working on sketch of Union Station, right, in Hartford. (pg. 18); Mr. Welling's 1984 sketch of Constitution Plaza in downtown Hartford. (pg 19) (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (82%); UTX (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (82%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HARTFORD (CONN) UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ART ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); HISTORY (74%); BOAT BUILDING (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); EXHIBITIONS (68%); 

PERSON: WELLING, RICHARD; RYAN, BILL RICHARD WELLING (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



10 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Defectors: Who and Why?

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
JENNIFER HAUGE of Secaucus is a 32-year-old lawyer and Republican whose roots in the party run deep. Her father was a speech writer for President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
Heidi Ehman, a 27-year-old Hawthorne resident, voted for Ronald Reagan and George Bush. Her parents worked in Barry Goldwater's campaign in 1964. 
 Last July, the two women sat on the podium at Madison Square Garden and heard themselves introduced to the Democratic National Convention as supporters of Gov. Bill Clinton and Senator Al Gore.
"It was a tough decision to do that," Ms. Ehman said. Later, back in New Jersey, she and Mrs. Hauge acknowledged their defection in interviews with local reporters. "The outpouring of support from other Republicans was so moving," Ms. Ehman said, "that we decided to form an organization."
The organization was called New Jersey Republicans for Clinton-Gore, and it has since enlisted about 300 people in its low-key campaign. They do some telephoning, spreading their message to other Republicans, and they organize kaffeeklatsches and parties where they sell campaign pins.
Mainly, though, it is a sort of emotional support group for Republicans who find their party's positions unpalatable but also find it hard to pull the lever for a Democratic candidate for President. Or, as Mrs. Hauge put it, "a haven for those who felt alienated or abandoned by the party."
The impact of the organization is difficult to assess. But its very existence and the personal characteristics of its members offer fresh insights into this remarkable election year. In a state that last voted for a Democratic Presidential candidate in 1964, Mr. Clinton has been enjoying a double-digit lead over Mr. Bush in recent polls.
In the view of Cliff Zukin, a former director of polling at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University, the increased tendency of Republicans to vote for Mr. Clinton represents a disaffection with Mr. Bush rather than a wholesale defection to the Democrats.
"Statewide, about 6 percent of Republicans say they will vote for Clinton, and 12 percent say they'll vote for Perot," Mr. Zukin said. "Bush gets much less of their allegiance than he did four years ago."
Mr. Zukin said that 1988 polls in New Jersey showed that 90 percent of Republicans supported Mr. Bush; this year, that figure is down to 76 percent.
"He has lost the moderates because of the stress on family values and racial issues," Mr. Zukin said. "These are 'wedge' issues, and President Bush has driven the wedge so hard that he may have cracked his own base."
Like many of the members of Republicans for Clinton-Gore, Allen I. Bildner, former chairman and chief executive officer of Kings Super Markets Inc., was put off by his party's convention this year. Mr. Bildner, a lifelong Republican and former Republican committeeman, attended the 1988 convention and was host of a reception there. But this year's sessions were "disgraceful," he said, citing "the lack of hope and the appeal to divisive elements."
Mr. Bildner cited other reasons for enlisting in Republicans for Clinton-Gore. "I thought our President was exceedingly effective as a leader during the gulf war," he said. "I was hopeful that, with his mandate coming out of that, an 85 percent favorable rating, he and his advisers would turn themselves to the economy, unemployment, the neglected urban areas, drug-related crime, bigotry and discrimination, education -- all of those.
"But I was disappointed and distressed, and I began to conclude that the President, although a decent and concerned human being, he and his advisers either were so far removed from the real problems, or were so convinced that if you kept government away and let the private sector deal with the problems, that would succeed, that they fell into inaction. I became convinced that with four more years of that kind of inaction we would reach a point of no return."
At a meeting in Secaucus on Oct. 14, Mr. Bildner and Albert Camper Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of the CIT Group, were installed as co-chairmen of the Republicans for Clinton group.
Among the other prominent businessmen and lifelong Republicans who declared themselves for Mr. Clinton were Roger Johnson, chairman and chief executive officer of the Western Digital Corporation, and Louis Cabot, former chairman and chief executive officer of the Cabot Corporation.
 
'A Whole Range of Issues'
 "My family thought McKinley was the last best President we had," said Robert Brown, a 69-year-old retired pharmaceutical company executive who was also a Foreign Service officer, as he presented his Republican bona fides. His disaffection with the present Republican party, he said, "runs from A to Z, a whole range of issues."
He expressed one of his concerns in blunt terms: "The neo-fascists have taken over. Pat Buchanan, Pat Robertson, Jerry Falwell. If you disagree with them, you're un-American."
The New Jersey Republicans for Clinton group announced its existence on Aug. 19 at the Republican National Convention in Houston. Both founders were there to protest against the Republican platform position on abortion. They announced their distance from the party physically as well as politically.
"We were at the pro-choice rally across the street," Ms. Ehman said. "I'm sure they didn't want us inside."
 
'A Graphic Illustration'
Mrs. Hauge added: "I had become increasingly concerned about the Republican positions on women. The Anita Hill hearings were a graphic illustration that we need a more active attitude for women."
Gerald Pomper, a professor of polititical science at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers, who has written a series of books about Presidential campaigns, also attended the Republican convention as part of his research. Mr. Pomper said the New Jersey delegation members, led by former Gov. Thomas H. Kean -- "somewhat genteel, gentlemanly, moderate to liberal" -- were treated as outsiders.
The New Jersey delegation "showed an aversion to the proceedings," he added. "They were unhappy about choice, and also the right-wing character of the convention." There was, he said, "a sense of despair" in the delegation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jennifer Hauge, right, campaigning for Gov. Bill Clinton at a meeting in Westfield. Mrs. Hauge helped form a Republicans for Clinton-Gore organization in New Jersey. (Julio A. Ibarra Jr. for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY KINGS SUPER MARKETS INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (76%); LAWYERS (72%); FAMILY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: HAUGE, JENNIFER; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); KING, WAYNE BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



11 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 4; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Cracking Down on Cabs at Airport

BYLINE: By TOM TOOLEN

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
MIKE MILNE looked like just another frazzled traveler on a recent Friday night, seeking a cab in the rain outside the Continental Airlines terminal at Newark International Airport. Several empty cabs whizzed past him.
Then a yellow cab with New York plates stopped abruptly. "Where to?" the driver asked. 
 Mr. Milne said he was headed for the Penta Hotel in downtown Manhattan. The driver agreed and got out to put the luggage in the trunk.
"You're under arrest for illegal solicitation," said Mr. Milne, an undercover police officer with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, as he pulled the driver's hands behind his back and snapped on the cuffs.
The driver said that all he was doing was "helping out a person who needed a ride in the rain." But as Mr. Milne informed him, cabs at the airport are registered and drivers must wait in line at a stand to get a fare. Limousines are also not allowed to pick up anyone at the airport unless it has been previously arranged.
 
'Have to Wait for Hours'
 After the driver had been taken to Port Authority police headquarters to be booked, and after his car had been towed, Mr. Milne explained: "At first glance you may have sympathy for the cab or limousine driver who's trying to make an extra buck, but the illegal drivers are taking the food out of the mouths of the legitimate cabdrivers who have to wait for hours in line to get a fare."
The renegade drivers, he said, often do not have insurance or driver's licenses. "These are the guys who often rip off the traveling public," Mr. Milne said.
The sting operation at Newark that night has also been used at Kennedy International and La Guardia Airports. The crackdown, which began on June 22 and was to have ended after Labor Day, has been extended by the Port Authority. It is the brainchild of Stanley Brezenoff, executive director of the Port Authority, who called the airport hustlers one of his "pet peeves" when he took his post two years ago.
The project is budgeted for $1.5 million, with most of it spent on police overtime. But the hiring of about 40 police recruits last month expected to trim that overtime.
"I am delighted with the results of our police effort, but we still have a way to go," Mr. Brezenoff said. "Tourists come from all over the country and the world to our area, and we can't let them experience a rip-off when they arrive at Newark or Kennedy or La Guardia Airports."
 
Tourists Often Overcharged
 Many of the illegal drivers, he added, "grossly overcharge innocent tourists, usually those unfamiliar with the language and the money exchange."
Mr. Brezenoff said the crackdown had made a big dent in the illegal activities. Since the program began, the Port Authority police have arrested or given summonses to 4,000 drivers at the three airports. In addition, the police have impounded 700 cars at the airports, nearly 500 of them at Newark. The drivers must pay a $60 fee to get their cars back.
About three-quarters of the 4,000 cases involve summonses, but arrests are made if the suspect is a repeat offender or has arrest warrants outstanding.
In some cases, Mr. Brezenoff said, the suspects are driving their own cars and have no taxi or livery licenses.
The fine in New York for illegal limousine and cab pick-ups is $100, but if a case goes to a court in Elizabeth -- Newark Airport is in both Newark and Elizabeth -- the fine for repeat offenders can reach $1,000.
 
Many Repeat Offenders
 "We like to think that the stiff fines and even the possibility of spending a night in jail if they are repeat offenders is enough to scare these gypsy cabs and limousines off," said Sgt. Kirk Nelson, who is in charge of the Newark sting operation. But he admits that he sees many of the "same offenders back night after night after night."
"There is a recession out there, and these guys will take any chances they can to make some extra money," he said. "If a limo or cab driver brings a rider from New York to Newark, it's a nice double dip if he can bring a fare back to the city."
Mr. Brezenoff said many foreign tourists, especially the Japanese, were being victimized. He mentioned the case of two Japanese businessmen who were charged $300 to go from Newark Airport to a Morris County office. The fare would normally be about $40. Another cab driver charged a group of Asians $100 to get to Manhattan from Newark and then drove away with the visitors' luggage still in his trunk, Mr. Brezenoff said.
The bulk of the car tows have been in Newark because the responsibility of the police at Newark is broader than that of officers at Kennedy or La Guardia. At Newark, the police can make arrests and order car tows outside the three main passenger terminals, but at Kennedy and La Guardia the individual airlines have responsibility for policing their own outside frontage, using their own security forces.
About 40 officers are involved in the undercover operation at the three airports, and the busiest nights are Thursday and Friday.
 
Pleased With Crackdown
 Legitimate cabbies and limousine companies are pleased with the Port Authority crackdown.
"It's been great," said Frank Barone of Airport Limousine Express in Elizabeth. "I hope they keep it up." Mr. Barone said his business had increased 25 to 30 percent since the crackdown began in June.
John Kampfe, a Port Authority spokesman, said warnings about accepting services from unauthorized people were included in a seven-minute video shown on many incoming flights and on signs posted at the airports.
After the team of undercover officers booked six maverick cabbies that Friday night, they made their way back to the Newark terminals because several international flights were coming in.
"The vultures will be circling and looking for people who look confused about what to do," Mr. Milne said. A few minutes later, he attracted a passing cabdriver who stopped and backed up. After he agreed to take Mr. Milne to Manhattan, he was arrested.
"I recognize him," Mr. Milne said. "He's been through this before." The suspect was smiling broadly.
James Gonzalez, another undercover officer, said: "I like to see that because I have had some of these illegal cabbies cry. One guy got down on his hands and knees and wanted to kiss my shoes if I let him go."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An undercover police officer with the Port Authority moments before arresting a New York City cabdriver on a charge of illegal solicitation at Newark Airport. (Kim Garnick/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); PORT AUTHORITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS AIRPORTS (93%); AIRLINES (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); OVERTIME (87%); ARRESTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); DRIVERS LICENSES (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: TOOLEN, TOM MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



12 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 2; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Hillsdale Journal;
An Uproar Over Police Pay Increases and Garbage Trucks

BYLINE: By ROBERT G. WOLETZ

DATELINE: HILLSDALE

 BODY:
STARTLED by the increasing rumble of 18-wheel garbage trucks through town, alarmed by a proposal to close the police station evenings and weekends, 150 of this Bergen County community's residents packed the Borough Hall a few weeks ago.
There they traded barbs over a yearlong string of decisions by the Borough Council and the Mayor, including a legal challenge to a three-year, 25 percent pay increase for the borough's police, a sudden shutdown of Hillsdale's municipal garbage-hauling operation and an agreement with the owners of a garbage-transfer station whose operations the Council had previously pledged to curtail. 
 At the meeting, several Hillsdale police officers rose to charge that the Council was leading a vendetta against the 19-member Police Department. They expressed concern that the Council was planning to eliminate more positions on a police force that stood at 21 a few years ago.
Other residents protested the proposed police station closings and the rising tide of trucks swinging through the municipality's streets, carrying garbage from other communities to the transfer station in Hillsdale's center. Among the speakers were two residents who are running for Council seats in Tuesday's election on an independent slate.
The embattled Mayor, Robert Elder, charged that the police salary raise was excessive. He also outlined a plan whereby Hillsdale would seek a reordering of its Police Department once Hillsdale could contract with another nearby town to take over the borough's police radio-dispatch responsibilities, now handled by a state-of-the-art dispatching center the borough bought two years ago for $65,000.
The Mayor maintained that the move made sense in light of the state's requirement that regional centers be established by 1993 throughout New Jersey for an enhanced 911 emergency call system. The removal of the dispatching function, he added, would make it unnecessary to keep headquarters open past 4 P.M. on weekdays or on weekends, and desk-bound dispatch officers could be reassigned to street patrols.
 
'What Kind of Message?'
 Donna Sommer, an elementary school teacher, demanded, "What kind of message does it send to the criminal element? I myself have had occasion to use the police station late at night, and I really don't know what I would have done without it. You can't possibly save enough money to justify closing so important a facility."
In fact, whether the Council will move ahead with the station closings is most uncertain, given the public opposition. A week after the Council meeting, the Mayor said that he thought the closings were unlikely and that the decision rested with the Ronald Schramm, the Police Chief.
Money is at the core of Hillsdale's problems. The borough, which has a population of 9,750, has been struggling, like so many others in New Jersey, to find a balance between the growth in the number of state-mandated municipal programs and the caps the Legislature has imposed on municipal spending.
"We have a state-mandated cap on our budget increases," the Mayor said in an interview. "Last year it was no more than 4.5 percent. Now I have to pay that 8 percent of the increase that the cops won this year and then another 8 percent next year, yet I have to stay within the cap legally. So now I have to take something else out of the budget."
Dennis Deutsch is a lawyer and one of the two candidates for Council seats on Tuesday fielded by the newly formed Hillsdale Independent Coalition. He has criticized the borough's failure to establish a legal basis for waging its continuing legal challenge to the police salary award and the proposal to close the police station as evidence of "poor advice and poor judgment."
Hillsdale has an unusually small commercial tax base; more than 90 percent of its taxes are collected from increasingly irate homeowners. The part-time Mayor, a Republican, and the largely Republican Council have sought to trim the growth of municipal service budgets and to generate new revenue.
 
Pact With Private Hauler
 They have divined a certain alchemy in the community's ongoing garbage problems. Last April they closed the municipality's own garbage pickup operations, selling the trucks and equipment and signing a five-year pact with DiBella Sanitation, a private hauler in nearby Park Ridge. The arrangement will save the town $220,000 a year in carting fees, said Mayor Elder,, an International Business Machines salesman by day.
Then, in June, the Borough Council concluded an agreement with Sal-Car Transfer Systems, the local garbage-tranfer station, whereby Sal-Car would begin paying Hillsdale $5 for every ton of Bergen County garbage the company processes. The Mayor estimates that the agreement could yield the borough as much as $1 million a year.
From the company's point of view, the arrangement brings Sal-Car into compliance with a 1988 state law that ordered transfer stations to seek an accommodation with their "host communities," and required that monetary compensation be offered to offset the burden their operations place on the affected towns.
"We are trying to be good neighbors," said James Ribaudo, president of Sal-Car, who said he hoped that the fees would improve the company's relationship with the community.
Mayor Elder said the agreement preserves the borough's right to continue its lawsuit against the company. That suit charges that Sal-Car has been exceeding the limits set in the town permit, which allows the processing of 350 tons of garbage a day.
Mr. Ribaudo said his company was now processing up to 900 tons daily. But he contended that it is the state and not the host community that is empowered to regulate his business.
 
Truck Traffic Called 'Disaster'
 "The residents of this town will tell you we should run out and put a padlock on Sal-Car's operations," said Hillsdale Councilman Joseph J. Tedona, a Democrat running for re-election on Tuesday. "Nothing would make me happier. The truck traffic they've generated is a disaster. But you can't do that."
Mr. Tedona, a plant manager for Star Manufacturing in Little Ferry, voted in favor of signing the agreement with Sal-Car.
Now that a first installment of $382,000 has been received from the transfer station via the Bergen County Utilities Authority, a battle is brewing over how or even whether to spend the money. There have been suggestions that these revenues be set aside in a surplus fund, but Mayor Elder has called upon the Council to use the funds to provide tax relief for homeowners.
One of the most vehement opponents of the Sal-Car agreement is Mr. Deutsch. "I just don't think that it is prudent for the town to base its economic future on its ability to attract more garbage into the community," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A truck at the garbage-transfer station in Hillsdale. Left, Officer Robert Mele at the police dispatching center. (Photographs by Linda Radin for The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey highlighting Hillsdale

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOROUGH COUNCIL (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOROUGH COUNCIL (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HILLSDALE (NJ) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; GARBAGE; POLICE; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) POLICE FORCES (93%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (50%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (50%); 

PERSON: WOLETZ, ROBERT G

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



13 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 6; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Fall Cleanup Day Draws Hundreds to Playland

BYLINE: By TOM CALLAHAN

DATELINE: RYE

 BODY:
DESPITE the threat of rain, 758 cars pulled into the parking lot at Playland Amusement Park here on Oct. 24. With the park rides closed for the winter, those drivers were there not for entertainment but to get rid of potentially hazardous household chemicals.
Over a seven-hour period on that Saturday, county residents disposed of 4,000 pounds of car batteries, 450 gallons of used motor oil, two Dumpsters full of old tires and 386 drums of household hazardous waste like pesticides and detergents. For the 13th time since 1985, the county's Department of Health and the Department of Environmental Facilities sponsored Household Chemical Cleanup Day. During these events, the county contracts with outside waste-removal firms to dispose of the material collected. The cost of the project is borne by Refuge Disposal District No. 1, which covers all Westchester municipalities except seven in the northern part of the county. 
 Holt Ardrey of Rye was attending his first cleanup day with two crates filled with old containers of antifreeze, enamel paints and pesticides. He was directed to drive to two giant tents set up in a corner of the parking lot. There, 50 employees of the Radiac Research Corporation of Brooklyn, some of them in heavy protective clothing, were working. After assisting Mr. Ardrey in removing the chemicals from his car, the workers separated the chemicals by ingredients and packed them in 55 gallon drums for disposal.
 
Original Containers Required
 Mr. Ardrey found out about the cleanup day from a brochure. "The benefit of this day is, first, that it is an incentive to clean out your basement and, second, it is a way to dispose of this stuff safely," Mr. Ardrey said.
Besides Radiac, the other contractors at Playland included Coletta Recycling of Far Rockaway, for used tires, and County Environmental System of Putnam Valley, for motor oil. All chemicals collected had to be in original labeled containers because no unmarked substances were accepted. Latex paint was also not accepted. County officials said that once it has dried, latex paint may be put out for regular garbage pickup.
"We see a lot of typical household items," said John Tekin, project manager of Radiac, as he went through a box of containers. "One of the most common items we receive is pool cleansers. But they can be a fire hazard if they come in contact with brake fluid. The most unusual item we've seen today is two jars of calcium carbide, given to us by an elderly lady. It had probably been in her basement for years as part of some old chemistry kit. The danger was if it came in contact with water, it would spontaneously ignite."
Mike Ritchie, assistant to the County Executive for Solid Waste Management, said, "Before, this stuff went right down the drain, but now the public consciousness is being raised on how carefully we must think of waste disposal."
 
Three Cleanup Days a Year
 Peggy Peters of Rye drove up in a van with her mother, Margaret Pierce of Katonah. Both women have attend the cleanup day each year and use it as a chance for the family to get together for lunch. "We've been coming to the cleanup days since they started," Mrs. Peters said. "There is no question that they are worthwhile. People have chemicals that they have to use in the home, and this provides a way to dispose of what they don't use."
The county is the host to three cleanup days at different spots during the year. The first this year was in July at the Valhalla Fire Training Center, and the final one of the year will be next Saturday at the Peekskill Waste Treatment Plant. Since they were started in 1985, 4,640 residents have taken part in the events and filled 4,270 drums of chemicals at a disposal cost of $1.11 million to the county.
"The word is spreading that people have to handle their waste in a proper manner," said James J. Hogan, the county's Recycling Director. "Our goal is to keep educating the public and to urge them to participate in events like these."
Marianne S. Gallagher, staff assistant in the Department of Environmental Facilities, said: "By becoming more responsible in how we purchase and dispose of household chemicals, we will be helping the environment as well as being economical. You shouldn't buy any chemical items in excess of what you need. If you have chemicals remaining that you are not going to use, you should give them away or dispose of them safely."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Residents of Rye, above, unloading car containing potentially hazardous household chemicals; A county worker pouring paint into hazardous waste containers at Household Chemical Cleanup Day in Rye (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PLAYLAND AMUSEMENT PARK (RYE, NY) RESEARCH CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLAYLAND AMUSEMENT PARK (RYE, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RYE (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); COUNTIES (89%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); TIRES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); CHEMISTRY (77%); PESTICIDES (77%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (76%); TIRE DISPOSAL & RECYCLING (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); 

PERSON: CALLAHAN, TOM

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



14 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: New Rochelle in Finals as Site for Unicef

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE

 BODY:
THERE hasn't been this much excitement in town since Thomas Paine, the city's most famous resident, first helped foment a revolution. At deli counters and in small stores operating on half-deserted Main Street, people talk of "The Little Engine That Could" and of David overcoming Goliath.
They are referring to the possibility that their small city could beat out New York City to become the new home of Unicef. Thomas Paine was, after all, the first to propose "a general convention of nations acting as a whole," and residents devoutly hope his dream materializes in their hometown. 
 New Rochelle is one of four sites that the United Nations Children's Fund with 950 employees is considering for its headquarters, having reduced its list of contenders from 34. The agency, which hopes to consolidate its operation in one spot by 1995, has been expanding at a faster rate than expected, said Timothy Boaks, Unicef's director of administration and management, who added that the agency grew 15 percent in the three-year period that ended in 1990. A final decision on the new site is expected by February.
"We are not trying to raid New York City," New Rochelle Mayor Timothy C. Idoni said last week as he prepared to discuss refinements to the city's proposal with a team of lawyers and financial consultants from the international agency. "We were asked to submit a proposal, and we did. We have a wonderful story to tell."
What has attracted the high-profile international agency to this economically battered city 18 miles north of Manhattan is an offer that would reduce its yearly rent from $10 million to $531,156 and provide a new, 575,00-square-foot, designed-to-order 20-story headquarters ready for occupancy in two years.
"If the New Rochelle offer saves us $100 million over 25 years, and it's more than that, New York City must do a lot to match it," said James P. Grant, Executive Director and Under Secretary General of the agency.
"The question is how to measure the cost of our need to stay in New York and near the U.N.," he said. "If Unicef was a free-standing organization, we would have moved to New Rochelle long ago."
What has captured the community's imagination is a comprehensive development plan created by the city with the aid of the Starrett Housing Corporation/H.R.H. Construction Corporation. The proposed new headquarters is the centerpiece of a plan, designed by Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates of Manhattan, to revitalize downtown New Rochelle, a plan in which the United Nations agency would be a partner.
The proposed new headquarters on Huguenot Street would be the focus of a so-called United Nations Community District covering a substantial part of the central business area, much of which is now vacant or underutilized. The district would include four new office buildings with a total of 800,000 square feet, 360 units of market-rate housing, a 1,000-space parking garage and an extensive landscaping and beautification program.
From a new sign on the New England Thruway reading, "Welcome to New Rochelle, Home of Unicef" to a landscaped "U.N. Circle," a traffic circle at the intersection of North Avenue and Garden Street several blocks away, visitors would find a campus-style environment emphasizing the activities of the international agency.
Some of the city's major public buildings are in the same area, and at least one of them, a designated historic landmark next to the New Rochelle Public Library, is being offered to Unicef for use as an international children's library.
These enticements, part of a package that includes tax-exempt financing, reduced parking fees and utility rates, low-cost housing and less expensive hospital care have alarmed New York City officials, who fear they could lose a prized tenant.
In the last six months since the field was narrowed from 34 proposals to 4, the city's Economic Development Office has mounted an aggressive campaign and offered a number of concessions, including rent reductions.
Recently, the Austrian Government alerted Unicef officials that it, too, is preparing to submit a proposal offering space in Vienna before the mid-November deadline. "They are offering totally free accommodations for our New York and Geneva offices," Mr. Boaks said, adding that the agency would pay yearly rent of 1 Austrian schilling. The operating costs, however, would be higher than they are in New York but less than in Geneva, he conceded.
 
Other Sites in Brooklyn and Queens
 For New York City, the stakes are much higher than the potential loss of Unicef. Three other United Nations agencies are considering a proposal to move to Bonn to occupy some of the many Government buildings that will be vacated when the German capital moves back to Berlin. The agencies, the United Nations Development Program, the United Nations Population Fund and the United Nations Development Fund for Women, represent almost 1,300 jobs.
The other sites being considered are one in Brooklyn and two in Queens.
Hoping to assure their place in the outcome of these high-stakes negotiations, New Rochelle's government, educational, business and civic leaders have joined in an unprecedented campaign to convince United Nations officials that the 67,000 men, women and children of New Rochelle want Unicef in the Queen City of the Sound.
"I've never seen a city or its people as united as they are or people as excited as they are," said Sidney P. Mudd, chairman of the New Rochelle for Unicef Committee, an organization of leaders from the city's business, educational and governmental communities. "This has really caught people's attention."
A breakfast at the Greentree Country Club in New Rochelle two weeks ago attracted 160 leaders from around the county who pledged to write letters to United Nations delegates, join the committee supporting the proposal and offer their ideas to city officials.
 
City Hopes to Overcome Setbacks
 The prospect of welcoming the United Nations agency and stimulating the local economy has kept many people in New Rochelle busy thinking of ways to be hospitable. City Hall has been flooded with ideas ranging from one by a doctor who said he would take Unicef employees on a tour of residential neighborhoods to one by a teacher who wants to organize schoolchildren in a letter-writing campaign.
Whatever the outcome, being named to the final four has galvanized New Rochelle, which has had a series of economic setbacks and bitter political battles over the last decade. State aid is down and property taxes are up, and residents have seen retailers depart and witnessed the defeat of such proposals as the $1 billion conversion of Davids Island to luxury housing.
Last spring, Macy's joined the parade of major retailers leaving New Rochelle in recent years. The loss of the only anchor tenant in the city's major shopping mall came two months after the City Council severed a contract that would have given a developer exclusive rights to put housing on Davids Island.
But a new current of optimism pervades City Hall under an administration that says it is determined to work cooperatively with developers. "Now developers believe they can do business with the city," said Joseph G. Madonna, Commissioner of Development. "It's no longer impossible to deal with the city of New Rochelle." Friction among some members of the City Council, former City Manager C. Samuel Kissinger and former Mayor Leonard C. Paduano has been blamed for previous inaction on development programs.
 
10-Year Development Plan
 In the last several months, the city has attracted new tenants who will provide an estimated $4 million a year in sales and property taxes, Mr. Madonna said, as part of a 10-year major development initiative begun in 1991.
The Lillian Vernon Corporation, a mail-order retailer, has agreed to put its corporate headquarters and a 4,000- to 5,000-square-foot retail outlet on Main Street, while the county will move its Department of Environmental Facilities also to Main Street. The Pace Warehouse Club plans to take over the refurbished Joyce Beverage Building, and negotiations are nearly complete with Home Depot, a discount home-improvement retailer, to occupy a 13-acre site in the Weyman Avenue Redevelopment Area.
Although the proposed Unicef headquarters is the catalyst for the redevelopment effort, city officials insist that the renaissance of New Rochelle will continue whether or not the international agency comes to their city.
"We've experienced a 180-degree turn in our view of the future of New Rochelle," Mr. Mudd said. "We have leadership and unanimity on the City Council for the first time in 12 years and an upward surge in the response of the people."
Last week, New Rochelle's leaders continued what they called their "full court press" to convince international officials to move Unicef to New Rochelle with a reception for the 56 United Nations delegates who live in Westchester.
"It is said that New York is the city that never sleeps," Mr. Mudd told the assembled guests. "Well, New Rochelle is the city that never quits."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Timothy C. Idoni, center, of New Rochelle, touring possible site for Unicef with Sidney P. Mudd, right, chairman of New Rochelle for Unicef, and Joseph G. Madonna, Development Commissioner. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)
 
Map highighting downtown development plans for New Rochelle

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SHO (AMEX) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (61%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (61%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (UNICEF); UNITED NATIONS (UN) STARRETT HOUSING CORP (61%); KOHN PEDERSEN FOX ASSOCIATES PC (50%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (UNICEF); UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ROCHELLE (NY) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MAYORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA THOMAS OTTEN PAINE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



15 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
A 'No' on Unity, a 'Yes' From Investors

BYLINE: By Clyde H. Farnsworth

DATELINE: TORONTO

 BODY:
In another illustration of unpredictability and perverseness, the markets here have just posted one of the best gains of the year during a week in which voters said "no" to a vaunted constitutional agreement aimed at keeping Canada from breaking up.
Not only did stock and bond prices levitate, but the Canadian dollar rose to nearly 81 United States cents after plummeting during the six-week referendum campaign to just above 79 cents, 5 cents below August's level. 
 What's more, interest rates this week were tumbling. The Bank of Canada dropped its discount rate on Thursday to 6.30 percent from 7.37 percent, the biggest drop since 1987 -- although the rate is well above the 19-year low of 4.93 percent set in early September.
These are far from the gloom-and-doom results that some backers of the Charlottetown agreement, including Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and the Royal Bank of Canada, hinted might follow a "no" victory.
Early in the campaign, the Prime Minister raised the possibility of Canada's dismemberment if "no" won, while the country's biggest bank issued a much-cited report warning of the dire economic consequences of a breakup, including a $4,000 fall in per capita income, a one-third rise in the unemployment rate and emigration of a million Canadians seeking jobs in the United States.
All this came against a backdrop of foreign disinvestment. Figures from Statistics Canada show foreigners dumping a record $4.1 billion of Canadian bonds in August, ending a 26-month trend of inflows. They also sold $1.4 billion of money market paper like Treasury bills and $9 million worth of stocks. (Foreigners have never been big holders of Canadian stocks.)
When released later this year, the figures for September and October are likely to show similar large outflows.
What happened this week, analysts said, was that markets had already built the worst-case scenarios into pricing and then discovered that the actual negative news wasn't as bad as earlier perceptions.
For one thing, an uncertainty became a certainty, and as Michael Holder, senior adviser in foreign exchange at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, observed: "Even if negative, the emergence of certainty for markets is positive."
Politicians agreed this week that all that had happened was that Canada had returned to the status quo. The fear that Quebec would separate was attenuated by a realization that if it happened at all, it would not be tomorrow or the day after.
Quebec separatists still have to win a provincial election, which the federalist premier, Robert Bourassa, does not have to call for two years, and then a majority of Quebecers would have to vote for independence in a new referendum before any actual divorce.
Most recent polls suggest that even though Quebecers voted against the Charlottetown agreement because they felt it did not give them enough autonomy, a majority still continue to favor union with Canada.
Robert Palombi, economist for MMS International, a Toronto financial information firm, said markets took encouragement from a declaration of Mr. Bourassa that he was still dedicated to "building a strong Quebec within Canada."
This is far different, Mr. Palombi noted, from the premier's reaction after the June 1990 collapse of the Meech Lake agreement, a similar effort at constitutional compromise, when a disappointed Mr. Bourassa, who had also backed that accord, sounded something like a separatist himself.
There was another critical difference between then and now, analysts said. Quebec backed Meech Lake, while two English-speaking provinces, Newfoundland and Manitoba, refused to ratify it. The Charlottetown agreement was rejected not only by Quebec but by five of the other nine English-speaking provinces.
So as Ron Meisels, president of P&C Holdings, an investment advisory firm in Montreal, commented: "It's not a question this time of Quebec versus the rest of the country. A lot of people just didn't like the agreement. It's a clearcut decision of English and French Canada."
Although Canada's unity problems remain under the surface, the political leadership, after Monday's rebuff by the voters, has now promised an indefinite deferral of any attempt at restarting the talks and promised instead to focus efforts on what the Prime Minister called "economic renewal." This, too, analysts said, was what markets wanted to hear.
Paul Ferley, assistant chief economist at the Bank of Montreal, observed that "once assured of no major political fallout from the vote, markets could concentrate on economic fundamentals" in which he noted that an inflation rate of 1.3 percent and a growth rate of 0.7 percent "leaves room" for further declines in interest rates. Although commercial banks on Tuesday cut their prime rate half a point for loans to their best customers, the prime still stands at an unusually high 7 3/4 percent.
In the absence of political uncertainties, Mr. Ferley and other economists see the markets as basically interest-rate-driven.
The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index closed on Friday at 3,336.12, up nearly 200 points, or 6 percent, from the 21-month low of 3,149.27 it hit during trading on Oct. 2. Last Friday's close was 3,246.73.
Canadian analysts said pension and mutual fund investors had been building up cash during the referendum campaign and this week moved heavily into the market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RY (TSX) (84%); RY (SWX) (84%); RY (NYSE) (84%); CM (TSX) (83%); CM (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (84%); CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STOCKS AND BONDS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); BONDS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (63%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H BRIAN MULRONEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



16 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1791 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/October 25-30

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
At G.M., Shakeups and Promises, Promises 

When the General Motors Corporation's board meets tomorrow in New York, it is expected to name John F. Smith Jr. president and John G. Smale chairman. Mr. Smale would replace Robert C. Stempel, who resigned under pressure last week. Directors are also expected to boot Roger G. Smith, G.M.'s former chairman, off the board. . If the rumors are right, another inside director may also be forced to go. If all that happens, G.M., which lost $752.9 million in the third quarter -- an improvement over its $1.1 billion loss for the same quarter last year -- might finally get an activist board. Such a board, analysts say, would be willing to give G.M.'s new team only six months to a year to turn things around. Still, skepticism abounds. "We have been through the promises of change so many times with G.M., and nothing ever happens," said Joseph S. Phillippi, an analyst with Lehman Brothers.

Bill Cosby Wants NBC
 
Bill Cosby is not only the nation's highest- paid entertainer, he is also the Jell-O man, the host of the syndicated program "You Bet Your Life" and a comedian. But last week he was deadly serious when he said he was trying to buy NBC from the General Electric Company. Mr. Cosby's agent, Norman Brokaw, of the William Morris Agency, told Robert C. Wright, NBC's president, that Mr. Cosby "is definitely interested in buying NBC." Though Mr. Wright said the network -- which has seen its ratings slip -- was not for sale, rumors have been circulating for more than a year that G.E. may put it on the block. If it does, the asking price is likely to be about $4 billion. To do the deal, Mr. Cosby has been working with the New York law firm of Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler, to bring in other investors. "It's not likely Bill will do the whole thing, nor would I consider it prudent that he try to," said Herbert H. Chaice, Mr. Cosby's lawyer.

Paramount's Chief Steps Down
 
Brandon Tartikoff was the whiz kid of network TV. When he was head of NBC Entertainment he gave a generation of couch potatoes hit shows like "Miami Vice," "Hill Street Blues" and "L.A. Law." Then he went to the movies 15 months ago as chairman of Paramount Pictures -- with mixed results. Though "Wayne's World" was boffo at the box office, "1492: Conquest of Paradise," was long on mood-music and jungle vistas but short on box-office receipts. Last week Mr. Tartikoff resigned as head of Paramount. Mr. Tartikoff said it was to spend more time with his family, especially with his daughter who had been injured in an automobile accident last year. But Hollywood insiders say Mr. Tartikoff was also upset by the scrutiny his division was given by its parent company, Paramount Communications Inc. Wall Street thinks Mr. Tartikoff's shoes will be hard to fill. Paramount's stock fell $1.625 to $43.25 on the announcement and closed the week at $42.125.

For Sale: I.B.M.'s Memory Chips
 
In an effort to find revenue wherever it might exist, the International Business Machines Corporation said it would sell its memory chips to other manufacturers. Big Blue is the world's third largest computer chip maker behind NEC of Japan and Toshiba. The strategy follows I.B.M.'s decision to sell other computer components that it manufactures, such as disk drives.

A Fine for Radio's Trouble Maker
 
Howard Stern -- New York radio's bad-boy -- built up a nationwide following for his syndicated talk show by blending celebrity interviews with bathroom jokes. Last week, the Federal Communications Commission announced its intention to impose a $105,000 fine on a Los Angeles radio station, KLSX-FM, for broadcasting Mr. Stern's show during a 12-day period last year. The F.C.C. said Mr. Stern's programs, which went on at length about Pee Wee Herman, the former children's TV performer, were indecent. The new charges follow $6,000 fines against three stations owned by Infinity Broadcasting of New York City, which produces Mr. Stern's show.
 
Continuing Losses for Ford
 
The Ford Motor Company may be highly praised for its strong productivity gains and its Japanese levels of quality, but that hasn't been enough to get the traffic flowing into its showrooms. Last week Ford announced a loss of $158.9 million in the third quarter due largely to a sales slump in North America and Britain. Ford lost $574.4 million in the same quarter last year.

The President's Gifts
 
As President Bush barnstorms around the country in the final days of the campaign, he has been cracking the window of the Presidential limo to hand out gifts to the electorate, mostly in the form of overseas arms sales. Last week Mr. Bush did it again by approving a $1.85 billion contract to the General Dynamics Corporation from the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark and Norway to upgrade 399 F-16 fighter jets. The work will be divided between General Dynamics's Fort Worth facility and factories in Europe.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
Mazda Clips Its Own Wings
 
Detroit is not the only place where auto makers are having trouble. Japan's car companies are having trouble moving their iron as well. Last week, the Mazda Motor Corporation said it was scaling back plans to introduce a high-price luxury-car line under the Amati name. Though it had planned to set up a separate dealer network for the Amati -- a la Toyota's Lexus dealer network -- Mazda will now sell the cars through its existing showrooms. Mazda also canceled plans to tout the new cars in a $60 million to $70 million ad campaign by Lord, Dentsu & Partners. And Mazda said it would bring out only one moderately-priced luxury model, not two, as originally planned. "Mazda is kind of pulling in its horns," said Ben Moyer, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company. "They've extended themselves too far." Mr. Moyer projects Mazda will lose $25 million in the fiscal year ending March 30.

Stow-Away Sushi
 
The restaurateurs at Sushi Boy, a chain in Osaka, planned to get around Japan's import restrictions on rice by bringing in shipments of sushi from California. Japan's customs inspectors seized the first shipment, then allowed it into the country. Last week, after an internal dispute, the masterminds of the import plan -- Fujio Matsumoto, Sushi Boy's president, and Haruhiko Saito, a vice president -- quit the company. As a result, "Sushi Boy itself is without anyone to import sushi," said Jun Nakamura, a spokesman for the company.
 
Spin Doctor Yeltsin?
 
In a statement that sounded more like a news release than a penetrating economic analysis, Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin told a group of American bankers visiting Moscow that "despite the political shouting and hysteria from some groups, the main problems from the reforms are behind us." But according to Russia's State Statistical Committee, inflation could hit 25 percent a month this year -- far in excess of the target set by the International Monetary Fund. Mr. Yeltsin's plans to index pensions to the inflation rate for state workers could drive inflation even higher.

 
 
THE ECONOMY

 
A Little Light in the G.D.P.
 
At last, a little good news for the economy. Gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 2.7 percent in the third quarter, the Commerce Department said. It was the strongest performance so far during the Bush Administration and because it raised output to levels higher than those before the recession began, technically the economy is now in expansion. But while growth was somewhat brisk, "there was no increase in employment," said Mickey Levy, chief economist at CRT Government Securities in New York.

Silicon Valley's Vote . . .
 
Silicon Valley was Reagan country. It grew strong on tax-sheltered venture-capital money during the go-go 1980's. Then came the tax reform act of 1986, the growth of Japan's semiconductor might and finally the recession. That made this entrepreneurial Eden edgy. Last week, at John Sculley's ranch -- he's the chairman of Apple Computer -- a group of high-level Silicon Valley executives endorsed Gov. Bill Clinton's candidacy and his high-tech policies, which include the national data highways. Among those joining Mr. Sculley to lift their glasses of Chardonnay were John A. Young, president of Hewlett-Packard; Paul A. Allaire, chairman of Xerox, and Jerry K. Pearlman, chairman of Zenith.
Ross Perot also has a following. While he was tossed softballs by admiring callers on "Larry King Live," he got an on-air endorsement call from Cher, who said she approved of his economic plans.

. . . And the Heartland's
 
The brie-and-silicon set may be wild about Gov. Bill Clinton, but President Bush still has his admirers. W. R. Timken Jr., chairman of the Timken Company, which makes roller bearings and specialty steel products in Canton, Ohio, is one of many corporate captains in industrial Ohio who are "overwhelmingly for President Bush," Mr. Timken said. Paul H. O'Neil, chairman of Alcoa Inc., in Pittsburgh, is also in Mr. Bush's camp. And while many of Mr. Bush's critics take him to task for the slumping economy, Robert W. Galvin, chairman of the executive committee of Motorola Inc., in Schaumburg, Ill. doesn't think Mr. Bush has done a bad job at all. "Frankly, I don't think Presidents have all that much to do with how an economy goes," he said.

Big Tickets, Shrinking Orders
 
The economy may be expanding, but tell that to the nation's manufacturers of big-ticket items. Orders of durable goods -- everything from airplanes to dishwashers -- fell in September by 0.4 percent, the Commerce Department said. The largest drop in orders was for military goods -- they were down 15.7 percent. Without the drop in military orders, durable goods orders would have been up by a slim 0.5 percent. "Overall I'd say it's a weak ish report," said Ian Borsook, an economist at Merrill Lynch & Company.

Resisting the USAir Deal
 
British Airways has been trying to acquire 25 percent of USAir's voting stock for $750 million for months. The deal would effectively put USAir under British Airways control. But in the third Presidential debate, Ross Perot said he was against the deal. Let foreign interests buy United States airlines and soon they'll dominate the market for airplanes too, he said. Last week, viewers of "Larry King Live" learned that Gov. Bill Clinton, if elected President, would also oppose the deal. Mr. Clinton said that unless Britain and the United States negotiated an aviation pact that allows United States airlines equal access to the British market, he would not "sign off" on British Airways's investment. President Bush favors the deal.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John F. Smith Jr. and Robert C. Stempel (Tom Strickland for The New York Times); Howard Stern; Bill Cosby; Sushi; jet figther plane.
 
Graph tracks percent change in G.D.P. 1st quarter 1990-3rd quarter 1992 (Source: Commerce Dept)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (67%); GEC (LSE) (67%); GE (SWX) (67%); GE (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); PATTERSON BELKNAP WEBB & TYLER LLP (81%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (67%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY INC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NETWORK TELEVISION (87%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (75%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (71%); TALENT AGENTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (66%); MOVIE REVENUES (65%); LAWYERS (63%); TICKET SALES (60%); 

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



17 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
To Investors, The Economy Looks Brighter

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
As the election nears, there are clear signs of improvement in the economy, or at least in some parts of it. Perhaps more importantly, it appears that middle-class voters are more optimistic than at any time since early 1990.
Those signs, to be sure, are limited. For every good piece of economic news in recent weeks, there has been a bad one. The surprisingly strong economic growth rate of 2.7 percent in the third quarter, which President Bush trumpeted last week, could easily be revised downward, and in any case is weaker than the first-quarter figure. Those who expect the economy to keep stuttering have plenty of evidence to support their position. 
 "There is a very depressed economy -- commercial real estate, defense, civilian aircraft and the entire state of California," said Ed Yardeni, the chief economist at C.J. Lawrence. "But we have another economy that is performing remarkably well given all the areas of weakness. There are sectors of the manufacturing economy where new orders are at record levels."
Over all, the economy's output of goods and services set a record in the third quarter, exceeding the level hit in the second quarter of 1990. But total employment is down half a million since then.
While consumer confidence figures look dismal, there are surprises hidden in the details. The University of Michigan survey separates out investors, who make up about half the population of consumers. For the last couple of years they have expected their own personal finances to worsen, with income growth running below anticipated inflation.
But the latest Michigan survey, done for Fidelity Investments, shows a turnaround. Investors now think their own family incomes will rise 3 percent over the next year, while they expect inflation to climb 2.5 percent. The last similar margin was in April 1990, before the recession. The Michigan people did not ask for political leanings, but it is a fair bet that a lot of the once-pessimistic investors were Republicans who had decided to abandon President Bush. Their new economic optimism, perhaps, may help to explain the narrowing of the presidential polls.
That investors are beginning to scent a rebound can be seen in the vibrant performance of smaller stocks, as well as in the fact that short-term interest rates have been rising. Since the lows of early October, the Dow Jones industrial average is up just 1.5 percent, but that understates the real action. The Nasdaq composite has leaped 7.1 percent and mutual funds that invest in small growth stocks are seeing the money pour in. Even the bankers seem more optimistic. At long last, they are making more business loans.
Still, it remains hard to believe that such gains will be enough for President Bush to keep his job. In the five Presidential elections since the Conference Board started tracking confidence, the incumbent party has won if the confidence index was above 99, and lost if it was below 88. Now it stands at 53.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 18.64 tro 3,226.28," tracks Dow Jones Stock Average, Oct. 23-30, 1992; "Investors Gain Confidence ..." tracks investors expectations of inflation and growth in family income," Nov. 1991-Oct. 1992; "... But History Favors Clinton," tracks consumer confidence in October of election years, and vote for incumbent party's candidate," 1972-1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (53%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



18 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2684 words

HEADLINE: A Bank That Lived to Tell the Tale

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

DATELINE: HARTFORD

 BODY:
The dark days at the Shawmut Bank started in February 1990, when an army of 170 Federal examiners arrived at the bank's main offices in Massachusetts and Connecticut for what would prove to be a six-week audit of Shawmut's real estate loans.
Shawmut, which had been confident enough to ask the examiners to come a month early, was stunned by the results. The examiners took a much dimmer view of repayment prospects than the bank did. Determined that they would not be accused of the slack supervision that helped topple the savings and loan industry, the regulators forced Shawmut to restate its 1989 results, turning a $202 million profit into a $129 million loss. 
 "We were expecting a rainstorm, but they said we should be ready for a hurricane," said Joel B. Alvord, chairman of Shawmut, the third-largest bank in New England.
Things got worse in January 1991, when the failure of the Bank of New England sent shivers through Shawmut's executive suites here. Like Shawmut, the Bank of New England had been deeply involved in real estate lending and had been hit hard by a massive examination of its loans in the early days of 1990.
"Our customers and other people in the industry looked at us as a twin of Bank of New England, and figured that we were next," said Gunnar S. Overstrom, Shawmut's president.
But Shawmut wasn't next. Today, Shawmut is profitable again, its portfolio of bad loans has shrunk and its prospects have been bright enough to attract new capital.
 
The Banking 'Crisis'
 Shawmut's decline was more extreme than that of most banks, but the way it reversed its slide is representative of what many have done. Among other things, Shawmut began a crash program for dealing with defaulted loans and it tightened its lending standards. It also benefited from a widening spread between the interest rates it pays on deposits and the rates it collects on loans and investments. At Shawmut, that gap now averages 4.16 percent, compared with 3.47 percent two years ago.
Indeed, the rebound at Shawmut and at scores of other once-troubled banks has been strong enough to convince many analysts that the banking industry is not heading for the kind of crisis that crippled the country's savings and loans.
Talk of a banking crisis has been getting louder in the closing weeks of the Presidential campaign, thanks in part to a recent academic study, "Banking on the Brink," which predicted up to 1,000 closings in coming years. Ross Perot cited the study in the final Presidential debate when he suggested that the Bush Administration was waiting for Tuesday's election to be over before closing a large number of banks and handing taxpayers "a $100 billion problem."
But many industry experts say the study is misleading because it relies on 1991 data that do not reflect recent improvements and makes overly pessimistic estimates of losses on bad loans.
At a Senate hearing last week, regulators conceded that some failures will occur after the election because of new rules taking effect Dec. 19 that require weakly capitalized banks to be closed. But the number -- and size -- of the failures will be relatively modest, they said.
Many analysts agree. "The crisis is over," said Lowell Bryan, a banking consultant at McKinsey & Company, quickly adding, however, that "it can come back if the economy weakens further."
And that's the rub. Having proved that they are strong enough to survive, Shawmut and other banks must still show that they can prosper without taking the kind of excessive risks that marked the 80's. Even those banks that avoided the worst mistakes of the 80's admit they need to make fundamental improvements in how they operate.
So far, the favorable spread in interest rates has been providing banks with the revenues they need to write off losses from bad loans and still show a profit.
Shawmut, for example, cut its holdings of troubled loans and foreclosed real estate to $1.07 billion as of Sept. 30, from $1.68 billion in December 1990. The payoff: it started earning small profits in mid-1991. Bad loans have been declining for the banking system as a whole, allowing it to rack up record profits of $15.5 billion in the first half of this year. Recent third-quarter reports indicated that profits are continuing at a record level.
Banks have also raised a record amount of capital by issuing new common and preferred stock, thereby increasing the cushion available to absorb unexpected losses. Shawmut raised $200 million in a stock offering earlier this year.
 
Buying Time
 But the favorable interest-rate spreads are only buying time, Mr. Bryan said. To avoid another crisis, he said, the banks must "wring more profit out of the nuts and bolts of their branch systems, seriously address costs and become better lenders."
Indeed, in the heady days of the 70's and 80's, banks routinely grew faster than the economy, and the growth camouflaged a generation of sloppy lenders.
"The real culprit of bank problems the past few years was the weakness in their credit culture," said George Salem, a banking analyst at Prudential Securities. "Banks need to learn that a good defense is better than a good offense."
For his part, Shawmut's Mr. Alvord says "the pendulum swung too far in both directions," with bankers failing to curb rash lending in the mid-1980's and regulators reacting with overly harsh treatment in 1990.
Mr. Alvord, who is 53, came to the fore during the real estate bust of the mid-1970's, when he was put in charge of Connecticut National Bank's sour loans to real estate investment trusts. His success with those loans helped make him president of Connecticut National in 1978. When the bank merged with Shawmut in 1988, Mr. Alvord was named chairman of the new company.
Yet even with that background, he was unable to avoid the real estate pitfalls of the 1980's.
Although Shawmut and Connecticut National stopped making new lending commitments to real estate developers in 1988, their outstanding real estate loans still accounted for more than 25 percent of their total loans in 1990, or more than twice the average rate for banks their size.
Because Shawmut's most serious problems were the result of bad loans, its lending operation quickly got extra attention. To solve the mistakes of the past, Mr. Alvord assigned about 500 people to do little else but work with troubled borrowers and foreclosed real estate.
To avoid making the same mistakes in the future, Shawmut tightened its lending rules and, last February, hired David L. Eyles, a lending expert with 30 years' experience at Chemical Bank and Mellon Bank, to fill the new position of chief credit officer.
Mr. Eyles is now pushing many business borrowers to provide the bank with audited financial statements, rather than a set of books prepared by the borrower with no outside review. On another tack, he insists that a borrower's internal covenants -- promises it made to the bank about maintaining its financial condition -- should be put in writing and checked periodically.
 
'Infernal' Covenants
 "I know that some of our lenders are talking about Eyles's 'infernal' covenants, but I don't care," Mr. Eyles said. "At least they are talking about credit issues."
A key part of Mr. Eyles's job is to develop uniform standards for measuring loans that coincide with those used by Federal examiners. This would eliminate surprises like the one in 1990, when examiners told the bank it had $1.05 billion of troubled loans, not $535.6 million, as it thought.
With uniform standards, for example, a 5-rated loan (a middle-of-the-road rating for small and medium-sized businesses that are Shawmut's bread and butter) would be reviewed quarterly, while a higher-quality 2-rated loan would be checked only once a year.
The ratings can also point to trends. Mr. Eyles noted, for instance, that loans that drop to 5 from 2 are much more likely to cause a loss than those consistently rated 5.
Such precision is a far cry from the lending practices of the 1980's. "The competitive landscape is much different now, with fewer players and a much more rational market," Mr. Alvord said. The 80's were marked, he said, by "an irrational pattern of pricing and credit standards that went beyond the limits of banking."
But while a few dozen large banks across the country are now far advanced in numerical ratings of loans, much work remains to be done.
In theory, the next step is to use the ratings to set appropriate prices for different customers. For example, a loan to a 2-rated borrower might have a lower interest rate than a loan to a 5-rated borrower.
But only a handful of banks, Shawmut not among them, have made the investment in a system to keep track of all business ties to a customer, and how much profit each produces. A bank that provides a company with cash management and financial advice for mergers could afford to charge a lower rate on a loan than another bank that had no connection to the company except the loan.
While bad lending decisions brought Shawmut to its knees, its consumer business -- operating through 330 branches -- has been a mainstay keeping the company alive. Though third in size overall in New England, Shawmut has the biggest consumer operation in Connecticut and in Massachusetts.
Shawmut has not tried to be a leader in new ventures like banking at home or debit cards. Instead, it has built a solid reputation for its early offering of such humdrum products as consolidated account statements and home-equity loans.
 
Pushing New Services
 Like many other bankers, Mr. Alvord is looking to wring more profit out of the consumer business by offering new services and investments through Shawmut's expensive-to-maintain branch network.
"Joel saw in the mid-1980's that there was money to be made in consumer banking, even though that was not really a big part of tradition at the bank," said Eileen S. Kraus, executive vice president for community banking.
Like many bankers, Ms. Kraus and Mr. Alvord say the nature of consumer banking is changing, with more demand from customers for help in managing their money. The demand for mutual funds and other investment vehicles is more than just a temporary reaction to low rates on deposits, bankers say. As the baby boomers grow older and become middle-aged savers, banks expect slower growth in lending but more growth in money management services.
To take advantage of the situation, Shawmut's trust department, which had revenues last year of about $100 million and managed $12 billion of assets, is accepting smaller accounts and making more use of the bank's connections with owners and managers of local businesses.
"We are blessed with a name that is very well known and a local market that is one of the wealthiest in the country," Mr. Alvord said.
For consumers not wealthy enough to need a trust account, Shawmut is using the trust department as adviser for a new group of mutual funds. Although Shawmut is a late arrival to the mutual fund business, the delay has allowed it to take advantage of a recent ruling by Federal regulators permitting banks to put their names on funds offered to customers.
"We did a lot of comparison shopping, and decided that rather than just jamming someone else's product into our branches using their sales force, we would take the time to develop a product and a distribution system that we would control," said Ms. Kraus.
 
Looking Ahead
 With the strength of Shawmut's branch system still intact, new managers overseeing corporate lending and an improved financial condition, Mr. Alvord says he is not running scared from the two largest New England banking companies, the Bank of Boston, which recently bought a large savings bank in Hartford, and Fleet Financial of Providence, R.I., which bought most of the failed Bank of New England in 1991.
"They want what we have," he said, referring to efforts by both to expand in Shawmut's markets.
The acquisitive drive of other banks may hold the key to Shawmut's future. Plans for a merger with Bank of Boston were far advanced in 1991, but fell apart as Shawmut's health improved and advisers to both sides questioned the fairness of the deal.
But the failure of that deal does not keep many analysts from predicting that another merger lies ahead for Shawmut. Assuming that its loan problems continue to subside, they expect several banks -- including Chase Manhattan and BankAmerica, as well as Bank of Boston and Fleet -- to covet Shawmut's ties to consumers and businesses.
Mr. Alvord isn't tipping his hand. But he is clearly bullish about the future, predicting "dramatic increases" in earnings for the next two years and a 50 percent jump in size -- to $35 billion in assets -- within five. Not bad for a bank whose strategic plan in the last couple of years, according to Mr. Alvord, was simply "to stay alive."
 
 
 
TURNING BRANCHES INTO SALES BOUTIQUES
 With 56,000 bank branches scattered around the country, bankers have a delivery network unmatched in breadth by other financial service companies. It is also unmatched in expense.
While branch closings have become more common lately -- even a consumer-oriented bank like Shawmut has closed 160 in the past four years -- bankers still count on branches as critical to expansion of their consumer business.
In the selling of mutual funds, for example, "the bank's customer relationships and branches can be critical advantages, if there is someone at the bank to sit down with the customer and ask the right questions," said Michael J. Rothmeier, executive vice president at Shawmut and formerly an executive at the Fidelity Group of mutual funds.
Mr. Rothmeier says there is plenty of opportunity for banks since no more than 28 percent of the nearly 70 million households with money available for investments are being served by mutual fund companies.
To make better use of branches as a vehicle for selling and to cut expenses, bankers are eager to reduce the use of branches for ordinary transactions.
Laura Jean Stuart, a bank consultant in Cambridge, Mass., expects that more banks will begin pricing their products to encourage customers to use the high technology on which banks have spent tens of billions of dollars. For example, by charging lower fees to customers whose paychecks are deposited directly by employers or who use automatic teller machines or the telephone, banks would need fewer tellers. That would leave more branch employees free for sales work.

 
THE CREDIT PENDULUM
 As Shawmut and other banks have corrected the lending excesses of the 1980's, they have run into criticism for lending too cautiously, creating a credit crunch that has hurt the economy.
All three Presidential candidates say they want more bank lending. But there are major differences in the way they would accomplish that goal.
President Bush would broaden the banks' powers, allowing them to fully enter the securities business, freely branch across state lines, sell and underwrite insurance and be owned by non-banking companies. Many analysts say the benefits would accrue mostly to a few dozen large banks and take years to appear.
Gov. Bill Clinton would encourage bank lending by ending overly harsh treatment by regulators and through a set of proposals aimed at helping the poorest areas of the country. Using the South Shore Bank of Chicago and other bank-sponsored community development corporations as models, he foresees a network of 100 community development banks. Existing banks would be encouraged to do more lending in poor areas, either directly or indirectly by helping the new development banks.
Ross Perot has pointed out the contradictory policies of regulators, who exhort banks to do more lending and at the same time impose tougher financial standards that have the effect of discouraging lending. Mr. Perot has also warned that many banks, including some of the largest, are weaker than they appear, but he has not said how this weakness should be corrected.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joel B. Alvord, Shawmut's chairman, in a conference room at the bank's Hartford office. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 1); David L. Eyles; Gunnar S. Overstrom; Eileen S. Kraus (pg. 6)
 
Graphs: "Industry-Shawmut, As Non-Performing Assets Have Dropped ...," tracks banking industry and Shawmut assets, 1987-1992*; "... Banks' Net Income Has Risen," tracks net income for industry and Shawmut, 1987-1992*; "... And Capital Has Increased," tracks shareholder capitial as percentage of total assets, for Shawmut and industry, 1987-1992* (1992 data through June for industry and through Sept. for Shawmut) (Sources: F.D.I.C., Shawmut National Corporation); graph tracks industry's average cost for each transaction, for teller, mail, check, telephone, automatic teller and pre-authorized transfer (Source: Gemini Consulting/MAC Group) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SHAWMUT BANK CONNECTICUT BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHAWMUT BANK CONNECTICUT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; INDUSTRY PROFILES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); POLITICAL DEBATES (63%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL JOEL B ALVORD (56%); GUNNAR S OVERSTROM JR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



19 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 5; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: SoHo Street Therapy

 BODY:
LIKE many good friends, Caroline Johnson, Amy Alkon and Marlowe Minick give one another a lot of advice. One night while trying to help their waiter at the Moon Dance Diner in TriBeCa demystify the meaning of life, they found a way to share their collective wisdom with other people. They became the Advice Ladies and are now a visible and popular part of the SoHo weekend landscape.
On a typical Saturday or Sunday, their modest office -- four chairs and a table at the corner of Broome Street and West Broadway -- is visited by hundreds of people. Most people just stand by and listen, but many sit down and unburden themselves, sharing problems both serious and silly. 
 A large sign reads, "The Advice Ladies Present: Free Advice From a Panel of Experts."
Their expertise extends to love and dating ("also marriage"), color coordination, apartment envy, pet discipline, Paris, recession life style and screenwriting.
In their weekday lives, Ms. Johnson, 37 years old, is an ad account director; Ms. Minick, 35, is a freelance art director, and Ms. Alkon, 28, is a freelance commercial producer.
As Advice Ladies, they say they hear a wildly diverse mix of problems, although most involve "the romance issue" or "the career issue."
On a recent Saturday, an aspiring screenwriter sought advice on dealing with Hollywood, and there were three cases of broken hearts.
"I just want to ask one thing," said Brad Kay, a twentysomething passer-by. "What do women want?"
The Advice Ladies' long list included attention, respect, affection, remembering birthdays and little surprises. "And don't go in for any of that 90's sensitive-man stuff," Ms. Alkon said. "Be aggressive." Ms. Minick added, "But always tell her how you feel."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Advice Ladies: Ms. Johnson, left, Ms. Alkon and Ms. Minick. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOHO AREA (SOUTH HOUSTON INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT) (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: LIFE STYLES FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (67%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, CAROLINE; ALKON, AMY; MINICK, MARLOWE MARLOWE MINICK (92%); AMY ALKON (92%); CAROLINE JOHNSON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



20 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 16; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT CARS;
Subaru's Justy, an Endangered Specie

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
AH, the sacrifices one makes.
Dominating the driveway is a lovely Cadillac Brougham, a golden behemoth that has been stretched and redesigned for '93 and that now is the largest production car in the world. It is powerful and it floats. But it has been standing there, quiet and alone, because I have been driving its antithesis, putt-putting in the pursuit of journalism. 
 Said antithesis is a Subaru Justy, a tiny car that would fit into the Cadillac's leather passenger compartment if not into its trunk. The Caddy's keys were on the kitchen counter and I looked longingly at them on the day that professional resolve took hold. But I had to do it. I sighed and picked up the keys for the Subaru.
The Justy is among the cheapest cars around, and it definitely is the least expensive all-wheel-drive automobile sold in the United States. It has cloth upholstery and a three-cylinder engine and manual everything. It also doesn't look like much next to a Cadillac.
But you know what? That little car is pretty neat.
It's odd that more people don't know that and seemingly don't care. And what's really odd, given the sad economy and the state of the car business, is that people are drifting away from vehicles like the Justy and that the trend is toward better-equipped and more expensive machinery.
According to Automotive News, a weekly trade publication that keeps track of such things, the Justy and seven other cars that have base prices of about $7,000 are now selling at less than half their 1988 rate. Things have been so bad, in fact, that Daihatsu, an exporter of inexpensive cars, has pulled out of the American market entirely.
The only success story in the category is the Canadian-built Geo Metro, which along with its twin, the Suzuki Swift, has increased its sales this year.
The manufacturers say the demand for bottom-line models has faded as a result of stabilized gas prices and the growth of baby-boomer families. Safety and emissions requirements also have raised stickers at the same time that production costs have risen in Japan and South Korea, and econocars are being viewed as less of a bargain.
In the first eight months of this year, for example, Subaru's Justy attracted only 2,444 customers, down 50 percent from 1991. And those sales, in turn, were down 75 percent from 1988.
Thus, the Justy is being phased out, although there is some quibbling about that between Subaru of America, which markets the car here, and Fuji Heavy Industries, which makes it in Japan. The word from Subaru's headquarters in Cherry Hill, N.J., is that 1994 will be Justy's last year, and a recent contradiction from Fuji was labeled by a Subaru spokesman as "a mistranslation."
Whatever happens, it means that you have at least another year or so to think about owning what is surely one of the more unusual vehicles on the road and one with a lot to offer.
There is wonderful road feel, for one thing, a result of a stiff but pleasing ride. Air bags are missing, but Subaru has mercifully not resorted to mechanized belts and you can strap yourself in quite comfortably. And, while it lacks power steering, the car weighs only about 2,000 pounds and is easy to handle. It also is only 12 feet long, so it's easy to park.
That small size, accompanied by the buzz of the 73 horsepower engine, gives you the feeling that you are very much a part of your surroundings. But room is as good in front as it is cramped in back. With thin window posts, visibility is excellent, and the short hood allows the driver to look down directly at the road.
For '93, the Justy hatchback can be had with two or four doors and in two levels of trim, base and GL. In the plainest of its stripped modes, it has front-wheel drive and a five-speed manual transmission, but all-wheel drive is available, as is its automatic shifter, the item that makes it truly unique.
The Justy houses America's only constantly variable transmission, known as a CVT -- or, in the electronically controlled Subaru version, as an ECVT. Using no gears, the transmission sends power through a belt that rides on variable-diameter pulleys. The advantages are compact size, few moving parts, low weight and an infinite variety of ratios to perfectly match vehicle loads to engine speeds.
On the highway, that also means smooth shifts and fuel economy of about 31 miles per gallon, slightly better than a similar all-wheel-drive version with a five-speed stick. Unfortunately, the tank holds only 9.2 gallons, so the car's range is limited.
Still, that shouldn't be a problem. Short commutes are the Justy's meat, and it is not a car for cross-country touring. For that, you'll have to excuse me. I think I'll take the Cadillac.
 
 
 
FROM NISSAN, A TOOTHLESS TRANSMISSION
 Subaru's Justy has the only constantly variable transmission sold in America, and it is a neat idea, one that has been experimented with since the late 1800's. The difference between an automatic transmission with gears and a CVT without them is like the difference between a three-way light switch and one with a dimmer control.
The constantly variable transmission uses stepless ratio changes and there is a smooth and uninterrupted flow of power, which improves driveability and fuel economy. As in the Justy, previous designs have transmitted power through a belt, and the strength of the belt has limited CVT's to small cars.
Now, though, Nissan has demonstrated an experimental version for high-output engines that uses two moveable rollers to transmit power between input and output disks. As the positions of the rollers change, so does the transmission ratio.
According to Nissan's engineers, earlier roller designs suffered from high-friction losses and annoying speed changes because of difficulty in controlling the position of the rollers. The new design, they said, reduces the friction and distributes loads more evenly.
They caution that more work needs to be done, but the new transmission is said to be capable of handling 348 horsepower.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Subaru's minicar, the Justy, is the least expensive all-wheel-drive vehicle sold in America. (Subaru of America)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7270 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (87%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SUBARU-ISUZU AUTOMOTIVE INC FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUBARU-ISUZU AUTOMOTIVE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (87%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TRENDS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); BABY BOOMERS (62%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



21 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 2059 words

HEADLINE: Voting Scared;
Americans Are Sadder and Wiser, But Not Apathetic

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SCHMALZ

 BODY:
THERE was a time when Americans found Presidential elections exhilarating -- bands and bumper-stickers, good guys and bad guys, visions for a brighter tomorrow that had the aura of not just hope but certainty.
But not in 1992. A year of traveling the nation chatting with a thousand voters -- in malls and front yards, in bowling alleys and libraries -- leaves the bland taste of malaise. If the public mood were summed up in a color, it would be gray. People are at once scared and resigned -- scared that the economy has irreparable flaws; scared that the country is adrift; resigned to a visceral feeling that the next President, even if he is their own candidate, will not be able to do much about it. 
 "I feel like we're spinning our wheels," said Elizabeth Hammer, a 30-year-old data processor in St. Louis. "The country isn't going anywhere. I'm not sure that any of the candidates can change that."
Yet remarkable in this campaign is that the malaise has not translated into apathy. Far from it. Even as they voice the lowest of expectations for the next President, Americans, in record numbers in many places, are registering to vote. It is one of the many contradictions in this year when voters sense that the rules of the political game are in flux but can't figure out exactly what they want. They like Ross Perot because he is not a politician, then express reservations about his lack of political experience. They clamor for straight talk, then hover threateningly over every remark about tax increases. They want to throw out the bums throughout the country; they want their own bum kept in.
"You get the feeling things could change. But to what?" asked Angela Hines, a 42-year-old librarian in Albuquerque, N.M. "It's one thing to know something's broke. It's something else to figure out how to fix it."
 
Indecision, Indecision
 Ms. Hines says she has changed since the election season began in February. For one thing, like many other voters around the country, she has switched candidates -- in her case, moving to Gov. Bill Clinton after abandoning President Bush and pausing briefly in between to consider Mr. Perot.
But like many voters, she has changed in other ways, too. It is a sadder but wiser electorate that will enter the booths on Tuesday. In the spring, no interview was complete without cracks about Gennifer Flowers. But that ended abruptly with the Los Angeles riots in April. Suddenly, it all became very serious.
Increasingly, people began to talk about the need for change -- not just in the economy but in health care, the environment, cities. They seemed to realize there would be no quick fixes. And as Mr. Perot gained visibility, it seemed to sink in that all this was going to cost them money, that tax increases were inevitable -- though for whom is another matter.
If Mr. Perot has brought home reality, he has also brought home responsibility. This is your country, he tells voters; fix it. With that has come the rush to voter registration.
But implicit in the Perot comments is that voters are responsible as well for the country's current state. And therein lies one source of uneasiness. The voters toying with the ouster of an incumbent President are the very voters who put him in office in the first place. To repudiate Mr. Bush is to repudiate their own judgment.
Many people who express dissatisfaction with the President nonetheless seem to be groping for reasons to vote for him again, angry at him and at themselves when they don't come up with any.
"I don't understand what happened to him," said Harold Mixner, 52, a Republican in Sherman Oaks, Calif. "I want to shake him."
 
Motivator: the Economy
 This campaign began with the economy and ends with it. But while the theme "the economy" has remained constant, its definition has changed. In February, it meant jobs. By October, it meant jobs and deficit. Ross Perot has sold his message well, burrowing into the voter conscience.
"Perot's right: We have to worry about the future," Nancy Moya, 35, who works in the business department of an Albuquerque television station, said as her lunchmates on Route 66 nodded. "I have a couple of children. It's not fair that we're leaving this for our kids to clean up."
But always, the conversation comes back to jobs.
"I'm making half of what I made two years ago," said Brian Stead, who was lugging plants from one shop to another at the Galleria, a mall in St. Louis, where he fills in at various stores part-time. "You can't get loans to set up your own place. I don't have health insurance. Everything is so tight."
Even people not directly hit hard by the economy are worried. Steady as a drumbeat, they hear bad economic news on television and have family members in a bind.
"My God son is a lawyer and can't get work. A lawyer! Nobody's taking on new people," said Helen Thayer in Miami Beach, Fla. "He's got a family. People are hurting."
To tour the country is to be stunned by the pockets of Rust Belt devastation and the level of blue-collar anger. Entire towns are gone -- plants, main streets, schools. What the candidates seem not to be connecting with is that a way of life and self-respect are disappearing.
"Honest to God, I think the working man gets it between the eyes no matter which way he turns," said David Poole, 38, who for 17 years has worked at G.M.'s Willow Run plant in Michigan, which is scheduled to close. "Nobody cares."
The workers feel betrayed by both parties. They don't want retraining. They don't want to relocate. They want their old lives back. Mr. Perot is the logical heir to the vote they gave Jerry Brown in the primaries. But they seem torn between Mr. Perot and the man they believe will win, Mr. Clinton.
"They're going to have a revolution in this country one day," said Jerry Clifton, 44, vice president of U.A.W. Local 1776 in Ypsilanti, Mich. "People have pride. They want jobs."
 
The Mighty Suburbs
 Forty percent of the country's registered voters live in the suburbs, and it is there where many analysts believe the election will be won and lost. Nothing is magical about the 'burbs, of course. The economic worries of suburbanites are much the same as everyone else's. But the suburbs are the land of families, and with that come worries about education and long-range concerns about problems like the environment. The Bill Clinton-Al Gore message seems to be playing well in the land of vast numbers of middle-income earners likely to vote.
"The problems are so great," said Amy Haskins, 35, picking up her daughter, Jessica, 4, at a day-care center outside Akron, Ohio. "Bush blocked family leave-time. He's done nothing for education."
It is a paradox that the family-values theme of the Republican National Convention seems to have failed to play well in the land of the family, the suburbs. People are more concerned about other matters, like the economy. And they are upset by the convention's attacks on non-traditional families, which seemed to make them fearful that they themselves would be perceived as bigoted if they bought into the presentation.
"I think the country needs to be brought together, not driven apart," said Hank Warren, 36, a data processor, walking with his son, Jamie, in Richmond, Heights, Mo. Mr. Warren, who voted Republican in 1988 and is leaning Democratic this year, then paused and said of the convention, "It was so nasty."
 
The Interest Groups
 Mr. Perot's proposed 50-cent-a-gallon gas tax is, of course, an anathema in the land of the two- and three-car family. Occasionally, but only occasionally, a brave soul said he would pay the tax, but only if -- as Mark Gleason, a lawyer just outside Washington, Iowa, put it -- "it was dedicated to the deficit, guaranteed, no loopholes."
At least a few suburbanites were willing to think about the gas tax. But most elderly people, on the other hand, wouldn't even talk about any tax on social-security benefits.
"Maybe it would be all right, if the income level were high enough," Edgar Jones, 74, announced in Christy's Barber Shop in Newton, Iowa. Mouths dropped open. Barbers stopped barbering.
"No, that's NOT all right!" shot back Wilber Birkenholtz, 63. "I earned it. I should get it. My God, we earned it!"
Mr. Birkenholtz spoke in the Midwest, where voter ambivalence seems as high as in the rest of the country despite all the attention lavished by the candidates and news organizations on this politically pivotal region.
But that is not to say the country is without its pockets of downright enthusiasm. After 12 years of Republican rule, liberal areas like San Francisco and New York's Upper West Side and Greenwich Village can practically taste a Clinton Victory. Some residents predict there will literally be dancing in the streets if Mr. Clinton wins.
San Francisco officials estimate that 95 percent of eligible voters are registered, in large part because of intensive voter-registration drives in gay neighborhoods rattled by the gay-bashing in speeches at the Republican convention.
And the religious right is energized as well, turning out its faithful by taking to radio airwaves to spread the word that Mr. Clinton and Mr. Perot support a woman's right to an abortion.
"I was leaning toward Perot," said Brian Terrell, 24, a duct cleaner, who stood on a ladder painting the side of his house in Grand Rapids, Mich. "But I heard he supported abortion. Now I'll stay with Bush."
But black voters, who might be expected to rally to a Democratic Presidential candidate, are of a mixed mind. Most of those who vote will go for Mr. Clinton. But many say they are inclined to stay home, slighted by Mr. Clinton's reluctance to court them aggressively out of fear of alienating the mainstream voter -- that is, the all-important white suburbanite.
"He's assuming that because we're tired of Bush, we're going to vote for him," said Linda Harris, 35, a store clerk in the primarily black city of Gary, Ind. She plans to vote for Mr. Clinton, but added, "A lot of folks around here say they're not going to vote."
 
Big Turnout, Big Cynicism
 Over all, throughout the country, voter turnout is expected to exceed that of four years ago -- an ominous sign for Mr. Bush since Democrats are outpacing Republicans in voter registrations.
But people's enthusiasm for their candidates does not seem much greater than that of the people of Gary. While the electorate has become sadder and wiser, it has also become jaundiced. Cynicism pervades. Nothing seems genuine.
People see through the photo-ops now in a way they didn't in the years of Ronald Reagan -- a name, by the way, rarely raised by voters in the interviews. Negative campaigning, once the sure-fire way to get ahead, has stirred deep resentment in this campaign, regardless of whether it has helped Mr. Bush in its closing days.
"I was in World War II. Who cares? That was 45 years ago," Leslie Mueller, 75, said after Mr. Bush challenged Mr. Clinton's antiwar activities in the late 1960's. "Who cares what Clinton did 20 years ago as a young man? Let's talk about the homeless and unemployment, Mr. President. What are you going to do about those?" If anything, Mr. Perot, who set out to be the antidote to cynicism, only fueled it more with his abrupt withdrawal in mid-race. And since Mr. Bush reneged on his "read my lips" pledge of 1988 not to raise taxes, voters seem to assume politicians are lying.
"I'm disgusted with all politicians," said Ron Purkhiser, 50, a welder in Akron. "They say one thing, then they go ahead and do the opposite. 'Read my lips: No new taxes.' Yeah, right."
 
None-of-the-Above Syndrome
 In many ways the election is cruel. It has highlighted the country's problems, persuaded voters action must be taken, then left them with candidates they don't think are up to the job.
For truth be told, much of America just doesn't like its three candidates for President. Over and over, the comments are the same: Mr. Bush is out of touch; Mr. Clinton is slick; Mr. Perot is flaky.
Nick Niederlander, 45, the librarian in Richmond Heights, Mo., is voting for Bill Clinton. But in this Presidential election year, he could have been just about any voter talking about the man he will cast his ballot for on Tuesday.
"I want to like him," he said, "more than I like him."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Feeling the Squeeze" shows median family income from '88 to '91 (Sources: Census Bureau; Bureau of Labor Statistics); "Caught Up in a Race" shows response to a poll describing the Presidential election of '84, '88 and '92 as interesting; "Handicapping the Future" shows response to poll on whether future generation of Americans would be better or worse off or the same; "Predicting Taxes" shows response to a poll on whether it's necessary to raise taxes to reduce the Federal budget deficit; "Judging Trustworthiness" show response to a poll on which candidated can be trusted to handle all problems facing a President

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; REGISTRATION OF VOTERS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); BOWLING CENTERS (56%); RIOTS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMALZ, JEFFREY BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



22 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
Malcolm X, in the Eyes Of Different Beholders

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
"MY whole life has been a chronology of changes," Malcolm X told Alex Haley, his biographer, the year before he was shot to death on Feb. 21, 1965, in the Audubon Ballroom in New York City. His life with its wholesale leaps of faith and thought has led to continual resurrections and numerous reincarnations as the ideological brawl for his legacy continues.
In his 39 years , Malcolm was constantly evolving, complicating the claims of those who seek to be his spiritual heirs and the interpreters of his philosophy. That he was many things to many people is reflected in his range of admirers, who include rap artists like Public Enemy, Justice Clarence Thomas of the Supreme Court, and the filmmaker Spike Lee. Mr. Lee will reveal his version of the black nationalist's life when his already controversial film "Malcolm X" opens this month. 
 Malcolm X was variously a drug dealer and thief and an Islamic family man whose ascetic life forbade drugs and alcohol. As the spokesman for the Black Muslims, he preached the moral inferiority of whites, self defense and black separation from America's political and social mainstream. He later parted with the Black Muslims, repudiated racism and acknowledged that if racism was eradicated, this could be a country where people could lead decent lives.
The question for some scholars is whether the Malcolm X resurrected by black youth hungry for a symbol of their inchoate rage or the Malcolm X resurrected by the star-starved media represents the true Malcolm X. Because he did not leave an extensive body of work, press for a specific political agenda or build a lasting organization, his legacy has been his own persona, open for interpretation. As a result, while praised for his intelligence and bravery, Malcolm X has been criticized for casting the quest for equality as one for black manhood, and for being racist.
"The legacy is a highly contentious one, no doubt about it," said Cornel West, professor of religion at Princeton University and the director of the Afro-American Studies Department. "He has endured because the saliency and visibility of the rage he articulated exists more than before."
Julius Lester, professor of Judaic and Near Eastern Studies at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, has called Malcolm X's legacy a complex and disturbing one that "includes black racism, anti-Semitism and a belief in the inferiority of women." Mr. Lester said he saw the nationalist's extremism as comforting to hopeless black youth.
"There is something in the metaphor of the X that has a romance to it that gives them an identity," Mr. Lester said. "Who Malcolm was that led him to the Nation of Islam -- his despair -- also mirrors their condition. It is a clarity that is illusory. What he left, pretty much, was warmed-over black nationalism. What makes all the difference in the world was that he was assassinated. It made him a deity."
 
Articulated Rage
 Other scholars, and certainly Malcolm X's admirers, reject that assessment. They say Malcolm X challenged blacks not merely to integrate America, but also to change it and to redefine how they saw themselves. He challenged all Americans to come to terms with a nation that preached liberty on one hand yet treated its darker citizens with violence and hatred on the other, they say. Malcolm X also openly articulated an anger among blacks: many had suffocated while hoping that things would change or despairing that they ever would.
"He taught black people what to think about themselves as an African people, culturally and politically," said James H. Cone, a theology professor at Union Theological Seminary who is the author of "Martin and Malcolm and America: A Dream or Nightmare?" "Malcolm began to make a resurgence in the 80's, when Ronald Reagan became President and Malcolm's message about America being a nightmare became symbolized in Ronald Reagan.
"Probably the rap artists come closest to articulating the rage, although they don't always understand the complexity," he said. "People who see the early part of his life as a black nationalist don't always realize the changes. And those who see the changes don't recognize the continuity."
Manning Marable, a professor of history and political science at the University of Colorado at Boulder who is completing a Malcolm X biography, said the renewed interest in the man is symptomatic.
"It's a commentary on black leaders today," Mr. Marable said. "It also speaks to the growing marginality of young African-Americans.
"What young people have done is instinctively gone back into history to elevate a figure who seems to capture the militancy, fiery rhetoric and spiritual commitment which they do desperately desire today."
Others fear that the man and his message will be trivialized by an indiscriminate popular culture.
"Malcolm X has long been popular among black people," said Amiri Baraka, the poet who is a professor of African Studies at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. "What we have now is white people exploiting the image for their own gain. Seeing young people wearing the X- baseball caps is one thing, but seeing Malcolm X in Bloomingdale's boutique is another matter."
Mr. Baraka is among the naysayers who have attacked Spike Lee's film, afraid that it dwells too much on the early Malcolm -- Detroit Red -- who exploited women sexually, straightened his hair and ran numbers. Despite the protests of Mr. Baraka and others, the icon-making machine churns, producing books, magazine articles, baseball caps, shirts and rap records.
Mr. West agreed Malcolm X's latest incarnation is partly a market phenomenon, but he said it also reflects a real rage among the young.
Too often, scholars say, the gains of the civil rights era have bypassed the poor, and violence has been the result. South Central Los Angeles first burned on Aug. 11, 1965, only five days after Congress passed a major voting rights law that would register thousands of disenfranchised black Southerners. Just months ago, South Central Los Angeles ignited again, fueled by much of the same despair and fury. Since 1967, according to the Census Bureau, the proportion of black families living at the lowest income level grew by 50 percent.
Many black intellectuals say few black leaders today can match Malcolm X's ability to reach those at the bottom. His contemporary, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., while revered by many black people, was a child of the middle class whose measured appeals to white morality and whose integrationist blueprint for change could only go so far, they say. What many young people are seeking in Malcolm X is some reflection of themselves and their own experience as quintessential outsiders. So Malcolm X perseveres as a paradigm for the black underclass, capable of transcending economic frustrations and societal dislocations.
Listen to Omar Jerome, a 17-year-old New Yorker who dropped out of school and works in the City Volunteer Corps as he seeks his general equivalency degree.
"Malcolm X is like every black man," Mr. Jerome said. "He's been through things that every black person has been through -- drugs, poverty, going to jail. We love him because he rose above it all and became a leader."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Malcolm X urging his listeners to respect women at a rally in New York in 1961. (Eve Arnold/Magnum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUSLIM AMERICANS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FILM (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); RAP MUSIC (69%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); 

PERSON: MALCOLM X (1925-65); LEE, FELICIA R CLARENCE THOMAS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



23 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
New York Tests a Model: Public Works in Private Hands

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
WHAT do Central Park, the Museum of Natural History, the Triborough Bridge, LaGuardia Airport, the Croton Reservoir and Donald J. Trump's proposed Riverside South project have in common? All were initiated during economic panics or recessions.
What is the singular difference between Riverside South and the rest? They were built with government in a dominant role; Mr. Trump's proposal for the largest tract of developable land in Manhattan represents the privatization of public works to an unparalleled degree. Not only did he agree to create a 21-acre public park and to reserve at least 12 percent of the proposed housing for subsidized apartments, but he also pledged $12 million toward the renovation of two nearby subway stations. 
 But can -- or should -- that model be duplicated as a national priority? In the Presidential campaign, Gov. Bill Clinton, in particular, has invoked New Deal and earlier government investment programs to generate jobs. "To build a 21st century economy," Mr. Clinton says, "America must revive a 19th century habit." But with cities strapped for cash and credit and with their construction budgets largely reserved for overdue repairs, they are understandably inclined to encourage private developers to engage in deficit financing to the degree that local government no longer can. In the bargaining over incentives for developers and concessions for the public, one immediate consequence may well be more mega-projects being privately built. But "project" is not only a noun. The verb, to project, suggests the future. And one consequence of a repeated tactical response to economic development could be government abdication of strategic planning.
"The private sector is responding to infrastructure needs in the absence of government capacity," said Richard A. Kahan, an urban planner who is the chairman of Riverside South and engineered a compromise between the developer and civic groups. "It is the wrong context in which to be negotiating public infrastructure. It's also an excuse not to have a strategic approach."
Arguably, though, government's strategy in this case was to palm off the costs of a park, subway improvements and subsidized housing onto Mr. Trump and other private developers. Riverside South, a proposed $3 billion, 56-acre commercial and residential development on derelict railroad yards on the Upper West Side, was approved unanimously last week by the New York City Planning Commission. If built as planned, it would be the largest single private development in the city's history. The scope would be unique, but not the concept. Predecessors, several times removed, to Mr. Trump's own bold vision have tried it and succeeded. Defying convention and accused of folly, the Rockefellers built a mammoth office center in midtown Manhattan in the Depression. Another Rockefeller vision, the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, revitalized the West Side just east of the Trump tract. And when the city was struggling to extricate itself from the depths of its 1970's fiscal crisis, Mr. Trump himself stepped in and, with a major assist from government -- in contrast with the Rockefeller Center projects -- transformed the faded Commodore Hotel on East 42d Street into a glittering Grand Hyatt that began a revival of the area around Grand Central Terminal.
In the 1980's, the city began spending on construction again -- investing largely in neglected repairs to roads and bridges or in less visible though vast projects like a new water tunnel and a sewage treatment plant. The state's Urban Development Corporation built a new convention center on the West Side and the city invested heavily in renovating low-income housing after the Federal government vacated the field. But a public-private partnership to revitalize West 42d Street was delayed by the recession. And the most ambitious of all public works projects -- the roughly 100-acre Westway development along the Hudson River -- suffered an excruciating death from economic, environmental, legal and political causes.
"I sometimes wonder whether our people, so obsessed with the seamy interior of Manhattan, deserve the Hudson," mused Robert Moses, whose own excesses in bulldozer diplomacy all but transformed the term public works into an oxymoron.
As originally proposed, Mr. Trump's blueprint called for the world's tallest building -- one that would cast a shadow on New Jersey. Concessions to politics and economics shrunk the tower. But the project's implications go well beyond New York in the debate over government's role in reviving the economy.
The last hurdle for Riverside South is the City Council, which is likely to one-up Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, and the City Planning Commission by extracting even more concessions for subway station improvements, affordable housing and park maintenance.
Mr. Trump's creditors have let him shepherd the project through the tortuous government approval process, after which he might divide the site among several developers.
"The property is worth more with the approvals than without," said Henry J. Stern, the president of Citizens Union, the nonpartisan civic group. "The question is, though, will it ever be built?"
Another question is whether government, by default or by design, is ceding the planning process to a constructive alliance of developers and civic groups and whether public functions like building affordable housing, parks and subway stations may become dependent on the dividends of massive private investment. As Riverside South inches through the approval process, another version of economic development will be presented Tuesday to New York State voters: an $800 million bond issue that would reap political profits for the state officials who choose the projects to be underwritten as it generates jobs. In their own way, the two different approaches raise still another question, one represented by Mr. Moses's favorite credo: "If the ends don't justify the means, what does?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald J. Trump's proposed $3-billion, 56-acre commercial and residential development project, called Riverside South, would be built on derelict railroad yards, above, on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. It would be the largest single private development in the city's history. Below, a model of the project. (Skyviews; Wolfgang Hoyt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: RIVERSIDE SOUTH (79%); NEW YORK CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: RIVERSIDE SOUTH (79%); NEW YORK CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC WORKS; RIVERSIDE SOUTH PROJECT (NYC) INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); HISTORY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RECESSION (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); CITIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD J; ROBERTS, SAM DONALD TRUMP (92%); BILL CLINTON (71%); JULIA ROBERTS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



24 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Ideology Wanes for Europe, Leaving Politicians Adrift

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
EUROPE, disoriented by lingering recession and the end of its division into rival blocs, is adrift in an ideological void that is threatening the future of traditional parties in several countries and fueling the political emergence of extremist groups.
Indeed, the dearth of ideas is such that the American Presidential race looks like an exciting clash of ideologues compared with the mishmash that passes for political debate in Europe. Where the French used to mock Americans gently for having scant sense of left and right, now it is Europe's political center that seems drably all-encompassing. 
 "It is far easier to distinguish the views of Bush and Clinton on health, education, taxes and the role of the state than it is to tell the difference between the policies of our Socialist administration and a right-wing government," said Olivier Duhamel, a sociologist. "It's depressing."
France's Socialists, after a brief experiment with nationalizing industry between 1981 and 1983, have paid heavily for becoming the standard-bearers of an economic rigor once associated with the right. They have transformed France into a low-inflation country with a credible currency -- where the national habit of stashing gold under the mattress no longer seems justified -- but they have also allowed unemployment to soar and the gap between rich and poor to widen. As a result, said Marie-Noelle Lienemann, a Socialist who is Minister of Housing, "we have run out of convictions, run out of ideas, and we seem to have nothing new to offer."
President Francois Mitterrand's party, which is in a grim mood about parliamentary elections scheduled for next March, is not alone. Throughout the Continent, traditional parties are floundering to find new ideas that can galvanize people and new principles to distinguish them in a world where the clash of Soviet Communism and Western democracy no longer provides clear lines for their positions.
 
Frustrations Feed the Right
 Their attempt, however, has so far been largely unsuccessful. In Italy, the Christian Democrats, deprived of a formidable Communist opposition and paying for years of corrupt government, are losing ground rapidly to the separatist northern Lega movement. The Lega attacks all traditional parties as thieves and its ideologue, Gianfranco Miglio, last month described Hitler's mistakes as "errors of style." Yet recently it won 33.9 percent of the vote in provincial elections in Mantova and polls show it is supported by over 40 percent of voters in many northern cities.
In Germany, frustration with both the governing Christian Democrats and the main opposition, the Social Democrats, is running high as the nation grapples with the unexpectedly high costs of reunification and a flood of eastern European immigrants. The rightist Republicans have gained strongly, just as the National Front has made headway in France.
"This is a dangerous situation because people are fed up with politics generally," said Otto Schiely, a Social Democratic member of Germany's Parliament. "We, in the big parties, seem unable to provide people with a vision, a perspective, an idea that can inspire them. So at a time of stress, people look for quick solutions and scapegoats and that is what the extremist parties offer."
Several factors appear to have contributed to the vacuum of ideas and blurring of party identities.
The most basic is the implosion of the Soviet bloc. Communism, however discredited, offered an alternative model as well as a threat. Now, traditional parties have apparently been left with the uncomfortable feeling that all they can do is fine-tune an accepted democratic and free-market model, an activity that neither thrills nor inspires voters.
 
Out of Steam
 At the same time, the bolder experiments of both left and right appear to have run out of steam. The left's great postwar push to build the welfare state is essentially a completed task in Western Europe, and the great 1980's wave of enthusiasm for unleashing a more unbridled capitalist spirit has petered out.
The plight of Britain's Conservative Prime Minister, John Major, whose apparent lack of coherence or conviction in economic policy has been conspicuous recently, and the economic troubles of the United States have buttressed a feeling that, in the end, a balance between state and private enterprise offers the best hope for vigorous societies that avoid extremes of inequality and hardship.
The problem, however, is that this central political ground is not only unexciting; it is occupied by parties on both the moderate left and the moderate right. "We want to be efficient but also caring -- a direction which, it's true, the Social Democrats share," said Thomas Jansen, general secretary of the European People's Party, a movement of Christian Democratic parties.
Faced with this blurred center, at a time of recession and hardship, people increasingly turn to alternative movements in disgust. "People wonder if parties have anything to say to them," said Pierre Avril, a French political scientist. "We've tried everything and returned to the middle. Socialism has failed for the left, Reaganite liberalism for the right. So what's left, especially for people who are out of work and angry?"
There are some ideas floating around among the old parties, of course. Mrs. Lienemann, the French Housing Minister, sees socialist and ecological forces proposing what she calls "a new culture" -- perhaps named "Ecosocialism" -- that might, she believes, work for innovations like a 32-hour workweek, more democracy at the workplace, and "a greater stress on quality than quantity in everyday life." In Germany too, the Greens and Social Democrats are looking at ways to cooperate.
Others believe that left and right in Europe do remain fundamentally different on questions like immigration, women's rights, the role of the state and military questions. The essential thing, they argue, is to redefine the identities of left and right as rivals.
There is an opposite temptation, however. In France, some talk of a great movement of the center made up of moderates in both the Socialist and right-wing parties. And some argue that a grand coalition of Christian Democrats and Social Democrats is necessary in Germany to confront the nation's crisis.
While traditional parties work on these problems, the danger of returning political demons remains strong. In the worst case, extremist parties will thrive and in more fragile countries like Italy, a fracturing of the nation may be possible. In a less extreme scenario, traditional parties will be forced, for example, to take on anti-immigrant oratory to hold their appeal.
Meanwhile, having long scoffed at the quality of American political debate, there is suddenly a feeling that Europe needs new ideas from America. "Clinton is looked at with such hope because he seems to have something new to propose at a time when we do not," said Mr. Avril, the political scientist.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Life on the right: Extremists like Jean-Marie Le Pen, leader of the National Front, are making political gains in France. (Tschaen/Sipa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); TRENDS (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%); EDUCATION FUNDING (54%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER BILL CLINTON (58%); JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



25 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Behind Vietnam's Candor: A Fear of Being Isolated

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A Vietnamese-speaking Russian named Irina Zisman is now touring the United States to the applause of Vietnamese-Americans and the consternation of Hanoi. Ms. Zisman recently began a prime-time evening broadcast on Radio Moscow that beams pro-democracy messages to Vietnam through the same powerful Siberian transmitters that once relayed programs on the glories of Communism.
Hanoi's stunned officials have branded the broadcasts subversive, but their protests to Moscow have been unavailing. For them, the experience has been a painful illustration of how the world has changed; it also offers a clue to Hanoi's motives in pledging, after 20 years of obfuscation, to finally reveal what it knows about Americans unaccounted for in Indochina since the war. 
 Without weakening in any way its absolute commitment to Communism, Administration officials say, Vietnam is signaling that it realizes there may never be a better chance to win American diplomatic recognition and unlock international economic assistance that Washington has blocked. Withholding information is no longer a workable policy for Vietnam, which remains disastrously underdeveloped by Asian standards and is now running into trouble with both Moscow and Beijing.
There is also some added reason to move fast. For years the Bush Administration has told Vietnam it could obtain normal relations with the United States in return for cooperation in ending the Cambodian civil war and better accounting for American servicemen missing in Indochina. Now, tantalizingly close to the end of that road, Hanoi cannot be sure that a new Congress or perhaps a Democratic Administration will not revise the road map by raising additional issues of political pluralism and human rights. Such a course is advocated by Vietnamese-American organizations and some politicians in both major parties. And if Bill Clinton wins the Presidency it is far from certain that recognizing Vietnam would get high priority in any event.
Internationally, Vietnam has not only lost its political, economic and military lifelines to the former Soviet bloc, but it has also been thrown into renewed confrontation with China, with the latest friction points being conflicting claims to offshore islands in the South China Sea and the activities of smugglers. "Vietnam has become totally isolated strategically," said Robert S. Ross, an assistant professor of political science at Boston College who has recently returned from five months in China. "The Chinese are now trying to extract Vietnamese humility in many ways."
"It was the Soviets who basically allowed the Vietnamese to defy China," said Mr. Ross, referring to the period in the 1970's when Leonid I. Brezhnev supported Vietnam even at the expense of Soviet-Chinese relations. Mikhail S. Gorbachev reversed the policy, and after the Chinese-Soviet summit meeting in 1989 Vietnam was cut adrift. "It had little alternative but to accommodate itself to Chinese authority," Mr. Ross said.
 
Pressure From U.S. Companies
 Dependence on China did not contribute much to Vietnam's economic development beyond some increased trade, however, and now Bush Administration officials are being pressed by American oil companies and other industries eager to do business with Vietnam. Administration analysts think Hanoi would be receptive, and say they don't believe Hanoi wants to trade dependence on China for dominance by Japan in its search for economic partners. Such a message was apparently transmitted between the lines in recent talks between Vietnam's leaders and an American delegation led by President Bush's special envoy, John W. Vessey Jr.
"There is concern about both Japan and China throughout Southeast Asia," said Evelyn Colbert, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for the region. But she said some analysts overestimate how much the fear of China is a motive for Vietnam's developing openness with the United States. She said the Vietnamese "woke up and saw that their economic system wasn't functioning" and may simply have come to realize that to improve their economy they would have to change their relationship with the United States. And that, of course, would have to start with a certain amount of candor about the missing servicemen.
"I like to think that Vietnam's cooperation has something to do with those of us who in one form or another have been telling them over and over and over again, you've got to do something about this issue if you want to get normalization," said Ms. Colbert. "They were told by many people, including their friends, that this demand may be unreasonable, but you have this bad public image because of it."
John McAuliff, executive director of the U.S.-Indochina Reconciliation Project, an organization that has been forging private links to Vietnam, says the Bush Administration has also shown a change of approach, "sending a signal to Vietnam that they are serious about solving the problem without recrimination." In addition, the Senate Select Committee on P.O.W.-M.I.A. Affairs and the Pentagon played a part by narrowing the number of cases on which the Vietnamese could reasonably be expected to provide information.
"This is something the Vietnamese can respond to," Mr. McAuliff said, but he added that Washington must seize the moment too. "We would hope that once the election is over," he said, "whoever is elected could use the interregnum period for responding appropriately to the Vietnamese, to the legitimate pressures from American business and to pressure from our allies to cease using trade and the lending organizations as clubs to hit the Vietnamese for political reasons."

GRAPHIC: Photo: American soldiers searching a week ago for remains of two American pilots near the wreckage of an F-4 fighter that crashed in 1965 in northern Vietnam. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (97%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); VIETNAM (91%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); PACIFIC OCEAN (67%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%); 

COMPANY: A BETTER CHANCE (56%); A BETTER CHANCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: A BETTER CHANCE (56%); A BETTER CHANCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (97%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); VIETNAM (91%); CAMBODIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); PACIFIC OCEAN (67%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM; VIETNAM WAR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); CIVIL WAR (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); ISLANDS & REEFS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ASIAN AMERICANS (58%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



26 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
New Heights in Political Low Blows

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

 BODY:
TELEVISION shows win Emmys, plays receive Tonys and songs get Grammys. Should political ads get Meanies?
Compared to the 1988 Presidential campaign, which gave us such memorable images as Willie Horton, Boston Harbor oozing slime and Michael Dukakis driving a tank, the 1992 race has been something of a disappointment. To be sure, the Bush campaign this weekend is running a commercial that depicts Arkansas as a spooky wasteland, like a scene out of "Pet Sematary." But the old trick of making the opponent's state look like the underworld isn't going to win any prizes for originality. 
 Fortunately for connoisseurs of the attack ad, though, a great deal of creative savagery is to be found this year in the "down ticket" races. In Congressional and Senate campaigns from North Carolina to Washington State, candidates have been enthusiastically accusing one another of robbing the taxpayers blind, cheating innocent children and, yes, even helping Teddy Kennedy.
The envelope, please.
 
Best Put-Down of an Historic Achievement: This goes to Michael DeWine, a former Republican Congressman, who is challenging the former astronaut and current Senator from Ohio, John Glenn.
In an ad titled "Astro," the narrator notes that Mr. Glenn, a Democrat, owns an expensive home on a golf course (sound of a club swinging), flies his personal airplane to Vail (sound of a propeller plane taking off) and sails a 53-foot yacht (sound of seagulls and a fog horn.) Then, in an ominous tone, the narrator says that Mr. Glenn still owes $3 million from his 1984 Presidential campaign. Here, a figure of a toy astronaut, modeled closely on the Energizer bunny, bursts through the screen banging a drum. "John Glenn," the narrator says as the astronaut bangs away. "He just keeps owing and owing and owing . . . "
In response, Glenn's ad notes that by Federal law, Mr. Glenn is forbidden from paying the campaign debt with his own money. "So what DeWine is asking Glenn to do is against the law," the narrator intones, "not an unusual request from DeWine, a former Congressman who saw nothing wrong with bouncing thousands of dollars of bad checks at the House bank."

Most Brazen Exploitation of a Mistake: New York's Republican Senator, Alfonse M. D'Amato.
Flustered by heckling from Mr. D'Amato's supporters, his opponent, Bob Abrams, called the Senator a "fascist." Mr. Abrams, the state's Democratic Attorney General, later apologized. But Mr. D'Amato and his ad team had gone right for the archival footage and put together a television ad featuring Mussolini himself.
"There is simply no excuse for Bob Abrams's pandering to religious and ethnic fears and hatreds," the narrator says, while the Italian dictator waves his arms on the screen.

For Putting Women and Children First: Representative Newt Gingrich, and his opponent in Georgia's Sixth Congressional District, Tony Center, tie for this award.
Admittedly, Mr. Gingrich, a seven-term Republican, had the edge for a while when he began broadcasting television commercials that accused Mr. Center, a Democrat and a malpractice attorney, of trying to starve two young children.
"Center actually sued to strip a 4-year-old and a 1-year-old of their child support to pay his own legal fee," the ad says. "He even claimed his fee mattered more than the children's food, medicine and shelter."
But Mr. Center evened the score with a radio ad:
"Newt's running an ad that claims Tony Center thought his legal fees mattered more than children's food," the ad says. "C'mon, look who's talking. It was Newt Gingrich who delivered divorce papers to his wife the day after her cancer operation."

Most Thoughtful Get-Well Wishes: This one goes to Lauch (pronounced LOCK) Faircloth, who is running against Senator Terry Sanford, the 75-year-old Democrat of North Carolina.
After Mr. Sanford went into the hospital to have a heart valve replaced, Mr. Faircloth, a Democrat-recently-turned-Republican, broadcast ads wishing him "a complete recovery" and, in the process, of course, reminding voters of the Senator's ill health.
More recently, Mr. Faircloth has been airing commercials that accuse Mr. Sanford of sanctioning the worst kind of government spending -- that which benefits liberal states like Massachusetts. "Terry Sanford," one ad says, "even voted to spend a billion dollars on Ted Kennedy's Boston Harbor Tunnel!"

For the Kind of Trick Photography Ross Perot Warned You About: To Patty Murray, a Democratic state senator and candidate for U.S. Senate in Washington State.
Three weeks ago, Ms. Murray's opponent, Rod Chandler, a Republican Congressman, began broadcasting an ad that accused her of supporting policies that would cost the state more than 120,000 jobs. "Patty Murray on jobs?" the ad concluded. "Risky."
The figures in the ad may have been exaggerated, but polls showed it was working. To get even, the Murray campaign sent a crew to get film of Mr. Chandler. A cameraman approached Mr. Chandler after a campaign stop and asked if he would pose shaking a voter's hand. The Congressman, not knowing how the cameraman was employed, obliged. Then, using computer video technology, the Murray campaign replaced the voter with a sackful of money.
"What's Rod Chandler done to help Washington's economy?" the narrator of the ad asks as Mr. Chandler reaches for the bag of money. "While job loss rose 38 percent, Rod Chandler was paid 800 grand and passed only one bill in 10 years. How's Rod Chandler done? Good for him; bad for us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An ad by Senator John Glenn's opponent, Michael DeWine: the ex-astronaut just "keeps owing and owing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ADVERTISING LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (79%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (79%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GOLF (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH JOHN HERSCHEL GLENN JR (68%); MICHAEL STANLEY DUKAKIS (58%); MICHAEL DEWINE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



27 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Democrats -- As Presidential Race Nears End, the Attacks Continue;
Clinton Charges Bush Appeals to Prejudice

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BROWN DEER, Wis., Oct. 31

 BODY:
In a last-minute visit to one of the most closely contested regions, Gov. Bill Clinton today challenged President Bush's hold on the South by accusing him of appealing to regional prejudice with a message that changes as the President moves around the country.
"In one state he says I'm too liberal," Mr. Clinton said at a rally in Decatur, Ga. "In another state he says I'm a backwater redneck." 
 Mr. Clinton was helped by several Georgia officials in his attempt to depict Mr. Bush as a man who ridicules residents of the Southeastern states that voted solidly for him in 1988. Mr. Clinton accused his Republican opponent of "trying to perform reverse plastic surgery" by tailoring his portraits of Mr. Clinton and his running mate, Senator Al Gore, to local prejudices.
 
Choosing Regional References
 "Mr. Bush bad-mouths me as being from a small southern state," Mr. Clinton said. "That's only when they're in the North. In the South, when they campaign, they try to convince you that Gore and Clinton are these radical people who have no values like yours and we're going to trample everything Americans hold dear. They're trying to perform reverse plastic surgery in both parts of the country."
He again asserted that Mr. Bush cannot be trusted to salvage the nation's economy, choosing the regional references -- complete with a mention of the Civil War -- that flow so easily when he returns to his native South.
"Now Bush says, 'Trust me to revive the economy.' That's like hiring General Sherman for fire commissioner in Georgia," Mr. Clinton said.
Mr. Bush created the opening for today's riposte by ridiculing Mr. Clinton's state recently as one of the most backward states in the nation, continuing an attack from the the debates, when he termed Arkansas "lowest of the low."
"How dumb does he think we are? " Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia asked.
 
Georgia Is Point of Pride
 Mr. Clinton's aides said they had returned to Georgia today in part because winning the state has become a point of personal pride for the candidate and his strategists. Winning Georgia from George Bush, one Clinton aide said, would be a "straight steal from his base."
The Clinton campaign's biggest fight remains in the North, where he has been spending considerable time working New Jersey, Ohio and Michigan. He is considered to be comfortably ahead in another crucial state, Illinois, and recent polls have shown Mr. Clinton running even with Mr. Bush in crucial states like Texas and Florida.
Dee Dee Myers, the campaign press secretary, said Mr. Clinton had come to Iowa because Republicans had been concentrating some of their negative advertising on the state. And here in Wisconsin, where the President is traveling by train this weekend, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush are engaged in the political equivalent of hand-to-hand combat for votes.
Mr. Clinton shook hands in a freezing rain in East Davenport, Iowa, this afternoon, thanking his supporters for withstanding the weather. "Look at it this way," he said. "You've only got two or three more days of trickle-down economics to wait through."
 
'Won't Get Much Sleep'
 Mr. Clinton returns to Ohio and New Jersey tomorrow before undertaking a grueling, 24-hour final campaign day through nine states on the day before the election. Appearing at a rally in the latest of several visits to Michigan late on Friday night, he told supporters that he felt like an Arkansan who had been transplanted to the state.
"Between now and then, I won't get much sleep," Mr. Clinton said cheerfully today, looking forward to Election Day.
Mr. Clinton will stage his largest campaign finale at the Brendan Byrne Arena in East Rutherford, N.J., on Sunday night with a rally televised by satellite. The rally is scheduled to feature appearances by musical guests and supporters, including Bon Jovi and Michael Bolton and the comedian Dana Carvey.
Mr. Clinton's running mate, Senator Al Gore, offered a glimpse of the Democratic campaign's approach in the final days when he spoke in Georgia and Tennessee this morning.
At a rally at the Chattanooga Airport, Mr. Gore promised that if elected the Democrats would create "a government of national unity" to break the deadlock in Washington and get a program enacted quickly. "We are determined to put partisanship aside," he said.
A senior campaign aide said the Democrats would try to attract Republicans and Perot supporters by talking of a broad political coalition to back their proposals. "The idea is, close the sale by appealing to the voters' better sides and by giving them a clearer idea of what they are buying," said one official.
Strolling through a pancake house in Decatur this morning, Mr. Clinton was asked by one patron whether he was getting nervous about the outcome of Tuesday's voting.
"Little bit," Mr. Clinton responded. "But I got to just keep working. My view is that nervousness is a form of energy that I've got to channel and just keep on going."
If Mr. Clinton's nervousness is demonstrated by his frenetic travel schedule, strategists in his Little Rock, Ark., campaign headquarters have been excising excess energy in other ways. On Friday, the campaign's communications director, George Stephanopoulos, called the "Larry King Live" television program to chide President Bush for his statements on his role in trading arms for hostages in 1986.
Mr. Stephanopoulos read a transcript of his televised remarks to Mr. Clinton in a telephone conversation this morning. The Governor laughed, he said.
And this evening, at a "town meeting" in this Milwaukee suburb that was televised statewide in Wisconsin, Mr. Clinton himself pressed the issue, taking the President to task for his role in the arms-for-hostages swap when Mr. Bush was Vice President.
He rejected Mr. Bush's claim that the new indictment of former defense secretary Caspar Weinberger was based on old information that proved nothing new about the President's participation.
"It's very new, and it's very hot," he said.
"Everywhere Bush goes, he is going to get asked about it," said James Carville, a senior Clinton strategist. "The story is big enough to carry on by itself."
Mr. Clinton asserted today that the Republicans' corresponding attacks on his record in Arkansas and his trustworthiness "don't amount to a hill of beans," adding, "The real thing that matters is not our yesterdays, but our tomorrows."
But in answering a question from a member of the studio audience in Wisconsin today, Mr. Clinton conceded that he should have been more forthcoming earlier this year when he was asked to explain efforts he took to avoid the military draft.
"I must say I was shocked and disoriented, and I didn't do a very good job at answering all of those questions about what I did 23 years ago," Mr. Clinton said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a rally in Decatur, Ga., yesterday, Gov. Bill Clinton challenged President Bush's hold on the South by accusing him of appealing to regional prejudice. "In one state he says I'm too liberal," the Democratic nominee said to a crowd. "In another state he says I'm a backwater redneck." (Lee Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GEORGIA; SOUTHEASTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (97%); GEORGIA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (69%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



28 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: Five U.S. Nuns Are Shot to Death While Trapped by Liberian War

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Five American nuns, trapped in the heaviest siege of Liberia's three-year-old civil war, have been shot to death near their convent on the outskirts of Monrovia, the capital's Roman Catholic Archbishop said yesterday. Four Liberian novices were also reported slain.
L'Osservatore Romano, the semiofficial Vatican newspaper, reported the deaths of the novices, but there was no more information about them from Liberia. 
 The nine slayings were by far the worst atrocity involving missionaries in a war that has left tens of thousands of civilians dead and has virtually destroyed the economy and all semblance of normal life in the West African nation of 2.6 million people.
From Washington to the Vatican, outrage was expressed over the killings, which focused international attention on a little-understood war that pits Charles Taylor, a 44-year-old guerrilla whose rebel forces have seized most of the nation, against two rival militias and a consortium of troops from seven West African nations, which are defending their last stronghold in Monrovia.
Civilians trapped in and around the capital have been caught under a rain of missiles, rockets, mortars and shells said the slain nuns' parish priest, who just returned to the United States from Monrovia. Yesterday, he told of dodging bullets, of house-to-house fighting, of guerrillas as young as 11 years old, of atrocities and murders and of his last glimpse of the nuns, whom he has known for years.
 
Worked in Clinics and Schools
 In Monrovia, Archbishop Michael Francis said the American nuns -- who were in their 50's and 60's, worked in clinics and schools and lived in a convent at Gardnersville, on the eastern edge of the capital -- had been stranded and shot to death in an area overrun by Mr. Taylor's National Patriotic Front of Liberia, which began the latest siege of Monrovia on Oct. 15.
Archbishop Francis did not say the nuns had been slain by rebel guerrillas, but he said "only Taylor's men were in the area" when the killings occurred, apparently in the last few days. He said three were shot in front of their convent and two on a nearby road. Some reports yesterday said the bodies still lay where they had fallen because it was too dangerous to recover them.
"The deaths are confirmed -- it is absolutely certain, but it is too dangerous to identify the source," the Archbishop told Reuters and The Associated Press at his home in Monrovia. "Their services were humanitarian, charitable and a complete commitment to the people of Liberia. They paid the supreme sacrifice as their whole work was a symphony of love."
The Archbishop condemned the killers as "people who want power and wealth and will do everything to gain it, even killing innocent people." And referring to the nuns, all members of the Adorers of the Blood of Christ, sometimes called the Order of the Precious Blood, he said, "To see them brutally murdered, one wonders what is the sense in all this killing."
In Washington, the State Department said the United States was "shocked and appalled" and condemned "this cowardly act." It declared, "The fact that these women had no role in Liberia's civil war and were in the country to work with orphaned children and other victims of the conflict makes the killings all the more repugnant."
The State Department, which has urged Americans to leave and defer travel to Liberia since the latest fighting began, expressed deep concern for the safety of expatriates caught in the fighting and said the deaths underscored the need for a cease-fire and negotiations to end the civil war.
Sister Mildred Gross, mother superior of the Adorers of the Blood of Christ Convent in Ruma, Ill., 30 miles southeast of St. Louis, near the Missouri border, identified the five victims, all from Illinois, as Sister Barbara Ann Muttra, 69, of Springfield; Sister Joel Kolmer, 58, of Waterloo; Sister Joel's cousin, Sister Shirley Kolmer, 61, also of Waterloo; Sister Kathleen McGuire, 54, of Ridgeway, and Sister Agnes Mueller, 62, of Bethalto.
 
'Really Dedicated Women'
 "They were really dedicated women," Sister Mildred said of the victims. "We were 246, now we're 241," she said, referring to the convent's membership in an international order that numbers more than 2,300 nuns, most of them in Europe.
In another interview, the Rev. James C. Hickey, an Irish-born missionary who is the parish priest of the slain nuns at St. Anthony's in Gardnersville, said yesterday that he left Monrovia on Oct. 22 as the fighting grew heavy and had just returned to the Tenafly, N.J., headquarters of his order, the Society of Missionaries to Africa.
Father Hickey said the five nuns lived at a convent about a mile from St. Anthony's Church and had been missing for 10 days amid the raging gun battles that have engulfed Monrovia.
He said he last saw Sister Agnes, a nurse who worked at a church-operated clinic next to St. Anthony's and had been in Liberia about four years, and Sister Shirley, the principal of St. Patrick's High School in Monrovia who had been in Liberia for a decade, at a Mass he celebrated on Oct. 21.
He said Sister Kathleen, a teacher, counselor and assistant to Sister Shirley at St. Patrick's High School, had not appeared that day because she had been sick and stayed in the convent.
 
The Day They Disappeared
 He said Sister Barbara Ann, a nurse who had been in Liberia for eight years and operated a clinic in Klay, 15 miles west of Monrovia, and Sister Joel, who went to Liberia in 1986 and was a teacher and manager of St. Michael's Elementary and High School in Gardnersville, went to his home on Oct. 20 to see him, but he was out attending to refugee work, and they left.
"After they left my house, they went down Barnardsville Road, where they were last seen by some Liberian civilians," he said. "They were in their car. They disappeared that day."
In Liberia, where the battle for Monrovia continued to rage yesterday, a spokesman for Mr. Taylor, John Richardson, denied that rebels had killed the nuns. "I can assure you those nuns were never in our area," he told the BBC.
The statement contradicted one made Friday by Mr. Taylor. In response to mounting concern over the fate of the missing nuns, Mr. Taylor denied that they were prisoners of his forces, but he said he believed they were alive and staying with stranded orphans and other refugees in Chocolate City, an eastern suburb of Monrovia that fell under rebel control 10 days ago.
Under a truce worked out by the United States Embassy, United Nations officials and Mr. Taylor, the rebels sent three buses into Gardnersville and Chocolate City to pick up hundreds of orphans trapped in the fighting. Mr. Taylor said he would brave enemy bombardments and personally try to rescue the nuns, but church officials said the assurances were probably given after news of the killings had reached Mr. Taylor's inland headquarters at Gbarnga.
Like other factions in an often-grisly conflict, guerrilla fighters of the National Patriotic Front of Liberia have been accused of appalling atrocities. Civilians, including missionaries and relief workers, have told of beatings, detentions and other harassment, and hundreds of civilians have been killed in crossfires, but there had been no previous reports of civilians' being murdered by combatants.
Liberia, a nation founded by freed American slaves in the early 1800's, was declared a republic in 1847 and its population is largely made up of 16 tribal groups. Its modern history has been marked by pervasive corruption. Master Sgt. Samuel Doe led a coup in 1980, made himself President and pledged to eliminate corruption, but was soon accused of enriching himself.
Mr. Taylor, who attended college near Boston and had helped organize Liberians in the United States against the toppled President, William R. Tolbert Jr., returned to Liberia in 1980 to join Mr. Doe's leadership. But after a falling out with Mr. Doe, he fled to the United States. Liberia sought his extradition on charges that he stole $900,000 in government funds and a Boston court ordered him detained.
In 1985, awaiting extradition, he broke out of jail and vanished for five years. In December 1989, Mr. Taylor and 100 guerrillas invaded northern Liberia from the Ivory Coast. His insurgency gained momentum, even splitting into rival factions. Prince Johnson, the head of one faction, captured, tortured and killed President Doe.
A multinational West African force then intervened, saying the civil war was no longer an internal conflict because thousands of citizens of other countries were trapped in Liberia. As the fighting continued, nearly half of Liberia's people were uprooted, more than 20,000 people have been killed, the economy has all but collapsed and, as the conflict has homed in on Monrovia, chaos has engulfed the capital.
Nearly 95 percent of Liberia is under the control of Mr. Taylor's forces and Monrovia is on its knees. Were it not for the efforts of the United Nations, the Catholic Relief Services and other foreign aid agencies, there would be no electricity, running water or food for its 500,000 residents.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Militia members riding through Monrovia, the capital of Liberia, on Friday as they tried to defend their last stronghold against the rebel forces of Charles Taylor, who has besieged the city for two weeks. (Reuters); Five American nuns who have been killed behind rebel lines in Liberia are, from left, Agnes Mueller, Barbara Ann Muttra, Joel Kolmer, Shirley Kolmer and Kathleen McGuire. Four Liberian novitiates were reported killed along with the missionaries, who came from Illinois. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Liberia, indicating Gardnersville. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); 

COUNTRY: LIBERIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); HOLY SEE (91%); AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: MONROVIA, LIBERIA (94%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH ASSOCIATED PRESS (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBERIA; MONROVIA (LIBERIA) LIBERIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); HOLY SEE (91%); AFRICA (79%); MONROVIA, LIBERIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NUNS; MISSIONARIES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; MILITARY ACTION RELIGION (94%); SHOOTINGS (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); ARMED FORCES (67%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; TAYLOR, CHARLES ROBERT D TAYLOR (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



29 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans -- As Presidential Race Nears End, the Attacks Continue;
Bush Calls Rival Untrustworthy and Untried

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OSHKOSH, Wis., Oct. 31

 BODY:
Taking a strategic turn in his campaign's final hours, President Bush today used an attack on his honesty by Gov. Bill Clinton as occasion to mount his sharpest assault yet on his rival's fitness for office.
Before 11,000 backers huddled under dreary skies here, the President denounced Mr. Clinton for accusing him of repeatedly lying about his knowledge of the 1986 Iran arms-for-hostages affair. 
 "He's afraid," Mr. Bush said of Mr. Clinton. "He's afraid for the power that he's lusted for, the political viability that he wrote about when he was demonstrating against this country over in England. And he has basically called me a liar."
 
A Two-Faced Pumpkin
 As the crowd cheered, Mr. Bush added: "You want to talk character, Governor? You and Ozone want to talk character? All right, here we go."
With that, the President unleashed a scorching recital of what he called Mr. Clinton's deceptions and reversals on seven issues, including his draft history, his use of marijuana and his positions on free trade, right-to-work laws and the Persian Gulf war.
"The pumpkin in the Arkansas Governor's mansion has two faces," Mr. Bush said, laughing with evident relish in his attack. "Whatever side you're on, he's right there. You can't do that as President of the United States."
 
Calls Rival Untested
 The President's assault came on the third stop in an 18-car passenger-train junket by his campaign through five rural Wisconsin towns. It was a day-long event intended to project a televised image of confidence and momentum for a re-election bid that still trails Mr. Clinton -- by how much, no one now knows -- with but three days to catch up.
When he paused, in small towns like Burlington, Sussex and Stevens Point, it was to attack Mr. Clinton's economic positions and his character, ending with a Halloween scenario for undecided voters.
Talking about his own role in dealing with the collapse of the Soviet Union and reducing nuclear arms, Mr. Bush suggested that a year from now voters might pick up a newspaper and read of a new crisis, like one set off by a nuclear-armed terrorist.
"Close your eyes and imagine, in a crisis situation, an American leader totally without experience, completely untested, a leader about whom we know very, very little, if you get down to it," he said in Sussex. "And what we do know is a troubling pattern of being on one side and then another, an ingrained habit of trying to lead by misleading and not coming clean. And I don't believe we can take this kind of risk."
Mr. Bush's role in the Iran-contra affair came under renewed focus Friday, when Federal prosecutors released a document suggesting that Mr. Bush has concealed the depth of his knowledge about the arms-for-hostages deals with Iran.
On Friday, Mr. Clinton used the disclosure to try to throw the question of honesty and character, which the President has relentlessly raised about him, back at Mr. Bush. "He has seriously called into question those issues and now has to answer your questions on all," Mr. Clinton said.
Today, Mr. Bush's advisers cast the President's strong counterattack as a strategic victory for the White House, but that was far from clear. By raising the question of his role in the Iran arms-for-hostages deal, even to decry those questions as part of a "Democrat-run" witchhunt, Mr. Bush risked appearing defensive and risked prolonging news coverage of a six-year-old scandal that has already eaten up one of his last four days of campaigning.
"The charges he makes are not new," Mr. Bush said. "I have responded to them repeatedly and under oath, under oath, in numerous investigations in a six-year, Democrat-run political fiasco that has cost the taxpayers $40 million."
 
'Called Ugly by a Frog'
 Mr. Bush called Mr. Clinton's accusations "a desperate attempt to stop his free-fall in the polls," and added: "I welcome this spotlight on character, because it is an essential test of the Presidency."
Whatever the risks of prolonging the issue, Bush aides appear to have concluded that they are better off battling Mr. Clinton on character than on any other ground. They appeared determined to exploit their opening, even at the prospect of making a nasty campaign even more venomous.
The President underscored that in his most pointed remark about Mr. Clinton at the Oshkosh rally.
"Being attacked on character by Governor Clinton," he said, "is like being called ugly by a frog."
Vice President Dan Quayle joined in the attack on Mr. Clinton's character, telling a Bush-Quayle rally in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, today that the Democrat had covered up his attempts to evade military service. The Vice President, nearing the end of a nine-day swing through the West and the Plains states, added a stop in Chicago at the last minute.
Mr. Quayle said there was "new evidence" that Mr. Clinton had some friends remove his Reserve Officer Training Corps file from the University of Arkansas before his first run for public office. "This is just another part of Bill Clinton's pattern of deception in the interests of preserving his political viability in Arkansas and elsewhere," the Vice President said.
 
Counting on Experience
 Some aides said this week that Mr. Bush stands to win in any battle over character, because most of the President's detractors have already quit his camp, while much of Mr. Clinton's support -- a fifth or more, by Bush estimates -- remains weak.
They also believe that their experience in campaign endgames stands them well against Mr. Clinton's advisers.
"He's been in three of these things," Mr. Bush's campaign chairman, Robert M. Teeter, said of his candidate's presidential campaign experience. "This is their first."
 
Quoting Favorite Democrat
 With only 11 electoral votes to offer, Mr. Bush's daylong stop here seemed to defy conventional tactics that place trailing candidates in bigger states. But Mr. Bush's aides appear to feel that the novelty of his train trip guarantees colorful national coverage regardless of the locale.
Mr. Bush's five-town tour traced a path northward along Lake Michigan and then west toward Minneapolis, aiming to recreate the barnstorm aura of a Southern train trip three weeks ago that invigorated Mr. Bush's lagging campaign.
At many stops the President has taken again to quoting Harry S. Truman, the Democratic model for his Republican comeback effort. His aides continue to express confidence that the gap with Mr. Clinton is narrowing, even as some polls suggest that the Democrat's lead has stabilized.
Unlike the Southern swing, launched under bright sun and cheering throngs, today's trip began in subdued, even surreal fashion amid slate-gray skies. And because Wisconsin is nominally Democratic and irascibly independent, unlike the Republican South, the President faced a visibly more skeptical reception here.
Fighting a minor cold, he struggled to rouse a crowd of about 12,000 shivering listeners in Burlington, where he began his trip.
Under a Clinton Presidency, he said, "every day is going to be a Halloween, fright and terror."

GRAPHIC: Photo: During his train trip across Wisconsin yesterday, President Bush waved through a window to supporters who stood along the tracks. (Joes R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ENGLAND (79%); GULF STATES (57%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WISCONSIN UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ENGLAND (79%); GULF STATES (57%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ETHICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); HALLOWEEN (69%); DESERT STORM (66%); RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (66%); CANNABIS (66%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



30 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 2400 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Overview;
Polls Say Clinton Keeps Lead Despite Furious G.O.P. Fire

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton and President Bush battled through a final weekend of campaigning with the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll showing that their furious weeklong crossfire had left Mr. Clinton still holding a lead.
The new poll, conducted Tuesday through Friday, also showed that Ross Perot remained a distant third, and that about a third of his supporters said it was possible they would change their minds before Election Day. 
 Despite a fierce Republican assault last week on Mr. Clinton's trustworthiness, his record in Arkansas and his economic policies, Mr. Bush has not succeeded in raising his own support, according to the poll.
The survey showed Mr. Clinton with the backing of 43 percent of the probable electorate, Mr. Bush with 34 percent and Mr. Perot with 15 percent. A week ago, Mr. Clinton stood at 40 percent, Mr. Bush at 35 percent and Mr. Perot at 15 percent.
 
Other Poll Results
 Other polls this weekend showed a far tighter race, with ABC News and USA Today/CNN surveys showing a three-point Clinton margin. Some of the differences in the polls occur because of the way each organization identifies which voters are likely to vote.
The Times/CBS poll showed Mr. Clinton with a strong lead in the Northeast and the West and a smaller edge in the Midwest; separate statewide polls released today in Ohio and Wisconsin reflected an especially tight race there. Mr. Bush gained ground in the South last week, but was still running neck and neck there with Mr. Clinton.
A look at the electoral map suggests that a Bush victory may still be possible, but even his own strategists acknowledge that it would require a wave of last-minute decisions and lucky breaks that would deliver to him a string of states that are now closely contested.
On the other hand, an edge in the popular vote of the kind Mr. CLinton is showing in the latest Times/CBS News poll translates into a daunting advantage in the Electoral College.
The Bush strategy, in these final days, requires a solid South, the restoration of most of the Rocky Mountain West, and then last-minute swings toward the Republicans in a belt of industrial states: Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin.
"If I'm sure of two things in this, it's that we're still going to get a lot of late decision-making, and that people are still very uncomfortable with the idea of Clinton in the White House," said Robert M. Teeter, chairman of the Bush campaign.
But Mr. Clinton's advisers said they were confident that their dominance of the electoral map remained unshaken on this final weekend. "I feel satisfied that we're in a good position," said Mickey Kantor, chairman of the Clinton campaign. "I would not switch places with the other two."
Democratic strategists noted that important parts of Mr. Bush's base in the South, including Georgia, Texas and North Carolina, remained hotly competitive, while Mr. Clinton's base on the West and East Coasts remained secure. Parts of the Midwest, notably Ohio and Wisconsin, are tightening, Clinton strategists acknowledge, but they asserted that the bulk of the region remains solidly in their column.
Mr. Perot, for his part, appears to have paid a considerable price for a week of controversy prompted by his accusations on Sunday that Republicans plotted to disrupt his daughter's wedding and wiretap his office. The proportion of people who view the Texas businessman unfavorably jumped from 32 percent to 41 percent in the last week.
His level of support, after jumping during the Presidential debates and his first wave of television advertising, remains flat, and his supporters are twice as likely as Bush or Clinton supporters to say they might change their minds. The survey also found that 67 percent rejected his assertion that he left the race last July to protect his daughter from Republican dirty tricks.
The normal jitters of a closing Presidential campaign have been intensified by the wide range of poll findings in recent days, with Clinton leads ranging from 10 points to 2. Among the many variables in these final days is the level of turnout, particularly the turnout among young voters, who Clinton strategists say are an important source of their support..
In an interview on Friday, the Rev. Jesse Jackson also predicted a high turnout among minorities. "I think it's going to be very high," said Mr. Jackson, who has been touring the country trying to get out the Democratic vote. "Our objective interests are at stake."
The Times/CBS poll was conducted Tuesday through Friday, and was based on interviews with 1,912 registered voters. The final two days of the polling did hint at some possible tightening; Mr. Clinton's lead in the Thursday and Friday polling was eight points among the probable electorate, and seven points among all registered voters.
The poll also indicated that voters were taking their decision very seriously: 74 percent said they believed this election was more important than previous Presidential elections. And half of them said they believed that there was more discussion of the issues this year than there was in 1988.
Notwithstanding the national polls, the race for the Presidency at this point revolves around one number: 270, the electoral votes necessary to win. Even if Mr. Bush now has the momentum that his advisers claim, he faces a formidable challenge in reaching that number in these final days, based on interviews with political professionals and statewide polls around the country.
 
The South
Many Places Too Close to Call
 Mr. Bush's hopes of assembling an Electoral College majority are based on carrying the South, and thus overcoming the appeal of two favorite sons. By the week's end, many political professionals believed that Mr. Bush had turned a corner in Florida, with 25 electoral votes. But Texas, the other mega-state in the region, was still considered a fiercely competitive contest.
Mr. Bush was scheduled for a final, pre-election appeal to his adopted state at a rally in Houston on Monday night; his advisers acknowledge that there is virtually no way Mr. Bush can prevail without winning this state.
A Mason-Dixon poll released this week, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points, showed Mr. Bush at 43 percent, Mr. Clinton at 35 percent and Mr. Perot at 15 percent. But Clinton officials asserted that their private polls in the last few days showed a much closer race, and that Mr. Perot's presence in the race is helping them keep it that way.
Elsewhere in the region, Mr. Bush is thought to be strongest in Mississippi, Alabama and South Carolina. Georgians in both parties say the race in their state is tightening, although the most recent newspaper polls showed a Clinton lead. Polls in North Carolina also show a close race, although with Mr. Clinton retaining a slim lead, and Louisiana is considered a tossup. Whatever the final outcome, Mr. Clinton has forced Mr. Bush to battle for a region that seemed reliably Republican for a generation.
 
The Midwest
Key Region Grows More Competitive
 This is the region, many analysts say, where the election will be decided: in the states of Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin and Ohio, which account for 72 electoral votes. For most of the fall it was Clinton territory, but the race has grown closer in much of this region in the final days. Clinton strategists see it as the normal tightening of the endgame that will not affect their dominance of the region; Bush strategists contend that it is the beginning of a vast swing toward the President.
Mr. Clinton has kept a strong anchor in Illinois, according to the new Chicago Tribune Poll released this weekend, which showed the Democrat with a 17-point margin in the state. Gary LaPaille, chairman of the Illinois Democratic Party, said party officials were concerned about a week ago because of the resurgence of Mr. Perot, but added, "When Perot unloaded Sunday with the wacky reason about why he got out of the race, his support started to level off."
Mr. Bush's challenge is to break Mr. Clinton's hold on the remaining battleground states in the region; Ohio, with a strong Republican tradition, looks the most promising. "Let's just say we're feeling better and better all the time," said Douglas Preiss, executive director of Ohio's Bush campaign.
A poll for the Akron Beacon-Journal, WJW-TV and WHIO-TV showed a tight race this weekend; with voters leaning toward a candidate included, the poll showed Mr. Clinton with 42 percent, Mr. Bush with 36 percent and Mr. Perot with 18 percent. The sampling error was plus or minus four percentage points.
In Wisconsin, campaign officials for all three candidates agree that the race is increasingly competitive, which explains why both Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton were campaigning there today. A poll this weekend for The Milwaukee Journal showed that the race was a statistical dead heat.
But in Michigan, a Detroit News Poll conducted Monday through Wednesday gave Mr. Clinton a 10-point lead. The Bush campaign's chairman, Mr. Teeter, responded, "Baloney."
 
The East
Bush Needs Gains Here
 The important swing states in this region are Pennsylvania (23 electoral votes) and New Jersey ( 15); again, Mr. Bush's hopes for a comeback depend on whether he can wrest one of these states from the Democrats.
A poll for The Philadelphia Daily News, conducted Saturday through Tuesday, showed Mr. Clinton at 38 percent, Mr. Bush at 28 percent, and Mr. Perot at 15 percent, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. State Senator J. William Lincoln, chairman of the state Democratic Committee, asserted that "Clinton will win this state by 300,000 votes." But his counterpart, Chris Bravacos, executive director of the Republican state committee, asserted that "things have really just caught fire" for Mr. Bush in the last few days.
In New Jersey, a poll by the Eagleton Institute released today showed Mr. Clinton retaining a clear lead. Among registered voters, Mr. Clinton stood at 42 percent, Mr. Bush at 30 percent and Mr. Perot at 18 percent. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. Both candidates plan a final swing through the state before Election Day, illustrating its importance.
New York, the biggest block of electoral votes in the region, is considered solid for Mr. Clinton.
 
The West
California Stays In Clinton's Camp
 Mr. Clinton retains a solid lead in California, the biggest prize on Election Day, according to the most recent Field Poll. The Rocky Mountain West, ordinarily a Republican stronghold, remained in a state of flux in the last few days, in part because of the tumultuous candidacy of Mr. Perot.
Stan Greenberg, the poll taker for Mr. Clinton, said much of the region was moving toward the Democrats in the last few days. "The West as a whole looks very, very fertile," he said. In Colorado, a new poll for the Denver Post this weekend showed Mr. Clinton with a clear margin there.
Even in Wyoming, which Mr. Bush carried with 61 percent of the vote in 1988, a poll released Friday by the University of Wyoming showed Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush in a close race.
If Mr. Greenberg is correct -- and Mr. Teeter disputes his analysis -- then Mr. Bush's scenario for 270 electoral votes is in serious trouble.
 
 
 
HOW THE POLL WAS CONDUCTED
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Tuesday through Friday with 2,374 adults around the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, of whom 1,912 said they were registered voters.
The samples were organized so that results could be examined for all four days combined, or separately for the first two days and the last two days.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen to insure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the poll.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region, race, sex, age and education. In addition, the results for Tuesday and Wednesday were weighted by party identification because of an unusual imbalance in party identification among respondents interviewed on those two days.
Some findings related to voting are reported in terms of an overall "probable electorate," which uses responses to questions dealing with voter registration, attention paid to the campaign, voting history in past elections, and professed likelihood of voting in 1992 as a measure of the probability of particular respondents' voting next Tuesday. No registered voter's preferences were excluded, but they were given different weights.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than a few percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adults in the country. For results based on all four days, the potential sampling error is plus or minus two percentage points; for results based on either two-day period separately, it is three percentage points.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, for results based on registered voters who called themselves independents during the four days of interviewing it is plus or minus four percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.
In a poll conducted just before an election, like this one, there are additional potential difficulties, like dramatic events or campaign appeals made by the candidates between the interviewing and Election Day, unusual patterns of voter turnout, and the ultimate decisions made by those voters who said they were undecided or might change their mind at the time of the poll.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of President Bush gathered yesterday outside Atlanta to hear remarks from former President Ronald Reagan. (Alan S. Werner for The New York Times) (pg. 26)
 
Graph: "The Race So Far," tracks poll results of who voters would vote for if election were held today, Sept. - Oct 30, 1992 (Source: The New York Times/CBS News Poll) (pg. 26)
 
Table: "How Groups of Voters Divide"
 
How registered voters said they would vote if the Presidential election were being held today.
 

	Bush	Clinton	Perot	Undecided		Quayle	Gore	Stockdale	 	 	 	 	 	 	Democrats	8	74	10	7	Independents	30	34	23	12	Republicans	69	12	14	5	 	 	 	 	 	Liberals	15	63	15	7	Moderates	31	45	15	8	Conservatives	50	24	17	8	 	 	 	 	 	18-29 years old	36	41	19	4	30-44 years old	32	42	16	8	45-64 years old	37	40	15	8	65 and older	31	47	9	12	Men	36	40	18	6	Women	32	44	13	11	 	 	 	 	 	Less than high school	19	55	11	15	High school graduate	37	36	17	9	Some college	32	48	15	5	College graduate	38	42	14	6	 	 	 	 	 	Northeast	32	42	13	13	Midwest	36	41	15	8	South	37	40	15	7	West	28	47	19	6	 	 	 	 	 	Big cities	23	48	12	17	Medium-sized cities	36	43	13	8	Suburbs	36	41	16	6	Small towns and rural areas	34	40	17	10	 	 	 	 	 	White	38	38	16	8	Black	9	70	7	14	 	 	 	 	 	White Protestant	44	35	15	6	Catholic	32	42	16	10	 	 	 	 	 	Democrats who say they voted	 	 	 	 	for George Bush in 1988	24	44	15	17	Democrats who say they voted	 	 	 	 	for Ronald Reagan in 1984	20	55	10	15	
 
Based on nationwide telephone interviews with 1,912 registered voters conducted Oct. 27-30. Those who said they would not vote are not shown.
(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (69%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; PUBLIC OPINION; ABC NEWS/WASHINGTON POST POLL; USA TODAY/CNN POLL POLLS & SURVEYS (97%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



31 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Ferraro Gets An Apology From Abrams

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD

 BODY:
Ending weeks of behind-the-scenes negotiations with an apology and effusive praise, Robert Abrams said yesterday that he felt "genuine regret" for the tone of the recent Democratic primary battle against Geraldine A. Ferraro, and that "allegations and insinuations" about her links to organized crime "were unfortunate and inaccurate."
Mr. Abrams, who is challenging Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato in Tuesday's election, lauded his former rival Ms. Ferraro as an "outstanding leader" and a "pioneer for women," and he recalled that he was "proud to support her in her quest for the Vice Presidency" in 1984. 
 His dramatic statement came just three days before the election and after seven weeks of intense negotiations over what form of apology Mr. Abrams might provide to win over his still-bitter rival. His comments were released in tandem with a television advertisement featuring his defeated primary opponent announcing her support for Mr. Abrams, the State Attorney General, in the Senate race.
In the 30-second spot, Ms. Ferraro, looking drawn and somber, criticizes Senator D'Amato for working against abortion rights, "even in cases of rape and incest," and for "supporting the Bush economic policies that have devastated New York State."
Facing the camera and speaking in a monotone, she concludes by telling viewers: "I am not in this race any longer, but there's one candidate I support because he is right on the issues. That's Bob Abrams."
The Abrams campaign team was quick to embrace the advertisement as a turning point in the campaign. "It's great," said Ethan Geto, Mr. Abrams's campaign director. "It's a great day. We're happy."
Mr. D'Amato was just as quick to play down the impact of the late endorsement, telling reporters in Albany yesterday that the matter was an intraparty affair. "Geraldine Ferraro is a Democrat," he said, and he described her endorsement as "without enthusiasm" and "at the last minute."
But Mr. Geto said the Abrams campaign was "thrilled and delighted" with the spot and that Ms. Ferraro's stern demeanor "was the tone and tenor that we wanted, and I think Gerry felt the same way."
Ms. Ferraro could not be reached for comment yesterday.
Polls show that Senator D'Amato has picked up about one-third of Ms. Ferraro's former supporters, including Italian-Americans upset with the attacks on Ms. Ferraro during the primary. The difficult peace between Mr. Abrams and Ms. Ferraro was achieved after a final round of prodding from Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and other prominent Democrats and after Ms. Ferraro had faced repeated questions about her reluctance to endorse Mr. Abrams.
Mayor David N. Dinkins, appearing yesterday with the Attorney General at a rally in Washington Heights and at a Bronx luncheon for about 700 Democratic women, said he believes the Ferraro endorsement will give the Abrams campaign a clear lift in the last days of the race. "It'll help him a great deal," he said. "Geraldine Ferraro is very popular, and a tremendous segment of the vote in the state of New York consists of Italian-Americans. I think she'll help a lot."
Not everyone was so convinced. During Mr. Abrams's several stops yesterday, several people said the Ferraro advertisement would not sway their vote at all, and one woman who attended the Bronx luncheon said she had "serious questions" about the campaign and could not back Mr. Abrams. "Ferraro was my favorite," said the woman, who refused to give her name. "Since she's no longer in the race, I'm thinking of voting for D'Amato."
Mr. Abrams's statement yesterday, in a direct reference to Ms. Ferraro's longstanding complaint that the allegations aired in the primary amounted to a broad ethnic slander of Italian-Americans, said he would be working with her after the election to "raise sensitivities about ethnic stereotyping." Ms. Ferraro's statement also said she intends to pursue that issue after Nov. 3, "both with the Democratic National Committee and the new administration."
But lingering tensions between the two seemed clear. They did not meet for the commercial's taping on Friday and have set no specific plans to do so in the coming days.
Since the primary, Ms. Ferraro has criticized the Attorney General for joining Elizabeth Holtzman, the City Comptroller, in aggressive attacks against her background that raised questions about possible ties to organized crime. Mr. Abrams yesterday denied that he ever made such allegations.
"The allegations and insinuations that figured so prominently in the coverage of the primary to the effect that Geraldine Ferraro was somehow linked to organized crime were unfortunate and inaccurate," his statement said. "I hope it is clear that neither I nor my campaign ever engaged in or endorsed these kinds of tactics. It is my firm and sincere belief that Gerry Ferraro has never had a knowing association with any member of organized crime."
But it was not clear yesterday whether even that statement would put to rest the qualms of Ms. Ferraro's backers, especially since it did not entirely match the Attorney General's comments at the height of the bitter primary.
On Aug. 19, he described himself as "gravely disturbed" by an article in The Village Voice headlined "Gerry and the Mob." He then suggested that voters "seriously consider whether Geraldine A. Ferraro's lack of an ethical compass makes her fit to hold a high position of public trust." And on Sept. 11, just days before the primary, he released an advertisement that said, "While Bob Abrams was taking on the mob, Geraldine Ferraro was taking illegal campaign contributions."
In recent weeks, voters across the state have frequently mentioned the ugly tone of the primary as one of their chief reservations about supporting Mr. Abrams.
Senator D'Amato's own campaign team yesterday moved into the last stretch of the race by releasing a new advertisement attacking the Attorney General. Citing reports that Mr. Abrams was late in paying taxes for a Dutchess County country home and filed for excessive deductions for an office space used in his Manhattan apartment, the advertisement warns: "Bob Abrams never met a tax he didn't like -- except his own."
Mr. D'Amato made the same point repeatedly at stops along a barnstorming tour upstate, calling the Attorney General a millionaire and describing him as a man who would tax the poor and middle class while sidestepping responsibilities of his own.
"Working-class families, they've got to pay their taxes, and what does he say?" Senator D'Amato asked reporters gathered in Albany. "He says he was too busy to open his mail."
Mr. Geto countered, as he has in the past, by emphasizing the difference between ethics investigations of Senator D'Amato and the recent revelations about irregularities in the Attorney General's tax record. "The fact that Bob Abrams may have had to pay over the years about $300 in late payments bears no comparison with the hundreds of millions and maybe billions of dollars that Al D'Amato has been responsible for diverting in government payments from where they were supposed to go," he said, charging that the incumbent Republican Senator has "a total lack of an ethical compass."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Abrams, top, held a rally yesterday in Washington Heights in Manhattan, as his opponent, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, left, arrived in Syracuse, N.Y. In a new ad, Geraldine A. Ferraro, above, endorsed Mr. Abrams. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times; Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (69%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (69%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ENDORSEMENTS; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); ABORTION (51%); 

PERSON: ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); FERRARO, GERALDINE A; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



32 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 59; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Unpredictables: Perot, New Jersey and Connecticut

BYLINE: By CHARLES STRUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 30

 BODY:
Although Gov. Bill Clinton appears to be maintaining his overwhelming lead in New York, the strength he showed recently in New Jersey and Connecticut seems less certain in the final days of the Presidential campaign.
And as the spread between Mr. Clinton and President Bush appears to narrow, the cause of this uncertainty could lie as much with the unpredictable Ross Perot candidacy as with Mr. Clinton or the President, poll takers and analysts say. 
 Support for Mr. Perot's independent candidacy, which experienced a nationwide surge after his showing in the Presidential debates, has rated as high as 18 percent in some New Jersey opinion surveys recently. In heavily Democratic New York, Mr. Perot has polled as much as 15 percent, and his rating in Connecticut has been about the same.
But there are indications in the most recent national and local surveys that Mr. Perot's momentum may have stalled, after he charged last week that Republican dirty tricks aimed at his daughter had led him to withdraw from the race in July. If the races in New Jersey and Connecticut continue to tighten, Mr. Perot's rising or falling fortunes could be crucial to the outcome.
 
8 New Jersey Trips for Bush
 With New York's 33 electoral votes all but conceded to the Clinton camp, Mr. Bush has set his sights on New Jersey's 15 votes. By Monday, he will have visited the state eight times in an effort to win back or maintain its large pool of Reagan Democrats and moderate Republicans.
The latest statewide survey of 801 likely voters, conducted by The Star-Ledger/Eagleton Poll Oct. 23 to 29, found Mr. Clinton leading Mr. Bush 42 percent to 30 percent, with 18 percent for Mr. Perot. But there was a distinct shift toward Mr. Bush between the first wave of interviews, from Oct. 23 to 25, and the second wave, from Oct. 25 to 29, with his support rising by 10 percentage points, while Mr. Perot's fell by 8 points. The margin of sampling error for the whole survey was 3.5 percentage points; for the two separate waves of interviews, the margin was 5 percent.
Mr. Bush must also win over Reagan Democrats and moderate Republicans if he is to win the eight electoral votes in Connecticut, which, like New Jersey, has lost hundreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs in the last decade. More recently, jobs in white-collar industries like banking and insurance have disappeared as the economy worsened.
Everett Ladd, a political science professor at the University of Connecticut and director of the Roper Institute of Public Opinion Research, said: "The numbers are inclined to change the closer we get to the election, and doubts about Clinton persist."
In the meantime, he said: "Perot is a convenient parking place for many of these people. He has a core of ardent supporters, but others have moved back and forth. When you get down now to this whole matter, it's just very hard to read."
Neither Connecticut nor New Jersey has supported a Democratic Presidential candidate since the 1960's. And Ester Fuchs, a political science professor at Barnard College who specializes in American political parties and elections, said that Mr. Perot had a potential to be "a spoiler" in traditional Republican states. All the polls indicate there are many disaffected voters out there, she said. "And the disaffected voter is very unhappy with George Bush and not that thrilled with Clinton either."
"Traditional Republicans still have a hard time pulling the Democratic lever on Election Day," she said. "And with Perot, they don't have to vote for Bush or Clinton. These are the higher- or middle-income voters who won't stay home in New Jersey and Connecticut."
But any attempt to gauge the impact of the Perot vote is clouded by uncertainty over whether he can maintain his support.
 
Perot's Loss Is Bush's Gain
 Janice Ballou, polling director for the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University, said the latest Star-Ledger/Eagleton Poll showed that "the increase in the Bush support during the past week is at the expense of Ross Perot."
"George Bush has been more aggressive as a campaigner, and Perot's discussion of additional reasons for withdrawing from the race earlier this year may also have contributed to the changes," she said. "This may be an indicator of increased momentum for Bush in the closing days of the campaign."
Among higher-income groups, she said, sentiment for Mr. Bush was stronger than for either of the two other candidates. And Mr. Perot, she added, is more likely than not to siphon votes away from the Clinton campaign, since both camps can be viewed as a viable haven for anti-Bush sentiment.
Alan Brinkley, a history professor at Columbia University who specializes in the American Presidency, observed that a tighter race -- one in which Mr. Perot's vote-getting ability was a potential liability for either of the other candidates -- might ultimately hurt Mr. Perot's own totals.
"As it becomes clear to people that the major race is a lot closer than people thought it was," Professor Brinkley said, "some Perot voters will decide it's not a free vote anymore."
 
Classic Third-Party Appeal
 He said Mr. Perot's candidacy had classic third-party appeal that would attract a certain percentage of voters no matter what.
"Perot seems to have attracted a kind of personal following in a way that other candidates haven't," Professor Brinkley said. "Diehard supporters look at him as a political messiah." There were true believers, he said, who stayed with him even after July, when he dropped out of the race temporarily. "Some people just never gave up."
But Professor Ladd cautioned that the Perot phenomenon could fizzle.
"In the final analysis," he said, "a lot of people come to vote their second choice. If you believe on Election Day that your candidate really doesn't have any chance, might you shift? A bunch will say yes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot campaigned last Sunday in Flemington, N.J., in his first rally since rejoining the Presidential race. Mr. Perot has received ratings of support as high as 18 percent in some New Jersey opinion surveys. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: EAGLETON INSTITUTE OF POLITICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EAGLETON INSTITUTE OF POLITICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); STRUM, CHARLES BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



33 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 53; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Court Curtails the Use of Co-ops as Bed-and-Breakfasts

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
Over the last few years, hundreds of co-op owners in New York City have furtively turned their spare bedrooms and vacant apartments into bed-and-breakfasts, helping them keep up with the cost of property that many cannot resell, and offering tourists a homey, inexpensive alternative to the city's hotels.
But now, overturning a judge's ruling that had given some legitimacy to these hosts, a state appeals court has held that a co-op's board of directors has the right to prohibit a shareholder from operating a bed-and-breakfast in his apartment. 
 The Appellate Division of State Supreme Court in Manhattan ruled on Thursday that Peter Hoffman, who for five years has rented his co-op apartment on East 73d Street to tourists, had violated the co-op's proprietary lease and ordered him to stop.
"Having chosen the cooperative form of ownership," the four-member panel wrote in a broad decision, "plaintiff is bound to abide by the rules and regulations governing its operation."
 
Growing Trend Threatened
 The court's decision could threaten hundreds of bed-and-breakfasts that have proliferated in all sorts of apartments across Manhattan and, to a lesser extent, in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, because the vast majority operate without permission from co-op boards, and around city and state laws.
A bed-and-breakfast costs anywhere from $50 for a single to more than $100 for a double -- compared with about $125 for an average hotel room. The New York State Hospitality and Tourism Association estimates there are more than 1,200 in New York City, many of them co-ops but also privately owned and rented apartments.
Mr. Hoffman turned his two-bedroom, 10th-floor apartment in the Diplomat, a 140-unit co-op between First and Second Avenues, into a bed-and-breakfast in 1987, renting out either one room or the whole apartment for a night or more at a time. He listed it with a number of reservation agencies that help match hosts and guests.
In 1990, after noticing a stream of visitors lugging suitcases up the elevators (including one who asked for a bellhop), the co-op's directors notified Mr. Hoffman that he was violating the rules, which prohibit unapproved guests and commercial activity.
 
Appeal Is Planned
 Arguing that the co-op's directors and employees had harassed his guests, Mr. Hoffman sued, and in September 1991, Justice Irma V. Santaella of State Supreme Court ruled in his favor. Citing a 1938 ruling that permitted "the occasional sharing of a home with others," she ordered the co-op board to leave his bed-and-breakfast alone.
But the appellate judges -- E. Leo Milonas, Ernst H. Rosenberger, Betty Wienberg Ellerin and Israel Rubin -- disagreed, saying that Justice Santaella's interpretation of the 1938 ruling was "misplaced" and did not apply to co-op apartments, which are governed by proprietary leases that all shareholders sign.
Neal Stearns, the executive vice-president of the Diplomat's co-op board, said Mr. Hoffman had never sought the board's permission to operate a bed-and-breakfast. "A co-op is just what it says it is," he said, "a group of people living together cooperatively."
Mr. Hoffman said he would appeal the court's decision. He said he had come to rely on the income from his bed-and-breakfast, which he insists falls in a legal gray area. He said that none of his guests, which have included a Congressman and a foreign ambassador, had ever troubled anyone in the co-op.
 
Discreete Businesses
 "The thing is I'm not running an opium den," Mr. Hoffman said. "I'm having guests."
The decision, like several other state court rulings, reaffirms the ability of co-ops to decide who or what they will accept. And it could pose serious problems for others like Mr. Hoffman whose thriving cottage industry has grown steadily, especially as co-op owners have struggled to cope with the real-estate slump.
"This will probably stop it in its tracks," Morton H. Rosen, the co-op's lawyer, said, "and it will certainly reassure many shareholders in this city who were concerned about security and the devaluation of their property by the potential for their building to be used as a hotel."
But Mary McAulay, who runs Urban Ventures, the city's largest and oldest bed-and-breakfast reservation agency, said she doubted that the ruling would profoundly affect business. She said most hosts operate furtively anyway and, in today's tough economy, some co-ops welcome the idea -- as long as shareholders pay their bills.
"I don't think it's going to have much impact," Ms. McAulay said, "because most people do it very discreetly."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Appellate Division of State Supreme Court in Manhattan has ordered Peter Hoffman to stop renting his co-op apartment to tourists as a bed-and-breakfast, which he has been doing for five years. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COOPERATIVES; BED-AND-BREAKFAST LODGINGS BED & BREAKFAST INNS (95%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); TOURISM (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); VERDICTS (76%); JUDGES (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); TRENDS (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: HOFFMAN, PETER (B&B OPERATOR); MYERS, STEVEN LEE PETER HOFFMAN JR (70%); STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



34 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 57; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: Calls for Change Mark Congressional Races

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
The calls for political change that have resounded through the nation this year are echoing loud and clear in Congressional races across New York, New Jersey and Connecticut -- perhaps most strikingly in New York, where at least 10 familiar faces will be gone from the House delegation in January.
In tough radio commercials around the region, the themes of the Presidential campaign buzz night and day: anti-incumbency, disgust with Congress, fights over abortion rights. But local political feuds also loom large, as in an open district in central New Jersey where the former Republican state chairman has styled his campaign as a referendum on the tax policies of the Democratic Governor, Jim Florio -- in military sound bites that evoke the Persian Gulf war. 
 Despite upheavals over reapportionment, and complex efforts to create new districts that would increase the chances of minority representation, only two of the 50 House seats at stake in the three states on Tuesday will be newly filled by members of minorities -- both by Hispanic candidates virtually assured of victory after winning primaries on overwhelmingly Democratic turf. And Gary Franks, Connecticut's only black Congressman and the only black Republican in the House, is facing a challenge in a three-way race.
 
Incumbents Highly Favored
 In nearly three-quarters of the seats in the region, incumbents are considered either safe or favored to win, slightly higher than the national average, according to data compiled by Congressional Quarterly.
Still, there will be real changes, and nowhere more pronounced than in New York, which lost three of its 34 seats in redistricting due to population shifts -- more than any other state. Eight incumbents retired, one died on the eve of his primary victory, and another lost a primary forced on him by redistricting.
By contrast, Connecticut lost none of its six seats, all of its incumbents are running for re-election, and most of them are either heavily favored or have a solid chance of winning. Yet a Republican State Senator named Edward W. Munster -- who has built name recognition by having a campaign worker walk around in a Herman Munster mask -- has emerged a surprisingly strong challenger to a six-term Democratic incumbent, Samuel Gejdenson, in the eastern part of the state.
New Jersey is a mixed bag, having lost one of its 14 seats to redistricting and four incumbents to retirement. Its current ratio of 8 to 6 in favor of the Democrats may well shift to 7 to 6 for the Republicans.
Many of the most dramatic shifts in the local landscape actually occurred months ago, as the House bank overdraft scandal, redistricting and disillusion with 12 years of deadlock between Congress and the White House prompted a quarter of the New York delegation to quit, helping assure what promises to be the largest turnover in Congress since World War II.
"It already is a sea change, and you don't even need an election to know it," said John A. Marino, chairman of the New York State Democratic Party. "It's just been an amazing year, and there may be more surprises. Everybody's ready to write the story that despite the calls for change, a lot of incumbents will be re-elected. I think some of that may have to be rewritten on Tuesday night."
 
Hoping for Coattails
 With polls showing Bill Clinton holding a double-digit lead over President Bush in New York, leading in Connecticut and in a close race in New Jersey, Democrats in all three states are hoping his coattails can help.
Matthew F. McHugh, the Ithaca Democrat who was swept into office as part of the "Watergate class" of 1974 and announced his retirement in frustration last spring, said he had no regrets, but that if had known then what he does now about prospects for a Democratic victory, "I might have made a different decision."
But Republicans, too, are optimistic, arguing that anti-incumbency feelings may well lead to Republican gains, whatever happens to the top of their party's ticket.
"I think people are finally focusing on the need for change in America, and some of that they place on Congress," said William D. Powers, the New York state Republican chairman. "The Democrats have controlled Congress longer than Fidel Castro's controlled Cuba, and that type of message is getting out."
Here is a summary of some of the contested races in the region:
 
New York
 In Eastern Long Island, George J. Hochbrueckner, a three-term Democratic incumbent, faces a tough rematch against the Republican Suffolk County clerk, Edward P. Romaine, in a district with a decidedly Republican cast. Mr. Romaine has tried to paint Mr. Hochbrueckner as a tax-and-spend liberal while also criticizing Mr. Bush for his slow reaction to the recession, and both parties say the race is close.
Next door, Representative Thomas J. Downey, the 43-year-old Democratic veteran seeking his 10th term, is trying to fend off a stiff challenge from Rick A. Lazio, a moderate Republican Suffolk County legislator. Wounded by a national television news report that used a hidden camera to capture him riding a Jet Ski on a junket in Barbados, and by 151 overdrafts at the House bank, Mr. Downey is spending more than $1 million, four times as much as his challenger, in a race state Democratic officials fear could be close.
In a newly drawn district that stretches from eastern Queens to Suffolk County, Gary L. Ackerman, a Democrat elected in 1983, is on the defensive against another Republican Suffolk County legislator, Allan E. Binder, who received some prominent endorsements and has needled Mr. Ackerman for his 111 overdrafts. Mr. Ackerman remains favored.
In New York City, Representative Bill Green, the Upper East Side liberal Republican, is facing City Councilwoman Carolyn B. Maloney, while Susan Molinari, representing the third generation of a Staten Island Republican dynasty, is going up against City Councilman Sal F. Albanese, a maverick Brooklyn Democrat. Both Mr. Albanese and Ms. Maloney have uphill climbs.
Meantime, in Westchester County, Nita M. Lowey faces a rematch against the man she defeated in 1988, Joseph J. DioGuardi, a Republican who is broadcasting ads deriding her as "too liberal, even for New York." And Hamilton Fish Jr., a 12-term Republican incumbent who opposes abortion rights, is facing an unexpectedly lively challenge from Neil McCarthy, a lawyer who is running ads urging voters to dump the "Bush-Fish" team.
 
New Jersey
 "The main story about New Jersey is that no matter who we elect, we lose a great deal of power," said Cliff Zukin, a political science professor at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers, noting the retirements of such senior members of the delegation as Robert A. Roe, a ranking Democrat on several committees who has served since 1969.
The surprise retirement two months ago of Matthew J. Rinaldo, a moderate Republican who had represented the central part of the state since 1972, set off some of the biggest sparks and paved the way for a heated last-minute fight between the former Republican state chairman, Bob Franks, and Leonard R. Sendelsky, a builder who had been dismissed out of the gate.
Mr. Franks's radio ads open with the sound of an explosion, and a narrator intoning: 'It hit New Jersey like a bomb -- Jim Florio's $3 billion tax hike and record-setting spending plan," and then adding, "To Bob Franks, it was a declaration of war." It ends, "Now Bob Franks has declared war on Congress, to fix the economy and create jobs."
Perhaps the tightest race is to succeed Mr. Roe, in a district that covers Paterson and Passaic. It pits Joseph L. Bubba, a conservative Republican state senator, against Herbert C. Klein, a national Democratic Party fund-raiser and former state legislator. Mr. Bubba makes a point of telling audiences that he is both Sicilian and Calabrese, supports the death penalty and strongly opposes gun control and tax increases. A strong Democratic turnout in a state that both national parties regard as pivotal could bolster Mr. Klein's chances.
 
Connecticut
 One of this state's liveliest races had been the fight of Gary Franks, a freshman, to retain his seat. He has been besieged by staff turnover and controversies over his personal finances, and Democrats targeted his seat. But the Democrats split after Lynn H. Taborsak, a plumber and state representative, barely lost a primary to James Lawlor, a probate judge from Waterbury.
Ms. Taborsak has pursued an independent campaign under the banner of Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr.'s Connecticut Party, and recent polls show her and Mr. Lawlor splitting the opposition and Mr. Franks with a clear plurality, if not a majority.
In recent days, a lively battle has emerged between Mr. Gejdenson and Mr. Munster, who won a scrappy Republican primary against Glenn T. Carberry, who used billboards reading "Bounce Sam" to denounce Mr. Gejdenson's 51 overdrafts at the House bank.
"Sam's had very high unfavorability ratings the last year and a half," said Richard Foley, the state Republican chairman, who says this race is virtually even. "Incumbency is still a net disadvantage, and if that's a problem, high visibility and name recognition's not enough of a solution. Voters now know who to punch."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NEW YORK (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NEW YORK (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); DESERT STORM (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); TAX LAW (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%); REFERENDUMS (69%); ABORTION (56%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%); GOVERNORS (55%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



35 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Fierce Fighting in Angolan Capital Leaves Many Dead

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LUANDA, Angola, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Rebels and Government forces fought a fierce battle in this capital today, heightening fears that they would revive their all-out civil war. The state radio said many people had been killed.
Machine-gun fire and explosions echoed through Luanda, and a Portuguese radio report said several rebel soldiers lay dead in front of a hotel in central Luanda that they use as a base. 
 Edmund De Jarnette, the head of the United States liaison office in Luanda, said the fighting started shortly after the two sides halted a round of negotiations seeking a political solution to their standoff over election results and other issues.
"There is substantial fire in several areas," he said by telephone.
Tension has been mounting in Angola since the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, which is led by former rebels, lost national elections on Sept. 29 and 30. to the governing Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola. The opposition leader, Jonas Savimbi, accused the Government of rigging the vote and threatened to fight rather than accept the election defeat.
The United Nations, which brokered the May 1991 peace accords that paved the way for the elections, says the balloting generally was free and fair.
Angola's 16-year civil war began almost immediately after it gained independence from Portugal in 1975. Cuba and the Soviet Union armed the Government, and the United States and South Africa backed the rebels.
The heaviest shooting today appeared to be around the Hotel Turismo, which is used as a base by the rebel group, known as Unita for its acronym in Portuguese. The Portuguese radio station T.S.F. reported that the hotel and a nearby police station were in flames.
Witnesses said machine guns, mortars, rocket-propelled grenades and heavier weapons were being used. They said mortar shells fired from the Miramar district, where the rebels have a garrison, were falling onto the city center and into Luanda Bay.
 
Roadblocks Set Up
 Hours earlier, the state radio broadcast appeals for people to stay home and keep children off the streets. Heavily armed police officers patrolled the city and set up roadblocks.
Fighting was reported to have claimed dozens of lives on Thursday and Friday in Luanda and in Huambo, which is Angola's second-largest city and the rebels' stronghold.
News reports in Lisbon said the Portuguese Government had sent frigate carrying 200 marines to the West African coast to prepare a possible evacuation of the some 40,000 Portuguese citizens in Angola.
The British Government told its nationals on Friday to leave Angola, and other countries have evacuated nonessential staff from their embassies.
The United Nations Security Council demanded an end to the clashes on Friday night and said any government imposed by force would not be recognized. Western diplomats said economic sanctions would be imposed if the rebels seized the Government.
[Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali issued a statement appealing to President Jose Eduardo dos Santos and Mr. Savimbi "to withdraw immediately their forces and to return them to the barracks." He also urged a resumption of the talks. ]
The governing party of Mr. dos Santos began moving away from Communism as the cold war came to an end in the late 1980's. In April 1990 the Government opened peace talks with the rebels.
The Cubans began pulling out in January 1989, and South Africa agreed to stop aiding the rebels.
After years of rivalry over the oil- and mineral-rich nation, the Soviet Union and United States joined with Portugal in mediating the talks that led to the peace accords signed by Mr. dos Santos and Mr. Savimbi in May 1991. rule

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
U.S. ORDERS DEPARTURES
 WASHINGTON, Oct. 31 (Special to The New York Times) -- The State Department ordered all its nonessential employees to leave Angola today because of the fighting there.
The department also urged American citizens to avoid traveling to Angola and advised those who were already there to leave as soon as possible.
The department said slightly fewer than 300 Americans were in Angola at the end of last month, when the country held its elections. It said it did not know how many Americans had since left, and it declined to say how many department employees were there.

GRAPHIC: Map of Angola, indicating Luanda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ANGOLA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CUBA (69%); 

CITY: LUANDA, ANGOLA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ANGOLA; LUANDA (ANGOLA) ANGOLA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CUBA (69%); LUANDA, ANGOLA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; MILITARY ACTION; ELECTIONS WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); COUPS (79%); PUBLIC RADIO (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); CHILD SOLDIERS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); POLITICS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); POLICE FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: DE JARNETTE, EDMUND JONAS MALHEIRO SAVIMBI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



36 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 58; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: D'Amato and Abrams: Blitzes on the Final Days

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Misanthropes who dread an uplifting finish to the mean-spirited Senate race can relax. Neither Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato nor Robert Abrams plans to waste much time or money on inspirational messages.
With so little time left and with so many New Yorkers saying they are still undecided, the candidates are out not to seduce voters, but to scare them. Mr. Abrams says the Republican Senator wants to ban abortion. Mr. D'Amato says the Democrat wants to raise taxes. 
 Their combat has been ruthless, but Mr. D'Amato and his Democratic challenger, Mr. Abrams, are actually fighting extremely different battles.
Mr. D'Amato, a conservative Republican, is running against a political tide, trying to hold onto his 1980 coalition of Reagan Democrats and the party faithful when the economy and the issue of abortion rights appear to be cutting into portions of his Republican base.
This time, it is Mr. Abrams who seems favored by fortune. Unlike Mr. D'Amato, he basks in the glow of a strong Presidential candidate at the top his ticket, and he's relying heavily on Gov. Bill Clinton to pull him to victory. In New York, where Democrats outnumber Republicans by almost 3 to 2, most voters say they agree with Mr. Abrams on his central issues, universal health care and abortion rights. He is even blessed with an opponent whose popularity has been weakened by allegations of ethical misconduct.
If Mr. Abrams loses, despite all his advantages, he will have his own haplessness to blame. If Mr. D'Amato wins, he will have done so through pit-bull tenacity and tough, brash campaign tactics, and money, vast amounts of it.
 
Abrams's Struggles
 Mr. Abrams has been struggling to recover from the ill will he engendered among many Italian-Americans and women when he defeated Geraldine A. Ferraro in the primary by attacking her ethics. Yesterday his campaign released a television ad featuring his long-awaited endorsement from Ms. Ferraro. Looking as stiff and unsmiling as a hostage in a ransom videotape, Ms. Ferraro spoke directly at the camera, explaining it was "critically important" to defeat Mr. D'Amato because of his positions on abortion, and said she supported Mr. Abrams "because he is right on the issues."
Also yesterday, Mr. D'Amato unveiled his latest television ad, which accused "Millionaire Bob Abrams" of cheating on his own taxes, a last gut punch intended to neutralize the ethics issue. "Bob Abrams never met a tax he didn't like," the ad says, "except his own."
Throughout the state, the D'Amato and Abrams campaigns are flooding the airwaves with 30-second commercials suggesting that whatever their candidate's failings, the other guy is even worse.
The Abrams campaign, which has not had enough money to match Mr. D'Amato's barrage of negative ads, always said it would save its resources for a final media blitz. Jan Crawford, a media buyer working for the Abrams campaign, said she expected to spend $1.4 million for the last week. The D'Amato campaign would not divulge what it was spending, but one aide, who did not wish to be identified, said the two camps were roughly competitive.
The Attorney General, who has raised far less money and has proven more accident prone than his opponent, is relying on Mr. Clinton to energize traditional Democratic voters. Mr. Abrams is a little like a mousy debutante who clings to the side of the prettiest girl at the ball, trusting that some of the suitors will fall her way.
 
New Ad Is Scrapped
 Last Thursday, Mr. Abrams tried to add a new, closing television ad selling himself as the third member of a holy Democratic trinity: "Clinton-Gore-Abrams." Ethan Geto, Mr. Abrams's campaign director, excitedly called the ad "the centerpiece" of the final week of media strategy. But the Abrams campaign was thwarted at the last minute by a legal glitch his staff had not foreseen that forced them to scrap the commercial.
When the ad was reviewed by lawyers to make sure it complied with federal regulations, Mr. Geto said that he was informed that the ad would be considered as a promotional spot for Mr. Clinton as well, and that it would be illegal unless Mr. Clinton paid half the cost of producing and broadcasting it. That would cost Mr. Clinton "several hundreds of thousands of dollars."
The contretemps was all too typical of the Abrams campaign's logistical disarray. It also underscored the downside of Mr. Clinton's big lead in New York. As Mr. Geto noted dispiritedly, "I won't even ask if they are willing," Mr. Geto said. "New York is not a place where Clinton wants to spend his money."
The candidates both campaigned upstate yesterday, before returning to New York City to prepare for their debate today, but both planned to go back upstate on Monday. Mr. Abrams has a four-city tour planned, returning to Manhattan for a rally at Harlem hospital with a union local. Mr. D'Amato plans to visit seven cities in upstate New York, hopscotching from airport to airport and media market to media market.
 
The Power of TV
 Television is paramount. The intent of some programming choices is obvious. Mr. Abrams, who is counting heavily on liberal women voters, has placed an ad on the New York affiliate carrying the hit CBS sitcom "Murphy Brown" on Monday night. Mr. D'Amato, who calls his constituency "the working middle class," chose the showcase of Monday Night Football via ABC's New York affiliate. Mr. Abrams favors programs on Lifetime cable. Mr. D'Amato's ads can also be found on such shows as "America's Most Wanted" and reruns of "All in the Family."
But both are buying ads in virtually every market in the state. "They're both pumping in a ton of money," said Tim Busch, a sales manager for WGRZ, the NBC affiliate in Buffalo. Mr. Busch was struggling Friday to put together his station's weekend advertising schedule. "I feel like I'm being picked over by vultures," he said. "They're coming in and eating up every bit of inventory I've got."
In New York City, advertising costs are higher, but the pace is just as fast. Mr. Abrams's largest spending block at one station, WABC, Channel 7, was for the period from Tuesday through tomorrow, during which he spent $203,575 on 49 spots. Mr. D'Amato's largest spending at WABC was for Wednesday through tomorrow, during which he spent $140,505 on 37 spots. Mr. D'Amato has outspent Mr. Abrams at other stations, however. At Fox TV, D'Amato spent $50,851 on 32 30-second ads and 17 10-second ads for Wednesday through Election Day. There is no record of any ads by Mr. Abrams for this period.
 
Radio Ads Too
 Mr. D'Amato has also been buying radio ads throughout the campaign. Mr. Abrams, citing limited money, has focused exclusively on television until the final week. Mr. Geto said the campaign was using radio mostly for its base, with ads on black radio, Hispanic radio and Hispanic cable television. Mr. D'Amato, who is using his endorsement by The Amsterdam News to make overtures to black voters, particularly in Queens, has also run ads on black radio stations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ABORTION (89%); ETHICS (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (86%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MISCONDUCT (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); HOSTAGE TAKING (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



37 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 60; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Bucking Trends, Dodd Uses Incumbency to Hold His Edge

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Oct. 31

 BODY:
After spending 18 years in Congress making his name known to Connecticut voters, Senator Christopher J. Dodd began working a few weeks ago on the name recognition of his Republican opponent, Brook Johnson, a businessman new to politics.
Mr. Johnson, who continues to trail, is not likely to thank Mr. Dodd for his help. In a Senate race that reveals the perils of trying a Ross Perot-style campaign at the state level, Mr. Johnson is now known to voters, but in many cases through Mr. Dodd's commercials, not his own. 
 "Where have the candidates been during our economic crunches?" asks one Dodd ad. "Chris Dodd was fighting for Connecticut, the Seawolf, family leave. Brook Johnson was paying himself millions in salary, laying off workers at his factories, selling his only American plant, moving jobs overseas, and then moving himself to Florida."
That one commercial laid out Mr. Dodd's full campaign, stressing what he sees as the state's main concern, jobs and the economy; identifying him with the state; noting his triumph in saving a Seawolf submarine and its jobs, and reminding voters that his pet subject, helping children, helps them, all while comparing this caring politician to a businessman with few ties to Connecticut and little loyalty except to himself.
 
Ads Bite Both Ways
 It is little wonder that Mr. Johnson, whose appeals to the public have largely been through television, now tells audiences: "My advice is to tune out on the advertising. It's just there to influence you."
Both Mr. Johnson, a 46-year-old textile executive, and Mr. Dodd, who at 48 has served three terms in the House and two in the Senate, began the campaign with clear strategies.
Mr. Johnson announced his candidacy in May. He was drawn, he said, by his concern over the national debt, which he attributed to career politicians spending tax money at the behest of the special-interest groups that financed their campaigns.
Mr. Johnson, like Ross Perot, presented himself as a bottom-line businessman whose financial success proved his competence. And, like Mr. Perot, he said he would pay for much of his own campaign.
 
Attacking 'Career Politicians'
 His spokesman, Mark Rivers, said their strategy from the beginning of the campaign was to win enough delegates at the Republican convention to force a primary, then to win the primary in September, and all the while to build recognition across the state.
Mr. Johnson's concern about the deficit defined his opponent, who had been in Washington for 18 years, as part of the problem.
"Is there a law that U.S. Senators have to be career politicians?" he asked in an early television ads. "No. Politics shouldn't be a career."
As an outsider, Mr. Johnson was racing for recognition, even within his own party. Much of his effort was spent in heavily Republican Fairfield County. As late as Sept. 26, 11 percent of those surveyed in a Quinnipiac College poll had not heard of him, and 34 percent had no opinion of him.
 
At First, the High Road
 Many politicians, hearing his prediction that he would spend $4 million, a huge sum for Connecticut, had expected him to attack Mr. Dodd with waves of negative ads. But Mr. Dodd was viewed as too popular for a blunt assault. Instead, in October, Mr. Johnson appeared in ads in shirtsleeves, saying: "My opponent is not a bad guy. We just have different views about spending your tax money."
Then he accused Mr. Dodd of voting to raise his own pay 51 percent, being the second-biggest spender in the Senate, and voting to raise taxes "dozens of times."
A year before, Mr. Dodd had appeared vulnerable. His popularity was down; he was perceived as falling out of touch with the state, and anti-incumbent fever was high because of the state's new income tax.
 
Focusing on Home
 But Mr. Dodd played an important role in saving the Seawolf contract and thousands of defense jobs at Electric Boat this spring, and he tended his home fences. His spokesman, Marvin Fast, said Mr. Dodd approached the campaign focusing on the public's main concerns, jobs and the economy. And he stayed in Washington, pushing his family-leave bill.
"Dodd said it would be offensive to voters for him to be out going door-to-door then," Mr. Fast said. "They're not concerned about what you're doing about your job. They want to know what you're doing about their job."
Mr. Dodd's ads talked about jobs and how he had helped people. They offered testimonials. They looked to the future. "Look, some people want to sit around and blame each other for our problems," he said in one. "I believe we must work together to put people back to work."
As Congress adjourned and Mr. Dodd came home to campaign, he broadcast ads comparing his record in Congress to Mr. Johnson's in business. Mr. Johnson had told reporters his business affairs were private.
Mr. Johnson prides himself on working his way to the top, and in person he has the regular-guy manner of the salesman he once was. But not being born to the manor, like the Connecticut patricians George Bush and Lowell P. Weicker Jr., he did not wear as well his badges of wealth: his millionaire status, a Greenwich address and a passion for polo.
The Dodd ads portrayed Mr. Johnson as an uncaring businessman while he was still trying to define himself to the public. In the next two weeks Mr. Johnson attained 93 percent recognition in Quinnipiac's polls, but the proportion of people viewing him favorably leveled off, while those viewing him unfavorably shot up.
Mr. Dodd's first important decision was to raise a big war chest, and the $3 million he amassed is a record for a Senate race in Connecticut. Only half is being spent on radio and television; the rest is for mailings, leaflets and other efforts by 2,000 volunteers.
Mr. Johnson is spending $2 million to $2.5 million, which is less than once predicted, and includes his spending on the primary. He is spending as much as Mr. Dodd on advertising, but it is much more of his budget.
 
Limits of an Outsider's Appeal
 To people watching the race, Mr. Johnson's struggle is evidence that the anti-politician appeal of businessmen like Mr. Perot has sharp limits if not supported by political skill.
This month the Institute of Social Inquiry at the University of Connecticut asked people who they thought could best address the nation's problems: a successful businessman with no political experience, or an experienced politician with no experience outside government. Fifty percent said the politician, and only 27 percent the businessman.
The challenge for a candidate like Mr. Johnson is compounded, said Dr. Renny Fulco, a professor of political science at Trinity College, when the opponent is well regarded.
"I don't think Chris Dodd is viewed as someone who doesn't work for Connecticut, so trying to make that case against him was not persuasive," she said. "If an incumbent has a good reputation, coming in and saying 'vote for me because I'm not a politician' doesn't work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Christopher J. Dodd, left, began using television commercials several weeks ago to criticize his Republican opponent, Brook Johnson. Mr. Dodd talked with Lauren Horbel, right, her father, Lex, and her sister, Clair, at a campaign stop last week at the Derby High School in Derby, Conn.; Brook Johnson, right, who is opposing Senator Dodd, says he is a businessman whose success proves his competence. He greeted factory workers last week at the Sikorsky Aircraft plant in Shelton, Conn. (Photographs by Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (76%); FAMILY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); 

PERSON: DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); JOHNSON, BROOK; JUDSON, GEORGE CHRISTOPHER DODD (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



38 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: An Old Shadow Dims Major's Path to Europe

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
As Prime Minister John Major digs in for what some describe as possibly his last stand, staking his political survival and the future of his Government on seeing the treaty on European union through Parliament this fall, a familiar shadow has fallen across Mr. Major's path.
It belongs to Margaret Thatcher, his predecessor as Prime Minister. Now Lady Thatcher, a Baroness and member of the House of Lords, she is an ardent skeptic of European union and, by common acclaim, the spiritual leader of the Tory rebels who are determined to block the ratification of Mr. Major's treaty at all costs. 
 In recent weeks Lady Thatcher has kept a relatively low profile while it seems nearly everyone else in Britain, including many members of Mr. Major's Conservative Party, have piled on the Prime Minister and his Government for its stumbling on the economy and the coal industry.
Critics of Mr. Major are bracing for a showdown over Europe next week. The Prime Minister is personally urging rebels within his own Conservative Party not to desert the Government in a motion in the House of Commons on Wednesday, which would commit Britain to a "leading role" in the development of the European Community.
With only a 21-seat majority in Parliament, Mr. Major must keep Tory waverers in line. The opposition Labor Party has already declared it will vote against the motion, asserting that it is a debate over confidence in the Prime Minister rather than Europe.
Aides at Downing Street suggest that Tory rebels loyal to Lady Thatcher are now as determined to weaken and thwart Mr. Major, as more moderate members of the Conservative Party were eager to force Mrs. Thatcher out as Prime Minister two years ago.
A week ago Downing Street went so far as to accuse opponents of European union as being the source of a specious article that appeared in The Times of London, describing the Prime Minister as a man riven by indecision, isolated from friends, surviving on junk food and dyeing his hair to disguise his wan appearance.
Then, last weekend, other reports began to appear suggesting that Mrs. Thatcher herself was waiting in the wings, poised to take center stage again if Mr. Major should stumble over Europe. The Sunday Times, in a front-page article, quoted unidentified friends and political allies of Lady Thatcher as saying she is ready and eager to return to Downing Street.
According to the article, supporters of Lady Thatcher are studying how to overcome any constitutional or legal barrier to her resuming office, since as a life peer and a member of the House of Lords she would be ineligible to head her party in the House of Commons.
Officials at Downing Street said they do not take such stories seriously, and neither do Lady Thatcher's own aides. "I would take all of this with a huge grain of salt," said Sir Charles Powell, her former national security adviser.
Lady Thatcher was unavailable for an interview but a spokeswoman for her was even more adamant than Sir Charles. "It's rubbish," she said. "There is absolutely no question of such a thing happening. She regards Downing Street as a closed chapter."
More important, there is a strong denial that Lady Thatcher herself is behind any mischief directed at Mr. Major. "A lot of people around her are trying to use her for their own purposes," an aide said. "She has no belief in a comeback, or delusions. She is being used a weapon against John Major by some of those in the Tory Party, but it is not her choosing and it is not something she is encouraging."
But there are suggestions that Lady Thatcher may be playing a more covert role. Last month, in the middle of the Tory Party conference in Brighton, she published an article in Paris repeating her concerns that the treaty on European union would compromise British sovereignty on the same day Mr. Major was to preside over a debate on the issue.
Instead of plotting a return to government, aides say, Lady Thatcher is hard at work on her memoirs and keeping up a busy travel and speaking schedule. She spent 10 days in the United States in September, and recently returned from a similar trip to Japan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (53%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E; MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN); THATCHER, MARGARET H MARGARET THATCHER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



39 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: On Sunday;
Fever Pitch: Democracy At Work

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP

 BODY:
FROM the Roman Catholic chapel in the Bergen Mall in Paramus, N.J., to O'Malley's Pub in Queens, from the bathrooms at Star Multicare Services in downtown (Democratic) Brooklyn, to the counter at the Sweet Shop in (Republican) Oyster Bay, L.I., there is a fever about this election, a mix of fear, excitement and tension unmatched in years.
"I hear it from the guy in the urinal next to me, in the subway, in deli lines," says Stephen Sternbach, president of Star Multicare. "Even my 6-year-old, there's so much bombardment on TV, he says, 'Dad, who's best for us?' " 
 This one feels big. If you ask when was the last time an election seemed this important, people often refer back to their youth, when Presidents strode the earth. "The last one that felt like this?" said William Puskas, age 66, who was heading in to pray at the chapel in the mall. "I was just a kid. Roosevelt's first."
"The last time I remember such tension, I was a kid," said Mr. Sternbach, 38. "When I went to bed, Nixon was ahead and when I woke up Kennedy had won. It felt like magic."
"Big? Yeah, you're going to see something happen," said Demo Scutakes, owner of the Sweet Shop in Oyster Bay. ("Democrats?" asked a waitress there. "I don't know any Democrats.") Mr. Scutakes pointed past a cup of black coffee. "The counter philosophers all believe this is a big one. At breakfast they sit around talking about stuff like term limits. Really. In the 40 years I've been here, I don't remember anything like it. Even when Carter beat Ford, I don't think they were stirred up like this." When a woman leaned over to her friend and whispered, "He wouldn't even allow abortions for someone raped," the waitress poked her head in: "Who? Who's that?"
No one could complain there wasn't enough information. "Last night I watched Larry King," said Martin Errick, owner of Oyster Bay Books. "I thought Clinton looked good. But this morning I had on a talk show with Bill Mazur and they were saying ----"
"I usually wake up and get the traffic report first," Mr. Sternbach said. "Now I'm flipping the morning shows, looking for the latest poll." At the start of the election it seemed undignified for a President to go on the "Today" program and by the end, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato was calling for the abolition of the Federal Communications Commission on the Howard Stern program.
The passionate feelings spring from many sources: Democrats have hope in their hearts for the first time in four national elections; Republicans are rallying to a serious threat; there's that merry quipster, Ross Perot, and deep fears about the economy. President Bush keeps saying the economy isn't that bad, but in this region, at least, even his supporters don't seem to agree. Harold Ellsworth, 24, who lives upstate in North Creek, says he would move to Canada if Bill Clinton won. But he also says, "Anyone who doesn't think the economy's bad isn't paying attention." After working many low paying jobs, he will enter the Air Force in January. "I enlisted mainly because of the economy. Maybe it'll be better when I get out, in four years."
Oyster Bay is one of the richer towns on Long Island, but Mr. Scutakes says Sweet Shop business is down 30 percent in a year. Mr. Errick, the bookstore owner across the street, says, "We had three people in yesterday asking if we buy books. I said I want to, but we have to sell some first." Confidence is shaken. Mr. Puskas, who lives in prosperous Bergen County, N.J., said: "I'm fortunate. I haven't lost my job. But my daughter did."
People are talking it out. "I don't know if I should say this," Mr. Sternbach said, "but for the first time, my wife and I are having intelligent conversations about something beside shopping."
At O'Malley's Pub on Queens Boulevard, the bartender, Pat O'Dea, just had to say, "I'm voting for Bush," and Pat Keating, at the end of the bar, attacked: "Why not give Clinton a chance?"
"This Clinton's a bad one for Social Security, Pat," said Mr. O'Dea.
"Who said that, Pat? said Mr. Keating.
"He's going to cut it back, Pat," said Mr. O'Dea.
"No he isn't, Pat."
"Yes he is, Pat."
"Pat, I saw it in the papers," said Mr. O'Dea.
"Do you believe everything you read in the papers?" said Mr. Keating.
"Hey, this guy writes for the paper," said Mr. O'Dea.
"I don't give a ----" said Mr. Keating. "You could write for the paper, Pat. Would you believe what you wrote?"
"Bush believes in God," said Pat O'Dea.
"Whose God?" said Pat Keating.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SWEET SHOP (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (74%); RELIGION (73%); CITIES (72%); TERM LIMITS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%); 

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



40 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: Pumping Along Till the Bubble Bursts

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Regarding "Just as in '87, a Split in Opinion" (Oct. 18), there must be a megaburst of cosmic rays in the fall equinox that shocks market players out of their manic state and into the real world. Or so it seemed in 1720 when the South Sea Bubble burst; also in 1929 as the roaring 20's climaxed, and again in 1987 as Merrill's bull, certified immortal by its handlers, dropped dead in living color on TV. 
 What turns a rational person into a Sisyphus doomed to push prices ever higher until they crash? One academic argues it's generational amnesia; another, crowd dementia, and Wall Street wits insist it's free-lunch hypochondria.
Little did Alan Greenspan know, as he reduced interest rates, that he wouldn't revive the economy but stampede Florida retirees out of certificates of deposit and into mutual funds. So now brokers earn big profits and thrifts are seized by the Government. That's by no means the only threat to this 1992 bull run. Here are a few more: the Fed's triple-bounce soft landing -- or worse. Deflating real estate. Ballooning deficits. Shaky dollars.
Yet, these caveats notwithstanding, who is to say the Dow can't jump over the moon? I certainly won't!
 
HENRY FOGEL
Lexington, Mass., Oct. 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); EARTH'S MOON (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); EARTH'S MOON (76%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); BONDS (74%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (73%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); MUTUAL FUNDS (53%); 

PERSON: FOGEL, HENRY ALAN GREENSPAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



41 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: About Those A.I.D. Charges . . .

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "How Washington Exports U.S. Jobs" (Forum, Oct. 18), Jack Sheinkman, president of the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, alleges that "A.I.D. programs are contributing to the deindustrialization of the American economy while preying on, and compounding the misery of, the people of the Caribbean." That charge is just plain wrong. 
 United States exports to the Central American region have grown from $30 billion in 1986 to a projected $80 billion this year, supporting more than one million United States jobs. With regard to the apparel industry specifically, United States exports to El Salvador have soared from $6 million in 1987 to $120 million this year. Exports to Honduras rose from $23 million in 1987 to more than $185 million this year.
The past 12 months have seen a net increase of 22,000 jobs in the United States apparel industry.
 
STEPHEN D. HAYES
Washington, Oct. 19
 
Stephen D. Hayes is director of the office of external affairs for the United States Agency for Intrnational Development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (92%); UNITE HERE (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (92%); UNITE HERE (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; APPAREL GARMENT WORKERS (91%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEXTILES (88%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: HAYES, STEPHEN D STEPHEN D HAYES WASHINGTON (75%); JACK SHEINKMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



42 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Things to Think About on Election Day

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "The Beauty of Indexing Capital Gains" (Viewpoints, Oct. 25), Theodore J. Forstmann, national co-chairman of the Bush-Quayle re-election campaign, reveals the Republicans' true economic agenda: to feather the nests of the wealthiest Americans. How else can you explain his clarion call to save America by indexing capital gains retroactively? 
 A good argument can indeed be made for prospective indexing; I've made it myself. Part of the argument is based on fairness, but the more powerful part is based on incentives: by not taxing the inflation component of capital gains, you raise the incentive to invest.
But no incentive can rewrite history. Past investments were made by rational investors in full knowledge of the tax laws prevailing at the time. By forgiving tax liabilities that have already accrued, but have not yet been paid, we would not make past investment any higher. But we would waste hundreds of billions of dollars of badly needed Government revenue. As a general principle, retroactive giveaways are a bad idea. But if we are to have them, why stuff the largesse into the deepest pockets rather than give it to the people who really need it?
Mr. Forstmann's example of the family grocery is valid, but disingenuous. Most of the $7 trillion in unrealized capital gains that he cites belongs to much richer folks. Voters should ponder this when they pull the lever on Tuesday.
 
ALAN S. BLINDER
Princeton, N.J., Oct. 26
 
The writer is a professor of economics at Princeton University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM) ELECTIONS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); WRITERS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: BLINDER, ALAN THEODORE FORSTMANN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



43 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 58; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SENATE RACE IN NEW YORK;
Simple Assertion, Complicated Realities

BYLINE: By TODD PURDUM

 BODY:
The race between State Attorney General Robert Abrams and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato held the prospect of offering voters a choice between two starkly different visions of government.
But the race has often turned on character attacks and half-stated truths, . and its most symbolic interchange may have been the one in which an exasperated Mr. Abrams labeled Mr. D'Amato a "fascist," and Mr. D'Amato responded with tears and commercials featuring an image of Benito Mussolini. A narrator in one ad said Mr. Abrams's reputation had been "stained and dishonored forever." 
 According to Edwin Diamond, author of "The Spot -- The Rise of Political Advertising on Television," Mr. D'Amato's vulnerable position in the polls drove his actions. "When you're behind, you make the decision to go early and often to negative," he said. "When you have an opponent who is somewhat of a blank slate like Abrams, you go on the attack to fill in the picture."
Yet Theodore J. Lowi, professor of government at Cornell University and a past president of the American Political Science Association, said it was Mr. Abrams, coming out of a Democratic primary filled with rough campaigning, who bore the larger share of the blame for getting the campaign off track.
The distortions and side issues have surfaced in several different forms, including the use of code words, from Mr. D'Amato's sneering references to his rival as "hopelessly liberal" and "a sissy" who "deserted his people" to Mr. Abrams's calling Mr. D'Amato a "bully" and likening his campaign tactics to the Nazi "big lie" technique. As they recur, such words and images take on a life of their own. The candidates have also relied on the unholy trinity once summed up by Mark Twain as "lies, damned lies and statistics."
 
ADDING IT UP: TAXES AND HEALTH INSURANCE
 
Claim: Mr. D'Amato contends that Mr. Abrams's support for a national health insurance system would increase Federal spending $570 billion a year, or 30 percent. He says this would require raising many taxes, including the personal income tax, which he says would "wipe out two million jobs in the first year." He says it would force the elderly to pay $278 more a year in Medicare premiums, and would "increase the taxable portion of Social Security benefits for millions of elderly people from 50 percent to 85 percent."
 
Facts: The assertions about taxes and spending are based on calculations by the staff of Bob Dole, the Senate Republican leader, in analyzing the health insurance plan proposed by Representative Marty Russo of Illinois, which Mr. Abrams supports. The estimate of lost jobs is a calculation by the Congressional Research Service, based on a 6 percentage point increase in the payroll tax, and assumes no other changes in economic policy. The problem is that Mr. Abrams does not back Mr. Russo's financing plan, and any estimate of the effects of a particular economic policy on employment is speculative.
 
Distortion: Mr. D'Amato repeatedly accuses Mr. Abrams of planning to raise taxes, without specifying the purpose, leaving it to Mr. Abrams to respond that money would be for health insurance. Mr. Abrams insists he would not raise personal income taxes but would rely on a 6.75 percentage point increase in the payroll tax (in lieu of the private insurance premiums now paid by employers). He would quadruple Federal taxes on cigarettes, to $1 a pack, and double them on hard liquor, to $8 a fifth (though not, as Mr. D'Amato claims, on beer or wine). He would raise the top corporate tax rate to 38 percent, from 34 percent.
 
Goal: Polls have repeatedly shown that Americans worry greatly about how to pay for health care. It has been a powerful issue in several races around the country and Mr. Abrams chose to make it a centerpiece of his campaign. Mr. D'Amato's tactic here is to block that appeal by scaring the daylights out of New Yorkers, especially the elderly, who make up a disproportionate share of the electorate. This attack has the advantage of being partly true -- Mr. Abrams does favor raising some taxes -- and partly unrebuttable, since no one can gauge for certain what the economy will do.
 
ARTFUL EXTRAPOLATION: JOBS AND MILITARY SPENDING
 
Claim: Mr. D'Amato says that Mr. Abrams's support for cutting military spending in half over the next five years would eliminate every defense-related job in the state, throwing 400,000 New Yorkers out of work and crippling the economy in many areas.
 
Facts: Mr. Abrams wants to cut military spending by $280 billion; Mr. D'Amato favors $85 billion in cuts. The D'Amato camp says its estimate of 400,000 jobs comes from combining an estimate from Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's office that there are 173,000 jobs in the state involving primary defense contracts, and a Defense Department estimate of 237,000 jobs among subcontractors and suppliers.
 
Distortion: The Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, counting only those companies with at least 50 percent of their output related to the military, calculates that there are only 47,000 defense-related jobs in the state. Moreover, Mr. Abrams favors tax credits of up to 20 percent for businesses that invest in plant modernization or conversion to civilian use.
 
Goal: Again, Mr. D'Amato seeks to frighten voters -- especially middle-class and blue-collar workers like those on his home turf on Long Island -- and persuade them that Mr. Abrams will hurt them. The attack also tars Mr. Abrams as soft on defense.
 
MUDDYING THE WATERS: FUND-RAISING AND PERSONAL ETHICS
 
Claim: The day after Mr. Abrams won the Democratic primary, Mr. D'Amato began harsh attacks on the Attorney General's integrity, claiming that he was guilty of a "fund-raising shakedown" and referring to a "shocking report" of the State Commission on Government Integrity, which he said faulted Mr. Abrams's fund-raising efforts as "implicitly coercive."
 
Facts: The commission did criticize Mr. Abrams in 1989 -- along with every other top state official -- for taking campaign contributions from people who had business pending with his office, and it said that his doing so created an appearance of conflict of interest. But none of his practices broke any laws, and he later voluntarily restricted some of them.
 
Distortion: Mr. D'Amato has implied that Mr. Abrams was singled out for criticism, when in fact the commission faulted the Governor and State Comptroller as well. One of the commission's members has since said that it would have criticized Mr. D'Amato most harshly of all, but did not have the authority to review the conduct of Federal officials.
 
Goal: Mr. D'Amato has faced years of investigations into his ethical conduct. In his attacks on Mr. Abrams, he tries to create the impression that Mr. Abrams is not without sin. But while Mr. D'Amato has repeatedly been accused of doing political favors for friends, relatives or contributors, no such direct allegations have been made against Mr. Abrams.
 
OBSCURING THE SOURCE: A QUESTION OF CREDIBILITY
 
Claim: In his latest television commercial, Mr. Abrams uses highly charged language and a picture of a banging gavel to accuse Mr. D'Amato of "another scandal" with phrases like "suspected perjury" and "serious allegations that Al D'Amato tried to obstruct a Federal grand jury, coaching a witness to lie."
 
Facts: This attack is based on recent news accounts that Federal prosecutors are looking into whether Mr. D'Amato tried to influence the testimony of a former Federal housing official in an investigation several years ago into Mr. D'Amato's role in awarding Federal housing contracts.
 
Distortion: Descriptions of the investigation are basically accurate, but fail to note that the source of the allegations is Arnold I. Biegen, a former fund-raiser for Mayor David N. Dinkins who recently pleaded guilty to fraud, embezzlement and tax evasion charges, and whose credibility has been questioned by investigators.
 
Goal: This charge resonates because Mr. D'Amato has been accused of various improprieties for years. After weeks of a cautious campaign strategy of stressing his own stands on the issues -- while also noting criticisms of the Senator -- this is Mr. Abrams's first all-out attack on Mr. D'Amato, reflecting the apparent closeness of the race.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); AMERICAN POLITICAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); AMERICAN POLITICAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); MEDICARE (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); AGING (63%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (61%); INCOME TAX (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); 

PERSON: ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); PURDUM, TODD S MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



44 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: A Referendum on New York's Debt

 BODY:
On Tuesday, New Yorkers will be asked to authorize $800 million in borrowing to pay for 390 construction projects around the state. Supporters say this measure would create jobs. In any case, the proposal proceeds from a sound premise. The state is starved for infrastructure spending.
The measure is open to question, however, for reasons of procedure. The list of recommended projects is long, and it was published only 10 days ago. That leaves too much to judge in too little time. 
 More than theory is at stake. New York State already has $21 billion in tax-supported debt. The standards for going even deeper into debt should be strict. Borrowing an additional $800 million would be responsible if the money went into worthwhile capital projects that stood a good chance of improving the economy.
Constructing a parking garage here or a street extension there would obviously create some temporary jobs. But unless the projects produced permanent jobs, the borrowing could backfire. The state would have to pay back more than it borrowed, because of interest. That would probably mean higher taxes, which in turn could hurt the state's economy by making it less competitive.
That's why the precise nature of the projects is so important. Regrettably, with so little time, they can't be examined with care. Nor is there much reason for voters to trust the way the project list was drawn up. Because Gov. Mario Cuomo needed the Legislature's approval to get his initiative on the ballot, lawmakers could exchange their votes for inclusion of their pet projects. Some horse-trading is inevitable, but it's impossible in the short time available to assess how many of the projects are legitimate capital needs.
Vincent Tese, the state's Director of Economic Development, describes the delay as unavoidable. The Legislature didn't give its O.K. until the summer, and then, say state officials, it took them until Oct. 23 to select from more than 1,000 applications. Mr. Tese and other officials strongly defend their choices and insist, though they have done only preliminary appraisals, that these projects will add permanent jobs. Perhaps so, but careful reviews aren't even scheduled to start until January.
To approve the bond measure now, voters would have to take on faith that the projects are economically feasible and that going further into debt represents the best way to finance them. Some voters, worried about the sagging economy, thus might support Proposal One. Regretfully, that's not a decision we can conscientiously recommend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR REFERENDUMS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); BONDS (75%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); BALLOTS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (54%); 

PERSON: MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



45 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Specifically, Bill Clinton;
The Campaign, Issue by Issue

 BODY:
The forest: Last Sunday we weighed President Bush's sensible stewardship of foreign affairs against domestic leadership so limp it has prompted the title President Noodle. Likewise, we weighed Gov. Bill Clinton's lack of national experience and a tendency to evasiveness against his program for growth and his devotion to civil rights and social harmony. In our judgment, the scales tip decisively in favor of Bill Clinton.
The trees: Such an overall assessment scants individual issues that also bear heavily on the choice for President. Here is an evaluation of the two candidates regarding such issues. Ross Perot will be appraised separately tomorrow.
 
Murderers, Age 12 and Under
 The horror mounts; ever-younger and ever-more volatile children commit murder with guns. A Northeastern University study reports that arrests of boys 12 and under for murder doubled between 1985 and 1991. What kind of society shrugs at such an evolving epidemic? 
 Mr. Bush, fearful of offending the gun lobby, resists even modest attempts to control handguns. Governor Clinton forthrightly endorses the Brady Bill, a measure to impose a national waiting period for handgun purchases and to ban assault weapons. That suggests he's receptive to still stronger reform, like universal gun registration and licensing.
 
Cities as Poorhouses
 Cities, magnets of opportunity, continue to socialize and educate poor migrants and immigrants -- serving in effect as poorhouses for the whole population. Washington has long recognized some duty to help -- if not for people in distress then at least for places in distress.
President Bush, having failed to recognize any such duty, now belatedly presses, in the wake of the Los Angeles riots, for tax breaks to urban enterprise zones and for other untargeted tax breaks. The zones deserve trial; the untargeted tax breaks deserve only scorn.
Governor Clinton, by contrast, would promote community development groups and development banks. More encouraging, he is committed to helping people in distress -- for instance by expanding Head Start for all disadvantaged children.
 
The Children Left Behind
 On the hottest educational issue of the day, school choice, the two candidates differ dramatically. Mr. Bush promotes choice, free-market style, at taxpayer expense. He would give lower-income families vouchers to spend at public, private or parochial schools. Mr. Clinton supports the idea of choice -- within public schools. That maintains public responsibility for the children from the most troubled homes who need attention most.
 
Energy for the Environment
 Mr. Bush, self-styled environment President, did far better his first two years. After winning a strong Clean Air Act, for instance, he lapsed into infuriating opportunism. He came close to reneging on his pledge that there be no net loss of wetlands, and may yet do so. His minions have undercut the Clean Air Act in the regulatory process. And his attitude toward the Rio conference was governed by short-term political fears that trashed what could have been a public-relations success.
It's hard, nonetheless, to make a strong environmental case for Mr. Clinton, whose Arkansas record is mixed. He opposes drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge that Mr. Bush supports. Mr. Clinton's position conforms to the wise course, to seek energy through efficiency and conservation.
 
Right to Life: Whose?
 The Bush Administration's opposition to abortion rights has had profound indirect consequences, for the seriously ill and for women all over the world. Fetal tissue, for instance, can play a vital role in facilitating research on Parkinson's disease, Huntington's chorea, childhood diabetes, even Alzheimer's disease and cancer.
But the Bush Administration has banned the use of Federal funds for such research. And Congress, frustrated by Administration opposition, was impelled to strip a provision to give $20 million to the U.N. Population Fund.
 
Investment in Growth: Whose?
 In this increasingly global economy, U.S. living standards will rise in the 21st century only to the extent that America trains unskilled workers to use advanced equipment. The President and Governor Clinton both know that most such equipment must come from private investment.
But Mr. Clinton goes two visionary steps further. He proposes an immense $20 billion a year in public investment on infrastructure projects as a way to make private capital more productive. And he would spend heavily to train workers, and not just the dislocated and unemployed.
If the election is to turn on a single issue, this is the right one -- training and public investment. As President, Bill Clinton might end up doing only a fraction of what he promises. But what he promises is plausible, challenging and even inspirational.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; EDITORIALS; ENDORSEMENTS GUN CONTROL (93%); FIREARMS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); SCHOOL CHOICE (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (69%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); FAMILY (69%); RIOTS (68%); LOBBYING (67%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (66%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (62%); WETLANDS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



46 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
George, Bill and Millie

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
Reaching new heights of eloquence in describing Bill Clinton and Al Gore, President Bush declared that "my dog Millie knows more about foreign affairs than these two bozos." Whether Millie's command of Mr. Bush's specialty surpasses that of the two Democratic contenders remains to be seen. Their record is yet too slender to render a final bozo balance sheet. Mr. Bush's record, however, is ample.
Now, one does not lightly go about calling Presidents bozos. But by slapping the bozo label onto a man who might be elected President in two days, Mr. Bush has broken the bozo barrier -- and has invited measurement by that same exacting standard. 
 Unquestionably, Mr. Bush skillfully supported Mikhail Gorbachev in the dissolution of the Soviet empire and Helmut Kohl in forging German unification. He beautifully corralled Arabs and Israelis into direct negotiations and pushed for freer trade agreements. Above all, he brilliantly stitched together the alliance against Saddam Hussein.
These represent considerable statecraft. Most of his other actions abroad approach or cross the line into bozocraft.
Mr. Bush's denials notwithstanding, there is substantial evidence that he knew -- and approved of -- President Reagan's efforts to trade arms to Iran for the release of American hostages. In other words, Vice President Bush thought it made sense to let Teheran know that it could acquire more U.S. weapons simply by kidnapping more Americans in Lebanon. Was this a mere mistake or bozocraft?
President Bush provided billions of dollars in credits and technology with military uses to Saddam until only months before the invasion of Kuwait. He did so despite knowing that Saddam had employed poison gas against the Kurds, still backed terrorists and was pushing ahead with secret programs to develop nuclear weapons. Was this a reasonable policy to bring Saddam "into the family of nations" or bozocraft?
In late August 1990, Saddam deployed more than 100,000 troops to the Kuwait border. Never once in that time did Mr. Bush tell Saddam -- or even hint to him -- that the U.S. would react to an Iraqi attack with U.S. force. Never once. Indeed, on the day before the invasion, the White House opposed legislation to stop further credits for Iraq. Was Mr. Bush understandably blinded by Arab assessments of Saddam's peaceful intentions or was he caught in the web of his own bozocraft?
In July 1989, only weeks after Chinese dictators had democratic dissidents shot down in Tiananmen Square, Mr. Bush secretly dispatched Brent Scowcroft, his national security adviser, to Beijing. The idea was to reassure Beijing's leaders of the President's affections despite the harsh American words about that unfortunate event. Was that trip a clever display of realpolitik or totally insensitive bozocraft?
More than a year ago, Mr. Bush told leaders of an imploding Yugoslavia that the U.S. wanted to keep that country whole. Serb leaders took this as license to use force against breakaway republics. An excusable miscalculation or bozocraft?
Serbs and Croats have been massacring Bosnian Muslims for almost a year. Mr. Bush and his Eurofriends have been feeding the dying victims, but reject even the most limited military steps to defend them, like arming them. Prudent restraint on Mr. Bush's part to avoid another Vietnam -- or phony excuses from bozos who fail to understand the elemental need for humanitarian intervention in any new world order?
After an inexplicably long delay, Mr. Bush offered a hastily drawn plan to assist reform in the ex-Soviet republics. Then, as seems to be his pattern, he ignored the situation -- as the Russian economy collapsed and dangerous right-wingers gained the upper hand on Boris Yeltsin and the reformers, imperiling the dismantling of thousands of nuclear weapons. The distractions of campaigning or a bozo-like carelessness about the centrality of a peaceful Russia in a new world order?
These and other policy flops raise profound doubts about Mr. Bush's reputation for masterly statecraft. They suggest, rather, an arrogant disregard for complexities, a blindness toward new world politics, a bozocraftiness. Now, Mr. Bush says he wants to bring those same attributes to the solution of America's problems at home. Watch your wallet, Millie.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); CHINA (85%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); LEBANON (79%); GERMANY (72%); IRAN (55%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (85%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (66%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (55%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); CHINA (85%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); LEBANON (79%); GERMANY (72%); IRAN (55%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (85%); BEIJING, CHINA (66%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); TERRORISM (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); AL GORE (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



47 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Public & Private;
Out of the Kitchen

BYLINE: By ANNA QUINDLEN

 BODY:
In the beginning was the word on the street, and the word was that people were hungry. That was 10 years ago. Holy Apostles Soup Kitchen in New York City served 35 lunches the first day. By the end of the week, it was 60. And when it recently commemorated -- not celebrated, never celebrated -- its 10th anniversary, it was preparing to serve its two millionth meal.
Most days a thousand hungry men, women and children rotate through 69 seats in a small, bright room in the church annex. About eight minutes chow time per person. "Eat It and Beat It" is the diners' motto. 
 This endless Presidential campaign has focused on the middle class, the disappointments of people who feel the rungs of the upward-mobility ladder splintering beneath their feet. While President Bush continues to beat his economic recovery drum, there is this bit of bitter poetic justice from the capital: If Bill Clinton wins, Bush Administration functionaries are expected to have a tough time finding private-sector jobs because the market is so bad.
The forgotten middle class, we say, but the truth is that it's the poor who get overlooked. They have been shadows in this race: the hungry, the homeless, the hopeless. The Census Bureau says that last year 7.7 million families were living below the poverty threshold, which is defined as a family of four getting by on something under $14,000 a year. Almost 36 million people in all. New York City times five.
That's a big number. But it's the small programs that do the most good. Individual. Community based. Government should cut the red tape, hand over the money and stand back. Someone like Jimmy Novack, who stood on bread lines during the Depression, worked for Con Edison for 35 years before his retirement, and now works as chief volunteer at the Holy Apostles Soup Kitchen, has the human touch. Nothing beats it.
The guests are younger than they were when the kitchen first opened, more 35 than 55. Quite a few are H.I.V. positive. Some get in line for lunch at 8 A.M. They don't like beets or prunes, a clear indicator that they're not crazy. For most, what they eat at the church is their only real meal of the day. Drawn on a graph, their numbers look like the Matterhorn: 390 a day in 1983, 560 in 1984, 890 in 1988. Up and up and up through the Reagan-Bush years.
I could talk about polls and strategy today, but in a week none of it will mean anything. The election will be over and the soup kitchen will still be serving a thousand people fish cakes and carrots. I don't know who will win Tuesday. But I can tell you that he needs to wage a new war on poverty.
A weary middle class may not want to hear that. But middle-class Americans will never be truly secure otherwise. The cities in which they work will still be choked with the homeless and the trains on which they ride pocked with panhandlers. Crime will continue to rise and neighborhoods disintegrate. When they pass a line like the one that curls round Holy Apostles each morning, they know that something is wrong with their country.
But, as important, they have come to believe in their hearts that something is wrong with them. You can feel in this election a thirst for something to elevate us, to make us feel like good people again. The next great President of this country will be the one who slakes that thirst, who makes people believe that it's what you can do for your country, and not the other way around.
"This nation has to tap into people's willingness to stretch beyond themselves," the Rev. William A. Greenlaw, rector at Holy Apostles, said at the soup kitchen's anniversary. That's what the volunteers there have done. While we bemoan the loss of small towns and extended families, they have created both in this unwieldy city, among their fellow volunteers and the people they serve. They are part of the solution, and it has fed their souls.
Ten years from now Holy Apostles wants to be out of business. The people who run the soup kitchen never thought they'd be around this long. The Berlin wall fell. The Soviet Union broke up. The President who can say that the soup kitchens and the shelters closed for lack of need during his stewardship will have to his credit a great accomplishment. If he does this for the neediest of our brethren, he will have done it for all of us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (53%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (87%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); CENSUS (53%); 

PERSON: QUINDLEN, ANNA RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



48 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Mass Mailings;
Fliers: Stealth Messages Zero In on Their Targets

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
To citizens who think they have steeled themselves against political assaults from their televisions, beware the reinforcements approaching on another front: their mailboxes.
In Ohio, the state Republican Party is blanketing households with a flier that warns: "What 'Clintonomics' will do to Ohio: Total Ohio Jobs Lost: 384,170. Ohio Can't Afford Bill Clinton." The leaflet contends that 282,636 of those jobs would fall victim to a "Clinton carbon tax." But the premise is false because Mr. Clinton has never proposed a carbon tax, though Senator Al Gore advocated one in his book "Earth in the Balance." 
 In New York, the state Democratic Party is sending out a flier that features not its own slate but photos of President Bush, Vice President Dan Quayle and Senator Alfonse D'Amato with the bold headline, "There's only one thing more frightening than these men controlling the Government." Inside it continues, "These men controlling your body." The flier goes on to say that the Democratic ticket favors abortion rights.
The messages from ideological groups, usually conservative ones, are more sinister. In one letter, the Conservative Campaign Fund warns in page after page that Hillary Clinton is "a radical feminist who has little use for traditional values or even the family unit." It also plays on racial differences, saying that if Governor Clinton wins, Jesse Jackson will claim that "black voters provided the margin of victory."
 
Mail Besieges Voters
 In the days before they vote, millions of Americans are being besieged by leaflets, mailgrams and urgent pleas giving them reasons to vote, or more often, not to vote, for particular Presidential and local candidates.
It is called "persuasion mail," but these messages sometimes stray from the truth and often are intended more as conduits of fear than constructive argument.
In 11th-hour appeals this weekend, the messages are popping up with most frequency in the most contested states. Prime targets are so-called Reagan Democrats who are torn about who to vote for this year.
Mailings are far less costly than television commercials and allow campaigns to tailor their messages to a precise voting group, often down to the zip code or age group. And the mails are well-suited for stealth political warfare: unlike television ads, the opponents and the press often never find out about mailings. Or, if they do, it is too late to rebut them.
 
'Like a Water Moccasin'
 "Direct mail is like a water moccasin," said Roger Carver, a Democratic direct-mail specialist. "It's silent and it's deadly and you only see it after the fact."
In most elections, there is a mix of persuasion mail, to urge fence-sitting voters to favor a particular candidate, and mail designed to simply get people to the polls. But both Republicans and Democrats say there is a more emphasis on persuasion mail this year because the electorate has been so volatile, with many voters still undecided.
Although the Democrats' mail campaigns are more aggressive this year than in the past, the Republicans still seem to be the masters at painting menacing portraits of their opponents.
Voters in Georgia, for instance, are getting leaflets that feature a military uniform and these not-so-subtle words that play on Mr. Clinton's draft history: "Bill Clinton has finally decided he'd like to serve his country."
 
'Sin Against God'
And in one of the harshest attacks, a coalition of Christian conservatives is warning voters around the country that "to vote for Bill Clinton is to sin against God."
Mailings, like radio ads, can carry particularly sinister messages but can be hard to trace. But mail campaigns can select their recipients with more precision than radio and inundate them with information.
Karl Rove, a Republican consultant in Austin, Tex., working for the Bush campaign, said he is sending fliers that emphasize agriculture to South Dakota and Iowa, and fliers that deal more with the military and the economy to states like New Mexico and Illinois.
"People are so skeptical about any negative attack that if we do a negative piece in the mail we can footnote it, we can cite the sources," said Hal Malchow, a consultant here who works for the Democrats. "So it's a more credible form of negative campaigning."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (81%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (81%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); ABORTION (52%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



49 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1862 words

HEADLINE: 6 Months After Riots, Los Angeles Still Bleeds

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Six months after the burning and looting that swept Los Angeles last spring, Joe Chiu has still not rebuilt his gutted meat market in Koreatown or his grocery in Long Beach. The Federal Small Business Administration has approved his $500,000 loan, but his contractors have been turned down for building permits at least three times because city building rules are much stricter now than when he opened 27 years ago.
"They won't meet you halfway," said Mr. Chiu, who is president of an association for Chinese-American riot victims. "The money is there, but there's been no real effort." 
 He is not alone in his frustration over the recovery. A few days after the fires died, President Bush stepped through the burned rubble, offered an "action agenda" on urban needs and told local black youths that the government had "an absolute responsibility to solve these problems." From the Democrats, there were pledges of bipartisan support.
Half a year later, that promise is already lost. Mr. Bush plans to veto the bill that includes two major elements of his plan, enterprise zones to entice new industry to impoverished neighborhoods like South-Central Los Angeles, and $38 million in tax credits to encourage low-income housing. He complained that Congress had loaded down the bill with new taxes and other measures that made it unacceptable.
The veto will be another disappointment to those who hoped the national outpouring of concern over the days of arson, looting and killing would finally bring official attention to neglected areas like South-Central Los Angeles, something more than the trail of forgotten vows left after the Watts riots a generation ago.
 
Momentum Gained, Then Squandered
 Six months after the eruption that left 51 dead and $1 billion in damage, government agencies have moved with varying degrees of success to help individual victims of the violence. But no leader has been able to harness the outpouring of goodwill and community energy that followed the riots and articulate a long-range strategy to solve the problems that produced them.
"We clearly had the attention of government and political leaders," said Denise G. Fairchild, a community organizer who is director of the local office of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, a nonprofit group that seeks to encourage private investment in low-income housing. "One after another they came marching through the city, including Presidential candidates, and talked about urban aid packages. All of that is lost. What we've seen is a flagrant disregard for the lives of people in the inner city."
The urgency has been underscored in recent days by racial confrontations that have threatened to explode into violence at North Hollywood, Hamilton and other high schools in recent days.
Against this backdrop of economic and social disorder, the region has been plunged into a leadership limbo. Mayor Tom Bradley has announced his retirement, but his successor will not be elected for another year; a new district attorney will be elected Tuesday, along with two new county supervisors. There is a new Police Chief and new Superintendent of Schools. Rebuild L.A., the private entity designated by Mr. Bradley to lead the economic recovery, says that 500 companies will invest $1 billion in the affected areas over the next two years, but it remains hobbled by factionalism and uncertainty of purpose.
"The leadership we need has yet to emerge," said Oscar Wright, a native of South-Central Los Angeles who is regional administrator of the Federal Small Business Administration. "Mayor Bradley has done all that he can, and his absence will create even more of a void. He provided the glue that held this city together. But demographics have changed, so we'll need a mayor who will not just rebuild L.A. but redefine it. There's gloom and desperation out there so thick you can cut it with a knife."
 
What $1.35 Billion Means in Reality
 This is not to say that nothing has been done. Voters have approved a measure limiting the Police Chief's term and bringing the office under tighter control of the Mayor and City Council. The new Chief, Willie Williams, has begun imposing "community based" policing to help erase the department's image as remote and racist. On Tuesday residents will vote on two measures to raise money for 1,000 new officers and to modernize police communications.
The Federal Government has allotted $1.35 billion to Los Angeles riot recovery. So far $251 million has been distributed for a wide array of programs -- from 9,000 extra summer jobs for teen-agers to housing assistance for 2,096 victims to the beginnings of the "weed and seed" program, meant to rid neighborhoods of crime and to establish medical and school programs aimed at the young.
But the Federal impact on recovery is not as great as the figures suggest. Of $300 million for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or F.E.M.A., more than two-thirds ($218 million) is going to the state and county to help pay for National Guard, state police, debris removal and other immediate riot-control expenses. That leaves only $82 million to help families with rent and temporary housing, and only $19 million of that has actually been spent.
Of the $1.35 billion total, nearly half ($600 million) is in low-interest loans made available to banks by the Federal Home Loan Bank system to finance low-income housing and commercial development. Deputy Mayor Linda Griego says it is not clear how this money can be obtained. Only $23 million has so far been used.
"These things are out there," said David J. Beightol, executive director of the Presidential Task Force on Los Angeles Recovery, who was designated by the White House to coordinate Federal efforts. "People have to take advantage of it. That's the way these government services work."
 
Why the Promises Are Hard to Keep
 Out of this has come considerable frustration. "It would be very, very difficult to find any program that was delivered on," said Roger Cardinal Mahony, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles. "All these high-profile promises of the first week were either not deliverable or translatable to people on the street."
And the failure of legislation in both Washington and Sacramento, the state capital, has frustrated Peter V. Ueberroth, the businessman selected by Mayor Bradley to lead Rebuild L.A. "The Federal Government legislatively will not have done one thing since the riot in April," he told the organization's 80-member board on Wednesday, adding that there would have been far more corporate commitments if Federal incentives had been in place. State government has not helped much either, he complained, saying, "There have been a lot of hearings, a lot of people arguing about territory, but nothing happened."
But it is not clear just how much government can do in this economic climate. "With a recession verging on depression in Southern California, what is it reasonable to expect of government?" asked Jane Pisano, dean of the School of Public Administration at the University of Southern California and former president of L.A. 2000, appointed by Mayor Bradley several years ago to develop a strategic plan for the city.
She added that it was reasonable to expect a "clearly articulated" vision to mobilize people and an effort to minimize bureaucratic obstacles. "Government is going about the maintenance task, the hundred and one itty-bitty things, without saying: 'Wait a second -- we have limited resources. We must think in fundamentally new ways of how we spend our time,' " she said.
 
Trying to Sort Out Real From Phony
 On the individual level, the recovery efforts have been hampered by a clash of cultures -- Asian, black, Hispanic, white -- in which inner-city residents and business people take part in an underground economy that often skirts tax laws and other regulations. It does not fit easily into the framework of rules imposed by Washington.
Fewer than half the applications for F.E.M.A. help have been approved, and there have been conflicts between owners of burned-out businesses and the Small Business Administration. The applicants say the agencies have been slow and unresponsive, unwilling or unable to bend rules to accommodate the circumstances.
"We are completely disgusted with the dismal record of F.E.M.A.," said Paul E. Lee, litigation director at the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles. "It is not clear if any actual assistance has been given to the people who need it the most."
Federal officials reply that they have been plagued by dubious or fraudulent claims. There was the real-estate broker in Beverly Hills who wanted F.E.M.A. to pay her $11,000-a-month mortgage on the ground that the riots scared away clients, and the owner of a video dating service who had sold his business before the riots but nevertheless claimed that he lost customers.
In some cases, said Mr. Beightol of the Presidential Task Force, applicants have applied both to F.E.M.A. claiming poverty (to qualify for rent grants) and to the S.B.A. claiming considerable resources (to qualify for business loans). Often, there are no tax records, since taxes were never paid. "If you are not paying taxes, it is pretty hard to come back and ask the system to support you," Mr. Beightol said.
F.E.M.A. has denied 3,703 of 6,667 applications, or 55 percent. Lorri L. Jean, the agency's deputy regional director, conceded that such a denial rate looked bad but added, "We're doing our best, but these advocacy groups won't be happy unless F.E.M.A. workers stand on street corners handing out money based on nothing more than people's word."
Los Angeles is also an early laboratory for the Government's new "weed and seed" program, which plans to spend $19 million here, though some local agencies have refused to take part because it requires them to submit to oversight from the Justice Department.
The Watts Health Foundation has taken a share to send a medical van to the new Paradise Market at Broadway and 52d Street, where a large, bright-green tent festooned with flags sits atop rows of orange and yellow stalls selling Nigerian blouses, Mexican skirts, food, drink and toys.
"We're involved in the seed portion," said Dr. Clyde W. Oden, president of the foundation, which provides free health care in the market five days a week. "We've developed the concept of mobile medical technology for the past five years. But prior to the rebellion, we did not have these kinds of resources available. What we envisaged was to take a physician's office and put it on wheels."
But if government has spawned such efforts, it has failed to mobilize the larger community, to bring together a city that is often defeated by a vast geography that separates people and cultures. "What has fallen away is the engagement of folks outside the community," said Terri Jones of the California Community Foundation, which supports local cultural and community activities. "Corporate and suburban L.A. is going back to business as usual and leaving South-Central to take care of its own problems. Maybe expectations were too high to begin with."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A passing motorist on Thursday placed a bouquet of flowers on the road at the intersection of Florence and Normandie Avenues in South-Central Los Angeles, where the violence began six months ago; Six months after the violence in Los Angeles that left 53 dead, no one has come up with a plan to solve the problems that produced the riots. This mural in South-Central Los Angeles was painted after the riots. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; RACIAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (IN US); FEDERAL AID (US); VETOES (US) MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); RIOTS (90%); VETO (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (87%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ARSON (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); BUILDING PERMITS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); TAX LAW (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



50 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Looking Ahead;
Clinton Could Claim a Mandate, but It Might Be Hard to Define

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
 If Bill Clinton is elected President on Tuesday, he will doubtless claim a mandate from the voters. But in this season of voter discontent, what exactly would that mean?
"There will be a mandate to act," said Sandy Maisel, a political scientist at Colby College in Maine. "It is not clear what action. Just action. There is this pent-up desire simply to do something." 
 There is no consensus that such a mandate would be enough to win approval of the bold policies that Mr. Clinton has promised in job creation, universal health insurance, taxes, public works spending and student aid.
Many authorities side with Joel H. Silbey, a historian at Cornell University, who holds that Presidents create their own mandates independent of their election campaigns. "Once you're elected, you're President," Professor Silbey said. "Successful Presidents are those who read that the fact that they won is enough to do everything they want."
 
Desire in Congress
 That was certainly true of Abraham Lincoln and Franklin D. Roosevelt. Lincoln won less than 40 percent of the vote in a four-way race in 1860, and Roosevelt gave little indication in the 1932 campaign of the New Deal policies he pursued immediately on taking office.
And Mr. Clinton's position would be strengthened by the apparent desire of Democrats in Congress to work with a Democratic President.
Mr. Clinton himself has carefully avoided talking about what his mandate might be. His staff said he does not want to appear overconfident.
But the prevailing view now is that Mr. Clinton, if he wins, will have a harder time rallying Congress and the public than would be the case if he had been more specific in the campaign about what he wanted to do as President.
His campaign themes have often been contradictory. He favors stimulating the economy and cutting the budget deficit. He wants to provide universal health insurance and lower the Government's medical bills. He wants the United States to be the leader in world affairs, but he proposes reducing the American military presence abroad. He advocates protecting American jobs, but he says he also supports free trade and strict environmental regulations.
 
Call for a Plan Early
 "There's a mandate for change, but not a mandate for a program," said Harry C. McPherson Jr., who was White House counsel under President Lyndon B. Johnson. Mr. Clinton, Mr. McPherson said, "has got to put together a program pretty quickly that will win the assent of the American people."
In the last 30 years or so, the most successful chief executives in attaining their goals, Johnson and Ronald Reagan, were also the ones who had been most specific in their campaigns about what they hoped to accomplish in the White House.
"If you voted for Johnson," Mr. McPherson said, "you knew you were going to get a civil rights law, Medicare, aid to education. You knew you were going to get what came to be called the Great Society."
Similarly, Mr. Reagan left no doubt that he intended to cut taxes, trim the welfare state and beef up the military.
Both had their greatest successes in the first year after their elections, when their campaigns and their sizable electoral majorities were fixed in the minds of Congress and the public.
On the other hand, Presidents like George Bush and Jimmy Carter, who ran less programmatic campaigns, were less successful in getting their policies adopted after they were elected. Mr. Carter's principal theme, in the aftermath of Watergate, was that he would run an honest Government. Mr. Bush's main precept four years ago was that he would continue on Mr. Reagan's course.
In this respect, Mr. Clinton's campaign has been more like the Bush and Carter campaigns than like the Johnson and Reagan ones. But the campaign it resembles most is John F. Kennedy's.
Like Mr. Clinton, Kennedy's main argument in 1960 was that the country needed a more active President after years of rather passive Republican rule. But for all the changes in tone and style he brought to Washington, Kennedy actually accomplished relatively little of substance in his nearly three years in office.
"Kennedy had very little leverage," wrote Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian and Kennedy biographer. He had been elected "by the slimmest of margins; no one could possibly claim his victory as a mandate for change."
In the same vein, Stuart E. Eizenstat, a top policy adviser in the Carter White House, said Mr. Carter's lack of a clear mandate was a drawback. "Mandates do make a big difference," Mr. Eizenstat said. "They give you the only real legitimacy you have to try to impose your priorities on Congress and your own executive branch."
 
Congress on His Side
 Despite the nature of his campaign, Mr. Clinton would have an advantage in the White House that Presidents Kennedy, Carter and Bush did not enjoy: Congress should be enthusiastically on his side.
Congress in the Kennedy and Carter years, though controlled by Democrats, was antagonistic toward the President. In the case of Kennedy, it was because the Southern Democrats who dominated Congress had little use for the Administration's programs. In the case of Carter, it was a combination of the arrogance of Congressional leaders and the contempt the White House showed toward the lawmakers. Mr. Bush faced the largest opposition in Congress of any new President ever elected.
But now, after 12 years of Republican rule, Democrats are expected to control the Senate and House with strong majorities, and these lawmakers say they are dying to follow the lead of a Democratic President.
"We very much want a Democrat to succeed," said Senator Jim Sasser of Tennessee. "The mind set is that we've got to move forward while we can and prove that a Democratic Congress can succeed."
Representative Robert T. Matsui of California said that Democrats shaken by the anti-incumbent fever that seemed to sweep the country early this year would be determined, if re-elected, to prove to the voters that they could be productive.
"It is in our own self-interest to make this Democratic President look good," Mr. Matsui said. It did not go unnoticed on Capitol Hill, he added, that Mr. Clinton spent time and money recently campaigning in states like California, Washington and Oregon, where he seems to have insurmountable leads but where Democratic candidates for the House and Senate are in close races and can benefit by his appearances.
Still, the success of Presidents is generally measured by their actions, not their ideas, and lawmakers and scholars alike agree that Mr. Clinton would have to move swiftly to develop specific legislative solutions to the country's economic and social problems that he maintains have festered under Mr. Bush.
"Clinton must stop just saying, 'I'm not George Bush,' and begin defining exactly what the future is," said Donald F. Kettl, a political scientist at the University of Wisconsin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MAINE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); APPROVALS (70%); HISTORY (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



51 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Ronald Reagan;
Vintage Reagan Stumps in South

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SMYRNA, Ga., Oct. 31

 BODY:
Speaking shortly before Bill Clinton held a rally on the other side of Atlanta, Ronald Reagan offered an artful blend of nostalgia, theater and politics as he campaigned on behalf of President Bush in this Southern battleground state today.
"I know today is Halloween, a time for ghosts and goblins and other scary things," Mr. Reagan told a small but adoring crowd of perhaps 1,500 people at a suburban amphiteater just outside Atlanta. "But this year be on the lookout for a couple of tricksters who have been on the prowl for months. They may have the best costumes we've seen in in a while, but under those masks are a couple of tax-and-spenders who will scare the daylights out of your pocketbooks." 
 Reprising many of the themes he offered at the Republican National Convention in Houston, the former President defended the achievements of 12 years of Republican control of the White House and attacked Mr. Clinton in remarks that left Mr. Reagan wrapped not only in the American flag, but also in the banner of the popular Atlanta Braves. The trip here was part of a weekend of campaigning by the former President on behalf of his successor.
Mr. Reagan's spirited but relatively genial remarks followed several more heated ones reflecting the anything-goes, white-hot attacks on Mr. Clinton's character, particularly in the conservative South.
 
The Press vs. the Bible
 Daniel Becker, a Republican candidate for Congress in Georgia's Ninth Congressional District, contrasted the press with the Bible in his attacks on Mr. Clinton. While the mainstream news media are touting the Arkansas Governor as the next President, Mr. Becker said, "What my journal calls him" is "a rebellious, philandering, fornicating, adulterating liar."
He added, to loud applause, "My publication doesn't say he's going to the White House, it says he's going to hell."
Mr. Reagan spoke after an airplane circled overhead with the message, "Win One For The Gipper," and after Newt Gingrich, the House Republican whip, introduced him as "the man who changed history."
Seizing on a Commerce Department report on Tuesday showing that the economy grew at a rate of 2.7 percent in the third quarter, Mr. Reagan derided what he described as the Democrats' overly gloomy economic outlook.
"Today we hear the despairing voice of the Doomsday Democrats who gave us the turmoil of the 1960's and the malaise of the 1970's," he said. "To hear the Democratic politicians, things are so bad that down at McDonald's even the Happy Meals are depressed."
 
Reagan-Bush Era Praised
 Much of the speech was a defense of what he said happened "on our watch." He cited a revitalized military, lower inflation and interest rates and the end of the cold war as part of an effort to cast support for the President in the broad sweep of the Reagan-Bush era.
And, in terms less harsh than the earlier speakers and Mr. Bush himself, he cast Mr. Clinton as an unacceptable alternative. "We simply can't afford to put an inexperienced fellow in the White House, particularly one with a dismal track record as a small-state Governor," he said.
In the end, Mr. Reagan stood in front of an American flag backdrop with Francisco Cabrera, whose pinch-hit single put the Atlanta Braves into the World Series. The Braves' unlikely hero gave Mr. Reagan a bat. The former President signed a baseball for him, and the flag-waving crowd did the Braves' tomahawk chop in a made-for-television finale.
Despite, the modest turnout, most of those on hand clearly still view Mr. Reagan with awe. "He's been my idol since I've been 5 years old," said Adam Cathey, an 18-year-old from nearby Powder Springs, who said he planned to cast his first vote for Mr. Bush.
Republicans said they hoped Mr. Reagan's appearance would provide a lift to Mr. Bush in this fiercely contested state. At the least, it gave the Republicans an attractive offering to local television stations to compete with Mr. Clinton, whose Brave-for-the-day was the home run king Hank Aaron.
"It was vintage Reagan," said an admiring Paul Coverdell, the Republican Senate candidate who is running against the Democratic incumbent, Wyche Fowler Jr.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GEORGIA UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); HALLOWEEN (72%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INFLATION (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



52 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Voters;
A Handful of Midwest Fence-Sitters Climb Down to Say, 'Oh, O.K., Him'

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 31

 BODY:
They watched the debates and the "info-mercials," heard the zingers and sound bites and have had enough of Iraqgate, family values and the character question.
For undecided voters looking for a prince but finding they must settle for a politician, the choice has come down to a patrician President whom they see as out of touch, a smooth-talking Governor who they fear is promising more than he can deliver, and a likable but somewhat paranoid businessman who they think could be a dictator. 
 (Translation: President Bush, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas and Ross Perot of Texas.)
A group of Midwestern voters who were undecided when they were interviewed by The New York Times earlier in the campaign were revisited in the last two days. Many are people who have flirted with and spurned all three candidates over the months, and now there is yearning in their voices.
 
Warts on Them All
 "None of them have impressed me," said Jerry Dunn, a sales representative in Rockford, Ill. "None of them have pinpointed what they are going to do. Bush doesn't seem like he will cooperate with Congress. Clinton says he's going to do a lot but doesn't realize all there is to do. Ross Perot lost credibility when he dropped out."
Mr. Dunn was not finished. He had not come to the part about the candidates' proposals, which he does not like any more than he likes the candidates.
"Those plans are junk," he said. "They have no idea what they're talking about. They're not in the trenches. They're not out here to see us getting laid off and people getting divorced because they're not making money. They are out of touch with reality. If you put them in a gunny sack and shook them up, they'd all be the same."
It seems as true in politics as it is in romance that you always want what you cannot have. Mr. Dunn still wants Paul E. Tsongas, the former Massachusetts Senator.
Many voters who have remained undecided are Democrats who were lured out of their party by Ronald Reagan, then stayed with George Bush in 1988. Now these Reagan Democrats are looking homeward, not so much out of party devotion but because they feel the Republicans have let them down.
They started out torn between Mr. Clinton, Mr. Tsongas and the other politicians seeking the Democratic nomination. They were riven by the "character" questions hurled at Mr. Clinton, thought they had found a savior in Mr. Perot until he quit the race, looked again to President Bush, and have Ping-Ponged between the three ever since.
 
Going to Clinton, With Doubts
 Now many of them say with reservations and a sigh that they are going with Mr. Clinton. In the next breath, they talk about Mr. Bush and how things could have been different. Some are even more wistful about Mr. Perot.
"I don't really want to, but I have to go with Clinton," said Terri Bowler, a homemaker in the heart of Reagan Democrat country -- Macomb County, Mich. "President Bush has been acting like a baby, whining about Congress."
Edward Habecker, a Peoria lawyer who voted for President Bush, said he'd been alienated by the Bush campaign's attacks on Mr. Clinton and its late-offered proposals to improve the economy.
"I agree that character is an issue, but it's George Bush's character I question," Mr. Habecker said. "The cynicism has worn me down. He just realized within the last month or two that we had to do something about health care. He had four years to get busy with this. I don't think his heart is in it."
 
'Bush Is Inaccessible'
 The Rose Garden mentality has turned off Nancy Jeffrey, a nurse in suburban Hometown, Ill., outside Chicago. "I feel George Bush is inaccessible," Mrs. Jeffrey said. "There are homeless people right in front of the White House. I think he is aware of the problem, but I don't think he has a clue."
She is also weary of the family values mantra. "I think Bush really blew that out of proportion with his entire family on stage," Mrs. Jeffrey said of the Republican National Convention. "O.K., everybody has a family. I don't think we need the Bush family show. It was a little bit of overkill. I hate that."
But Thomas Russell, a computer consultant in Peoria, is looking at retirement in a couple of years and does not want any surprises. That is why he is sticking with President Bush.
"The problems with the economy are not so much a result of what Bush has done or not done," Mr. Russell said. "The recession is worldwide. I'd rather go with Bush and the status quo than to give a blank check to Clinton. I don't expect any great improvement with Bush. I just don't want it to get worse."
Patrick Mantel, a factory worker in Springfield, Ill., said he wished he could vote for the man he really wants to see in the White House.
"My gut's telling me to vote Ross Perot," Mr. Mantel said. "He talks so that people like me can understand him. He really makes a lot of sense. It's killing me. I got enough common sense to see the man won't get elected. I know that if I vote for him, Bush will get back in. What would be the use of it? If he'd have stayed in ---- " His voice trailed off.
"So I figure," Mr. Mantel said, "why not get it over with and vote for Clinton?"
"Being a working man," he said, I'm going to get it either way.
 
Down on Politicians
 He likes Mr. Perot for not being a politician and is skeptical of Mr. Clinton because is so very much one. "I think Clinton bends both sides of the fence," Mr. Mantel said. "He tells it like he sees it at the place he's at. The man wants to get elected. That's a politician for you."
While these people like Mr. Perot, they see him as a somewhat paranoid authoritarian who sees plots around every corner and who would not be able to work in the system. "He would have been good back in the days of the kings," said Sally McQuellon, a legal secretary in Peoria. "You've got to love him. It's too bad the government is not a business."
One reason many of these voters are turning to Mr. Clinton is that they are resigned to higher taxes, rejecting one of the Republicans' primary arguments.
"I think taxes are going up no matter who gets in," said James Szalkie, an automobile worker in River Rouge, Mich., who said he had voted for the winner in every election since John F. Kennedy and is supporting Mr. Clinton this time.
There was not much evidence in the second round of interviews that many Reagan-Bush Democrats were accepting the Republican line that Mr. Clinton cannot be trusted. But they were quick to say that they are prepared to vote Mr. Clinton out in a minute.
"I don't think it's a leap into the unknown," Mr. Habecker said. "He's a middle-of-the-road politician who may be a little left of center. He's not an idiot. He wants to be re-elected. I don't expect him to turn the apple cart upside down. If he fails he's gone."
Mr. Dunn is not so sure. This late in the game he still cannot decide. "I don't know who I'm going to vote for," Mr. Dunn said. "I was leaning toward Clinton. Now I'm leaning toward Bush. I just don't know. I am turning them off because they are turning me off. I'm vacillating more on this one than I ever have. What I'm looking for ain't there."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "None of them have pinpointed what they are going to do," said Jerry Dunn, a salesman in Rockford, Ill. (Cynthia Howe for The New York Times); Terri Bowler, a Reagan Democrat from Roseville, Mich. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROCKFORD, IL, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



53 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Texas Banks Closed; Bailout May Cost $500 Million

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Federal banking authorities said they have closed the First City Bancorporation of Houston, one of the largest banks in Texas, after finding that its two largest subsidiaries were insolvent.
Officials of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said Friday night that the Government would have to put up about $500 million to protect depositors in First City and its 20 bank subsidiaries, which had total assets of $8.8 billion, and prepare the bank for sale to private interests. 
 Regulators said the $500 million bank bailout would be the 10th-largest ever.
This is the second time in four years that the Government has been forced to spend heavily to deal with First City's troubles. In 1988, the F.D.I.C. contributed an emergency infusion of $900 million toward a bailout plan in which a new owner took control of the bank.
 
104th Closing This Year
 The closing of First City highlights the continued problems of many banks even as the industry as a whole is enjoying record profits because of low interest rates. Friday night's move by the F.D.I.C. brought the number of banks closed so far this year to 104, with combined assets of $36.6 billion.
Federal regulators said all offices of the 20 banking subsidiaries of First City would be open Monday, but as bridge banks under F.D.I.C. control. Federal regulators said they hoped to sell the subsidiaries to private owners within three months.
Analysts said that the Chemical Banking Corporation, which already owns the Houston-based Texas Commerce Bank, had expressed interest in acquiring all or part of First City.
Andrew C. Hove Jr., acting chairman of the F.D.I.C., said depositors in the 16 First City subsidiaries that had adequate capital would be fully protected, even the 5,700 accounts in excess of the $100,000 insurance limits.
But it will be a different story for depositors in First City's four subsidiaries in Houston, Dallas, Austin and San Antonio that did not have sufficient capital. While deposits of less than $100,000 will be fully protected, depositors with accounts in excess of $100,000 will receive just 80 percent of their uninsured amount. Those 5,000 accounts with a combined $260 million might receive more than that if sales of the bank's assets exceed expectations.
Stephen R. Steinbrink, the acting Comptroller of the Currency, said his office moved to close First City after an examination of the First City Bank of Houston, the holding company's largest subsidiary, found that a management-led plan to revive the bank was inadequate.
His office found that First City of Houston, with $2.6 billion in assets, needed to make additional provisions for its reserve to cover potential loan losses. But because the bank had just $15 million in capital, Federal regulators deemed the bank insolvent.
To explain why the F.D.I.C. took this delicate move now, just four days before Election Day and in President Bush's home state, Mr. Steinbrink said, "Once we clearly identify that a bank is insolvent, we must act."
He said First City had submitted a plan to raise more capital by selling 13 subsidiary banks, but added that regulators found the plan would not do enough to shore up First City's capital.
Also Friday, the Texas Banking Commissioner, Catherine A. Ghiglieri, closed First City's subsidiary in Dallas after finding it insolvent.
First City has been an object of concern among regulators for years. Four years ago, the bank received the infusion of more than $900 million from the F.D.I.C. as part of a bailout plan that made A. Robert Abboud, the former chairman of the First Chicago Corporation, First City's chairman with a mandate to turn the bank's fortunes around. But the real estate slump and an aggressive foray into foreign lending continued to generate losses and prompted criticism of the chairman's free-wheeling style.
 
Merger Abandoned
 In August, First City gave up on its search for a merger partner and announced a plan to raise capital to meet regulatory standards without Federal intervention.
Federal regulators said they had ousted First City's top two executives and had named Edward G. Harshfield, a longtime banker, to head the bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FIRST CITY BANCORP (HOUSTON, TEX); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC) FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); FIRSTCITY FINANCIAL CORP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); F D I C (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST CITY BANCORP (HOUSTON, TEX); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC) F D I C (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (96%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) BAILOUTS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (79%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



54 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Survey Cited to Assail Bush on Overseas Jobs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS

 BODY:
A Democratic Congressman made public yesterday a study of an American foreign aid program, saying it demonstrated how financing provided by the Reagan and Bush Administrations was used to subsidize the movement of manufacturing jobs to Central America from the United States.
The survey, by the Price Waterhouse accounting concern, was of 25 companies, foreign as well as American, that opened plants in Costa Rica from 1986 to 1990. It found that 20 of the concerns had decided to do so as a result of efforts by a Costa Rican trade group that receives funds from the Agency for International Development. 
 At least 10 of the companies said they had not considered manufacturing in a less developed country until they were approached by the group, the Costa Rican Coalition of Development Initiatives.
Results of the survey were made public by Representative George E. Brown Jr. of California, who said more than a dozen American companies had been interviewed. The study gave no precise number. Nor were the responses of the American concerns separated from those of foreign manufacturers.
The survey was commissioned by A.I.D. as part of an audit of the Costa Rican group. The study did not examine how many American jobs might have been lost as a result of the companies' decisions to manufacture in Costa Rica.
The United States agency's support for Central American economies has come under criticism as the creation of jobs has grown as an issue in the Presidential campaign.
President Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle have denied that the Administration has subsidized the relocation of manufacturing jobs to Central America and the Caribbean. Rather, Bush Administration officials say, the foreign aid program is meant to recruit American companies that are already planning to expand overseas, steering them toward Central America and the Caribbean instead of the Far East.
 
Policy Defended
 "The trade groups we work with recruit United States companies which have decided to go into production offshore," said Kelly J. Presta, a spokesman for the international development agency. "We're only interested in working with companies that already made that decision, not in soliciting companies to leave. Anything that contradicts that would not be in concert with our policies."
Mr. Brown, who is chairman of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, said in an interview he is planning hearings next year on the foreign aid program. Earlier this month, Congress ordered an investigation of the program and passed legislation ordering the agency not to finance any more programs that could result in the loss of American jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); COSTA RICA (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRICE WATERHOUSE & CO; AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) PRICE WATERHOUSE CSG (58%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (91%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICE WATERHOUSE & CO; AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (91%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; COSTA RICA UNITED STATES (99%); COSTA RICA (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS ; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); LEGISLATION (60%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY; BROWN, GEORGE E JR (REPR); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



55 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Vote on the Issues, and May the Best Man Win;
He Led Us to Peace

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Within days we elect the next President of the United States. As I watched the debates and read the commentaries in newspapers and news magazines, I reflected on a precedent that might repeat itself. 
 I recall that Britain, in the election immediately following the defeat of Germany in World War II, but before the surrender of Japan, voted Sir Winston Churchill out as Prime Minister and Clement Attlee in. Within six years Britain again summoned its greatest statesman and wartime leader, Winston Churchill, back to serve as Prime Minister.
As the father of three draft-age sons and two daughters who are now able to plan their lives without taking into consideration military service or the dangers that haunted this nation during the cold war, I find it difficult to believe that the American people have reduced the nation's highly successful foreign policy of the last 12 years to an insignificant consideration in their selection of leadership for the next four years.
I recently visited the three Scandinavian countries. Like the rest of the world, they are experiencing economic recession. Many individuals with whom I spoke, however, seemed amazed at the vitality of the United States in resisting the worldwide slowdown. Our free enterprise system has experienced recessions, no matter who occupied the White House. Anyone older than 30 can recall one or more recessions from which the country bounced back.
We should think twice before we punish the architects of victory in the cold war. The promises of short-term economic gains or of change for the sake of change appear to come from those who are without the wisdom of experience. Britain made that mistake -- let us learn from its experience.
 
GEORGE P. MC ANDREWS
Barrington, Ill., Oct. 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (53%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (53%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); 

PERSON: MCANDREWS, GEORGE P CLARE SHORT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



56 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Talking: Closing Costs;
Lenders And Sellers Helping

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
BECAUSE the depressed economy is making it difficult for borrowers to come up with the cash to pay mortgage loan closing costs, lenders and sellers are being forced to do more to help.
"Nobody has any cash anymore," said Michael Sovereign, manager of the Buffalo office of Norwest Mortgage Inc., a national lender. "And even if they do, they're afraid to use it." 
 The borrower traditionally needed the cash to cover mortgage origination charges and costs for inspection, appraisal, title insurance, legal services and recording fees. The charges, averaging about 5 percent of the loan amount, or about $5,000 on a $100,000 loan, customarily applied whether the borrower was actually buying the home or refinancing a mortgage.
Programs being offered include those that pay some or all of those costs in exchange for a slightly higher rate of interest on the loan. Others offer similar waivers without the added interest charges. However, these offers are normally limited to moderate-income or first-time buyers.
Still other lenders will make the concession, but only if the buyer actually asks for it, warned Paul Havemann, vice president of HSH Associates of Butler, N.J., a mortgage advisory service.
Sellers have also begun picking up such costs to help make their homes more salable. At the very least, they can be persuaded to do so in exchange for a slightly higher purchase price, said Phyllis Bixon, a regional vice president with Weichert Realty.
Consider what happened to Mohan Menon, a vice president at the CIT group, a financial services company with headquarters in Livingston, N.J. He owns a contemporary-style home in Denville, N.J., which he had been eager to refinance. He wanted to exchange his $146,000, 9.25 percent, fixed-rate loan for a newer one with a rate of 7.125 percent.
However, since he was in the financial world he was aware that even the best offer is often negotiable if you ask. So when he walked into the office of Globe Mortgage in Hackensack, N.J., earlier this fall, he quickly discovered that all his closing expenses could be folded into the loan if he was prepared to add $4,000 to the loan amount.
It was well worthwhile, he concluded, because even though he would be borrowing a little extra, he would still be paying $200 less each month than under the old mortgage because of the lower interest rate. Moreover, he didn't have to use up precious cash.
Vicky Papson, a loan officer with Columbia Equities, which lends in the metropolitan area, said borrowers in New York State could further reduce their closing costs by finding ways to eliminate or lower the state's hefty mortgage recording tax.
Different in size, depending on the county or city, it is currently 1.75 percent in New York City and Nassau County (an amount that translates into $1,750 on a $100,000 loan) and around three-quarters of one percent in many other parts of the state.
Tim Walters, vice president and counsel at Globe Mortgage, explained that borrowers could do so by asking their lender or the seller, whichever is applicable, to arrange for the old loan to be assigned to the new lender. When this is done, he said, the borrower is responsible for paying tax only on the difference between the old and new amount. Only in a handful of instances should it not be possible because of restrictions in the old loan's documents.
Chemical Bank of New York began its "Low Closing Cost" program in September. It saves a typical borrower about $2,000 by waiving or paying, on the borrower's behalf, the points (origination) charges, the document preparation fee, the bank attorney's fee, the appraisal fee and title insurance costs. It is available only to residents of New York City who qualify as first-time buyers with a household income below $60,750. And it may not be extended beyond this fall.
However, New York City buyers who fall into this category should find similar, albeit slightly less generous, reductions, at Republic Bank and Manhattan Savings Bank, among others.
THE 18-month-old "Ninety" program from Norwest Mortgage Inc., of Des Moines, Iowa, handles the issue slightly differently. If the borrower is willing to make a down payment of at least 10 percent, Norwest, which lends in most states, will pay almost all closing costs and origination charges in exchange for adding about three-quarters of a percentage point to the interest rate.
The Fleet Mortgage Group, headquartered in Columbia, S.C., is offering a similar deal under its "Cost Cutter Program." So is American Residential Mortgage, headquartered in La Jolla, Calif., under its "no fee" program.
Peter J. Wissinger, Norwest's senior vice president, estimates that the total value of the Norwest offer is around $5,100 on a $100,000 purchase, enough to let any borrower who had been expecting to make a $5,000 down payment raise that to $10,000 if the borrower had been holding back extra cash to meet closing costs.
Monthly payments would not be any larger, even with the higher interest rate, he said, because the loan would be smaller. Moreover, the borrower would have twice as much equity in the home instead of consuming the money in fees.
But a word of warning. Borrowers will probably still have to come up with the cash needed to establish an escrow account equal to a year's worth of real estate taxes. They must also pay for their own lawyer, if they use one, and the first year's premium on a homeowner's insurance policy. Norwest also charges $90 to register for the program.
It may therefore pay to negotiate with the sellers as well, since they may be willing to cover these extras, too.
Working with a seller can also augment any program offered by the lender. That was the strategy chosen, for example, by Michele Smith, an administrative secretary in a vocational high school in Kingston, N.Y.
Although she had signed on for a low-cost closing program from her lender, she asked the sellers to provide a further $1,500 toward incidentals not covered by the program. In exchange, she offered them the full asking price of $48,800 for their two-bedroom ranch-style house. "Without the extra money I couldn't have closed," she said.
Anyone eager to negotiate with a seller should ask the agent to include closing costs in the initial offer, said Harriet Haffner, president of Haffner Realty of Norwalk, Conn. This way it becomes part of the overall negotiations and will be included in the contract as a condition of sale.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Talking column last Sunday, about closing costs, misstated the mortgage recording tax on loans for homes in Nassau County. It is 0.75 percent, less $25.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CIT (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (72%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORWEST MORTGAGE INC (72%); CIT GROUP INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; CREDIT MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TITLE INSURANCE (55%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



57 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 5; Page 15; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 10195 words

HEADLINE: WINTER IN THE SUN;
Carribean Resorts: The High Points

BYLINE: By STANLEY CARR

 BODY:
PEOPLE in the Caribbean, a region very vulnerable to problems that affect tourism, think they deserve a break. The last winter that was termed good for the volume of North American visitors was 1988-89. Since then tourism has been hurt by Hurricane Hugo, the Persian Gulf war and the North American recession.
In the first four months of 1992, visitors increased by 4 percent over last year, according to figures supplied by the islands, with the rise coming largely from Canadians and Europeans. The number of visitors from the United States remained flat. Furthermore, the figures were not enough to overcome the 9 percent drop in the first four months of 1991, during the gulf war. With a few exceptions, the lodging industry has resisted raising rates in view of the recession. 
 Many islands have also been frustrated by the demise last year of Eastern and Pan American, with the Bahamas, Barbados and Jamaica among those affected. The collapse of Pan American last December, says a spokeswoman for the Caribbean Tourism Organization, has been as big a factor for tourism in the region as the recession. For the most part other airlines have not filled the gap, she says, although American has increased its flights to the San Juan hub and in some cases onward from there. There are now generally fewer flights, and vacationers should make airline reservations early.
One island group that was especially hurt by the loss of Pan Am was the Turks and Caicos. American plans to start daily jet service between Miami and Providenciales in the Turks and Caicos on Dec. 18. BWIA International Airways plans to introduce nonstop flights today between Miami and St. Kitts three days a week and St. Lucia four days a week, with continuing service to Trinidad.
Despite the problems, hotel investors continue to refurbish and expand resorts and occasionally build properties. A cottage complex called Le Toiny has just opened on St. Barthelemy, and a Club Med is scheduled to open on San Salvador, the Bahamas, next month. Like St. Martin, St. Lucia has direct air service from the United States, and has two new hotels, the Jalousie Plantation and the Wyndham Morgan Bay Resort.
All-inclusive resorts, those that offer meals, drinks, sports and other services under one price, continue to grow. Sandals, the Jamaica-based all-inclusive operation, has taken over two Cunard hotels, La Toque in St. Lucia and the Paradise Beach in Barbados, and plans to convert them to one-price resorts next year. The company also plans to build its seventh all-inclusive in Jamaica. Superclubs, another all-inclusive operation, says it wants to build a hotel in Grenada.
The following review of Caribbean islands and the Bahamas offers a selection of hotels noted for a particular quality: being situated on one of the best local beaches or enjoying an exceptional setting, offering good sports facilities or fine food in its restaurant, or serving as a haven for visitors who want to avoid resort bustle. In this category, headed Tranquillity, choices range from the Peach and Quiet on the shore in Inch Marlow, Barbados ($69 a day for a room) and the Calabash on Prickly Bay in Grenada (from $295, including breakfast dinner and afternoon tea) to a quiet in-town mansion, the San Jose in Old San Juan (from $160).
Rates listed are, unless otherwise stated, for a room for two per day during the winter season, which generally runs from Dec. 15 to mid-April. This month and in early December, rates are about 60 percent of high-season prices. Many places also have M.A.P. (modified American plan), providing breakfast and dinner at an additional daily rate. Some, including the all-inclusive resorts, offer a full meal plan; all-inclusives also include taxes and service in their prices. Government taxes on hotel rooms range from 7 to 15 percent and are added to guests' bills. Many hotels also add a service charge, usually 10 percent. Travelers should ask about tax and service charges when they make reservations.
 
Anguilla
 
NGUILLA TOURIST INFORMATION OFFICE
271 MAIN STREET, NORTHPORT, N.Y. 11768
(800) 553-4939 and (212) 869-0402
Sports Facilities
Several of Anguilla's hotels are well situated and equipped for sports; among them is the Mariners, a cluster of gingerbread cottages amid sea grape trees at Sandy Ground. The cottages have hand-crafted lattice and carved trim, wooden shutters, high ceilings with fans and shaded verandas. Use of the Mariners' water sports equipment, including Sunfish sailboats and wind surfing boards, is included in the all-inclusive rate, which also covers tennis, all meals, afternoon tea, wine and other drinks and boat excursions. Rooms and suites start at $210 a day on the all-inclusive program. A diving program with all meals and a two-tank dive or night dive daily, is also available. (809) 497-2671.
Cap Juluca, a resort with 85 rooms and 13 suites on a beach stretching for more than a mile at Maunday's Bay -- the longer Cove Beach is nearby -- is also equipped for sports. It has three tennis courts, two lighted for night play, and a tennis professional gives lessons. The use of Sunfish boats, snorkel gear, wind surfers and Hobie cats is free to guests. Good snorkeling can be done at Cap Juluca's beach, and deep-sea fishing, water sports instruction, scuba and day sailing can be arranged. The 1,800-square-foot fresh water pool has private tanning areas nearby.
Rooms in winter are from $390 to $475; suites are from $600. Rates include Continental breakfast. (809) 497-6779 or (800) 323-0139.
Natural Setting
 The striking Moorish-style Malliouhana has a clifftop position overlooking Meads Bay. Tall arches, tiled roofs, open-air salons and balustrades decked with flowers accent the gleaming white buildings. Inside there are white tiled floors, beds on rattan platforms and louvered doors opening onto terraces overlooking the sea. White bougainvillea blooms around a series of terraced swimming pools.
Enclosed by three stretches of beach, the hotel is strong on water sports facilities and has tennis courts, too. There are 55 rooms, with rates starting at $500 a day -- without meals -- this winter. (809) 497-6111.
Fine Food
 The Palm Court at the Cinnamon Reef was voted top hotel restaurant in a culinary competition on the island last year. At this open-air restaurant with sea views from every table, the chefs, Didier Rochat and Vernon Hughes, serve what they call new Caribbean cuisine. Among entrees are charcoal grilled yellowfin tuna with cinnamon tomato sauce and swordfish steak with passion fruit salsa. The average bill is around $75 a couple, not including wine.
The Cinnamon Reef, on the beach at Little Harbour, is scheduled to reopen today after refurbishing that began last June and included repainting of all 22 villa suites. Each unit has split level bedroom-living room and private patio facing the Caribbean. Daily rates are from from $250, Continental breakfast included. (809) 497-2727 or (800) 223-1108.
 
Antigua
 
ANTIGUA DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
610 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10020
(212) 541-4117
Great Beach
 Jumby Bay is on its own island, the 300-acre Long Island off Antigua's north coast. It is reached by taking a 10-minute taxi ride from V. C. Bird International Airport to a private dock, where a launch picks up passengers for the 15-minute crossing. The 38 suites, with ceiling fans, all overlook the ocean and beaches. The resort serves meals in its beach pavilion or in the restored 200-year-old Estate House. Facilities for guests' use at no extra charge range from three tennis courts, two lighted at night, to water skiing and instruction, snorkeling, sailboats, bicycles and laundry service. Rate: $895 a night, for two, including all meals, drinks and afternoon tea. (809) 462-6000 or (800) 421-9016.
On another fine beach, at Dickenson Bay at the island's northwest tip, is the Halcyon Cove Beach Resort. There are four restaurants, a pool, tennis courts, all water sports and entertainment. The Halcyon Cove is a 15-minute taxi ride from St. John's, the capital.
The 129 rooms and suites have air-conditioning and telephones. Room rates range from $200 to $370, double. (809) 462-0256 or (800) 255-5859.
St. James's Club is on a peninsula jutting into Mamora Bay at the southeast corner of the island near English Harbour and Nelson's Dockyard. Tennis, horseback riding, water sports, four pools, an exercise room, a croquet court, four restaurants and a small casino are the diversions here. The accommodations consist of 73 two-bedroom villas, 20 suites and 85 rooms, all with ocean views. Breakfast and dinner are included in rates ranging from $500 to $950 a night, double. (809) 460-5000 or (212) 486-2575.
Fine Food
 Elaine Murphy's Guesthouse serves some of the island's best food at the Dolphin, the restaurant she operates in conjunction with her seven-bedroom guesthouse. The restaurant, next door, specializes in local variations of conch, lobster, cod, duckna (sweet potatoes and coconut wrapped in banana leaves and cooked like a patty), eggplant, creole and curried chicken and rice. The coconut meringue pie is a favorite dessert. Dinner costs on average about $20 a person, not including drinks.
At the guesthouse, ceiling fans have been installed and rooms redecorated recently. The guesthouse and the restaurant are on All Saints Road in the residential outskirts of St. John's, a 10-minute walk from town and on a bus route. The room rate of $55 a night for two includes breakfast. (809) 461-1183.
Natural Setting
 The Inn at English Harbour has a hilltop position on 10 acres of national park along Freeman's Bay. There are views of the harbor from many of the 28 rooms and from the Terrace Restaurant and Bar. Below the hotel is a beach where water sports are available. Entertainment is offered three nights a week in winter. The inn is a few minutes from Nelson's Dockyard, named for Britain's Adm. Horatio Nelson, who commanded the Leeward Islands Fleet from this outpost. Winter rates $325 to $400 for two; breakfast and dinner are an additional $42 a person a day. (809) 460-1014 or (800) 223-6510
 
Aruba
 
ARUBA TOURISM AUTHORITY
1000 HARBOR BOULEVARD, WEEHAWKEN, N.J. 07087
(201) 330-0800 and (800) 862-7822
Great Beach
Holiday Inn Aruba Beach Resort, 230 L. G. Smith Boulevard, has 602 rooms. On an island noted for its white sand beaches, this hotel has the longest and widest one, affording both group activities and privacy for those who wish it. The hotel has many shops and restaurants, some on the beach itself, and its Grand Holiday Casino is large and often busy. There are six lighted tennis courts, pool, and sailboats and wind surfing and snorkeling equipment. Rates, without meals, $108 a night single or double. (2978) 23600 or, in the United States, (800) 465-4329.
Natural Setting
The 500-room Aruba Concorde Hotel-Casino, Juan Enrique Irausquin Boulevard, is an 18-story hotel on a coastal point offering commanding views. There are 11 shops, 4 restaurants, lighted tennis courts, pool, beach and casino. Rates, without meals, $160 a night single or double. (2978) 24466, or (800) 428-9933,
Fine Food
Valentino's Restaurant at the Caribbean Palm Village, 45E Palm Beach Road -- its cluster of white two-story buildings resemble a small village -- is considered the island's finest eating place by many Arubans. The Italian chef's creations cover every region of Italy, with veal specialties, for example, extending from Piemonte style to Sicilian veal scallops. A full-course dinner with wine for two runs from about $100.
There are 170 rooms and suites in this resort on landscaped grounds at Noord, a village a mile from the beach. It has a pool and two restaurants. Rates, without meals, $150 a night single or double.(2978) 62700 or, in the United States, (305) 411-7996.
Tranquillity
The Vistalmar, at 28 Bucutiweg, (2978) 28579, consists of eight fully furnished apartments. All have sun decks with sea view. The complex stands on a bluff on an out-of-the-way bay about three miles south of the capital, Oranjestad, but does not have a beach. Guests swim from the Vistalmar's dock. Each apartment's refrigerator is stocked with complimentary food the first night. Rates, without meals, $90 a night single or double; no service charge.
Sports Facilities
Tamarijn Beach Resort, 91 L. G. Smith Boulevard, (2978) 24150 or (800) 223-6725, has more sports activity than any other resort on the island. The full sports program includes swimming, snorkeling and scuba diving (with instruction if required), wind surfing, Sunfish and catamaran sailing, yacht cruises, tennis, shuffleboard, table tennis and, by arrangement with an outside company, riding. The resort is on a large beach, and the two-story buildings containing the 238 rooms are set among palm trees. Its indoor-outdoor restaurant is called the Palms. Rates, without meals, are $225 a night single or double.
 
The Bahamas
 
BAHAMAS TOURIST OFFICE
150 EAST 52D STREET, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10022
(212) 758-2777
Great Beach
 On the island of San Salvador, which has serene white sand beaches, Club Med-Columbus Isle is scheduled to open Dec. 12. (Club Med says the property was not damaged by Hurricane Andrew, which ripped across the Bahamas last August. Most serious damage was confined to some of the Family Islands. Nassau, on New Providence, and Freeport, Grand Bahama, the two major vacation centers, escaped with minor damage, as did many of the other 40 inhabited islands.)
The new resort will be strong on water sports, including diving with wall and wreck dives.
All-inclusive rates, with all meals, accompanying wine and beer, and all sports activities, are $140 to $245 a person a day. For seven nights, the rates are $1,200 to $1,380 a person (higher at Christmas and New Year's), including air fare from New York. Reservations: (800) 258-2633.
Fine Food
Resorts International's Cafe Martinique, at Paradise Island, across the harbor from Nassau, is a waterfront cafe with wall-to-wall etched glass windows, private alcoves, candlelighted terraces, music and a full French menu. Among the choices are an appetizer of shrimps baked in a creamy garlic and herb sauce breast of chicken and large shrimps in a lemon sauce and, among several souffles for dessert, souffle au chocolat. A four-course dinner costs on average $57 a person, including gratuity. The Cafe Martinique is a five-minute walk from the Paradise Island Resort and Casino complex (1,200 rooms) which also includes the Paradise Towers and Britannia Towers. The complex is on a two-mile powder white beach on Paradise Island. Daily rates are $165 to $225. (809) 363-3000 or (800) 321-3000.
Natural Setting
 The Stella Maris Inn is near the northern tip of Long Island in the southeastern Bahamas, about an hour by light plane from Nassau. It was built on an old plantation estate with limestone from the surrounding hills. Guests follow winding pathways from the inn's garden to small sandy strips of beach in coves on the Atlantic shore. There are no locks on doors here, and no hotel keys. Maximum occupancy is 90. The resort is known for diving and underwater photography. Winter rates: $119 for a standard room with double bed and single bed; $139 for one-bedroom suite, and from $240 for a two-bedroom villa for two, and $30 extra for each additional person. (800) 426-0466.
Marriott's Paradise Island Beach Club, Nassau, is close to the tip of Paradise Island and overlooks a long beach with coconut trees. There are 44 two-bedroom, two-bath units, all with fully equipped kitchens. Golf and tennis privileges are available. The club has a poolside snack bar, a variety of restaurants are within walking distance, and the atmosphere is good for families. Rate for a two-bedroom unit, $375. (809) 363-2814.
Sports Facilities
 Paradise Paradise is the most outdoors oriented of the resorts on Paradise Island -- the others being the Paradise Island Resort and Casino complex and the Ocean Club Golf and Tennis Resort. This one- and two-story hotel, with terrace, on a good beach, has complimentary sailing, snorkeling, water skiing, wind surfing, day and night tennis, aerobics, bicycling and volleyball. There are 100 rooms at $125 for two, but Paradise Paradise, where water sports are now included, is scheduled to be converted into an all-inclusive -- with meals all under one price -- on Dec. 26, and the all-inclusive rates have yet to be announced. (800) 321-3000.
Ramada South Ocean Golf and Beach Resort, formerly the Divi South Ocean, near Nassau, has an on-site dive operation, including a photo laboratory, an 18-hole P.G.A.-rated par-72 golf course and two tennis courts. Work is now in progress on adding rooms, which are expected to be up to 250 from 150 by mid-December. The resort is a 25-minute drive from the city center and has a low-key atmosphere. Winter rate for a standard room overlooking gardens or pool or golf course, $160; overlooking beach, $215. (809) 362-4391.
Tranquillity
 Le Meridien Royal Bahamian, Nassau, has 173 rooms either in a manor house or in villas tucked away on Cable Beach, 10 minutes from downtown Nassau. Glass doors open onto balconies with views of sea and gardens. There are three restaurants. The hotel's health facility schedules aerobics clases, mud baths and massage, and there are tennis courts, a pool and billiards room. Water sports rentals are noton the property but adjoin it. Accommodations are from $205 to $400 a day. (800) 543-4300.
The Bluff House Club and Marina, Green Turtle Cay, Abaco, has rooms, suites and villas perched on the highest bluff in the Abacos chain with fine views of surrounding waters. This is for travelers looking for good food and beaches and no connections via telephone or television to the outside world. Rooms from $80 to $125. (809) 365-4247.
 
Barbados
 
BARBADOS BOARD OF TOURISM
800 SECOND AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017
(212) 986-6516 and (800) 221-9831)
Great Beach
 Paradise Village and Beach Club in St. Michael has its own half-mile of powdery white sand on an uninterrupted stretch of beach extending for miles. Sandals, the all-inclusive resort company, purchased the resort from Cunard last month. It will remain open until Jan. 31 when it will close for renovation and some additions planned by Sandals, which says it hopes to reopen the resort as the all-inclusive, couples-only Sandals Barbados in late April.
For now, the informal 13-acre village offers some complimentary features like water sports, tennis and a health club, and it has restaurants, boutiques and other attractions. There are 178 rooms and suites with garden or ocean views. Winter rates range from $150 to $285. (809) 424-0888.
Fine Food
 The chef at the Treasure Beach in St. James, Graham Newbould, is a former personal chef to Prince Charles and the Princess of Wales, and the restaurant offers a selection of Mr. Newbould's Continental and Caribbean specialties. On a recent menu, first courses included spinach tortellini with ricotta cheese filling and a light pesto sauce. Among the entrees was grilled tournedos of beef glazed with Roquefort cheese and served with port wine sauce, and a baked fillet of red snapper topped by a fish mousse, with a champagne and chive sauce. A three-course dinner at Treasure Beach will cost about $37, not including wine.
The resort stands in tropical gardens surrounding a freshwater swimming pool and extending to the edge of the beach. There are 25 suites with ocean, pool or garden views. Rates with breakfast range from $325 to $440. (809) 432-1346.
Another resort in St. James with a good restaurant is the Tamarind Cove Hotel. Set on four acres of gardens on a palm-fringed beach, it has two restaurants, the flagship being the Neptunes. It serves seafood and other specialties in an underwater atmosphere created by an aquarium. Entrees on a recent evening included a fillet of dorado cooked en papillote with chives and brandy; roast duck plantation style; filet mignon, and three lobster dishes. A three-course dinner costs $40 or $50 (more for lobster), not including wine.
The hotel has 117 rooms and three pools. Rates, including breakfast and dinner and the use of water sports equipment, range from $290 to $505. (809) 432-1332.
Sports Facilities
 The Sandy Lane Hotel and Golf Club, St. James, one ofthe island's most elegant resorts, has an 18-hole championship course, tennis courts (lighted for night play) and extensive water sports facilities. The hotel reopened last winter after a major, six-month restoration that brought in marble floors and new fabrics and enlarged many of the rooms.
It is set on a crescent-shaped beach amid a 380-acre estate. Unlimited tennis and water sports and greens fees on the golf course are included in the rates, along with breakfast and dinner. There are 121 rooms and suites with garden or ocean views costing from $720 for rooms to $1,800 for suites. (809) 432-1311.
Tranquillity
 Peach and Quiet, with its adobe-style buildings clustered in four acres of gardens in Christ Church on the breezy south shore, has earned a reputation as a good oceanfront hideaway. It has a restaurant, rock pool and freshwater pool with swim-up bar. The beach at this modest but comfortable and well-run resort is tiny, but a wider one is within walking distance. There are 22 suites (bedroom, sitting room and bathroom) with garden or ocean views. Rooms are $69 (gratuities optional). (809) 428-5682.
 
Bonaire
 
BONAIRE GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICE
201 1/2 EAST 29TH STREET, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10016
 (212) 779-0242 and (800) 826-6247
Sports Facilities
 As with other hotels on the island, sports at Captain Don's Habitat are mainly of the water variety. But there are many: pool and ocean swimming, wind surfing, deep-sea fishing, parasailing (soaring with a parachute over the water), and scuba diving (with instruction if desired) to shipwrecks and coral reefs. Habitat also has night diving and classes in day and night underwater photography. Diving tours are available for beginners up through various stages of competence to accredited certification in master scuba diving, drift diving, underwater navigation, and search and rescue diving.
Captain Don's Habitat, 137 Kaya Gobernador Debrot, Kralendijk, has 59 rooms in white buildings with orange-tiled roofs along a low cliff over the shore. The units are set around a pool, garden and restaurant and dive center. Rates, without meals, $145 a night single or double. (5997) 8290 or (800) 327-6709.
Tranquillity
 The Black Durgon Inn, 145 Kaya Gobernador Debrot, Kato, Kralendijk, is at a quiet spot near a coral ledge, and the accommodations stand among palm, almond and kenepa trees north of town. Five of the 11 units are oceanfront, four overlook a garden and there are two small apartments nearby. All have air-conditioning and cable TV. There is no restaurant, although breakfast is served. There is an outdoor area with cooking equipment that is shared by guests. Rates, $95 a night single or double (third person pays $10 a day). (5997) 8978.
The newly built Coral Regency Resort, 90 Kaya Gobernador Debrot, Kralendijk, (5997) 5580 or (800) 327-8150), is set at the edge of town in an isolated area near but not on the ocean. The 31 one-and two-bedroom suites all have ocean views from patio or balcony, cable TV, refrigerator, stove, microwave oven, coffeemaker, blender, juicer, and cooking and dining utensils. There is no restaurant. Rates, without meals, $170 a night single or double. (5997) 0978.
Fine Food
 The Chibi-Chibi Restaurant (named for a tiny bird) at the Divi Flamingo Beach Hotel is built out over the water, affording views of marine life. Entrees include shrimp and chicken kebabs Divi, tenderloin Dijon and grilled wahoo (fish) steaks. Dinner for two, with wine, averages $90 to $100. The 145-room hotel is on the capital's main street but also faces the sea and beach. Water sports and tennis are available. The Divi Flamingo is on J. E. Abraham Boulevard, Kralendijk, (5997) 8825 or (800) 367-3484. The accommodations, from rooms perched over the sea to poolside quarters, cost around $125 a night single or double, not including meals.
 
Cayman Islands
 
CAYMAN ISLANDS TOURIST BOARD
420 LEXINGTON AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10170
(212) 682-5582
Great Beach
 Grand Cayman, the major island in the group, has attractive housekeeping options, particularly in the condominiums along Seven Mile Beach and in the private homes and villas rented through Cayman Villas, (809) 947-4144, a company that also has rentals on Cayman Brac and on Little Cayman.
Morritt's Tortuga Club, Colliers, East End, Grand Cayman, is a 55-unit beachfront enclave on Grand Cayman's quiet East End. The pink and white buildings are on an expanse of otherwise undeveloped reef-protected beach. Each of the one- and two-bedroom apartments has a full kitchen. Morritt's also has a restaurant, David's, free-form freshwater pool with swim-up bar, and water sports; the Tortuga Divers dive shop is on the premises. The wind surfing is good because, although the club is on the normally windward side, the offshore waters are protected by a barrier reef.
Rates begin at $180 for a one-bedroom poolside unit. (809) 947-7449 or (800) 447-0390.
One of the several condo properties on Seven Mile Beach is Lacovia. This property, with 45 one- to three-bedroom units, offers a garden setting with a tennis court across from the Hyatt Regency complex. Each unit has full kitchen, including coffee-makers and microwaves, and satellite TV. Freshwater pool, Jacuzzi bath and clubhouse for events are on the premises. Rates begin at $235 for a one-bedroom condo. (809) 949-7599.
Tranquillity
 Also on Seven Mile Beach, but in a quiet spot in the northern section, is Victoria House. There are 25 units, from studio to three-bedroom penthouse, and tennis courts. Rates begin at $155 for a studio; $195 for one bedroom. (809) 947-4233.
Sports Facilities
 Pirates Point, Little Cayman, is a very casual and secluded eight-unit beachfront property that attracts divers and naturalists to Little Cayman's Preston Bay. The on-site dive operation offers excursions and instruction. There is good snorkeling immediately off-shore. The buildings are of wood and native stone, on a beach shaded by almond trees.
Rates include three meals and a two-tank dive daily: $180 a person in double occupancy. For non-divers, rates are $140 a person. (809) 948-4210.
Natural Setting
 The Hyatt Regency-Britannia, on Grand Cayman, is a complex consisting of a 236-room hotel, Britannia Golf Club and Britannia Villas, with a beach club, Red Sail Watersports and Hemingway's restaurant. The setting is not strictly natural, but the 90 acres of tropical landscaping, including an avenue of palms and pools and small waterfalls accenting the foliage, is striking. The architectural style is "Cayman colonial" in powder blue and white; 35 one- and two-bedroom villas overlook the fairway.
Rates at the hotel begin at $260 for two. Villas begin at $465. (809) 949-1234.
 
Curacao
 
CURACAO TOURIST BOARD
 400 MADISON AVENUE, SUITE 311, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017
 (212) 751-8266 and (800) 332-8266
Great Beach
 The Holiday Beach Hotel and Casino, on Pater Euwensweg, Willemstad, stands on a large private beach a mile from the center of the capital. It has 200 rooms, each with a balcony. There's tennis (on lighted courts), pool, dive shop and transportation into town. The restaurant opens onto the beach. Rates are $70 a night single or double. (5999) 625-400.
Sports Facilities
 Lions Dive Resort, Bapor Kibra, Willemstad, is on the shore -- but a minute's walk from the beach -- near the Seaquarium and the Curacao Underwater Park. All water sports are available, including day and night diving from boats, snorkeling, wind surfing and Sunfish sailing. The resort's health club is equipped with weight room, exercise and aerobics room, and a cardio-fitness section. Classes are available in karate, aikido and slimming. Each of the 72 rooms has two queen-sized beds. Rates, without meals, $100 a night single or double. (5999) 618-100.
Princess Beach Resort and Casino, Dr. Martin Luther King Boulevard, Willemstad, has 340 rooms on its own beach near the Seaquarium, five miles from downtown. There are two pools, a dive shop, all water sports except wind surfing and water skiing, bicycling, riding and, nearby but not on the premises, tennis and minigolf.
Rates, without meals, are $180 a night single or double. (5999) 614-944 or (800) 327-3286.
Tranquillity
 The Trupial Inn, 5 Groot Davelaarweg, Willemstad, is a modest place with air-conditioned rooms in bungalow-style buildings shaded by trees in a quiet residential neighborhood, within walking distance of supermarket and shopping center. It has a lobby and pool (the Trupial is not on a beach). There is a free shuttle bus to downtown, the Seaquarium and beach. The hotel has a restaurant (featuring local dishes but not exclusively) and one tennis court on premises. Rates for the 74 rooms are $60 a night single or double. (5999) 378-200.
 
Dominica
 
 CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION
 20 EAST 46TH STREET, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017
 (212) 682-0435
Sports Facilities
 Several lodges offer good sports and other outdoor facilities, but the atmosphere is casual and visitors should not expect the more modern equipment available on busier islands.
Picard Beach Cottage Resort is on a beach near Portsmouth, Fort Shirley and Cabrits National Park in the northwest, and shares facilities with the Portsmouth Beach Hotel. Water sports available at the Picard resort include scuba diving and boat tours, and there is a swimming pool and beachfront restaurant with local and Continental fare. The resort has 18 wooden cottages built and furnished in 18th-century Dominican style. Each one has bedroom, bathroom, sitting and dining area, kitchen unit, front veranda, phone and ceiling fans. A beach-view cottage is $120 a night double; beachfront, $140. (809) 445-5130 and Robert Reid Associates (800) 223-6510.
Anchorage Hotel, a mile south of the capital, Roseau, has 32 air-conditioned rooms with balconies and most have ocean views. Water sports include snorkeling, scuba diving, sailing and wind surfing, and there's a squash court as well as freshwater pool. The hotel also has motorboat tours, cable TV in the rooms and a restaurant. A standard double room is $80 a night; superior, $100. (809) 448-2638.
The Castaways Beach Hotel, 11 miles north of Roseau, is on a black sand beach a mile long. This small casual resort has a new water sports facility with a diving center. All 27 rooms are beachfront. The Terrace restaurant serves local specialties including fresh seafood and vegetables; facilities include a bar, a TV lounge and a boutique. A double room is $120 a day. (809) 449-6244 or I.T.R., (212) 251-1800.
 
Dominican Republic
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC TOURIST INFORMATION CENTER
1 TIMES SQUARE PLAZA, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10036
(212) 768-2481
Sports Facilities
 Casa de Campo stands on 7,000 acres with 950 rooms and villas at La Romana on the southeast coast. Among its many facilities are two public Pete Dye golf courses, both 18 holes. On one of them, the Teeth of the Dog, eight holes overlook the Caribbean. The resort has a fitness center with gym, squash and racquetball courts, massage room, and 13 clay-surface tennis courts, 10 lighted for night play. On the man-made sand beach guests may use Hobie and Sunfish craft, and wind surf and snorkel. Casa de Campo has a shooting center with sporting clays, trap, skeet, and flyer shooting, and an equestrian center.
Rooms, called casitas, in two-story buildings and with two double beds or a king-size bed, cost $270 a night. Villas: two bedrooms, $465; three bedrooms, $710; four bedrooms, $820. With an all-inclusive package, a double room at $265 a person includes three meals, unlimited drinks, horseback riding, tennis, water sports and use of fitness center, airport transfers, taxes and gratuities. Reservations: Premier Resorts, (800) 877-3643 or (305) 856-5405.
A 23 percent tax and service charge is added to all hotel prices in the republic, except all-inclusive packages.
Fine Food
 El Alcazar, the restaurant at Hotel Santo Domingo, in downtown Santo Domingo, the capital, serves buffet lunch, a la carte and buffet dinner and Sunday brunch. One of the Dominican specialties offered is sancocho, a thick soup in which chicken, beef and green bananas are among the ingredients, and several dishes feature rice and beans. Paella is also served. The lunchtime buffet changes each day. Another fine restaurant featuring Italian food is Piazzetta at the Hotel Hispaniola, the sister hotel in the same location as the Santo Domingo. The Hotel Santo Domingo has 220 rooms and suites, a pool, a fitness room, three clay tennis courts and a sauna. Double room per night, $155; one-bedroom suite, $250. (809) 221-1511 or, through Premier Resorts, (800) 877-3643.
Natural Setting
 Heavens, at Puerto Plata, in the Playa Dorado hotel area, has a relaxed tropical setting in which guests walk beside a landscaped lagoon to reach the beach. The hotel has a freshwater pool, boutique, fitness center, disco and a snack bar on the beach. This is an all-inclusive resort (but rates do not include drinks or transfers) with 150 rooms and suites. A standard double is $230 a night; one-bedroom suite, $290. (Suites have a separate bedroom, two double beds, balcony and a small living area.) I.T.R., (212) 251-1800.
 
 
Grenada
 
GRENADA BOARD OF TOURISM
 820 SECOND AVENUE, SUITE 900D, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017
 (212) 687-9554)
Great Beach
Coyaba Beach Resort is on the celebrated Grand Anse Beach, a mile and a half long. The 40 rooms are in four wood and stucco buildings that vaguely resemble the dwellings built by the Amerindians. It is 10 minutes from Point Salines International Airport and about the same distance from St. George's, the capital. All rooms are air-conditioned and there are two restaurants and a pool. $165 double per night. (809) 444-4129.
Fine Food
La Belle Creole restaurant at the Blue Horizons Cottage Hotel is noted for its creative creole cuisine. Specialties include breadnut soup, lobster a la Creole and farina pudding for dessert. The fixed-price dinner is about $30. Blue Horizons is on six acres with gardens, has 32 rooms and a pool and is five minutes' walk from Grand Anse Beach. Double rooms are $130 to $160. (809) 444-4316-4592.
Natural Setting
 The Victoria Hotel, in the fishing village of Victoria on the west coast, 13 miles north of St. George's, is on the beach where the fishing seines are pulled in. This 10-room modest hotel has a view of Mount St. Catherine, the island's highest peak (2,749 feet). A room for two with private shower is $40. (809) 444-9367.
 Sports Facilities
Spice Island Inn on Grand Anse, which has 56 rooms, offers a plan that includes, among other facilities, the use for one hour a day of Sunfish and snorkel equipment, and use of tennis courts, fitness center and bicycles. At extra charge, arrangements can be made for golf, water skiing and diving trips.
All-inclusive rates for suites of $560 (with private pool) and $430 (with whirlpool bath) include, in addition to the sports facilities, all meals, free bar and house wines, a stocked minibar in the room and a tour of the Botanical Gardens. Without some of the extras but with breakfast and dinner, the suites can also be had for $450 and $320. (809) 444-4258.
Tranquillity
 The Calabash is the only hotel on Prickly Bay on the south coast, and the 28 rooms are scattered over eight acres overlooking the Caribbean. It's a quiet spot some distance from a main road and 15 minutes from St. George's. Room rates for two with breakfast, afternoon tea and dinner are $295; suite with Jacuzzi, $350; suite with pool, $450. (809) 444-4334.
 
Guadeloupe
 
FRENCH WEST INDIES TOURIST BOARD
610 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10020
(900) 420-2003; 50 cents a minute
Great Beach
 With a few exceptions, the best beaches are on the Grande-Terre half of this butterfly-shaped island. One is at Ste.-Anne, where the Caravelle-Club Med, with 310 rooms, is situated -- a wide crescent-shaped expanse of white sand nearly one mile long, framed with coconut palms and sea-grape trees. $990-$1,550 a week per person in double occupancy, with all meals. (800) 258-2633.
On the northwest coast of Basse-Terre sits the 194-room Fort Royal Touring Club, which covers a promontory set between two long sand beaches facing the Caribbean. South of here is Pigeon Island, an underwater sanctuary long favored by scuba divers of coral formations, tropical fish and shells. $152 to $170, with Continental breakfast (prices calculated at five francs to the dollar). (590) 25500.
Fine Food
 One of Guadeloupe's best restaurants is L'Habitation, at the Canella Beach Hotel in the Gosier resort area. The restaurant is owned by Francis Delage, a chef and cooking show host on French television and the author of an encyclopedia of creole cuisine. L'Habitation has extensive menus at lunch and dinner, with such delicacies as mousse of fresh crabmeat, locally smoked marlin, bisque of local lobster served with crayfish ravioli, homemade pate de foie gras and imported caviar. About $60 to $65 a person for dinner, without wine. The Canella's 148 rooms cost $143 to $153 a day. (800) 223-9815.
Plantation Ste.-Marthe, entering its first full season, has the Vallee d'Or restaurant, whose cuisine, light and contemporary, is more French than creole. The dessert menu lists many French cheeses and there is a selection of French wines. About $60 to $65 a person, without wine. The resort, which has 120 rooms, is in the countryside above St. Francois. (800) 223-9815. Rates are $125 to $200.
Sports Facilities
 The Marissol-Novotel Complex, twinned hotels at Bas du Fort, has its own fitness center. Among the water sports the hotels offer are wind surfing and jet skiing, with facilities available for deep-sea fishing, scuba diving and boating. There is tennis at both hotels. Marissol PLM Azur: 200 rooms, $160 to $204; Fleur d'Epee Novotel: 191 rooms, $160. (800) 221-4542.
Tranquillity
 Relais du Moulin has 20 bungalows and 20 one-room apartments (10 with kitchenette) surrounding an old sugar mill, off the beaten track in a pastoral setting at Chateaubrun between Ste. Anne and St. Francois. Run by two sisters, it has a pool, dining room and 40 rooms. $145-$178, with Continental breakfast. (800) 366-1510.
 
Jamaica
 
JAMAICA TOURIST BOARD
801 SECOND AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017
(212) 688-7650
Great Beach
 Silver Sands Villa Resort, 30 miles east of Montego Bay, has more than 1,000 feet of coral sand and low-key water sports. There is a modest clubhouse with restaurant and bar and a small commissary.
Hillside accommodations above the beach are in one- and two-bedroom cottages or three- to five-bedroom villas, some with private pools. Rates per night: from $220 for a one-bedroom cottage to $500 for a four-bedroom villa with pool, including maid service and cook. Two-night minimum stay. There are a few economy motel rooms at $40 a night for two. (800) 445-2690 or (212) 953-7910.
Fine Food
 The all-inclusive Grand Lido, a spacious beachfront enclave for couples or singles (over 16 years), offers three restaurants: Piacere's varied menus are inspired by nouvelle cuisine; the open-air Cafe Lido offers international fare, and La Pasta features pasta dishes prepared in front of you. Around-the-clock snacking is possible with 24-hour room service and at three clubhouses offering improvisations such as "bubbly burgers" served with champagne. To counteract the calories Grand Lido has extensive sports and fitness facilities: tennis, squash, gymnasium, water sports, saunas, Jacuzzis and nightly disco dancing.
All-inclusive rates cover sports, services and all you can eat or drink. Per person, in double occupancy, for three nights: $845 to $983. For seven nights: $1,695 to $1,995. (809) 957-4010-9.
Sandals Royal Caribbean, a couples-only all-inclusive beachfront hotel, offers Indonesian dining at its new Bali Hai restaurant on Kokomo, a tiny offshore inlet. The Bali-born chef, Roy Heuvel, presides over the rijstafel -- a 15-dish main course plus appetizer, soup and dessert. International cuisine and Jamaican specialties are available in the Regency Dining Room, the Pavillion restaurant and Courtyard Grill.
The resort's policy allows guests to eat at other Sandals establishments -- Japanese at Tokyo Joe's (Sandals Montego Bay) or Caribbean, Polynesian or Italian fare at the three restaurants at Sandals Dunns River. Sandals Royal has sports and fitness facilities, and offers complimentary golf at Ironshore Golf Club. All-inclusive rates per couple (everything included): three nights from $1,315 to $1,835; seven nights from $2,665 to $3,725. (809) 953-2231.
Natural Setting
 The Enchanted Garden stands on 20 acres of gardens, with streams and waterfalls, above the bustle of Ocho Rios. There is a free shuttle to a private white sand beach at nearby Mammee Bay. Forty of the 120 hillside suites have private plunge pools overlooking the bay and gardens, and guests can make use of a hammock garden, grotto sauna, waterfall Jacuzzi, and complimentary aromatherapy massage and facials. Other facilities include a pool with a swim-up bar, tennis courts, piano bar, nightclub and four restaurants. All-inclusive rates per person per week, in double occupancy, from $1,100 to $1,500. (809) 974-1400.
Sports Facilities
 Swept Away in Negril is a health and fitness oriented all-inclusive resort for couples, with 134 suites on the beach and a choice of restaurants and bars and nightly entertainment. The fitness complex has 10 tennis courts (all lighted), tennis lessons and clinics, air-conditioned squash and racquetball courts, gymnasium with professional staff, aerobics room, a half-mile jogging track, basketball court, saunas, steamrooms and lap pool. It also offers bicycle tours and yoga classes. Water sports include Mistral wind surfers, reef snorkeling, two scuba dives a day, sailing, kayaking and an Olympic-size swimming pool.
Rates (all-inclusive) for a couple for three nights from $1,200 to $1,410; seven nights, $2,700 to $3,150. (809) 957-4061.
Tranquillity
 Negril Cabins on the outskirts of Negril is . a small property in a rain-forest garden with royal palms and indigenous plants like butti thatch and pink poui. The 12 rustic two-bedroom cottages with private bathrooms are popular with bird watchers and other ecotourists. The complex has a freshwater swimming pool, tennis court, restaurant, bar, laundry facilities. There is ocean swimming a short walk across the road from a sand beach at Bloody Bay, which got its name from the 19th-century whaling trade. Room rates of $96 a night include tax and service charge. (809) 957-4350.
 
Martinique
 
FRENCH WEST INDIES TOURIST BOARD
610 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10020
(900) 420-2003; 50 cents a minute
Great Beach
 One of the island's best beaches is in the south at Ste. Anne, and Buccaneer's Creek-Club Med is right on it. Nearby is another great beach, called Les Salines, but there are no hotels there. The Buccaneer has 300 rooms and rates are $800 to $1,450 a week, per person, in double occupancy, with all meals. (800) 258-2633.
The modest Madras, a small hotel with 14 rooms, is set on a small beach off the beaten track, at Tartane, in the middle of the Caravelle Peninsula facing the Atlantic. With little vegetation and few shade trees, the beach is perfect for anyone wanting lots of sun and swimming in the quiet cove of Tartane. Rates are $70 to $90 a day, with private bath and Continental breakfast. (596) 583395.
Fine Food
 One of the most luxurious hotels on the island, the Bakoua, completely renovated last year, prides itself on Le Chateaubriand, its main restaurant, which serves both French and creole cuisine. It has a view across the bay to Fort-de-France, Martinique's capital. An average dinner is $55 a person, not including wine. On Friday night there is a dinner performance by the Grands Ballets de la Martinique. The Bakoua has 140 rooms, $208 to $300. (800) 221-4542
 Martinique Cottages, a little hideaway in the Pays Mele section of Lamentin, has a restaurant, La Plantation, that was selected in 1992 for a Gault Millau golden key award for creating a nouvelle cuisine creole, blending African, Indian, European and Caribbean flavors. The eight modern rooms in a tropical setting are priced at about $75. (596) 501608.
Natural Setting
 Habitation Lagrange, the newest Martinique hotel -- it was opened last winter -- is set on 7.5 acres of tropical gardens between the villages of Marigot and Lorrain on the northeast coast. Lagrange has 17 guest rooms, some in the restored 18th-century mansion that serves as the hotel's centerpiece, others in three cottages. $250-$300, with full breakfast.
In the rain-forested mountainous north of the island lies Leyritz Plantation, originally an 18th-century Bordelais chateau and now a country inn with 50 rooms. Near Basse-Pointe, Leyritz is surrounded by a 25-acre working pineapple and banana plantation. About $146, with Continental breakfast. (800) 633-7411.
Sports Facilities
The Meridien, in Pointe du Bout, across the bay from Fort-de-France, has a water sports complex offering wind surfing, snorkeling and deep-sea fishing.
 Crewed and bareboat sailing are available. Two tennis courts are lighted for night play, and there is golf at an 18-hole Robert Trent Jones course nearby. Espace Loisirs, a fitness center near the Meridien and the Bakoua, has squash, tennis, gymnastics and weight training. The Meridien has 295 rooms. $283-$417, with Continental breakfast. (800) 543-4300.
Tranquillity
 St. Aubin, perched on a hill two miles from Trinite on the Atlantic coast, was built of pink stone in the 1920's by a French planter. There are wraparound verandas on both floors, steeply pitched roofs and filigreed gables. Simply furnished, the 15-room St. Aubin has a pool in an almond grove, formal gardens and a dining room for guests only. About $112, with Continental breakfast. (800) 223-9815
 
Montserrat
 
MONTSERRAT TOURIST BOARD
c/o PACE ADVERTISING, 485 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017
(212) 818-0100
Natural Setting
 Twelve miles long and 7 wide, the island has only a handful of accommodations, mostly small clusters of cottages and villas. There are almost a hundred villas, most with good views and many with private pools. Although Montserrat was the island hardest hit by Hurricane Hugo in 1987, suffering severe damage to buildings, the number of guest rooms today is slightly higher than it was before the storm.
The Vue Pointe Hotel overlooks the most popular of the black sand beaches, Old Roads Beach, where there is scuba diving, snorkeling, deep sea fishing, wind surfing, paddle boating, sunfish sailing, surfing -- and right on the beach there are tennis courts. The atmosphere is informal. Individual cottages set in gardens of croton and oleander serve as hotel rooms. Rates for the 28 units vary from $126 to $166 for two in the winter season. An optional plan for breakfast and dinner costs $35 a person a day. (809) 491-5210 or (800) 235-0709.
The other main hotel, the Montserrat Springs, offers a choice of rooms or one- and two-bedroom efficiency suites, about 50 units altogether. The hotel gardens go down to the beach and to the mineral water baths there, next to the Las' Call beach bar. In season, rates are from $140 to $210. Optional plan for breakfast and dinner is $35 a person a day. (809) 491-2481 or (800) 253-2134.
The Belham Valley Hotel (actually three cottages with kitchens and a restaurant) has a view from the dining room as good as any on the island. A two-bedroom cottage costs $525 for six nights. A studio apartment is $350 for six nights. At the restaurant, dinner comes to about $29, not including drinks. (809) 491-5553.
 
Puerto Rico
 
COMMONWEALTH OF PUERTO RICO TOURISM COMPANY
575 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017
(212) 599-6262
Great Beach
 The Hyatt Dorado Beach offers a resort setting slightly removed from the bustle of San Juan. Known for its 18-hole Robert Trent Jones golf course, it has 298 guest rooms and casitas along a two-mile crescent beach. Between golf and sunning, there's tennis, dining, casino gambling and entertainment. Two people can spend the night for anywhere from $145 to $315 during the season. The newer, slightly less elegant Hyatt Regency Cerromar shares the same spectacular beach, and a pool with nooks, crannies and waterfalls. All 504 rooms have ocean views. Rates for two vary from $140 to $265. For either Hyatt, (800) 233-1234.
For another fine beach closer to town, the Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza at Isla Verde has a view of sea and sand that is uninterrupted by other buildings. There's also a large pool and outdoor Jacuzzi bath. This hotel near the airport has a new casino. Winter rates for the 254 rooms are $180.50 a night. (800) 465-4329.
Sports Facilities
 For wide open spaces, and the best sports package on the island, visitors drive to the southeast coast at Humacao to the Palmas del Mar resort. This 2,750-acre spread has a 20-court tennis center, an 18-hole Gary Player championship golf course, bike and jogging trails, tropical forest and wildlife preserve, a half-mile beach, scuba diving, wind surfing, kayaking and deep-sea fishing from a full service marina. There are both French and seafood restaurants. Palmas Inn and Casino and the Candelero Hotel have a total of 278 rooms, with nightly rates from $110 to $160 double occupancy. (809) 852-6000 or (800) 468-3331.
Fine Food
 For more French cuisine, visitors may cross the island to the Horned Dorset Primavera, a country retreat near Rincon on the western shore. This oasis has a restaurant and 22 separate little white villas with red roofs overlooking the Caribbean along the Mona Passage. The restaurant serves a fixed-price six-course dinner for $40 a person, not including wine. The menu changes daily; a typical meal might include soup, medallions of fresh lobster, grilled yellowfin tuna, or a veal dish, tamarind sorbet, French cheeses and salad, dessert and coffee. A room for two costs from $325 to $345, not including meals. (809) 823-4030 or 4050.
Natural Setting
 The Hacienda Gripinas, a restored coffee plantation in the mountain town of Jayuya, has been an inn since 1975. There are 19 shuttered rooms. A double costs $60 a night. A special honeymoon package for is $175 a couple for two nights and three days and includes welcome cocktails, two breakfasts and two dinners with wine. (809) 721-2884 or (809) 828-1717 or (800) 443-0266. .
Tranquillity
 Two intimate havens are the Sand and the Sea Inn in Cayey, and the Hotel San Jose in Old San Juan. The former, nestled in the mountains about an hour from San Juan, has antique quilts, a broad veranda and an ocean view. There are only four rooms, of which two are suites, one with a fireplace. The rooms cost $55 and $65, and the suites, $75, all including full breakfast. (809) 738-9086 or (809) 789-3620.
For a bit more colonial sophistication, the Hotel San Jose, a four-story mansion near City Hall in the old capital city, has 10 rooms. There's a central atrium, foliage, fountains and winding staircases. A 45-foot living room for afternoon tea and cocktails has books, a grand piano and comfortable sofas. Some of the rooms have marble tubs. The hotel serves breakfast only, but restaurants abound nearby. Double rates run from $160 to $200, suites from $270 to $500. Rates include Continental breakfast and evening cocktails. No children under 12. (809) 723-1212.
 
Saba
 
SABA TOURIST INFORMATION OFFICE
271 MAIN STREET, NORTHPORT, N.Y. 11768
(516) 261-7474
Natural Setting
 Most accommodations are situated on the higher altitudes of the mountain, insuring an attractive spot with views, mountain breezes and cool nights. Juliana's is the standout here; in addition to the attributes mentioned, it is family owned and operated. The 10-room inn has dive package deals are available on request with the Saba Deep and Sea Saba centers. A double room is $95 and a single $75 through April 15. Telephone, (599) 46-2269.
Captain's Quarters, next door to Juliana's, is the grand old lady of Saba's inns. Quiet and charming, it consists of several restored buildings in which there are 10 guest rooms, many with antique four-poster beds as well as balconies offering sweeping views of the surrounding sea, hills and valleys.
The Victorian main building was built around 1900 by Capt. Henry Hassell, a captain of one of the many clipper ships that used put in to Saba. Daily rates, including Continental breakfast, are $125 double and $95 single. A third or fourth person pays $35 a day. Telephone, (599) 46-2201.
 
 St. Barthelemy
 
FRENCH WEST INDIES TOURIST BOARD
610 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10020
(900) 420-2003; 50 cents a minute
Great Beach
 The Hotel Isle de France at Baie des Flamands is on one of the island's best beaches, a stretch of white sand fringed with lantana trees. The 28-room hotel is equipped with two swimming pools, tennis, an air-conditioned squash court and a fitness center. Rates are $300 to $515 a night for a double, with Continental breakfast. (800) 628-8929.
The 30-room Filao Beach Hotel is on the Plage de St.-Jean, which is protected by reefs and offers all kinds of water sports -- wind surfing, Sunfish sailing, water skiing, boat charters, swimming -- as well as some of the best seaside dining on the island. (For scuba, Dive With Dan is next door at the Hotel Emeraude Plage.) Accommodations are in bungalows set along paths in a garden setting. From about $320 a night for a double room with full breakfast. (800) 422-1323.
Fine Food
 La Toque Lyonnaise is a small restaurant in El Sereno Beach Hotel at Grand Cul de Sac. Among the specialties in the candlelighted poolside restaurant are lobster raviolis with shredded leeks, sauteed salmon scallopines, foie gras and sweetbreads with fresh pasta, and banana flambe in a crust. A three-course menu at dinner costs about $48. During the day, there is informal dining at the Lagon Bleu, the 29-room hotel's beachside bistro. Rates: $265-$340. (800) 528-1234.
The Sapora di Mare, formerly the Castelets, is now very Italian, with a menu of "coastal cuisine" created by the New York restaurateur Pino Luongo and his partner, Cesare Dell'Aguzzo. Calamari alla griglia, fresh squid, breaded and grilled, topped with tomatoes, and cacciucco alla toscana, a spicy seafood stew, are among the offerings. Dinner is from $50 to $65 a person, without wine. The hotel has 10 rooms, $100-$255 a night, with Continental breakfast. (212) 319-7488.
Sports Facilities
 Guanahani, St. Barts' first major hotel, has added new rooms and expanded its roster of sports, notably an on-site scuba operation. The 76-room hotel, situated on a lagoon near Grand Cul de Sac, has a pool overlooking the beach, and many of the rooms come equipped with small private pools and Jacuzzi baths. There are two lighted tennis courts, and a wind surfing school around the cove. $400-$500 for a double room, with Continental breakfast. (212) 838-3110.
The 52-room Manapany, a hillside on the north shoreat Anse des Cayes, offers a fitness center, a tennis court for day or night play, a pool, a Jacuzzi bath and petanque, the French version of lawn bowling. Arrangements for scuba, deep-sea fishing and sailing excursions can be made through the front desk. $355-$390 for a double room, with full American breakfast. (212) 719-5750.
Tranquillity
 Off at the eastern end of the island is Le Toiny, which opened quietly in August but plans to celebrate its official debut today. Le Toiny is not only removed from the general activity of St. Barts but also allows for true privacy with individual pools, 10 by 20 feet, for each of its 12 one-bedroom cottages. Additionally, there is a pool that serves all the hotel guests. $650 a night for the cottage, including Continental breakfast. (800) 932-3222.
 
St. Croix
 
U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS DIVISION OF TOURISM
1270 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10020
(212) 582-4520
Tranquillity
 The Waves at Cane Bay is on the north shore about 10 miles west of Christiansted and overlooks Cane Bay Beach. Good snorkeling and scuba diving are available at the beach, which abounds in coral gardens, and Cane Bay Wall -- a precipitous drop -- just beyond. Waves has 12 studio rooms with kitchenettes, cable TV and ceiling fans; some rooms have air-conditoning and all have sea views. Rates, double, $115 to $175 a night, with minimum three-night stay. (809) 778-1805.
Next door to the Waves is Cane Bay Reef Club, with nine suites and kitchenettes very close to the water, and a 40-foot swimming pool. Water sports are available. The adjacent No Name Bar & Grill serves such Caribbean specialties as conch and lobster. Room rates, double, $110 to $150. (809) 778-2966.
Sports Facilities
 The 150-room Buccaneer, St. Croix's biggest and oldest resort, covers 240 acres and lies two and a half miles east of Christiansted. It has a beach, 18-hole golf course, eight tennis courts, swimming pool, health club, snorkeling and scuba diving as well as day sailing trips to nearby Buck Island National Park. Four restaurants, nightly entertainment and shopping mall. All rooms have air-conditioning and ceiling fans. Rooms range from $184 to $325. (809) 773-2100.
Natural Setting
 Hilty House is a five-suite Mediterranean-style villa built on the ruins of a late 18th-century rum distillery in mid-island about two miles south of Christiansted. This out-of-the-way hillside retreat is surrounded by other forested slopes and has views of both the north and south shores, although not of the sea. Guests can also see the outskirts of Christiansted. Hand-painted tiles from Italy and Spain decorate floors and walls. There is a large swimming pool. There is no restaurant, but the rates of $90 a night for two include Continental breakfast, usually with fruit and home-baked muffins. Three cottages, with kitchens, on the two-and-a-half-acre grounds each sleep two and rent for a minimum of seven nights at $115 a night, not including breakfast. (809) 773-2594.
 
St. Eustatius
 
ST. EUSTATIUS TOURIST INFORMATION OFFICE
 271 MAIN STREET, NORTHPORT, NEW YORK, N.Y. 11768
 (516) 261-7474
Tranquillity
 The Old Gin House is a faithful reconstruction of an 18th-century building that once housed a cotton gin. In keeping with the island's peaceful atmosphere, the hotel has no locks on the doors of its 20 guestrooms. It is on the beach and has a restaurant and pool. No children under age 10.
Rates are $150 double, $110 single, $180 triple. Telephone, (599) 38-2319.
Another hotel with a quiet, unhurried atmosphere, and also on the beach, is the Golden Era, named for Statia's celebrated historical period, in the 17th and 18th centuries. The hotel has 20 rooms, all air-conditioned, with telephone and cable television. There is an outdoor bar and a swimming pool. Children accepted.
Rates are $70 single, $88 double, $104 triple. Telephone, (599) 38-2345.
 
St. John
 
U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS DIVISION OF TOURISM
1270 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10020
(212) 582-4520
Natural Setting
 Caneel Bay has seven beaches stretching along a 170-acre peninsula within the Virgin Islands National Park and has been a resort emphasizing casual elegance and privacy for 36 years. The 171 rooms are in secluded cottages -- no phones, no TV, no air-conditioning, only ceiling fans. There are three restaurants, bar and lounge, 11 tennis courts, water sports including fishing. Children under age 8 not permitted. Winter rates double, including meals, $325 to $535 a night. (809) 776-6111.
Sports Facilities
 The Hyatt Regency St. John, opened six years ago, is on a white sand beach and offers six lighted tennis courts, all water sports and a quarter-acre swimming pool. Scuba and snorkel gear and sailboats are available. There are 285 air-conditioned rooms and three restaurants. The Hyatt is only a mile from Cruz Bay but a nearby hill gives a feeling of seclusion. Daily rates, double, range from $325 to $475, including meals. (809) 776-7171.
Tranquillity
 Maho Bay Camps, set on 14 acres in the national park, has 113 "tent cottages" that include cooking facilities, ceiling fans, screened dining area, linens and utensils. Bathhouses have toilets, sinks and showers. This luxury camp, renovated in 1990, lies just behind a sandy beach and has an outdoor restaurant and food mart. Winter rates, double, $75 a night. (809) 776-6226.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CU (PAR) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); SAINT LUCIA (93%); JAMAICA (93%); BAHAMAS (93%); BARBADOS (92%); GULF STATES (92%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%); GRENADA (79%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (79%); CANADA (78%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (92%); CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (53%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); SAINT LUCIA (93%); JAMAICA (93%); BAHAMAS (93%); BARBADOS (92%); GULF STATES (92%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%); GRENADA (79%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (79%); CANADA (78%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TOURISM (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); RESORTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LODGING (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); BEACHES (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); STATISTICS (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (74%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); RESTAURANTS (64%); SPORTS (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%); 



58 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 13; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
'Death of a Salesman': Power Undimmed

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

DATELINE: RUTHERFORD

 BODY:
AFTER the miscellaneous theater companies that meant to set up residence at the William Carlos Williams Center for the Arts and failed, a new group, hopefully calling itself the Williams Center Repertory Theater, has turned up.
And this time there's no reason to disbelieve intentions. Last weekend's gripping opening night of "Death of a Salesman" signals promise and intelligence. Such encumbrances as a make-do look, one unfortunate performance and a few avoidable technical gaffes were surmounted by a perceptive and passionate grasp of a contemporary classic. 
 In the searching portrayal of Howard Wesson, Willy Loman is realized as the eternal low man, a tremulous wreck. No longer sustained by illusions, still floundering at the age of 63 and groping for the secret of the success that has eluded him, Mr. Wesson illuminates Willy's awareness of his own foolishness and mediocrity. Willy's final moment of acknowledgment, almost as if in redemption of his life, that his son Biff is his finest success, is heartbreakingly captured by Mr. Wesson.
Darian Sartain, the company's artistic director, plays Biff with a sense of anguish, complexity and ambivalence of an ostensible loser who wants to follow his own opposite dream. Mr. Sartain gets Biff's conflicted perception of his father as a blowhard and ultimately eulogizes him as "a fine troubled prince." Gino DiIorio's Happy has the makings of the slick plastic star of Willy's inflated dreams.
With a single exception, the rest of the cast is strong, notably Don Carter as an eerie, emcee-like Ben, a note of expressionism in an otherwise naturalistically conceived production. A whiny wrong note is struck by Joan Saporta, a Linda Loman to whom attention must not be paid.
Jack Banning's staging makes a clear distinction between the real memories and the pipe dreams; the happy times when Willy horsed around with Biff and Happy and the trumped-up ones, filled with his illusory claims of productivity.
Mr. Banning catches the usually underplayed aspects of Arthur Miller's work -- Willy's quest to track down his past; to connect with his own father, who made flutes; the encouragement of deviousness (disguised as fearlessness) in his sons.
Even the "what happened in Boston?" scene, which can seem a farfetched motivational device for Biff's defeatism, has a sudden dramatic validity here. The director smooths the transitions as the play maneuvers through the causeways of Willy's drifting mind, before he crashes.
The realistic details of Jared Saltzman's setting -- a drab kitchen, a bedroom with a chenille bedspread -- are offset by the surreal jagged wooden wall of Biff and Happy's room that represents the crackup of a whole family, not just one hapless man.
In 1949, Mr. Miller wrote of built-in obsolescence, boxed-in neighborhoods and the squeezing out of the common man for whom no one composes a fanfare. More than 40 years later, society's value system that he held accountable for the individual's moral and spiritual disintegration is even more reliant on grandiosity and bombast.
The economic problems foreshadowed here are more severe; attitudes toward aging, more pitiless, and the importance of appearances, more pronounced. At the center, the play's lasting hold goes beyond an ideologically driven vision.
Besides prophetic power, "Death of a Salesman" has dramatic glory. Both, astonishingly, are magnified by time. On the evidence of the Williams Center company's debut, there's no doubt about it.
"Death of a Salesman," by Arthur Miller, produced by the William Carlos Williams Center for the Arts, Park Avenue at Williams Plaza in Rutherford. Remaining performances are today and next Sunday at 3 P.M., Friday at 8 P.M. and Saturday at 2 and 8 P.M. Box office: (201) 939-2323.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gino DiIorio, left, as Happy, with Howard Wesson, center, in the role of Willy Loman, and Darian Sartain as Biff, in a scene from "Death of a Salesman" in Rutherford. (William Neumann Photography)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DEATH OF A SALESMAN (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAMS CENTER REPERTORY THEATER CARLOS WILLIAMS CENTER (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILLIAMS CENTER REPERTORY THEATER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER (94%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN MICHAEL HOWARD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



59 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 14; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Singles Pioneer Signs Up No. 300,000

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

DATELINE: RYE

 BODY:
EMPLOYING the dictum it takes one to know one, Richard Lowenstein started a tour company exclusively aimed at single people who want to travel.
The company, Singleworld, with headquarters here, marked its 35th anniversary this year by taking its 300,000th single passenger on a cruise this fall. 
 "Today, everyone is aware of the buying power of the singles market," Mr. Lowenstein said, "but in 1957, when I ran my first singles travel event, a Christmas and New Year's cruise to Europe, pairing two singles was a revolutionary concept."
 
Nine Countries in Five Months
 Mr. Lowenstein, who is a young and energetic 72-year-old, said his interest in the travel business was ignited when he was 32 and traveling through Europe alone.
"I was unemployed," he said. "I had just left a job with a shoe manufacturer. Before that I had been with a food brokerage company. I'm an accountant by profession, but at that point I was thinking about a career change. I always longed to go to Europe, and I had a little money saved up at the time. I remember I budgeted the trip at $1,200, and with that I was able to go to nine countries in five months before my money ran out. The last place I visited then was Capri, where you could stay for $25 a week back in 1953."
 
'There Was a Big Market'
 The European experience decided Mr. Lowenstein on a career in the travel industry.
"But in order to learn the business I went to work for a travel agent for nothing more than gaining hands-on experience," he said. "The first year I earned an average of $25 a week in commissions. By the second year I felt competent enough to run a student tour. But I lost money on it, because I underpriced it. However, from the response I got I immediately realized that there was a big market out there for unattached travelers."
With an investment of $3,000 from personal savings, Mr. Lowenstein started Gramercy Travel Company in Manhattan in 1956. A few months later, on April 1, he hired his first employee, Rita Kaplan, a travel agent and consultant. A year later, almost to the day, they were married. Today, Mrs. Lowenstein runs the parent company, Gramercy Travel, now in Rye.
Mr. Lowenstein's first singles event, an 18-day Christmas-New Year's trans-Atlantic crossing and European tour, called Bachelor Party at Sea, cost less than $1,000 a person in luxury accommodations for the 37 single men and women who signed up for it.
"The concept of singles traveling together was successful from the beginning," Mr. Lowenstein said. "From the first year of operation the business was profitable. Of course, we did a lot of advertising and Bachelor Party, which later became Singleworld, got a lot of publicity because of the novelty of it, and that certainly helped. But I think we were filling a basic need by making it easier for people to travel by themselves and not be alone. I find most people can manage fine during the day, but evenings in a foreign city are something else, especially for women 35 years ago. It was a big selling point for us to be able to tell them that we'd take them out in a group and see the sights after dark."
In those days, about the only people who traveled were wealthy. To make single travel more affordable, Mr. Lowenstein said he pushed the idea of shared accommodations.
"It was pretty bold then to suggest that two strangers who had never met share a room or a cabin on a ship," he said. "But the savings were so attractive that a lot of people were willing to give it a try. Although we have clients who prefer to pay for a single supplement for their own accommodations, most people these days do share. Some cruises have accommodations for four people in a stateroom, which brings the individual cost for a cruise way, way down."
Singleworld's concentration on cruises, which now represents four-fifths of its overall business, began when fly-cruise packages made more options available.
 
Three Age Groups Predominate
 As cruising became more popular, the average age of passengers on cruises started dropping, Mr. Lowenstein said. "It used to be that only older people took cruises," he said. "Now we book three age groups: 20- to 33-year-olds, 29- to 40-year-olds and a third group is an all-ages group."
The company doesn't run its own ships; it uses such major cruise lines as Carnival Cruise Lines, Norwegian Cruise Line and Royal Caribbean Cruise Line.
"Almost 100 percent of our business comes from 6,000 travel agents nationwide who book their single clients with us," Mr. Lowenstein said.
Passengers are accompanied by one of Singleworld's 14 cruise directors, said Randall Russell, the company's managing director, who added that they spend an average of eight weeks at a time at sea.
 
On Call 24 Hours a Day
 "Our cruise directors are men and women who are good with people," Mr. Russell said. "Cruise director on a ship sounds like a dream job, and in many ways it is, but our people work hard. They are literally on call 24 hours a day to help passengers with any problems they might have."
Mr. and Mrs. Lowenstein's daughter, Wendy, now a vice president of the company, came up through the ranks and is a former cruise director.
"The cruise director makes table arrangements so that all singles sit with singles and hold special events solely for the group on board and also takes charge of shore arrangements," Ms. Lowenstein said.
Mr. Russell added: "We also provide the activities that give singles a chance to meet other singles, which otherwise can be difficult on a large ship. Granted, we start with a happy product.
"For most people, going on a cruise is a dream come true, but it's the responsibility of the cruise director to see that everyone, and I mean everyone, has a good time."
The rewards for such diligence come in the form of repeat business. Some clients, Mr. Lowenstein said, take as many as 10 cruises a year with Singleworld.
"Most of those who repeat that often are retirees for whom cruising has become a way of life," he explained.
"A cruise ship is a self-contained world. It's very attractive having meals, entertainment and companionship readily available."
Women passengers still outnumber men, but only slightly, Mr. Lowenstein said. "Years back, there were many more women than men, but the gap has narrowed."
And there are Singleworld imitators to contend with. Other tour operators, recognizing the buying capacity of the single market, have tried to duplicate Mr. Lowenstein's operation.
"To my mind the most flattering one was Club Med, Mr. Lowenstein said. "They shined the spotlight on the entire singles market. I was very pleased that before they began their operation they asked me for advice. Of course, there are other tour operators for singles these days, but none of them are on our scale. I feel I was lucky to have found my niche when the costs for important things like marketing and advertising were reasonable and do-able. I couldn't handle it today."
Despite the current recession, Mr. Lowenstein said, every week so far this year about 15 groups of about 16 travelers, totaling about 12,000 a year, have gone cruising with Singleworld.
"Thankfully, we will end up in the black this year, but we had to work hard to produce more volume in order to do so."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Lowenstein, at rear, the founder of Singleworld, a travel agency specializing in cruises for single people, at the company's Rye office with Randall Russell, the company's managing director, and Aimee Rinaldi, operations manager. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SINGLEWORLD TRAVEL CO INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SINGLEWORLD

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SINGLE PERSONS ANNIVERSARIES (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); FOOTWEAR MFG (53%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; LOWENSTEIN, RICHARD RICHARD LOWENSTEIN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



60 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2002 words

HEADLINE: County Would Get $26.3 Million From Bond Act Approval

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
FOR the village of Dobbs Ferry, passage of a referendum going before voters on Tuesday could provide $750,000 for a two-tier parking lot in a downtown shopping area that has been hit hard by the recession. For Mount Vernon, a city that is struggling economically, it could mean $6 million for an urban-renewal project to build a multiservice transportation center.
For 15 Westchester communities and the county, passage of the New York State Jobs Bond Act on Election Day would mean that $26.3 million in state aid will be available for projects designed to help local economies and generate jobs in the private sector. 
 The money would be Westchester's share of $800 million the act would make available. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo says the proposed act -- also known as the Jobs for the New, New York Bond Act -- is necessary to jump-start the state's economy.
On a state and local level, the bond act presents voters with a decision that reflects many of the issues being debated by the Presidential candidates.
"It's the same basic dilemma," said Noreen L. Preston, an economist with the County Office of Commerce and Economic Development. "On the one hand, there is the recognition of an already high level of indebtedness. And on the other, there is a need to create jobs and income."
The fate of the controversial borrowing plan, which will appear as Proposal One on the ballot, "will depend on what voters think is the prescription to improve the health of the local economy," Ms. Preston said.
Opponents of the plan, including the president of the Westchester County Chamber of Commerce, called it "just a lot of fiscal gimmickry" and said the state should not take on more debt but should do some vigorous "financial housekeeping."
Those in favor of the jobs bond act, including a trade union president, said the proposal offered the only hope for creating jobs and "getting the local economy moving again." And a spokeswoman for the State Office of Economic Development said: "The Governor's proposal more than pays for itself. The critics are wrong."
Governor Cuomo's plan is to create 24,000 construction jobs and 106,000 permanent private-sector jobs statewide by financing construction of roads, bridges, parking lots and sewer systems.
 
390 Projects in the State
 For Westchester, passage of the referendum could mean 3,744 new construction jobs and as many 8,535 new jobs in the business sector once the improvements are in place, according to estimates made by the municipalities that applied for funds.
Statewide, 390 projects were approved from 1,100 applications. In the county, 24 projects of 47 applications were approved.
The act would authorize the state to borrow $800 million in general obligation bonds, with yearly interest and principal payments of $65 million over 25 years.
Based on state projections, up to $155 million would be generated yearly in additional revenues by the infusion of money into local economies statewide -- in terms of new jobs and business development, said Mardi J. Massaroni, the spokeswoman for the Office of Economic Development. Over 25 years, she said, the state estimates that new revenues generated by the improvements would total $3.1 billion, while the debt service on the bond for that period would be $1.7 billion.
The current bond proposal differs from previous ones -- the Transportation Bond Acts of 1983 and 1986, for example -- in that the highway and other projects are designed to help existing businesses expand and to attract new ones.
"What sets this bond act apart from others is that it's not just for highways, bridges or mass transit. It is designed to stimulate jobs in the private sector once the improvements are made," said George Drapeau, director of communications for the Construction Industry Council of Westchester and the Hudson Valley, a trade association that supports the measure and represents 550 contractors, suppliers and service firms in the region.
"It's not just a make-work proposal," Mr. Drapeau said.
With the county's unemployment rate for August at 5.8 percent, the highest jobless rate for the month in 14 years, many government leaders are eager for voter approval on the referendum.
 
Flood Problem in Peekskill
 In Mount Vernon, where Constance G. Post, Commissioner of Planning and Community Development, said, "The hard economic times have really hit home," the city stands to receive $6 million. The state money would match Federal grants for building a railroad transportation center in a commercial and light-industrial area. Officials there estimate that the project would provide 100 construction jobs and 50 permanent private-sector jobs.
In Peekskill, the city would get $1.9 million to correct a flooding problem in a light-industrial area and another $750,000 to rebuild roads in an industrial park. Deborah Post-Stern, deputy director for planning and development, estimated that more than 50 construction jobs and about 800 business-sector jobs would be generated within the next five years. She said that it was necessary to create local jobs in a city where the unemployment rate has averaged 7.9 percent in the last two years, which is higher than the 4.9 percent average for the county during the period from May 1990 to April this year.
And in Dobbs Ferry, where a two-tier parking lot would be built, the Village Administrator, Margaret Slavin, estimated that 125 construction jobs and about 50 jobs in businesses would provide a "shot in the arm" for the Hudson River community.
"We tried the typical things to revitalize the central business district -- new sidewalks, street festivals," she said. "But in this economy, we have a lot of empty stores. And every time we try to attract a new business here, they tell us the big drawback is the lack of parking."
 
Called 'Poor Economic Planning'
 But while many are touting the borrowing plan as "laying a foundation for a better future," as Frank M. Surdey, regional economist for the State Department of Labor, described it, one county business organization opposed it as "poor economic planning" and "a matter of asking the voters to write a blank check without enough specifics." Other business organizations were at best ambivalent.
"The plan lacks credibility," said Harold E. Vogt, president of the 3,000-member Westchester County Chamber of Commerce. "It seems to be just a lot of marketing hype."
Mr. Vogt, who said the proposal was not specific enough, also said that the state should reduce spending and focus its efforts on "financial housekeeping" rather than borrow more money. He said local municipalities and the county -- not the state -- should take the initiative to make needed infrastructure improvements.
In Yonkers, where three projects have been approved for $3 million in state financing under the act, the city's 900-member Chamber of Commerce recently voted "no position" on the bond issue, reported its president, Thomas J. Caramadre.
 
Belt Tightening Proposed
 "The state has spent millions of dollars in the past few years on projects designed to secure jobs and create a better business climate," Mr. Caramadre said. "Yet in that same period, New York lost 400,000 jobs."
"Our vote," he said, "reflects a lack of confidence in the bond act. The hard part is that Yonkers stands to get a lot of money."
Like Mr. Vogt, the Yonkers chamber president suggested that local officials "do some belt tightening" and not rely on money from outside.
Similarly, the Westchester County Association, a business-based civic group with 800 member organizations, voted "down the middle" on the proposed jobs bond act and as a result took no position on the matter, said the association's vice president, Richard D. Schaab.
 
Unions Give Firm Support
 But on a state level the Business Council of New York State, which represents 4,000 member businesses, chambers of commerce and regional associations, approved the proposal.
Labor unions are firmly behind the Governor's plan. The construction industry, which had 19,100 jobs in the county in August, has lost 8,000 jobs -- a drop of 30 percent -- since 1988.
"When construction is going good, that's when the economy really starts to boom," said Edward Doyle, president of the 5,000-member teamsters union, Local 456, which represents teamsters and chauffeurs. "This could mean jobs for us, good-paying, prevailing-wage jobs," he said.
 
Detailed Applications Required
 "Some people say that another bond act is only going to mean that our children and grandchildren will have to pay the taxes on this," said Mr. Doyle, who is also president of the Westchester-Putnam Building and Construction Trades Council, which represents 50,000 workers -- among them plumbers, electricians, painters and carpenters.
"But I say that if we don't get this economy rolling, we won't be able to afford to have children, much less grandchildren," he added.
Under the bond act, most projects are eligible for up to 60 percent in state financing. If a project is in an economic development zone -- an area previously identified as having high unemployment and poverty rates, for example -- it may be eligible for up to 80 percent in financing.
Before funds are awarded, each eligible municipality and county must present a detailed application that spells out how the rest of the project will be financed -- from other grants or from local budget allotments, for example.
 
 
 
APPROVED PROJECTS
THE following is a list of Westchester projects that have been approved for financing under the proposed New York State jobs bond act, which will appear as Proposal 1 on Tuesday's ballot. The amounts approved for most projects represent 60 percent of the total cost. If a project is in what has been previously identified as an economic development zone -- where there are high unemployment and poverty rates, for example -- or as a distressed area, financing under the act could be as high as 80 percent. Amounts in parentheses represent total project costs.
Cortlandt: Westchester Mall service road, $450,000 ($800,000); Jacob Hill Plaza Sanitary Sewer, $180,000 ($300,000).
Croton-on-Hudson: South Harmon Commercial Area Improvement Project, $350,000 ($611,886).
Dobbs Ferry: Downtown parking lot, $750,000 ($1.5 million).
Irvington: Upgrade of public infrastructure in an industrial zone, $63,310 ($108,850).
Larchmont: North Avenue Parking Lot, $54,300 ($90,500).
Mount Pleasant: Sidewalk linking Hawthorne and Thornwood business districts, $300,000 ($500,000).
Mount Vernon: Transportation Center, $6 million ($15 million).
New Rochelle: former Bloomingdale's parking lot, $660,000 ($1.1 million); Weyman Avenue Urban Renewal, $1.1 million ($2 million).
North Tarrytown: Central business district improvements, in a distressed area, $1.5 million ($2.6 million).
Ossining: Downtown parking structure, $2.5 million ($3.8 million); extension of sewer and water lines, as part of a waterfront-redevelopment project on Quimby Street, $150,000 ($200,000). Both projects are in distressed areas.
Peekskill: Charles Point Industrial Park, Phase 2, $750,000 ($949,407); Magregorie Brook Drainage Improvement Project, $1.9 million ($3 million). Both projects are in distressed areas.
Port Chester: South Main Street sidewalk improvements, $500,000 ($950,000).
White Plains: Fashion Mall, Part 1, $400,000 ($750,000); Fashion Mall, Part 2, in a distressed area, $1.6 million ($3.3 million).
Yonkers: Ashburton Madison Urban-Renewal Area, $1.4 million ($2 million); Austin Avenue Corporate Park improvements, $600,000 ($1 million); Human Services Complex improvements, $1 million ($7.7 million). All three projects are in economic development zones.
Yorktown: Yorktown Jobs Initiative, $2.2 million ($3.7 million).
Westchester: Repair of North Avenue Bridge in New Rochelle, $500,000 ($925,000); Westchester Mall infrastructure project, in a distressed area in White Plains, $1.4 million ($3.9 million).

GRAPHIC: Photo: An industrial area in Peekskill where some of the bond-issue money would be spent to build and improve roads. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MOUNT VERNON NEON (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); BONDS (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); APPROVALS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); TRENDS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



61 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 27; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2857 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 FOLLIES

BYLINE: By Russell Baker; Russell Baker is a columnist for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Many an eerie sight have I seen since covering my first Presidential election 36 years ago. I have seen Adlai Stevenson shake hands with a department store mannequin, and I have seen Barry Goldwater embraced by Col. Harlan Sanders in his white Kentucky Fried Chicken suit.
I have seen squadrons of nuns leaping in shamelessly uninhibited ecstasy as young Jack Kennedy sped through Cleveland in an open car. 
 Estes Kefauver have I seen in a coonskin cap, running on straight Scotch whisky and faith that he could cover up a telltale breath with Sen-Sen.
I have seen Richard Nixon let a practically certain victory drip away in sweat, and I have seen Nelson Rockefeller on national television give the finger to an entire Republican National Convention.
And what of the night Lyndon Johnson, flying across the country, so high on certainty of a landslide victory that he couldn't stop talking to reporters, described President Charles de Gaulle as "just an old man who went to South America and fell on his ass"?
I run on and on in the Ancient Mariner vein only to demonstrate the point: I know what I'm talking about when I say that for pure gaudy, obscene, hilarious, unnatural, shameful and silly politicking, the present campaign beats them all, hands down. Connoisseurs and political junkies -- I guarantee it -- will someday look back on Bush versus Clinton versus Perot as one of the great ones, the way old-timers now look back on 1960 as one of the best.
What made 1960 historic was the triumph of television. No words out of Nixon could have jolted a nation of TV addicts the way it was jolted by that perspiration pouring down Nixon's chin. This wasn't Grandpa's dull, old, wordy, Eisenhowerish politics. This was modern, pulse-pounding TV melodrama. A couple of gunslingers about to shoot it out, winner to be President of the United States, and one of them was -- "My God, Clarissa, the man is -- "
Sweating!
That night, image replaced the printed word as the natural language of politics.
Which brings us to 1992 and the Age of Larry King, world's greatest late-night book salesman, right after this brief pause for the 1980's:
In the 1980's, politicians stood tall, whatever that meant. The image mechanics who operated the politicians would have been alarmed to learn it meant anything at all.
It wasn't supposed to mean anything. It was supposed to sound good, make you think of John Wayne, or basketball players, or make you stop thinking of anything at all, just shut down the boring old brain so you could feel good, unhindered by contact with reality. Making you feel was what images were supposed to do, not think.
In the 1980's, imagery ran politics so completely you could elect an actor whose best off-the-cuff lines were filched from old movies. To win by a landslide you didn't even need a speech, just some knockout TV pictures -- fruited plains, amber waves of grain, purple-mountained majesty -- and a pear-toned baritone voice-over saying, "It's morning in America."
Fast-forward to 1992. It's been 32 years since Nixon's historic TV sweat. Half the present population wasn't even born in 1960. Now everything's different. Everything. Elvis is dead. Hair has come and gone. Sex has come and gone. The good old American gunslingers have turned into kids with handguns shooting each other on street corners -- and you too if you break cover at the wrong time. Americans now go to the movies to hiss the cowboys.
Nobody foresaw the amazing change that Presidential politics has undergone. Only a wizard with a taste for the macabre could have predicted that the great age of image politics would end with the Presidential campaign turning into a TV talk show.
Jonathan Yardley of The Washington Post thought it degrading for candidates to be "reduced to the level customarily occupied by authors hustling their books, faded movie stars grasping for one last jolt of celebrity and transvestites telling their pathetic tales." H. L. Mencken, on the other hand, would surely have declared it no more degrading than the customary obscenities associated with Presidential campaigns, and had a marvelous time ridiculing the men who stooped so low to conquer.
Hark back to the time of the absolutely unbeatable George Bush. See him hailed as the greatest statesman since Caesar Augustus. That was only yesterday. March 1991. The Persian Gulf war had the country unnaturally happy with the state of the world, and Bush's approval in the polls stood at 88 percent.
An 88 percent approval rating is as close to unanimous support as a politician can get without the Gestapo doing his polling door to door. Politicians believe in polls. They tell you they believe in God, flag and mother, and maybe they do, sometimes, but three things they really believe in are polls, polls and polls. This faith in polls was about to be fatal to the Presidential ambitions of several Democratic heavyweights.
Aware of polls suggesting George Bush could probably beat George Washington if the Founder were rash enough to challenge him, big Democratic mules like Sam Nunn, Bill Bradley, Mario Cuomo -- and yes, Albert Gore -- declared themselves uninterested in being President, at least any time soon. Gore's later decision to run for Vice President suggests a boyhood spent dreaming of presiding over the Senate.
Those mighty polls undid Bush too. They concentrated his mind on war glory, distracting him from a recession that threatened to settle in like a long-lost relative who had sent for his trunk. Instead of attending to it, Bush endorsed his economists' incessant forecasts that recovery was just around the corner and traveled around basking in hero's receptions and, presumably, piling up film for "morning in America" commercials for the campaign.
Haven't seen any films like that this fall, have we?
It's hard to realize now that the only Democrat nervy enough to tackle Bush back there when he looked like Godzilla was Paul Tsongas. Everybody laughed about Tsongas. Even Tsongas smiled about Tsongas. "A Greek . . . from Massachusetts," he said. Smiling.
His earnestness was funny, of course, because it was so obviously sincere. It's O.K. for media-age candidates to look earnest as long as they don't look sincere about it. For the longest time, it looked as if sincere Tsongas, with his detailed program for fixing the economy, might be Bush's only opponent.
Media people dogged Cuomo. Would nobody save them from this Greek dullness with Italian fire? Cuomo pondered, philosophized, hesitated, consulted his conscience, dithered. And no wonder.
He was at the mercy of Republicans in Albany, a hometown Catholic cardinal trying to make him toe the Pope's line on abortion and a famously devastating Republican well-poisoning squad that had been itching for years to do its Bible Belt number on a New York liberal with a Mediterranean name.
Enter Clinton. Also Kerrey, Harkin, Brown and maybe two or three more we've forgotten. It was the march of the Millard Fillmores.
Say this for them, though: no faint hearts in that bunch of scrubs. Unlike the varsity, which folded before Bush's mighty polls, this gang had nothing to lose. If you are youngish and would like to be President someday, you run once, maybe twice, to get the feel of it, get some name recognition, but not expecting to score first time out.
Clinton fit the profile. He also fit the press's profile of what makes a plausible candidate, which is to say he was orthodox, somebody reporters could call "a pragmatist," meaning "won't let ideology get in the way of doing what's got to be done to get elected."
For a few weeks early in election years, a few political reporters briefly exercise great power. Before and after the silly New Hampshire primary, they make the odds on the candidates, determine what will constitute a victory and afterward decide who won, no matter what the arithmetic says. Among these connoisseurs and kingmakers, Clinton was the choicest of a dim field.
In the cruel shorthand of political journalism, Brown was a flake, Harkin was an outdated liberal, Kerrey lacked fire in the belly and Tsongas was dull, dull, dull. If you were used to deciphering these media guys, you could tell well before the New Hampshire vote that Clinton would have to get caught at something extravagantly unforgiveable to stop the press from anointing him as "front runner."
Enter Gennifer Flowers. Astonishing people were breaking out all over: Pat Buchanan, Tsongas with his accursed dullness and, waiting in the wings, Larry King, Ross Perot, Murphy Brown, the late Harry Truman, Marilyn Quayle and the Texas Richelieu, a.k.a. James A. Baker 3d.
In a production like this, it was inevitable that Ms. Flowers would become known as "Gennifer with a G." Inevitably, she led to demands for a televised soul-baring. Woe to the modern candidate who refuses a televised soul-baring when accused of sin. Look what happened to Gary Hart in 1988 when he failed to seek absolution in the TV confessional. Clinton did his baring on "60 Minutes," with Mrs. Clinton at his side.
It sufficed, though it lacked the magnificently mawkish insincerity of Nixon's great 1952 soul-barer, the "Checkers speech," because of Clinton's congenital inability to tell the whole darned world absolutely everything about his lapses into human folly. (Yes, he once tried a joint, but didn't inhale. Well, how many times did the press want him to explain that complicated draft situation?)
As if to reassure America that he had the right stuff to handle Presidential soul-baring, he larded his convention speech with real-life story values that had nothing to do with curing superpower blues but everything to do with tugging America's heartstrings. So did Gore. What they meant to do about the health-care nightmare may have been vague, but one thing was clear: These fellows had heart.
Meanwhile, Gennifer with a G got lost in the confusion. In a human stew this rich, even 15 minutes of fame was more than a mere Gennifer with a love story could survive.
Because, look, the Republicans were carrying on in full suicidal fig: Pat Buchanan stalking Bush with political murder in his heart and Bush up in New England sounding as nutty as a kid on jolly pills. How's your health, Mr. President? "Don't cry for me, Argentina." What about these charges that you're insensitive to the country's economic pain? "Message: I care."
How better capture the burlesque into which the Republican party had fallen than to note that Buchanan was a newspaper columnist. A newspaper columnist is somebody who's paid to be provocative at breakfast and, for that purpose, is licensed to be as irresponsible as whim dictates. Imagine the party of Abraham Lincoln flirting with the idea of making a newspaper columnist President of the United States.
Urged on by right-wingers who had long wanted to put the boot into Bush, Buchanan slashed into his target with the exquisite cruelty of a devastating phrase-maker. Here was a right-winger's dream of Paradise. Bush had remade himself to please them, had reversed himself on abortion, come out against government, gone to the flag factory, bought the whole right-wing agenda -- and they despised him for it. Despised him for trying to con them.
They knew that deep down Bush had never been one of them, never would be. They weren't fooled by the pork-rind act and efforts to plug himself into the yahooism of darkest Texas. To keep them happy, he had kept Dan Quayle on the ticket though everybody knew Quayle was a klutz, even by Vice Presidential standards.
Bush's gluttony for abuse seemed inexhaustible. What was Buchanan's punishment for savaging his President? Assignment to one of the convention's best prime-time speech slots with permission to turn American politics into religious warfare. The last time a sitting President was treated this rudely by a rump group, Mayor Daley let the Chicago police tattoo their obstreperous skulls with blunt objects.
Convention over, aficionados of high nonsense were treated to President's Bush's announcement that he would run as Harry Truman, though actually, now that you ask, he voted against Truman in 1948. Still, Truman ran against Congress and Bush too would run against Congress.
Many Americans must have happily cried, "At last!" Clinton's convention had boomed with fatuous talk about the great improvements to come under Clinton triumphant, but there had been an absolute dearth of talk about how any improving at all can possibly get done as long as Congress remains in the pay of the special interests.
Alas, that didn't interest Bush either, and he soon quit running as Truman, except for blaming Congress for everything short of warts and acne. After that, he ran under so many identities it was hard to keep track of who he was from day to day.
Are we forgetting Ross Perot? No sirreee. When you see a Ross Perot, it stays with you. This one was straight out of "Alice in Wonderland." Remember the smile of the Cheshire Cat? It lingered on, nothing but a smile hanging in the air, after the cat itself had vanished. That was Ross Perot. He didn't look a bit feline, of course. He had a face like a Toby jug and a voice like Frank Perdue. Put them together announcing plans to spend $100 million of private capital on a Presidential race, and you had Ross Perot.
And then, of course, you didn't have Ross Perot. He had vanished like the Cheshire Cat, leaving the memory of that face, that voice, that $100 million campaign lingering in the air until -- presto! -- back again. A genuine nonparty Cheshire candidate spending barrels of his own billionaire's money.
What was even more wondrous about Perot, however, was this: In an age when professional image-makers had persuaded politicians that image was everything and frivolity was best, Perot kept talking about the deficit, which no real candidate would have wanted to talk about because it was terribly serious and might be terribly painful to get rid of.
Yet -- mirabile dictu -- millions of people did want to hear about the deficit and how to get rid of it. Toward the end, Perot wore out the somber novelty of his bad-news message by turning cute. In the TV debates he went to cute-as-a-bug-in-a-rug style, joking about his ears, using his salesman's Texas vernacular, plugging his future TV commercials.
Maybe Perot will be remembered in history as the father of the talk-show campaign. He announced his first candidacy on CNN, the "Larry King Live" program. After that, Larry King often seemed to be master of ceremonies to the campaign. Clinton, Bush, Perot again. . . . "Larry King Live" was where you went to get your candidacy validated.
Suddenly you could run for President without TV's big three networks. A new television world had sprung up just as the networks' new bean-counting owners were gutting their once-splendid news departments. Now there were CNN, C-Span, dozens of new cable outlets, all of them desperate for something, anything, anything to fill time.
The pols, enslaved for years to the networks by the theory of image politics, suddenly discovered a new television world that needed them just as desperately as they needed it. Ross Perot and Larry King started a revolution. Yes, revolution: Phil Donahue waving his awesome microphone at Presidential timber. Larry King, America's greatest late-night radio book salesman, examining Presidents, billionaires, ambitious Arkansans. George Bush having the CBS breakfast-show hosts for a morning chat in the Rose Garden. Bill Clinton blowing the sax for Arsenio Hall. . . .
Yes, revolution: after all those years of burning up energy and paying through the nose for precious network exposure, these image-crazy guys were suddenly getting exposure galore, and it was free, and the talk shows let them run on and on and on and on and. . . .
Oh, what a magic year it was: the greatest democracy there ever was staging this astonishing production in self-government up there on the biggest stage in the world right in front of every last one of us. What a show, folks! What a show!
Remember Larry King bringing us George Bush that hair-raising night George stumbled into that antique Joe McCarthy persona. And it was for you -- yes you, Smart Cool Young America -- that Arsenio presented Saxophone Bill Clinton and his really happening shades.
Phil Donahue, stand up. Up, Phil baby. You were terrific in those interviews. And you, Marilyn, it was beautiful the way you slid the stiletto into Hillary Clinton that night in Houston.
Dan, Danny Quayle, you were absolutely unbelievable, sweetheart. America will never forget your wow performance as the first member of a Presidential ticket ever to lose to a fictional opponent.
You were tremendous, gang. Every one of you. Absolutely tremendous. And now, ladies and gentlemen, as the company departs please stare very hard into the expanding emptiness . . . very, very hard . . . no blinking now . . . if you don't blink you may be able to see . . . lingering up there in the void . . . just the faintest remnant of an evanesced cat . . . smile.

GRAPHIC: Cartoons

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN JAPAN LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); BASKETBALL (66%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (54%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (54%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



62 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 5; Page 14; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2540 words

HEADLINE: WINTER IN THE SUN;
Guadeloupe's Sleepy Satellites

BYLINE: By BARRY GIFFORD; BARRY GIFFORD has traveled extensively in the Caribbean.

 BODY:
IN 1962, when I was 15, my Uncle Buck, who had been a commander in the United States Navy, suggested that it might be interesting for me to work for the summer on a freighter. We were in Tampa, Fla. -- then a smallish cigar-manufacturing town and phosphate port -- and there were plenty of ships in the harbor, so we went down to the docks and looked them over. Buck struck up a conversation with the captain of a Norwegian cargo boat. We repaired to a bar, where the two men drank whisky and I had a root beer. Buck tried to convince the skipper to take me on as a cabin boy, but since I had no seaman's papers he couldn't do it. His boat was heading down through the Caribbean; its only definite destinations at that point were Pointe-a-Pitre, in Guadeloupe, and Fort-de-France, in Martinique. I don't remember much of what the captain said, but I still recall his remarking on the extraordinary skills of his Colombian crewmen who played soccer on the deck and never once kicked the ball overboard. It was also the first time I had ever heard of Pointe-a-Pitre.
It was many years before I made it to Pointe-a-Pitre, on a different kind of adventure. That port is the jumping-off point for the Iles des Saintes and Marie-Galante, islands in the Guadeloupe archipelago in the French West Indies. 
 Though there are regularly scheduled flights via Air Guadeloupe to Terre-de-Haut, one of the eight Iles des Saintes, I always prefer to approach a destination by boat when possible. I like the feeling of the waves, of knowing the distance at sea level the way the first people to arrive at the place did. In the case of Terre-de-Haut, where my wife, Mary Lou, and I would be staying for the next four days, we were following in the wake of the Arawaks, then the Caribs, and of Christopher Columbus. He came upon this archipelago on Nov. 4, 1493, three days after the Feast of All Saints, and named the islands Los Santos. It was not until Oct. 18, 1648, that Charles Houel, the Governor of Guadeloupe, seized them in the name of the crown. It was Houel who supervised the extermination of the Carib Indians, and established a government in 1659. Slavery was introduced on the more fertile of the two inhabited islands, Terre-de-Bas, where the sugar cane plantations were located. Men were shanghaied in France and brought to settle both islands, and women were paid to come over to provide them with sexual services.
Due to their strategic position in the Caribbean, and the marvelous anchorage, many naval battles between the British and the Frence were fought for control of Les Saintes. In 1782, for example, the Royal Navy, under Admiral Rodney, routed the French under Admiral de Grasse; so the British took over for a short spell, and it was not until 1815 that Les Saintes -- as the Iles des Saintes are familiarly known -- again became French territory.
Terre-de-Haut was settled mostly by whites, the families that came as part of the French military presence established at Fort Napoleon -- begun in 1781, completed in 1867 -- which still stands, immaculately preserved, on a promontory on the north side of the island. The residents of both Terre-de-Bas and Marie-Galante are mainly descendants of the slaves brought there to work the coffee plantations and sugar cane fields.
The boat trip from Pointe-a-Pitre to Terre-de-Haut takes about an hour and a half, and our ride was calm -- unusually so, said a fellow passenger who had made the crossing often. The entrance to Terre-de-Haut is spectacularly beautiful, signaled by a baby version of Le Pain du Sucre (sugarloaf) in Rio de Janeiro, and Le Chameau (the camel), its highest peak (1,014 feet). Our base would be Le Village Creole, a hotel comprising 22 duplexes overlooking the bay at Pointe Coquelet.
"This is what St. Barts was 20 years ago," said Ghyslain Laps, the owner of our hotel and the secretary of the local department of tourism. "People don't really know about Les Saintes." In fact, the archipelago of Les Saintes comprises eight islands altogether, and only Terre-de-Haut is equipped to accommodate tourists. There are a half-dozen hotels on the island, several of which cater to English-speaking guests; all offer the kinds of conveniences modern-day travelers appreciate.
The island is roughly the same size as Key West, three by two miles, and has the feel of the Lower Keys, but the Keys of the 1920's. There are only 1,500 people on Terre-de-Haut. There is no crime here, no need to lock doors or worry about pickpockets.
Other than tourism, which accounts for about 50 percent of the local economy, the main industry is fishing. The island boats are 20-foot dinghies with outboard motors. The men, most of whom begin their profession at 18, wear flat bamboo hats called salakos, whose design is said to have originated in Saigon, where the hats were worn by the police; nobody is certain how or when this Far Eastern wrinkle came to Les Saintes. Using blue nets strung with bright orange buoys, the fishermen haul in tuna, kingfish and daurade (dolphin, or mahi-mahi). They also trap rock lobster and crab, and conch is a local delicacy.
The ferrys from Guadeloupe dock at Bourg, the largest of the island's towns. Rental cars are not available on Terre-de-Haut, nor are they necessary: residents and visitors get around on foot or on scooters. The hotels have vans to transport guests, and minibuses, called Taxis de l'Ile, are available for two-hour tours. But with the exception of the climb up Le Chameau or to Fort Napoleon, the best way to get around the island is to walk, the winding streets and roads providing often breathtaking views of the sea and other islands.
Guadeloupe is only seven and a half miles away, and at night the lights of Pointe-a-Pitre are blazingly visible. During the day you can see the dormant Soufriere volcano on Basse-Terre -- all of these islands are volcanic -- its peak cloaked by cumulus clouds drifting across its sleeping head. Flowers grow everywhere, including yucca, purple granadilla, dragon bone tree, Turk's cap, prickly poppy and crown-of-thorns. Pelicans conceal themselves in the thickets, goats clamber all over, bleating and scavenging for food, and iguanas abound on the beaches.
And there are, of course, many beaches. The most perfect, perhaps, is on the northeast side of the island at the Baie de Pompiere, an idyllic cove protected from the harsher waves by Les Roches Percees, hills that form a narrow inlet. Pompiere was a fabled refuge for pirates, and there are those who believe treasure remains buried along the white sand beach. At Anse Crawen, on the northern side, there is a nude beach; Grand Anse is a long stretch on the eastern side of the island, where because of a decided undertow and rough waves, swimming is not recommended, but it is lovely to walk along. At Marigot Bay, on the northern part of the island, is a good swimming beach, also the site of the Union des Centres de Plein Air. The center is the place for intensive wind surfing and sailing; they offer weeklong packages that include lodging, meals, lessons and unlimited use of sailboards and Hobie Cat catamarans. The Club Nautique des Saintes rents tanks and gear for diving and also provides instruction. There are no sharks around Les Saintes; they stay farther north, near the Gulf Stream.
Terre-de-Haut is something of a paradise for those who do not crave casinos and heavy-duty night life. The one disco, next to the airport landing strip, is open only on Saturday night for three hours. At night the church outside the Hotel Santoise is illuminated by neon lights.
Since there is very little fresh water on Terre-de-Haut, there is a desalinization plant that provides most of the drinking and washing water. This, of course, is very expensive, and tourists use a great deal of water.
FOR this reason, the intention of the hoteliers, like Mr. Laps, is to limit the numbers of tourists who come to Les Saintes. The ideal, says Mr. Laps, who seems to speak for the other hoteliers, is to allow no more than 250 rooms for visitors.
"After all," he told me, "this place is not for everybody. Sure, for you and I, it's paradise. But for people who need more to do, it doesn't work -- at least not for very long."
Mary Lou and I reluctantly left Les Saintes, taking the ferry back to Pointe-a-Pitre, where we spent a couple of hours waiting for another boat to take us to Marie-Galante. Aboard the Trans-Antilles Express ferry, which sped us to Grand Bourg on Marie-Galante in less than an hour, I read up on our destination. Marie-Galante, 25 miles south of Guadeloupe, covers 59 square miles -- the largest island in the Guadeloupe chain. Columbus named it Maria Graciosa in 1493, the nickname of his ship, the Santa Maria. The French occupied it in 1648, though the British battled them for it for awhile. The French reclaimed it for good in 1816. Most of the island, which has 13,500 residents, is still covered with sugar cane fields, and sugar and rum are its chief products. We were met at the dock at sunset by Philippe Bavarday, who operates a tour bus and taxi service, serves as the unofficial director of tourism and, in general, is the man to see for just about anything. He drove us to a nearby gas station to pick up our rental car, a Fiat; (unlike on Terre-de-Haut, a car, or at least a motor scooter, is necessary here). Following him to his guest house, we knew right away how different an experience this would be. The fields and hills we passed were lush, unlike the rocky, desert-like terrain of Les Saintes -- in fact, it had just rained. And there was evidence of extreme poverty.
Mr. Bavarday led us to our Spartan room: a wooden table, two wooden chairs, two slender wooden beds, a small refrigerator, sink, bathroom, wardrobe closet, bare bulb suspended from the ceiling -- a marked contrast to Le Village Creole, where we had every modern convenience, including a phone. Now we were in the middle of a large, strange island, without much of a clue as to where to go even to get something to eat.
We took off in our little Fiat toward Grand Bourg -- the largest of three "major" towns on Marie-Galante, including St. Louis and Capesterre -- where we found a little restaurant called Raissa. We ordered the only thing on the menu that night, the fish called daurade. We were the only customers.
It turned out that the restaurant's proprietor was one of Philippe Bavarday's brothers, and he served us a superb meal, the grilled fish seasoned perfectly with hot pepper and lime. Afterward, he brought out a bottle of eight-year-old Bielle dark rum, distilled locally. It was the beginning of a magnificent four days; if our time in Les Saintes was magical, this was to be meaningful: this was not an island designed to entertain tourists. Marie-Galante, it became apparent, was a place for travelers; conventional expectations had to be left behind.
During our stay, we discovered that not only was the food wonderful -- another waterfront restaurant, Le Corail, serves superb langouste grillade (grilled lobster) -- but the beaches, especially at Capesterre, about five and a half miles from Grand Bourg, are among the best in the Caribbean. The Chateau Murat, once a grand plantation, is now a well-maintained museum, displaying the history of the island; and the rum distilleries -- we visited Bielle -- welcome visitors. The daily market on the Rue d'Eglise, in front of the church, offers all types of goods; and on various street corners fishermen sell their daily catch. Almost everything is available on Marie-Galante except luxury accommodations, which is why 90 percent of its visitors are day-trippers.
They are missing a lot. Although limited, there are a few small hotels on the island, including Le Quartier Latin, the Auberge and the Belvedere, as well as Mr. Bavarday's guest house and a number of villas available for rent. It is necessary to speak some French (or Creole), and to be able to fend for yourself, but the people are very open and friendly and -- as in Les Saintes -- there is no crime.
As for night life, there are actually three clubs on the island: Touloulou in Capesterre on the beachand El Sombrero and El Rancho in Grand Bourg. The bands play zouk, a kind of world beat music with lots of percussion. There are a couple of good cafes, La Brioche and Le Salon de The; the latter is open late at night and serves liquor. Le Salon is where the fishing guides hang out, and it's a perfect spot from which to observe the goings-on at the port.
Before we left Marie-Galante, Philippe Bavarday asked us how the island might draw more North American tourists. One obvious way, we agreed, was by adding at least one or two first-class hotels. But my wife and I found that we liked Marie-Galante just as it is: a kind of no-frills idyll that provides a fine counterpoint to Terre-de-Haut. While I'm old enough now to know that nothing stays the same for long, it will surely be a while before Mr. Bavarday and the others have their way. And until then, Marie-Galante can be considered one of the secret treasures of the Caribbean.
 
 
 
FROM RESTAURANTS TO SCOOTERS
Getting There
 A working knowledge of French is useful and, at times, essential for visiting Terre-de-Haut and Marie-Galante. The office of tourism is on the waterfront in Pointe-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe; telephone 82.09.30.
Air Guadeloupe (83.06.61) has two flights a day from Pointe-a-Pitre to Terre-de-Haut; the round-trip fare is $70. There are two Antilles Trans Express ferries a day from Point-a-Pitre: the trip lasts 75 minutes and costs $31 round trip. Three ferries a day leave from Trois-Rivieres and Basse-Terre, making the 30-minute trip for $15.
Air Guadeloupe has three round-trip flights a day from Pointe-a-Pitre to Marie-Galante for $70.
 
Places to Stay
 Among the half-dozen hotels on Terre-de-Haut, the Village Creole at Pointe Coquelet, (590) 99.53.83, has 22 duplexes on the water, each with a kitchen and patio. Winter rates are $156 waterfront, $124 on the garden side. One of the proprietors speaks English.
Also on Terre-de-Haut, the Bois Joli, (590) 99.50.38, at Anse a Cointe, is on a hill above a beach with 21 rooms and eight bungalows, a restaurant and pool. Doubles from $158.
On Marie-Galante, accommodations are very simple. Philippe Bavarday has four rooms in his home in Grand-Bourg, all with kitchenettes; (590) 97.83.94. A room is $47 a night in winter for two. L'Arbre a Pain, also in Grand-Bourg (97.73.69), is another simple inn, with seven rooms and a restaurant. A double is $46.
 
Dining
 Terre-de-Haut restaurants serve mostly seafood and creole fare at modest prices. A more ambitious option is Le Relais des Iles (99.53.04) with 10 tables in a private home; reservations required. About $35 a person.
On Marie-Galante we had wonderful lobster at Le Corail at 40 Rue de la Marine ($35 for two).
 
Getting Around
 Bicycles on Terre-de-Haut cost about $15 a day, motor scooters about $27.
Cars can be rented on Marie-Galante at Canevas (97.97.76) for $48 a day. Scooters ($29 a day) and bicycles ($13 a day) can be rented at Dingo Passion, Grand Bourg (97.76.58).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Baie de Pompiere, one of Terre-de-Haut's best beaches. The wind surfing school at the Union des Centres de Plein Air at Marigot Bay, Terre-de-Haut. A beachside restaurant in Grand Bourg, Marie-Galante. The Chateau Murat museum on Marie-Galante. The guest house run by Philippe Bavarday on Marie-Galante. A cottage at Le Village Creole on Terre-de-Haut. (pg. 14); Neon-lighted church on Terre-de-Haut. (pg. 16)(Photographs by Len Kaufman for The New York Times)
 
Map of Guadeloupe and its surrounding islands. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GUADELOUPE (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); MARTINIQUE (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AIR GUADELOUPE (54%); US NAVY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GUADELOUPE GUADELOUPE (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); MARTINIQUE (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS NAVIES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); WATER SPORTS (70%); SOCCER (52%); SUGAR FARMING (50%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (50%); 

PERSON: GIFFORD, BARRY UNCLE BUCK (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



63 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living in: Park Slope

BYLINE: By BRET SENFT

 BODY:
PARK SLOPE is families everywhere and brownstones, street after street of them. Far enough from Manhattan for a neighborhood feel, it maintains, in its multiracial population and cultural institutions, what many residents call an urban sophistication.
"A very small-town community with a cosmopolitan attitude," said George Etchison, a 20-year resident and owner of the Brownstone Gallery on Seventh Avenue, the Slope's main street. The gallery's current exhibition, "Made in Brooklyn," features local artists and memorabilia from the borough's heyday. 
 The "small town" was still a sparsely populated rural area in 1857, when the railroad financier Edwin C. Litchfield built an Italianate villa overlooking his vast property sloping down to the Gowanus Canal.
By 1874, the 526-acre Prospect Park was completed, designed by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux to encompass the villa, which now houses park offices. The designers, regretting the traverses of Central Park, their earlier commission, created a separate entity, Institute Park, for the main branch of the Brooklyn Public Library, the Brooklyn Museum and a 50-acre Botanic Garden, north of Flatbush Avenue.
Grand Army Plaza, the main entrance to the park, was patterned after the traffic circle around Paris's Arc de Triomphe; Victory in her chariot pulled by four horses rides atop the massive Soldiers' and Sailors' Memorial arch.
In the 1880's, mansions and brownstones for the English and German upper class, with stained-glass windows, carved oak paneling and high-relief plasterwork, were built along the park and adjacent blocks. Along Eighth Avenue off the Plaza are Romanesque Revival mansions built in 1888 by Thomas Adams Jr., creator of Chiclets chewing gum, and in 1891 by George P. Tangeman, the baking powder magnate. The Venetian Gothic palazzo built in 1891 for the private Montauk Club has a terra-cotta exterior and friezes depicting its eponymous tribe. The Park Slope Civic Council holds an annual neighborhood house tour in May.
As the area developed, distance from the park was measured economically, with more modest brownstones built in the central and south Slope for Irish and Italian immigrants working as servants for the gentry, on the waterfront or in factories.
In the 1950's, with middle-class flight to the suburbs and social deterioration, one-family brownstones were converted to rooming houses. In the 60's, so-called Brownstone Pioneers -- young professionals, along with artists and teachers -- reclaimed the rowhouses, buying cheap and embarking on long-term renovations.
"We called it 'the schoolteacher's coup' -- buying an Upper East Side-quality brownstone on schoolteachers' pay," said Everett H. Ortner, writer, historian and co-founder in 1968 of the Brownstone Revival Committee. (His wife, Evelyn, a longtime community activist, led the seven-year effort that culminated in 1973 in the designation of a historic district bordering the park and Plaza.)
In those "coup" days, a brownstone cost less than $25,000. Today, they cost $360,000 to $500,000, says Roberta L. Faulstick of William B. May Company, although "many handyman specials in the South Slope" average $250,000.
Most prevalent, however, is "the resegmentation of the housing stock into luxury co-ops," said Clem Labine, a 25-year resident and publisher of Traditional Building, a magazine for professional restorers. Two-bedroom co-ops in brownstones run $125,000 to $250,000, said Ms. Faulstick.
Rentals range from $700 for a studio to $1,600 for a three-bedroom duplex, higher if there is a garden, terrace or roof deck.
ON a recent Sunday at the park boathouse, David Kaplan and his family enjoyed the Touch of Autumn fair organized by park rangers. Mr. Kaplan, a vice-president with Citibank, held his son Isaac, 2 years old, while Bonnie Quint Kaplan and their daughter Nadine, 5, toured the nature exhibits that were in the boathouse that weekend.
"This is a very relaxed place to live compared to Manhattan," said Ms. Kaplan, unwrapping a sandwich for Nadine. The family lives in a seven-room co-op in a tall luxury building at 35 Prospect Park West, offering, Ms. Kaplan said, "a Fifth Avenue feeling, since we're right across from the park, in a building we couldn't possibly afford if it were in Manhattan."
Among the amenities are the park, with its carrousel, which was renovated by the Prospect Park Alliance, and the zoo, which is to reopen next year after a $36 million renovation; a half-dozen day-care centers; the Pinch Sitters Agency, for last-minute babysitters; a farmers' market in Grand Army Plaza each Saturday; the 3,850-member Park Slope Food Co-op in two converted carriage houses on Union Street; the Brooklyn Conservatory of Music, offering concerts and recitals, and, in warm weather, frequent brownstone stoop sales, the counterpart to suburban garage sales.
Inside the park bordering the neighborhood is the 11th Street playground, the nearby Bandshell and, across West Drive, seven ball fields for a thriving Little League population.
For the hungry, there's a wide choice on Seventh Avenue, including New Prospect at Home (at St. John's Place; take-out entrees, salads and pastries), the New Purity Restaurant (Union Street; since 1929); Inaka Sushi House (at Fourth Street) and the kid-friendly Two Boots Pizza (off Seventh at Second Street).
At Seventh Street, John J. Cortese runs the grocery his grandfather founded 77 years ago. His stock-in-trade, besides dry goods, fruits and vegetables, is children. As commissioner of the Park Slope Baseball League, he oversees 34 sandlot teams and coordinates umpires for 140 Little League teams in the spring.
"On Saturdays and Sundays, it's a beautiful thing to see: wall-to-wall kids in Prospect Park," he said.
A downside is the progressive neighborhood's inability to reach consensus on social problems. Illegal street vendors clog the Seventh Avenue sidewalks on weekends and the homeless beg for change at several automatic teller machines. Does this bespeak urban blight or personal initiative? Neighborhood reaction is split 50-50, according to Craig R. Hammerman, assistant district manager for Community Board 6.
"THIS is a place where a marketplace of ideas are freely bantered about," he said. "Thus, not merely the debate but the appearance of inaction can be frustrating."
There are six elementary schools, with P.S. 321 on Seventh Avenue getting high marks for its heavy parental involvement. The Brooklyn New School, an alternative created by the district in 1987, with emphasis on individual hands-on learning, adjoins I.S. 88 (one of two junior high schools).
The once-troubled John Jay High School, with 4,000 students, got a $3 million Federal grant in 1989 to upgrade and introduce new curriculum, such as the law and justice program, with its model courtroom and forensic laboratory and a computerized library research system. The school has been divided into Houses (such as Law and Justice, Humanities and Computer), with corporate partnerships with I.B.M., which provided networked computer labs throughout the school, and Chemical Bank, which provided funds for special projects.
As for private schools, the Woodward Park School, created in 1978 in a merger with the Brooklyn Ethical Culture School, uses progressive Bank Street methods of experiential learning for its 160 students from nursery to grade 8. Tuition is $7,000 to $9,000 a year.
Founded in 1886, the Berkeley Carroll School, with 640 pre-k-12 students, emphasizes math, science and foreign language and has computer instruction starting in kindergarten. The Beyond Berkeley Carroll program has students volunteering in soup kitchens, geriatric centers and environmental projects throughout the neighborhood. Summer programs include a day camp, Young Scientists Institute and the well-known Creative Arts program. Tuition is $4,500 to $10,800 a year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Houses on Prospect Park West near Carroll Street; Grand Army Plaza arch. (Eddie Hausner for The New York Times)
 
CHrt: "Gazetteer"
 
Population: 62,048 (1990 census).
 
Median household income: $39,000 (1990 census).
 
Median rent for a two-bedroom apartment: $1,200.
 
Median price of two-bedroom co-op: $185,000.
 
Median price of a brownstone: $425,000.
 
Distance to midtown: 6 miles.
 
Rush-hour commutation to midtown: 30 minutes on the 2, 3, D, F, N, Q or R subway lines.
 
Government: Councilmen Kenneth K. Fischer (Democrat-Liberal), Stephen DiBrienza (Democrat) and Joan Griffin McCabe (Democrat).
 
Codes: Area, 718; ZIP, 11215.
 
Sand Pit Rehab: Neighbors raised $64,000 to convert a sand pit (a former haven for drug pushers and addicts in Prospect Park at Garfield Place) to a small playground, under the auspices of the Prospect Park Alliance. The Tot Spot opened Sept. 13. "We removed the nefarious elements from there," said Anne Warren Weitman, who helped coordinate the effort, "and now everyone under 18 months has a great time."
 
Map of Park SLope

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%); 

COMPANY: BROWNSTONE REVIVAL COMMITTEE (61%); PROSPECT PARK ALLIANCE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWNSTONE REVIVAL COMMITTEE (61%); PROSPECT PARK ALLIANCE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; PARK SLOPE (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (74%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); FAMILY (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (85%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); SUBURBS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); HISTORY (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (71%); TRENDS (69%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (68%); LIBRARIES (67%); WRITERS (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); 

PERSON: SENFT, BRET MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



64 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: An Era Ends. Silently.

BYLINE: By Alan Ehrenhalt; Alan Ehrenhalt, executive editor of Governing magazine, is author of "The United States of Ambition: Politicians, Power, and the Pursuit of Office."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
We expect eras to end with a big noise in Presidential politics: with the sound of a cannon, as in 1861, when the Democrats lost everything; with the collapse of a boom into outright depression, as in 1933, when the Republicans' world fell apart.
We aren't trained to expect cataclysmic change from an election year as petty and mundane as this one has been. But an era is ending, and in the weeks to come we should finally begin to see this clearly. 
 It was an era in which Presidential elections, for all their seeming complexity, were decided more than anything else on one issue -- the belief of the middle class that the Democratic Party intended to take their money away and give it to a disorderly, undeserving and often violent minority. This issue elected Richard Nixon in 1968. And it permitted George Bush to triumph over Michael Dukakis 20 years later.
Ronald Reagan was not, as so many Republicans hoped he would be, the symbol of a new day in American politics. The day was half over as he arrived. When Mr. Reagan took the oath of office in 1980, it was not just noon on the Inauguration Day clock, it was also noon for the Republican era in late 20th century politics.
And 1992 is dusk. Certainly, it remains possible that on Tuesday the peculiar three-cornered contest will allow George Bush to win re-election with a vote no larger than the 38 percent Barry Goldwater received in 1964. But even if that happens, the evidence is overwhelming that 1992 represents something new in politics.
In every Presidential election since 1968, the middle class concerns of race and crime have been at the center of campaign debate. This year, they have scarcely been discussed. In every election since 1968, it has been a disadvantage to be associated too closely with legalized abortion, gay rights and similar challenges to social orthodoxy. This year, it has been a disadvantage to be on the orthodox side of these issues. In every election since 1968, it has been possible to raise fears about the Democrats' ability to cope with the Communist threat. This year, there are hardly any Communists to be threatened by.
Taxes remain a touchy subject. But during the last month of the campaign Ross Perot rose dramatically in the polls at a time when his only specific proposal for reviving the economy was a 50 cent gasoline tax. No candidate could have done that with impunity in 1988, 1984 or 1980.
This year's campaign has been a game played on a new board with a whole new set of rules. The first new rule is hard times. It is a remarkable fact that, while the decline of U.S. economic strength, real wages and living standards goes back to the early 1970's, only one Presidential election in the past 25 years -- 1980 -- has been held in what might legitimately be described as a climate of austerity. In each of the other campaigns, the economy was merely an issue. It was not, for most of America, the subject of terror in the night.
In the 1992 electorate, it is easy to camouflage the depth of economic fear behind the statistical facts of low inflation, low interest rates and less than alarming unemployment. When these economic statistics were run through computer models that had accurately predicted past elections, the result was a comfortable victory for George Bush. But those models are wrong because the economic reality of 1992 renders such conventional statistics obsolete.
The reality is this: breadwinners all over the country have been forced out of well-paid manufacturing jobs into low-wage work they regard as beneath their dignity and living standard. Families of four struggle to survive on two $15,000 incomes, sacrificing virtually all of their free time together. Middle-aged Americans, born into relative affluence in 1955 or 1960, believe not only that they have failed to achieve the comfort they expected in life but that they are never going to achieve it. What the economic models do not detect and what most experts took forever to realize is that for many of these people, 1992 is the political equivalent of 1932.
One can carry this too far, of course. Unemployment is not 25 percent, there are no shantytowns in Washington. But 1932 is worth thinking about for a variety of reasons.
Herbert Hoover, the incumbent President, a man of dignity and personal accomplishment, appeared painfully unable to understand what was happening to the country. "There seems to be a condition of hysteria," Mr. Hoover observed in 1931, in a tone of genuine befuddlement. "If someone could get off a good joke every 10 days, I think our troubles would be over."
That suggests one way to test for the close of an era in American politics: look for an elected leader who seems addled by the changes that have taken place around him. Eras end in the sentence fragments of Presidents who seem unsure about why they are there and what they are supposed to do.
Eras also end, it is reasonable to expect, with a considerable change of faces at all levels of the political system. That will happen this year, no matter whom we elect President. The 1932 election ushered 166 new members into the House of Representatives -- nearly 40 percent of the membership. While it is hard to imagine as many newcomers this time, it is certain that there will be many more than 100 new Representatives. It also appears that more than a third of the country's state legislators will be freshmen, roughly twice the usual number. In several states, such as Kansas, there will not even be enough returning legislators to run all the important committees.
Something is missing here: the prospect of huge partisan upheaval. In the past, any big turnover in Congress has meant a reversal of party control as well. Republicans lost more than 100 House seats in 1932. But this year we are facing an astonishing political event -- a wholesale exchange of bodies in which the balance of power between the two parties may remain largely unaffected. When the smoke clears, Democrats are likely to keep roughly the majorities they have now.
But all those new faces will mark the end of an era in Congress, even if the partisan and ideological balance stays just about the same. The 1932 election swept out dozens of elderly men whose memories were of post-Civil War America. It replaced them with people reared in this century and shaped by World War I and the 1920's.
Something a little like that is going to happen this year. We are going to trade in a large chunk of the World War II political generation for children of the 1950's and 1960's, creatures of early postwar affluence and, more recently, generational self-doubt and disappointment. That is the making of a new era and a new government, whether the partisan breakdown changes very much or not.
When it comes to finding turning points in American political history, journalists carry the burden of having cried wolf once or twice too often. It helps, if one has to spend all year buried in the minutiae of the campaign, to see it as a giant fork in the road. Usually it is nothing of the sort. The election passes and we all muddle on just about as before. The leaders change, the policies may change, but the essential political rules remain the same. Nobody has to bother learning a new vocabulary to understand what is going on. That was true in 1988, despite a year's worth of rhetoric to the contrary. It was even true in 1980. It is not true this time.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); ABORTION (62%); FUEL TAX (60%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); 

PERSON: EHRENHALT, ALAN RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992



65 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
BUSH AND CLINTON GO NONSTOP IN BATTLING FOR CRUCIAL STATES

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STRATFORD, Conn., Nov. 1

 BODY:
Raspy-voiced but outwardly ebullient, President Bush ended the weekend as he began it, banging away at Bill Clinton during a last-shot sweep of states he must win if he is to be re-elected.
In blustery Michigan, before cameras aboard Air Force One and on the airport tarmac in Connecticut, the President leveled new accusations about Mr. Clinton's position on taxes and his handling of questions about his efforts to avoid military service. 
 Mr. Bush tried to rebut the clear impression that he is descending into a catch-up strategy of deeply negative campaigning in the race's final hours.
"We didn't invite that term, 'Slick Willie. We didn't invite it," he said at a rally of about 6,000 party workers at a professional basketball arena in the Detroit suburb of Auburn Hills. "It's come in from Arkansas; it was all through the Democratic primary. We are not going after his character; we're doing what Harry Truman is: We tell the truth, and they think it's hell. So be it."
 
Tough and Getting Tougher
 But Bush aides acknowledged that the final hours were only likely to get more bitter and that Mr. Bush intended to place Mr. Clinton's character at the core of every speech.
"There isn't any campaign that's this close and this tough that won't be even tougher in the last couple days," Mr. Bush's campaign chairman, Robert M. Teeter, said in an interview.
Mr. Bush's day started on a sour note in Wisconsin, where an unfavorable poll and a tough television interview seemed to leave him in a dour mood. But tonight, when Mr. Bush landed by helicoptor just outside Bridgeport, the President was as cocky as he has been in this campaign.
 
Tireless on the Attack
 "It's not the pollsters, it's not the pundits, it's not the talking heads on television who tell you how to vote," he shouted to the Connecticut crowd of about 8,000. "The American people make up their minds on Election Day.
"I love a good fight, and we're going to take it right to 'em," he concluded. "Right around the American media."
Away from the campaign rallies, the President spent hours before local and national television cameras, making twin attacks on what his aides view as Mr. Clinton's weakest spots: his tax proposals, and his character.
In interviews in Detroit and aboard Air Force One, Mr. Bush raised new questions about Mr. Clinton's stated intentions to revive the economy by making a $220 billion "investment" in new roads, advanced technology and other basic needs.
Today, the President asserted that Mr. Clinton was concealing a different agenda. He cited a 1988 Newsweek magazine article in which Mr. Clinton was quoted as saying that "investment" was a term that could be used to make a tax increase more palatable.
 
'His Own Words'
 "Let me read you his own words," Mr. Bush said tonight before some 8,000 people at an airport rally in Stratford. "He said, 'There's a lot of evidence you can sell people on tax increases if they think its an investment.' His own words reveal this duplicity. We're talking about investment, and he means tax increases."
 
Raising the Draft Issue
 In the Detroit suburb of Auburn Hills, as campaign aides handed out copies of a sworn statement to reporters, Mr. Bush said there was evidence that "friends" tried to advance Mr. Clinton's political career in the 1970's by demanding University of Arkansas records on his efforts to avoid military service during the Vietnam war.
"Even today we have new evidence, an affidavit that when Governor Clinton first ran for office, his friends used special connections to seize his R.O.T.C. file and destroy all others," Mr. Bush said. "He's got to level with the American people on this one."
In the affidavit, a retired Army colonel, Donald R. Cake, said that while he worked at the university's R.O.T.C. unit in 1973 or 1974, he was told that "representatives of Bill Clinton" had approached the unit's records clerk and demanded all documents in Mr. Clinton's file.
Later, Mr. Cake swore, he and others in an R.O.T.C. staff meeting were told by the unit's commander, Col. Guy Tutwiler, that the clerk's account was accurate and that the R.O.T.C.'s regional headquarters had deferred a decision on whether to comply with the request. University officials had advised him to release the records, Mr. Cake swore.
Mr. Cake stated in the affidavit that he had decided to make his account public because Clinton aides had called reports of the incident "hogwash."
For weeks, Mr. Bush has called on Mr. Clinton to make good on a promise made last April to release all records relating to his military service. "He has never done that to this day," Mr. Bush said. "He's waffling, and ducking."
 
Withdrew From Unit
 At the time the R.O.T.C. events took place, Mr. Clinton was mounting his first political campaign, for the House of Representatives. Four years earlier, in 1969, he had enrolled in the unit in an attempt to avoid the draft. He withdrew from the unit several months later, when his risk of being drafted had declined.
As grist for his accusations, Mr. Bush was relying in part on an accusation in Saturday's Washington Times, a conservative newspaper that has attacked Mr. Clinton.
But in an interview before the Washington Times account appeared, James Davis, a retired Army colonel who ran the R.O.T.C. program at Arkansas from mid-1974 to 1980, said neither Mr. Clinton nor anyone else approached him for records.
In Wisconsin early today for a television interview, Mr. Bush appeared subdued and a bit nettled after being told that one new poll, by CNN, showed him falling further behind Mr. Clinton. Mr. Teeter later challenged the poll, saying that other surveys and the campaign's own data show otherwise.
By the time he arrived in rainy, windy Detroit to stump at a rally in the Detroit Pistons' new arena, the Palace, Mr. Bush had regained his smile.
"There's been a little panic in Little Rock, because I think the goal that Bill Clinton has seen ever since he was studying away in Oxford might be slipping away from them," he said. "He's begun attacking my character, and I'd love to fight this one out."
Responding to a shout from the crowd, Mr. Bush laughed then and said, "Yeah, he is a character."
On Monday, his last day on the road, Mr. Bush will race through New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Kentucky and Louisiana on his way to an election eve reception in Houston, where he will await the returns on Tuesday.
Those states, with Michigan and Connecticut, are seen as Mr. Bush's best remaining shots in a struggle for the Midwest and East that holds the balance of Mr. Bush's hopes.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush addressing a rally yesterday at the Palace of Auburn Hills in suburban Detroit. (pg. A1); President Bush campaigning for his shrink-the-government agenda and against Bill Clinton's record at the Palace of Auburn Hills in Michigan. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. a12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AUBURN HILLS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WISCONSIN; MICHIGAN; CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); TAX LAW (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); BASKETBALL (53%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



66 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: D'Amato Matching Blows With Abrams In Campaign Flurry

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
After trading invectives in their final televised debate of the United States Senate race yesterday, Robert Abrams and Alfonse M. D'Amato plunged into the pivotal New York City suburbs in the final hours before an election that may depend less on either candidate's performance than on Gov. Bill Clinton's projected margin of victory in the state.
The national and local campaigns have generated hundreds of thousands of newly registered voters in New York who could jeopardize the Republican majority in New York's State Senate and threaten other incumbents, Mr. D'Amato included. He has spent more in this campaign than any other candidate for United States Senate in the nation -- in excess of $10 million -- to overcome political handicaps that might have discouraged a less tenacious candidate and which a bolder challenger might have exploited more. 
 In yesterday's debate, Mr. Abrams, the State Attorney General and Democratic nominee, nudged and Mr. D'Amato gently elbowed in a nonetheless bruising, capsulized replay of their rancorous campaign.
For every thrust Mr. Abrams intoned in his earnest sing-song, Mr. D'Amato countered with a strategic parry delivered in an uncharacteristically subdued chirp. He even transformed an exchange over national health care -- the political magic bullet that has helped defeat Republican candidates elsewhere -- into a fusillade against tax increases that Mr. Abrams has proposed or that Mr. D'Amato insisted would be a consequence of the Democrat's agenda.
Largely ignoring Mr. D'Amato's effort to equate their ethical and financial lapses, Mr. Abrams instead drew a distinction between their positions on abortion, the economy and other political touchstones.
The debate was defined, in part, by what the candidates said they were not.
"I'm not a diplomat," Senator D'Amato said, maintaining that he would prefer to be characterized as a "fighter."
"I am not a visionary," said Mr. Abrams, suggesting, rather, that versions of his national health-care proposal have already been adopted in other industrialized countries and that he would fight for his version here.
 
Taking to the Skies
 Both candidates plan campaign fly-arounds, the airborne equivalent of the whistle-stop, in upstate New York today.
Mr. Abrams left New York for several hours last evening to join Mr. Clinton and his running mate, Senator Al Gore, for a Democratic campaign extravaganza at the Meadowlands in suburban New Jersey, which is beyond the borders of Mr. Abrams's constituency but well within the New York media market.
And during the debate, which competed for viewers with the New York City Marathon, Mr. D'Amato invoked Mr. Clinton's name repeatedly and never disparagingly.
The Senator mentioned President Bush by name only twice -- Mr. Abrams did nine times. But Mr. D'Amato recalled twice that he had opposed the President's decision to break his "read my lips" pledge and support the 1990 Federal tax increase.
Mr. D'Amato also sought to identify himself with an emerging political totem, Norman Rosenbaum, whose brother Yankel, a rabbinical student, was killed during disturbances last year in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn. Mr. Abrams visited there Saturday night and Mr. D'Amato returned there yesterday for a rally protesting the acquittal of the teen-ager who had been accused of the slaying.
The Senator was introduced by Norman Rosenbaum, who said, "When so many others were silent, I was fortunate enough to have a politician and a friend in Al D'Amato."
Mr. D'Amato declared, in Hebrew: "Justice must be pursued."
 
Support for Death Penalty
 In the course of the debate, Mr. D'Amato reiterated his support for the death penalty -- even if it meant that an innocent person might be executed. "We're having tens of thousands of people being executed on a daily basis throughout this country," the Senator noted hyperbolically, then added: "I know Yankel Rosenbaum's family. I have met with Norman many, many times. I want to know what Bob Abrams is going to do when he looks him in the eye and says, 'No I'm opposed to justice in this case.' "
To which Mr. Abrams, recalling that he favors life imprisonment without parole for murderers, replied:
"I looked Yankel Rosenbaum's brother in the eye last night for two hours. I spent two hours with Norman Rosenbaum and with the leadership of the Crown Heights community in Crown Heights, where we talked about what has to be done to make sure that that terrible, terrible misdeed, which is yet to be prosecuted, that we have to seek justice and go out and do something about it."
Mr. D'Amato was slightly behind but statistically tied with Mr. Abrams in several polls last week after struggling in his first Senate race against a single opponent.
 
Scars From Primary Race
 Mr. Abrams emerged from the Democratic primary campaign hobbled both by a scarcity of money and by the enmity generated by what Mr. D'Amato described as "tag team" attacks on one candidate, former Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro, by Mr. Abrams and by a third contender for the Democratic nomination, New York City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman. After Mr. Abrams apologized for the tone and inferences of the campaign, Ms. Ferraro finally endorsed him over the weekend.
"We've got everything coming together," Mr. Abrams buoyantly declared yesterday at the beginning of the hourlong debate on WNBC-TV, which was carried simultaneously on C-Span.
During the debate, Mr. D'Amato sought to "level the playing field," as his strategists put it, by suggesting that the Attorney General, in paying taxes late on a country home upstate, deducting from income taxes the cost of one room in his Manhattan apartment, and having taken campaign contributions from lawyers with business before his agency, was just as culpable for ethical violations as Mr. D'Amato has been accused of being.
The Senator couched his criticism in sorrow rather than anger, though, saying that Mr. Abrams "should be ashamed of himself" and that New Yorkers were "disappointed" in how he had handled his personal finances and his campaign.
 
Photographic Family Values
 Mr. Abrams and Mr. D'Amato shook hands perfunctorily before and after the debate and barely looked at each other in between. As it ended, Mr. Abrams's children and Mr. D'Amato's grandchildren, who were watching in the studio, were all but catapulted toward the set for the obligatory photographs celebrating family values.
Yesterday, the Senator pursued a sustained assault that, in the final days of the campaign, he has leavened with chuckles when Mr. Abrams was defending himself or attacking, and pained expressions when he was criticizing Mr. Abrams.
More than 25,000 other people were running in the New York City Marathon yesterday, but Mr. Abrams and Mr. D'Amato were the only two who repeatedly veered into each other. The candidates agreed in the debate only on two things: that New York State had lost hundreds of thousands of jobs, though they apportioned blame for the loss differently, and that the tone of the campaign had not been constructive.
 
A New Wrinkle
 One new wrinkle emerged when Mr. D'Amato insisted that on three occasions before the Democratic primary, he had appealed to Mr. Abrams not to engage in personal attacks but to stick to substantive issues. But Mr. Abrams recalled, through a spokesman, Timothy Gilles, that Mr. D'Amato had threatened to "ruin" Mr. Abrams if he referred to Mr. D'Amato's ethical lapses.
"It's preposterous," the Senator said when asked whether the conversations constituted threats rather than appeals.
When asked during the debate whether Mr. D'Amato was corrupt, Mr. Abrams said, "That's going to be left for criminal prosecutors."
Their most sustained exchange was over health care and how to pay for it.
Mr. Abrams insisted that additional taxes would not be necessary. To which Mr. D'Amato countered: "Bob Abrams is running for the wrong office, because if he really has this plan where you can increase spending by $570 billion and not raise any taxes," then "he should be running for President."
Mr. Abrams often returned to abortion, labeling Mr. D'Amato as the candidate of the "extremist Right to Life Party."
Mr. D'Amato, who opposes abortion except in cases of rape or incest, pressed for a parental-consent requirement.
Mr. Abrams said: "I've got a teen-age daughter who's with me here in the studio. I love her very much. I believe in parental communication. I think it's got to be encouraged. But can the government -- a law -- enforce it? Of course not."
After the debate, Mr. Abrams attended a rally with local Democrats in Port Jefferson, L.I.
He ended the day at the Meadowlands, where leading New Jersey and New York Democrats shared the stage with Mr. Clinton, who asked for a special round of applause for Mr. Abrams and who pleaded with New York voters to send the Democrat to the Senate.
 
A Victory Prediction
 Mr. D'Amato campaigned at a Republican rally in Oceanside, L.I., where he predicted that he would win the election by 5 percentage points. He also complained about unfair treatment by the press, bringing cheers from the audience.
"If I, Al D'Amato, was late on my taxes 8 times out of 10 and called my bedroom an office," he said, "it would be a page 1 expose."
Assessing his debate opponent, Mr. D'Amato said, "I've dealt with tougher people who used to come to town board meetings than the Attorney General."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, left, and State Attorney General Robert Abrams during their debate yesterday at NBC studios in Manhattan. Gabe Pressman, center, was the moderator. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) NEW YORK (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NEW YORK (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBURBS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MARATHONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); TAX LAW (65%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN) BILL CLINTON (91%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



67 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Behind The Scenes;
On the Trail, the Contradictory Sides of Bush

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LA CROSSE, Wis., Nov. 1

 BODY:
In the blue caboose where he was sipping tea to soothe his worsening cold, the President was somber.
It was Saturday morning at the start of a scenic train trip through Wisconsin. Barbara Bush was talking to two grandchildren, Sam and Ellie, and looking at presents from supporters. And Mr. Bush was speaking to Ron Kaufman, an aide who had come back to give him new poll numbers indicating that his surge was flattening after a day of news reports suggesting that he was more in the loop on the Iran-contra scandal than he had yet allowed. 
 Apparently oblivious to the news photographer in the room who later described the scene, Mr. Bush did not hide his vexation. He took off his baseball cap and tossed it on the table, and he and Mrs. Bush quizzed Mr. Kaufman about what the numbers meant.
 
Going Into Campaign Mode
 But whenever he stepped out to the back of the train for rallies in Wisconsin farming towns, the President went into the campaign mode his friends call "jet propulsion."
The words tumbled out in a bracing, breathless aria of insults: "The Waffle Man, moving away from it all." "Governor Taxes and the Ozone Man." "Governor Clinton, over the last 24 hours, has been frantically flopping around like a bass on the side of the Arkansas River." "He smokes a little but he didn't inhale. Sure. Who believes that?" "A couple of yuppies dressed as moderates -- watch your wallet." "Tell all those Washington -- those kind of salon leaders." "These deadly talking heads." "When these instant replay guys come on the television, it doesn't matter what they say."
While Barbara Bush was on the train, Mr. Bush tried to exercise some restraint. But as soon as she dropped off at dusk, the President began calling people "bozos" again.
"A new Congress is coming in," he told the crowd at his last stop in Chippewa Falls, his voice cracking as the words cascaded faster than ever, "so a lot of these bozos are going to be gone -- excuse the expression."
Racing to finish, Mr. Bush truncated his litany of complaints about Bill Clinton's record in Arkansas and simply barked, "And on and on and on."
In his final days on the campaign trail, it has been possible to see, in kaleidoscopic array, all the contradictory sides of George Bush: the endearing screwball charm; the cool determination to use whatever line of attack will work, even if Presidential dignity and factual accuracy are sometimes sacrificed; his desire to be seen as a decent man and his puzzlement when his rhetoric of resentment is taken too seriously; his elation at bashing critics and rivals, and his fatigue and frustration at having to justify his actions as President -- and now as Vice President -- when he feels he has done a good job and is far the superior candidate.
Mr. Bush treats his political persona with a certain good humor and theatrical distance, much like his grandchildren treated the Halloween costumes they wore as they cavorted through the train on Saturday evening. (Sam was a mouse and Ellie was a movie star who grandly assured reporters, as she held out her trick-or-treat bag, "Money is fine.")
It is as though the Bush campaign mask is an exaggerated behavior to put on in the right season to scare people into giving you what you want and what think you deserve.
The President offered a telling response last week, when he was quizzed in an "Ask George Bush" session in Columbus, Ohio, about his repeated warnings that Mr. Clinton's position on fuel economy levels would cost every Ohio auto worker his job. With a frankness disarming or alarming depending on your point of view, Mr. Bush replied: "I hope I didn't say all the auto workers. Maybe in a hyperbole or an exaggeration for a campaign I did."
As he opens a scare-attack on Mr. Clinton's character, he usually gives a little laugh, a self-conscious signal to the audience that he is not as harsh a person as his ice-pick prose might suggest. He often grins his way through the worst of what he says. And in the midst of ranting against Mr. Clinton and Congressional leaders and the press, he sometimes throws in a congenial word about how he really likes them, except when they get in the way of his keeping his job.
His manner in his speeches is often strangely at odds with the blistering words.
"I believe that you've got to close your eyes, imagine in that dangerous situation an American leader without any experience, completely untested, a leader about whom literally we know very, very little," he ominously told a rally in Burlington, Wis., on Saturday. "And what we do know is this troubling pattern that I mentioned -- this pattern of being on one side, pattern of indecisiveness."
Mr. Bush does not let assertions that he has prevaricated on taxes and the Iran-contra affair slow him down. As he told Larry King on a call-in television show in Racine, Wis., on Friday night, when Mr. King asked if he had ever lied to the public: "I don't believe so. I've said things that didn't work out to be true. I've meant things at the time that didn't work out."
 
Who? Me?
 The President frequently seems taken aback if people judge him by or act on the words he says on the campaign trail. When some network cameramen ran into President Bush and his chief of staff, James A. Baker 3d, having dinner at a restaurant in Billings, Mont., a week ago, they told Mr. Bush that his press-bashing at rallies had incited some ugly incidents. They had been yelled at, yanked at, poked at and spit at by Bush supporters.
The President assured the "photo-dogs," as he likes to call them, that he had not meant anything personal. Characteristically, Mr. Bush did not fully appreciate the link between words and action, between his "red meat" lines and the resentful reaction of his supporters.
The next day, he began inserting a line, when he started railing against the media, that the members of the press traveling with him should get "amnesty."
"Don't take it out on the cameramen," he told an audience in Michigan. "Some people get so excited there, they were jabbing the American flag into the back of these poor guys. These are the good guys."
Because it is just campaign "hyperbole," the President does not have to acknowledge the contradiction in making punching bags of some groups -- Congressional leaders, lobbyists and the press -- that he had once assiduously courted, inviting them for barbecues, movies and state dinners.
And he sees no contradiction in complaining that this has been the ugliest campaign he has ever seen and in making own contribution to that: an endgame that focuses on zinging on character and trust rather than laying out a substantive plan for the future.
As he began one more day racing around the country, Mr. Bush sounded listless and sour in a CNN interview this morning, saying that the press coverage of this campaign had been the worst ever and refusing to explain why his account of his role in the Iran-contra affair was at such variance with the contemporaneous notes of Caspar W. Weinberger, the former Secretary of Defense.
His aides were equally snappish. One Bush aide confronted a New York Times photographer and said of the Sunday paper: "Two Perot pictures. Two Clinton pictures. One Bush picture. Don't think we're not watching."
 
Two Sides of Baker
 Although Mr. Baker, the man expected to work another political miracle this year, was spotted at moments on Saturday's train trip grimly staring out at the passing farms and autumn foliage, he was his usual debonair, unflappable self when he ventured out in public to watch the President's speeches.
At one point, waiting inside before a rally, Mr. Bush peered out of his train window and saw his old friend and talking to a cluster of reporters.
Mr. Bush grinned and moved his fingers in a pantomime of a chattering mouth.
Mr. Baker grinned back and went over to stand underneath the President's window. The chief of staff did his own pantomime back to the President, of a man bailing water out of a leaky boat. "He thinks I'm leaking," Mr. Baker laughingly told a reporter when he returned.
Asked if he would like a little more time in the campaign -- a common lament among Bush staffers -- Mr. Baker looked straight at the questioner and replied, "No."

GRAPHIC: Map: "So Many States, So Little Time" shows itinerary of President Bush and Govenor Clinton from Sunday through Election Day. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TRAINS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (71%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (70%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



68 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Independent;
Perot Assails Rivals as Unfit to Run a Small Business

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONG BEACH, Calif., Nov. 1

 BODY:
In his most stridently negative attacks on his Presidential rivals since he re-entered the campaign, Ross Perot lambasted President Bush and Bill Clinton, suggesting that he would not hire either man to run a small business. He also seemed to question the Democratic nominee's morals because of past use of marijuana.
Speaking before a crowd of supporters at a rally in the Long Beach Arena, Mr. Perot seemed to go out of his way to criticize and ridicule Mr. Clinton. At the beginning of his speech Mr. Perot turned toward the Dixieland combo that had playing to warm up the crowd and referred to the Arkansas Governor's ability to play the saxophone. 
 "You guys call area code 501 first thing Wednesday morning," he said, "you might get him real cheap." That is the area code for Arkansas.
 
Attack on Two Flanks
 Mr. Perot's quip set the tone for his speech, which assailed Mr. Clinton in language that had previously been absent in the independent candidate's campaigning. In past appearances, including those in Florida and Missouri on Saturday, Mr. Perot directed most of his fire toward the President, and seemed to mention Mr. Clinton only in passing. Today both the Republican and Democratic candidates came under withering attacks.
In a later rally, Mr. Perot was somewhat more muted in an address to more than 5,000 people in Santa Clara.
Mr. Perot's comments reflected a new 30-minute commercial broadcast tonight, after the rally, that attacked Mr. Bush's record as President and Mr. Clinton's stewardship of Arkansas. In addressing the crowd of about 11,000 he made several references to the ad and asked people to invite 10 friends to their homes to watch it.
"When you look tonight, as you're sitting there watching all this stuff, say, If I ran a small business, if I had a small business, would I hire either one of these guys to run it?"
 
Enthusiastic Crowd
 The crowd -- which was similar to the audiences at virtually all Mr. Perot's rallies in that it included people of all ages, but virtually no blacks or other minorities, roared back, "No!"
At one point, Mr. Perot asked the crowd, "Do you think that the President of the United States should be good role models for your children?" When they crowd cheered, Mr. Perot went on to ask, "Do you believe that it's appropriate to have senior Government officials who have used drugs?
"It's up to you; it's up to you.
"But I'm just a college kid and if it seems like everybody at the top can do anything they want to, any time they want to, violate all the rules and just wipe us out -- everything that I've been taught at home and in church and in Boy Scouts, then that's going to change my moral and ethical standards."
At a brief and typically testy news conference after the Santa Clara event, Mr. Perot refused to say whether he was referring to Mr. Clinton when he spoke earlier in the day about government officials who use drugs.
"I'll let you all figure that out," he said. "It's your job to report the news."
Mr. Perot cut off the session after five minutes. "Does anybody have a significant question or is this going to the usual mindless press conference?" he asked. "If it is I'm going to bed."
Of the candidates, only Mr. Clinton and his running mate, Al Gore, admitted past use of marijuana.
In tonight's ad, Mr. Perot took a leaf from the President's play book and disparaged Mr. Clinton's claim of creating on average more jobs in his state than were created in the nation. Mr. Perot asserted that many of the new jobs in Arkansas were low-wage jobs in the state's chicken industry.
 
Quick Clinton Response
 "One out of five jobs in the last 12 years created in Arkansas has been created in the poultry business," Mr. Perot said on the show. "Now this is not an industry of tomorrow. This is honest work. It is hard work. The people who do it are world-class people, but if we decide to take this level of business creativity nationwide, we'll all be plucking chickens for a living."
In neither the ad, nor the speech today, did Mr. Perot mention his proposals, like those for tax increases, spending cuts and tax incentives for some businesses, which he sees as the solution to the nation's economic ills.
The Clinton campaign, which until recently paid scant attention to Mr. Perot, responded quickly to the candidate's charges, releasing a rebuttal to the Texan's claims that Arkansas had not improved under Governor Clinton. "Ross Perot has claimed for months that he's tired of politics as usual, but his latest infomercial is exactly that -- politics as usual," the Clinton campaign said in its statement. "His 11th hour attack on Bill Clinton and the people of Arkansas is nothing but a multimillion-dollar smoke screen designed to distort the record of the only candidate who can bring real change."
Today's rally had all the trappings of the political convention Mr. Perot had hinted he would have last Spring before he abruptly quit the campaign. The crowd was festooned in various Perot T-shirts and many wore plastic imitations of straw hats. As is often the case, many in the crowd criticized the news media, and indeed, at one point the chant went up, "Mind Over Media!"
Still smarting from the skepticism that greeted Mr. Perot's explanation that he quit the Presidential race in July because of fears of a Republican plot to embarrass his daughter and disrupt her wedding, the campaign gave reporters copies of the personal diary Sybil Stockdale, wife of his Vice-Presidential nominee, James B. Stockdale, for the week of July 12.
In the diary, the entry for July 16, the day Mr. Perot quit, stated: "Ross called at 8:30 a.m. and told us he'll announce withdrawing in 30 min. at t.v. He said it's really because because Press will expose dirt on his daughter who'll be married in Aug., but that's confidential."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot waving to supporters yesterday during a campaign rally in Long Beach, Calif. Mr. Perot was holding 9-year-old Seanna Baldwin of Riverside, Calif. Behind him were his wife, Margot, right, James B. Stockdale, his running mate, and Mr. Stockdale's wife, Sybil. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG BEACH (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CHILDREN (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); CANNABIS (57%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



69 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Pulse -- Ohio;
Bush Surges in Ohio, His Big Battleground State

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Ohio is one place where George Bush's surge is real. In the crucial belt of states stretching from New Jersey to Michigan, where his fate and that of Bill Clinton may well be decided on Tuesday, this is the President's best hope.
The struggle for Ohio's 21 electoral votes is very, very close. It often is. Harry S. Truman carried the Buckeye State by only 7,500 votes in 1948, and Jimmy Carter won by just 11,000 in 1976. The state has been closely balanced politically since the Civil War, which is why so many Presidential candidates have come from here. 
 In the superheated 1992 Presidential campaign, Ohio has truly been, as its auto license plates proclaim, "the heart of it all." By the time the voting begins on Tuesday, Mr. Clinton and his running mate, Senator Al Gore, and their wives will have made 45 visits to the state; President Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle and their wives will have made 28 trips here.
"Jump ball," said Gerald Austin, a leading Democratic campaign consultant here, when asked on Friday to pick a winner.
 
Clinton's Lead Shrinks
 This morning's final round of state polls showed Mr. Clinton with a slight advantage, considerably smaller than a week ago or two weeks ago, and not big enough to be statistically significant.
Both The Akron Beacon Journal's phone survey and The Columbus Dispatch's mail poll, whose methodology is unorthodox but whose track record is peerless, concluded on Saturday. The Beacon Journal put the Arkansas Governor up by six percentage points, 42 percent to 36, with Ross Perot at 18 percent and 4 percent undecided. The Dispatch put Mr. Clinton at 41.1 percent, Mr. Bush at 39.6, Mr. Perot at 19.3.
The margin of sampling error in the Beacon Journal poll, which covered 833 registered voters, was plus or minus four percentage points. In the Dispatch poll, to which 1,980 people responded, it was three percentage points.
"There has been a lot of flirtation with Clinton, a lot of dissatisfaction with Bush, but eventually flirtation has to end," said Mike Curtin, the political director of the Columbus Dispatch. "As the election gets closer, people are second-guessing themselves, wondering whether Clinton's offering the kind of change they want."
 
'A Spent Bullet'
 "It shifted last weekend and early this week," said Prof. Alfred Tuchfarber, a political scientist at the University of Cincinnati. "In effect, the Clinton message on the economy has become a spent bullet. It has done all the damage that it can do. Bush's message about Clinton's character is not as compelling, but it started later and it still seems to be working, at least in Ohio."
The change has to do with focus, Professor Tuchfarber argued.
"Voters know they're choosing the most important person on earth when they vote for President," he said. "They don't spend much time on it in June or August or September. But come late October, they look into the candidates' eyes and hearts and judge."
The President said all along that the last week to 10 days would prove decisive. For weeks and months, Ohio Republicans were wringing their hands as Mr. Clinton piled up a substantial lead. Only two weeks ago, Gov. George V. Voinovich, a Republican, told a visiting correspondent that his party would lose the state "unless George Bush can do a better job between now and Election Day to define who Bill Clinton is in terms of his experience."
 
Bush Move Is Late
 That, of course, is what the President has sought to do, in his radio and television advertising and his stump speeches, since the final debate two weeks ago. The question is, did he start too late? And if so, why did an experienced politician make such a blunder?
Representative Willis D. Gradison, a Republican from Cincinnati who was a classmate of the President at Yale, said he did not entirely understand Mr. Bush's actions.
"He's found his voice, but it certainly took him a while," Mr. Gradison said. "I've known him a long time, and I sense that, like me, he enjoys government more than politics. That may be part of the explanation for all this."
Robert Bennett, the state Republican chairman, said: "We're tighter than a drum, but we think Clinton peaked out a week or so ago. People started to realize that Arkansas is no bigger than greater Cleveland, and they're worried whether he knows what he's doing. We're picking up Perot voters, and I think he'll lose half his people by Election Day, with the bulk coming to Bush-Quayle."
The dimensions of Mr. Bush's surge, and his new-found vigor and optimism, were on display last week at an ebullient rally in Cleveland, where the President's campaign had been becalmed, and other events in Dayton and Columbus.
Senator Howard Metzenbaum, a Cleveland Democrat, said that Mr. Bush had looked "limp and wan and whiny" until the final debate, but that now "he's hitting Clinton hard and often, and, frankly, he's scoring."
The Senator agreed with Mr. Austin and Mr. Bennett that Mr. Perot was cutting into Governor Clinton's vote. He said he had urged the Democratic high command to put "some believable surrogate" on television -- he mentioned Paul Newman, the actor -- to appeal directly to Perot voters in the final hours to switch to Mr. Clinton.
"I have felt the Perot people would switch off him," Mr. Metzenbaum added, "but now I have my doubts, unless we really pound away at him. All those millions on television give him credibility."
 
Continued Belief in Clinton
 James Ruvolo of Toledo, a Democratic National Committee member, said he continued to believe, like Mr. Metzenbaum, that Mr. Clinton would eke out a victory here. That would have a certain historical symmetry: of the three Democratic Presidential nominees to carry Ohio since World War II, two were Southerners like Mr. Clinton -- Mr. Carter and Lyndon B. Johnson -- and the other, Truman, came from the Southern-influenced part of Missouri, a border state.
Since 1964, the state has been an unusually reliable mirror of American voting, varying from the national pattern by not more than a percentage point or two.
This time, Mr. Ruvolo argued, Mr. Clinton will prevail almost entirely because of hard times in northern and eastern Ohio, in the arc of industrialized large and small cities stretching from Toledo through Cleveland to Ashtabula, then down to Youngstown and Steubenville. His main worry, the Democratic leader said, is Mr. Bush's big edge in spending on television here, combined with what he termed Mr. Clinton's "misguided" decision to seek votes in the Rocky Mountain states last week rather than concentrating on the Midwest.
The television spending in this state is awesome. In Cincinnati alone, candidates for all offices will have spent $3.7 million on the three major stations between Sept. 1 and Nov. 3, and that does not count the network commercials bought by the Presidential campaigns.
 
Republican Tradition
 One reason Mr. Bush is in better shape here than in neighboring states like Michigan and Pennsylvania lies in Ohio's Republican tradition, which has reasserted itself at the last minute in many a close contest. John F. Kennedy often said that this state broke his heart, turning out to cheer him but not to vote for him.
Another reason is the economy. While Akron and Youngstown and other cities in the industrial north and east may have suffered, things have been much better in Cincinnati and especially in Columbus, a white-collar town, headquarters of the Limited clothing chain and of the fast-growing Banc One, that has become the state's largest city.
If the race is as close as it seems, the religious right could hold the key here. Prof. John Green, the director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, estimated that the Christian Coalition, the political organization of Pat Robertson, had raised $13 million nationwide, and he said that it might prove especially effective in southern and central Ohio this year.
"Their target is three-quarters of a million voters in this state," he said, "and everyone they can get to the polls will vote a straight Republican ticket. With the defection of a lot of the Reagan Democrats back to Clinton, those are votes Bush desperately needs."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Split Down the Middle"
 
With Democrats dominating tghe industrial north and east and Republicans predominant in the rest of the state, Ohio has a fluid balance of power that in recent years has edged toward the conservative. The Governor and most of the House delegatgion are Republicans; both Senators are Democrats. But Senator John Glenn, facing dissatisfaction with incumbents and a strong challenge from Lieut. Gov. Michael DeWine, is considered vulnerable on Tuesday.
 
Population
 
1980: 10,797,630
 
Other: 1.1%
Black: 10.0%
White: 88.9%
Hispanic origin: 1.1%
 
1990: 10,847,115
 
Other: 1.6%
Black: 10.6%
White: 87.8%
Hispanic origin: 1.3%
 
People of Hispanic origin can be of any race.
 
Registered Voters
 
October 1988: 6,275,638
 
October 1992: 6,542,931
 
Voters are not registered by party.
 
How Ohio Has Voted in Presidential Elections
 
1976
Ford: 48.7%
Carter: 48.8%
 
1980
Reagan: 51.5%
Carter: 40.9%
 
1984
Reagan: 58.8%
Mondale: 40.1%
 
1988
Bush: 55.0%
Dukakis: 44.1%
 
Per Capita Income
 
1991 figures are the most recent available and are not adjusted for inflation.
 
1988
Ohio: $15,572
U.S.: 16,618
 
1991
Ohio: $17,770
U.S.: $19,092
 
Sept. 1998
Ohio: 5.8%
U.S.: 5.3%
 
Sept. 1992
Ohio: 5.3%
U.S.: 7.5%
 
(Sources: Census Bureau; Ohio Secretary of State; America Votes; U.S. Commerce Department, Bureau of Economic Analysis; U.S. Labor Department, Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AKRON BEACON JOURNAL CO (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OHIO UNITED STATES (95%); OHIO, USA (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JIMMY CARTER (78%); AL GORE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



70 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Campaign Almanac;
Clinton Edges Further Ahead

 BODY:
Three new nationwide polls have found Gov. Bill Clinton still leading President George Bush, with Ross Perot in third place.
When the three polls are averaged, Mr. Clinton leads with 43 percent, Mr. Bush has 37 percent and Mr. Perot has 17 percent. 
 The Harris Poll, conducted with 1,675 likely voters Friday through Sunday, found Mr. Clinton ahead by five points.
The CNN/USA Today poll by Gallup with 1,579 likely voters conducted Friday and Saturday showed Mr. Clinton with a seven point lead over Mr. Bush, an increase of four points in his lead since the last Gallup poll release a day earlier. The ABC News poll of 1,369 likely voters taken Thursday through Saturday had Mr. Clinton ahead by five points, two points more than their previous release.
All three polls have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
A tracking poll involves interviewing with fresh samples daily over an extended period of time with results combined and released two or three days at a time.
A Star Ledger/Eagelton Poll of New Jersey conducted Oct. 23 to 29 with 801 likely voters found Mr. Clinton with 42 percent of the vote to Mr. Bush's 30 percent and Mr. Perot's 18 percent. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three to four percentage points.
Mr. Clinton is also leading in a Michigan poll of 500 likely voters. Mr. Clinton received 41 percent, Mr. Bush 32 percent and Mr. Perot 18 percent in the poll conducted Wednesday through Friday by Market Strategies Inc. for The Oakland Press, WDIV-TV and WJR Radio. The poll has a potential sampling error of plus or minus five percentage points.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "RECENT POLLS"
 
Gallup for CNN/USA Today
Oct. 30-31
 
Bush: 36%
Clinton: 43%
Perot: 15%
 
ABC News
Oct. 29-31
 
Bush: 37
Clinton: 42
Perot: 17
 
The Harris Poll
Oct. 30-Nov. 1
 
Bush: 39
Clinton: 44
Perot: 17
 
The New York Times/CBS News Poll
Oct. 27-30
 
Bush: 34
Clinton: 43
Perot: 15
 
Gallup for Newsweek
 
Bush: 39
Clinton: 41
Perot: 14
 
NBC News/The Wall Street Journal
 
Bush: 38
Clinton: 43
Perot: 11
 
The Los Angeles Times Poll
Oct. 24-26
 
Bush: 34
Clinton: 44
Perot: 18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: MARKET STRATEGIES INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



71 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Israel and Jordan Agree They Want Formal Treaty

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Israel and Jordan have agreed in writing for the first time that their goal is a formal peace treaty within the framework of a comprehensive Israeli-Arab settlement.
Israeli Cabinet ministers described the agreement today as a breakthrough. Some officials, providing details of a draft accord reached last week by the two countries' negotiators, said they hoped that it would serve as a model for discussions with others at the Middle East peace talks, especially Syria and the Palestinians. 
 The officials also said that their chief negotiator with Syria, Itamar Rabinovich, would be named Israeli Ambassador to the United States, replacing Zalman Shoval, who has held the position for two years. An Israeli newspaper reported that the change would occur this month, but officials said it would take longer and that in any event Mr. Rabinovich, who is rector of Tel Aviv University, would remain in charge of the Syrian talks.
 
Two Big Words
 For the Israelis, it was significant that after more than four decades of a technical state of war, Jordan had unambiguously accepted the words "peace treaty" in defining objectives.
For its part, Israel agreed to discuss water and land claims, the intricate problem of Palestinian refugees and arms control, including the destruction of unconventional weapons. A press report here today said that the two countries are talking as well about a "Dead-Red Canal" that would run from the Dead Sea to the Red Sea and would be used to control water levels and promote tourism.
 
Only an Agenda
 In Jordan, officials also praised the tentative agreement, reached four days ago in Washington and focused on an agenda that will guide further Arab-Israeli negotiations, which entered a second year this weekend. "I think it's a very important step forward," an unidentified senior official told Reuters in Amman.
Israeli commentators said it was significant that Jordan had published details of the draft agreement this weekend in the official press.
But for all the optimistic appraisals, senior officials in both countries cautioned that an agenda is no more than that: a list of the items that will be discussed when the talks resume next week. The road to an actual treaty remains long, they said, and nothing has changed in the position of the Arab delegations that an Israeli deal with any one of them must be accompanied by agreements with all.
Still, an official close to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said that the draft agenda, whose approval by King Hussein is considered a formality, could provide the momentum to nudge all the negotiations forward.
The talks, being held in Washington, were recessed on all fronts until after the American Presidential election.
Both President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton say they are committed to Mideast peace, but it might take awhile before the winner is able to devote the attention that many in this region feel is required from the United States to push the talks along.
 
The Uncharted Future
 Mr. Bush's point man was former Secretary of States James A. Baker 3d, whom the President says will coordinate domestic economic planning if he is re-elected. And if Mr. Clinton wins, he will will be preoccupied with putting together a Government.
So the Israeli-Jordanian agreement on an agenda was widely seen as timely help for the negotiations.
There is little good news on the Israeli-Palestinian track, which has made scant progress toward an immediate goal of Palestinian self-rule in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. If anything, Palestinian delegates find themselves increasingly besieged by religious and left-wing factions demanding that they withdraw from the talks.
Syria, after making headway with Israel two months ago, is seen as less cooperative these days.
 
Model for Others?
 And Lebanon, where fighting erupted once again last week between Israeli forces and the pro-Iranian Party of God, is unlikely to agree to anything without Syria's blessing.
The tentative agreement with Jordan came as a surprise, even though Israeli experts have long maintained that the two countries, if left to themselves, could have come to terms years ago, for the issues between them are relatively painless.
"The Jordanians are now ready to talk about peace and Israel is ready to negotiate territory," said Akiva Eldar, diplomatic correspondent for the newspaper Haaretz.
"It is very balanced, and I think that this will be a model for the talks with the Syrians. The Jordanians cleared the floor for the Syrians to offer a peace treaty in return for the Golan Heights."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); JORDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SYRIA (93%); 

STATE: RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (74%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; JORDAN; SYRIA ISRAEL (99%); JORDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SYRIA (93%); RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (74%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JORDAN TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); PEACE PROCESS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (77%); DISARMAMENT (73%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); ELECTIONS (70%); REFUGEES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); TOURISM (51%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE BILL CLINTON (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



72 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Radio Advertising;
Ads, Late and Nasty, Rule the Waves

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

 BODY:
As bleary-eyed Americans hit their alarms yesterday morning, other alarms went off: Gov. Bill Clinton will steal your job. President Bush is a liar. The Democrats will tamper with Social Security. The Republicans are fanatics.
Even the most facile flip jockeys could not escape the fear and oratory dished out across the radio dial this weekend. By waiting until the last possible moments to broadcast their nastiest ads, the campaigns could distort the truth while running little risk of getting caught until after Election Day. 
 More than on television, radio messages can be tailored to demographic and geographic markets, as they were yesterday. On several black-oriented radio stations, for example, the Bush campaign is running an ad warning listeners that a vote for Mr. Clinton would "be turning the clock back." In Arkansas, the announcer says, "blacks are poorer, less educated and more likely to be unemployed than African-Americans elsewhere in the country."
Instead of directly assaulting his opponents, the ever unpredictable Ross Perot went for something different: he blanketed radio markets with ads promoting his 30-minute paid political program that ran last night on ABC and NBC, against the CBS News program "60 Minutes."
 
'Watch the Feathers Fly'
 "You won't believe what Ross Perot has to say Sunday night," an announcer says. "Tune in and watch the feathers fly." Needless to say, Mr. Perot's television commercial needles Mr. Clinton about the chicken processing industry in Arkansas.
Radio stations across the country reported heavy election-weekend time buys from the Presidential and local campaigns, which in many cases bought up every available second of ad space.
Listeners could punch all the buttons or hit search and scan, but they could not escape the onslaught.
Listen to a Bush radio commercial in Raleigh, N.C. "President Bush wants to protect and sustain the family," the announcer says, while Mr. Clinton would "undermine the family structure."
 
'Something Frightening?'
 Listen to a Democratic Party advertisement in San Francisco. "Want to hear something frightening?" the announcer asks. "It's the Republican platform on abortion. They want to make abortion illegal, even if a woman is raped, even if she's a victim of incest, even if her life is in danger. Sound extreme? That's because right-wing fanatics like Pat Robertson helped write it."
Radio is much more accommodating than television for last-minute time purchases, and the campaigns took full advantage for a barrage of attacks and counterattacks. WWDB-FM in Philadelphia is so loaded with political ads in the closing days, said Dan Sullivan, the sales manager, that "our regular advertisers are screaming because they can't buy any time."
In several markets, the Bush campaign used local examples to try to scare listeners into thinking that a Clinton Presidency would cost them jobs. "Bill Clinton talks a lot about Arkansas jobs," the announcer says in an ad being broadcast in Cleveland. Then, as the volume rises on a foreboding soundtrack, he adds: "Clinton doesn't say he's been stealing jobs from other states. Ohio is one. Spicer Transmission in Toledo closed down, fired its workers and moved to Arkansas."
The ad quotes a Clinton adviser saying that the Governor will "do whatever it takes to attract companies to Arkansas." But the point of the ad was somewhat confusing because, presumably, people would want a President who knew how to attract jobs.
 
Distortion Alleged
 Greg Haas, director of the Democratic campaign in Ohio, lashed out at the Bush ads in the state, saying, "They misstate, misquote and misuse the facts of Bill Clinton's record and economic plan."
That has not stopped the Bush campaign from running variations around the country. Here's an ad in Chicago that cites a study with which Democrats take issue: "Based on a University of New Mexico study, Clinton's massive defense cuts will cost over 31,000 Illinois jobs. So remember Governor Clinton stole jobs from Acme Frame Products. President Clinton could take a whole lot more."
The Republican National Committee hit the airwaves in several cities with ads that, because of Federal election restrictions, do not mention candidates directly but said voting Democratic would be a mistake.
"You don't always get straight talk from a political ad -- this one is different," says a Republican commercial in Greenville, S.C. "The Democrats will raise your taxes by $150 billion and increase spending $220 billion," the announcer says with certainty, even though the Democrats dispute those figures.
 
'Who Will We Trust?'
 Not content to stop with taxes and spending, the ad warns that while the Democrats would fiddle with entitlements, "The Republicans will never touch Social Security."
In Kansas City, Mo., listeners to another Republican Party ad are asked, "Who will we trust?"
A Bush ad heard in Philadelphia is more direct as it seeks to convince listeners in a tri-state market. "You can't trust Bill Clinton," the announcer says. "He's wrong for you and wrong for Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Delaware." The announcer also accuses Mr. Clinton of promoting "radical environmental regulations."
The Clinton campaign bought airtime to respond to such harsh accusations with harsh accusations of its own. An announcer breathlessly decries to listeners in Philadelphia, "George Bush's radio ads are full of lies." To counter the Republicans' accusations about lost jobs, one ad accuses Mr. Bush of encouraging American companies to "move jobs to Central America."
It is not all charges and countercharges. Mr. Perot has saturated radio markets with ads that feature the Texas businessman appealing for votes: "You've got to stop letting these folks telling you you're throwing your vote away. You've got to start using your head."
But mostly, the election-eve ads prove one thing to radio listeners. No matter how fickle the finger, there is no escaping fate: nasty political messages are unavoidable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (55%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (83%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (83%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; RADIO; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); RADIO ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (75%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); ABORTION (60%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



73 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Campaign Almanac;
Countdown to Election Day

 BODY:

GEORGE BUSH
President Bush continued to fire away at Bill Clinton's character, as aides said the oratory on both sides was likely to get even uglier in the final two days of the campaign. His voice was weakened but Mr. Bush appeared upbeat as he swept through a string of states he must win if he is to return to office. While his language was tougher than usual, he tried to blunt the impression he has dropped into a last-ditch, fiercely negative campaign. At a rally in Michigan, the President told 5,700 party workers that the name "Slick Willie" was not his invention. "We tell the truth, and they think it's hell," he said. "So be it."
 
BILL CLINTON
 Suffering from laryngitis, Gov. Bill Clinton could barely speak as he began a two-day press into Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, as part of a strategy to strike at President Bush in Republican areas of critical industrial states. His voice was so weak that his attacks on Mr. Bush had to be severely curtailed. The Governor's wife, Hillary, did most of the speaking throughout the day, and at one stop Mr. Clinton managed to talk only 21 seconds. But at an airport in northern Pennsylvania, he warned a crowd about the Republican assaults to his character and promised to restore economic optimism and fairness to the Presidency.
 
ROSS PEROT
 Ross Perot launched the most blistering attacks of his campaign, turning the main force of his fire from President Bush to Mr. Clinton. At a rally in California, Mr. Perot seemed to go out of his way to criticize Mr. Clinton, questioning his morals because of his experimentation with marijuana, ridiculing his record in Arkansas and even dismissing his ability to play the saxaphone. Mr. Perot did not entirely halt his attacks on the President. "As you're sitting there watching all this stuff," Mr. Perot said, "say, If I ran a small business, if I had a small business, would I hire either one of these guys to run it?"

GRAPHIC: Photo. (Lee Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



74 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

METRO DIGEST
 
ABRAMS AND D'AMATO NEAR END OF RACE
In the final hours before tomorrow's election for United States Senate, Robert Abrams and Alfonse M. D'Amato engaged in their last televised debate and plunged into the New York City suburbs to campaign. Mr. Abrams, the State Attorney General and Democratic nominee, and Mr. D'Amato, the Republican incumbent Senator, replayed elements of their rancorous campaign, arguing over health care, taxes and the economy. But the outcome of the election may depend less on either candidate's performance than on Gov. Bill Clinton's projected margin of victory in the state. A1.
 
Pointed contrasts in a final debate. B7.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
ANTI-THEFT OR PRO-THEFT BAR?
Usually carjackers use guns or knives to force motorists to relinquish their cars. But the weapon used in a carjacking in midtown Manhattan was actually meant to prevent cars from being stolen. The police said a 27-year-old Brooklyn man jumped into a stopped 1992 Lincoln, grabbed a metal anti-theft bar lying on the front seat and brandished it to force the driver from his car. The suspect then nearly ran down several officers as he tried to escape, the police said. B2.
 
RANGE OF EMOTIONS IN DANIELS CASE
The case of Randy Daniels, whom Mayor Dinkins had appointed as Deputy Mayor and who resigned last week, has provoked and reinforced a range of emotions among men and women. Some men fear that women now have a new weapon, the allegation of harassment, which they will wield indiscriminately, leaving ruined careers in their wake. And some women still think men do not get it. B3.
 
REGION
 
JOHNSON AND DODD NEAR THE END
Senator Christopher J. Dodd and his opponent, Brook Johnson, reached out to widely differing constituencies in the final weekend of campaigning, as Mr. Dodd visited the low-income residents in this city and Mr. Johnson toured the state's more affluent towns. Mr. Dodd, a Democrat seeking a third term, met people whose concerns ranged from violence and drugs to unemployment and lack of educational opportunities. Mr. Johnson attended rallies in Stamford, Greenwich, Norwalk and Fairfield, where his supporters wanted to hear about how the Republican would revive the state's ailing economy. B6.
 
INCOME TAX? OH, THAT INCOME TAX
This was to be the year the voters would get even. But despite the passion of Connecticut residents a year ago, the income tax has not become a major issue in most legislative races. Most supporters of the tax seem unaffected by the threatened backlash. People still talk about the tax and many still hate it, but politicians and residents in communities across the state say the rage over the tax has become another victim of Connecticut's deepened recession. B6.
 
Metro Matters B3
 
Strictly Business B5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CARJACKING (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



75 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
If Pollsters Would Visit a Welfare Center

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts

 BODY:
THE Waverly Income Maintenance Center on West 14th Street in Manhattan was not on any Presidential candidate's campaign itinerary. Nor do pollsters or pundits regularly go there to take the electorate's pulse. But just one visit to the second floor, where people wait to apply for welfare in an office that suggests the apprehension and pain of a hospital emergency room, would explain why Gov. Bill Clinton will win tomorrow -- at least in New York.
Particularly if Michael Mathew, Brian Pierce or John Riley were there, as they were the other day. Waiting with scores of others for some form of benefits, they defied two fundamental stereotypes about welfare. They had never applied before or even envisioned themselves needing public assistance; they are white. 
 Mr. Pierce, a 30-year-old unemployed hairdresser, needed $2,500 to avoid eviction from the Manhattan apartment he shares with his girlfriend, who is also unemployed.
Mr. Riley, 47, a consulting engineer who emigrated from England 30 years ago, was burned out of his apartment and needed help while he replaced documents that would enable him to resume work.
Mr. Mathew, 34, a costume-jewelry maker, was looking for a loan while he looks for another job after the company for which he worked had laid off two of its five employees.
"A couple of years ago we had so many orders we could have worked seven days a week," Mr. Mathew said. "Now, they just don't need us. It's a luxury business, and when the economy slows down this is the first thing to go."
As a result President Bush may be next.
The number of people on welfare in New York City, more than one million, is the highest in nearly two decades. The proportion may be the largest ever. Many have lost their jobs, are afraid they might or know someone who has during an Administration that may be just starting to jump-start the economy. Measured by that experience, change may seem preferable. Against that backdrop of fear, welfare has not emerged as the political hot potato that many people figured it would. In the New York Senate debate yesterday between Attorney General Robert Abrams and Alfonse M. D'Amato, welfare was not even mentioned.
"A big reason Bill Clinton is still leading George Bush in the polls is that welfare has not, contrary to what I expected, become the 'Willie Horton' of 1992," Lawrence M. Mead, a professor of political science at New York University, wrote. "But welfare has hardly been an issue in the campaign. The chief reason, of course, is that the country's economic problems have commanded center stage."
The country's economic problems have placed some people who might ordinarily be susceptible to the welfare-as-Willie Horton appeal perilously close to welfare themselves.
Staking claim to the political center in early primaries, Mr. Clinton said even last spring that he would favor New Jersey's request for a Federal waiver that would enable the state to freeze payments to women on welfare who have more children -- an experiment that even Mr. D'Amato, the Republican-Conservative, is embracing very tentatively. Mr. D'Amato, his spokeswoman said, "supports the concept of responsibility, but it's too soon to judge the effectiveness" of the New Jersey rule.
More intelligent judgments about welfare in general might some day be rendered under Section 1381 of the tax bill that Congress is about to send to the President. Drafted by Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, the provision invokes the Employment Act of 1946, which required an annual economic report to the President and the calculation of unemployment rates. Section 1381 provides for an annual report on welfare dependency, annual goals for recipients and expenditures and sets an interim goal of reducing dependency, from 13 percent to 10 percent for families with children.
The development of the unemployment rate, Mr. Moynihan recalled, "changed the debate concerning this central dilemma of industrialization."
In 1990 twice as many households were receiving Aid to Families With Dependent Children as the number of households and individuals' collecting unemployment compensation. Just a relatively small proportion can ever be weaned from welfare with work. And even that number depends on the availability of jobs.
At so-called income-maintenance centers grim applicants study an eight-page handbook of instructions on how to complete the five-page form for public assistance. The form blandly asks whether the applicant has "a burial space," among other resources.
"I never thought I'd be here," Mr. Mathew said as he awaited an interview at the Waverly center. "But I paid taxes all my life, and it's only fair for the Government to help me now that I need it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WAVERLY INCOME MAINTENANCE CENTER (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WAVERLY INCOME MAINTENANCE CENTER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (55%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); HOSPITALS (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); LUXURY GOODS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); COSTUME JEWELRY MFG (51%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (51%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



76 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
General Motors' directors are to meet this morning and are expected to entrust Jack Smith with the task of quickly halting the financial bleeding of North American operations. Whether Mr. Smith can succeed at that daunting task may depend on whether the board sets reasonable goals and whether he moves quickly and decisively to change the way G.M. operates. [Page D1.] 
 Banking analysts say as many as five banking companies may consider a bid for First City of Houston, which was seized by regulators Friday night. Chemical seems the early favorite. [D2.]
 
The Economy
For years, the Defense Department has denounced the V-22 Osprey, an aircraft that takes off like a helicopter but flies like a plane, as impractical and unaffordable. But the department continues to finance the plane, and both President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton, along with members of Congress, have committed themselves to building it -- illustrating how maddeningly difficult it is for the nation to cut military spending. [A1.]
Governor Clinton and Alan Greenspan have been circling each other warily, and if the Democratic nominee becomes the President-elect, they could start wrestling. On the other hand, the Fed chief resembles the candidate in a crucial way: each much prefers consensus to confrontation. [D1.]
 
International
Importers of wines and spirits are stockpiling goods, fearful that they may be the first victims if the U.S. makes good on threats to impose steep tariffs on European products. [D1.]
Mexico's President cautiously endorsed the sort of broad political changes demanded by his opposition. But Carlos Salinas de Gortari seemed to signal an end to the dizzying changes he has engineered in the economy and society over four years. [A3.]
 
The Media Business
The Presidential race will not be decided until tomorrow, but among the networks vying for political ads, the returns are already in. For most, they are good news. Bill Carter: Television. [D1.]
The New York bureau chief of The Economist is in the U.S. to find out whether it is "good night" for America, and to share his conclusions with a half million readers worldwide. [D8.]
J. D. Power is branching out from surveys of automobile owners to rankings of domestic airlines. Advertising. [D7.]
Retailers and advertising executives generally agree that the new editor in chief at Harper's Bazaar, Liz Tilberis, has shaken up the troubled fashion magazine. [D8.]
A distinctive piece of German publishing history may be in jeopardy. And a most unlikely suitor, a millionaire Marxist real estate entrepreneur, has stepped in to try saving it. [D8.]
 
Today's Columns
There has been enough new economic data recently to suggest that it is time to wonder just how weak the economy is. If these straws in the wind portend some growth, there may be trouble ahead for bonds. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D7.]
On the heels of nicotine, nitroglycerine and estrogen patches, Theratech scientists have developed a testosterone patch that can be worn anywhere on the body. Edmund L. Andrews: Patents. [D2.]
Public and community help for struggling airlines has become more visible as communities have increasingly felt the economic impact of one airline after another liquidating or being swallowed by bigger rivals. Beneficiaries have included America West, Kiwi International, Northwest and United. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); BONDS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); AIRLINES (69%); HELICOPTERS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%); RETAILERS (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



77 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: STRICTLY BUSINESS;
A Venture Capitalist and His Politics

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
The receding New York involves things like egg creams and memories of organ grinders. The new city -- the one that could as easily be Zurich or Tokyo -- is a world financial center defined only by the lightning-fast movement of money and ideas.
Alan Patricof grew up playing stickball on the streets of the Upper West Side and selling The Saturday Evening Post in the subway. He remembers organ grinders. 
 Today, he is a major venture capitalist, with headquarters on Park Avenue and offices in eight European cities. Using ultrasophisticated techniques, he prowls the business forest in search of nascent enterprises with profit-making potential.
Using investors' millions and a dollop of his own, he invests in dreams at a time when entrepreneurs' relatives and friends may have run out of money or faith. Many rounds of infusions are usually needed -- each giving him a bigger stake in a company doing nothing but losing money. It can go on for a decade with no payback. Mr. Patricof loses about half the time, but on occasion has seen an investment soar more than 50 times.
 
Perpetually on the Lookout
 His office is telling. It is festooned with hard hats, model airplanes and sundry other souvenirs from companies that he bet on when they were little more than somebody's bright idea and a sketchy business plan. He hopes that the peculiar little tree in the plastic bag -- miniature forestry? -- will hit big.
The walls sparkle with works by artists who were largely unknown, but full of promise, when he purchased them. A plaque honors his service as a board member of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, whose annual Next Wave festival is an avant-garde New York event.
This 57-year-old nurse of the new is subsumed with one question: "What's next?"
A new President, if the marathon runner has his druthers. The chairman of Entrepreneurs for Clinton waxed euphoric about how superbly he thinks the talkative man he met while jogging had debated. "He actually stopped to think," exuded a man who barely stops to sleep.
Such ardor is expected. But his support comes at a cost. The one-time Reagan enthusiast still has shares of some companies that have jumped fantastically in value from as long ago as 20 years. If President Bush's program to cut capital-gains taxes is adopted, it would be a windfall. In addition, Mr. Patricof said he would be hurt by Mr. Clinton's proposal to increase the highest individual tax rate, to 36 from 31 percent.
Mr. Patricof will not estimate what all that adds up to. "That's ostentatious," he said.
The point, he insists, is the future.
 
Confronting the Risk
 On his desk was a foot-high stack of financing proposals. They included a solicitation by an inventor of a car battery, a method to clear out nasal passages and a "noise cancellation system." None was as outlandish as the farmer who once asked him to invest in a horse.
Mr. Patricof was looking for the kind of jackpot deal that he terms "a meteor." He longs to replicate his early stake in Apple Computer to financing a company that became the second-largest recycler of automobile batteries. He was chairman of New York magazine after he had found investors for its startup, having fun as well as making money.
Such help is appreciated.
"This was venture capital in the purest form," said George Blumenthal, chairman of Cellular Communications Inc., an early cellular company that received seed money from Mr. Patricof.
Mr. Patricof has also bought lemons. One of his earliest investments as a young man was in a company in Queens dedicated to developing a strain of laboratory mice. The fast-multiplying rodents turned out to be valueless.
Trouble looms. Mr. Patricof says the venture-capital industry has become less venturesome. Participants, he says, are favoring investment at later stages in a company's growth. The individual investors who once dominated the game drifted toward junk bonds and other greener fields. The pension funds that replaced them want safer, quicker returns.
 
'Short-Term Oriented' Society
 That means that even though the industry's resources have grown to $30 billion from $4 billion in the mid-80's, there is less cash for companies' most critical periods, birth and babyhood. Mr. Patricof says just a fifth of his United States venture-capital fund is invested in early stage companies, compared with more than half of a fund raised in 1984.
The upshot, he argues, is that the response to the broad assistance that Japan and Germany give fledgling enterprises has become inadequate. "Our whole society has become very short-term oriented," Mr. Patricof said. "There have to be more startups that employ people."
New York City, he says, particularly needs new commercial and industrial flowers to bloom. "We probably don't need any more law firms or ad agencies," he said with the slightest of smiles. "But at the moment, I guess we'd take anything."
He said entrepreneurial development was a key to the woes of reviving the city whose past he loves to evoke. He recalls sledding in Central Park as a boy and the strangely compelling chant of a wandering dealer in used garments.
Mr. Patricof, son of a stockbroker, finished Ohio State University in three years while working at a part-time jobs. He earned an M.B.A. from Columbia University while working full-time as an analyst for an investment firm.
The intensity is still apparent. He looks at his watch frequently and emphasizes points with staggering detail. His background includes a series of positions with investment firms, one of which helped manage a pulp-and-paper fortune. Bored with the heavings of the stock market, he found himself devoting more of his time to fun new ventures.
He founded Patricof Company Ventures in 1969. Later he founded a separate investment banking company specializing in entrepreneurial companies. An international arm, Apax Partners, was founded in 1977 and now has eight European offices. In total his firm manages $1.5 billion in more than 130 companies. If an investment is made, the work has only begun. Mr. Patricof or one of his 30 partners will almost always take a seat on the company's board. He is aggressive in pushing his views, a stance that he says represents corporate democracy in action.
Is that appreciated? "They don't have to like us," he said.
These days the father of three sons is neck-deep in the Clinton campaign. His job is not raising money, but finding businessmen to go public with support. "That's harder," he said, noting that even some of the entrepreneurs in whom he had invested millions had turned him down.
His personal support developed from conversations that he had with the Arkansas Governor after being introduced by a friend in East Hampton four years ago. Mr. Clinton was interested in using venture-capital techniques to try to emulate the South Shore Development Bank in Chicago, an institution that makes loans to poorer neighborhoods.
Mr. Patricof said he was not a big campaign contributor. He also claims no interest in a Washington job. But he would appreciate the ear of a Clinton White House.
"I hope I'm not going to drop off the face of the earth," Mr. Patricof said of his political future. "I've put a lot of energy into this."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Patricof, a venture capitalist, says entrepreneurial development is a key to reviving the New York that was part of his childhood. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PATRICOF COMPANY VENTURES

ORGANIZATION: PATRICOF COMPANY VENTURES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (77%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; VENTURE CAPITAL; ENTREPRENEURSHIP VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); POLITICS (85%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); MARATHONS (68%); RUNNING (68%); FESTIVALS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); TAX LAW (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); 

PERSON: PATRICOF, ALAN J; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



78 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
In Their Own Words

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

 BODY:

PRESIDENT BUSH
In an interview yesterday on the CNN program "Newsmaker Sunday."
"I'm delighted that the campaign will end, and I still feel very confident of victory because I believe the polls have just been totally out of whack. And so I've just driven down on the message -- economy, which is better than people have thought and they're now seeing that, and then I think trust and character. I believe that's why I'm going to win, is people are going to say, 'Look, he may have made some mistakes but we trust him with the major problems of this country, trust him with a crisis if it arises, trust him with our families."'
 
GOV. BILL CLINTON
In comments yesterday at the Wilkes Barre-Scranton International Airport.
"Don't forget there have been a lot of charges and countercharges and ups and downs, but when you strip it all away this election is a race between hope and fear, between the courage to change and the comfort of the status quo. Between those who say things are fine and those of us who believe that we can do better, that America deserves better and that starting on Tuesday with your help, it will be a new day for this country." 

ROSS PEROT
In a speech at a rally yesterday in Long Beach, Calif.
"Do you think that the President of the United States should be good role models for your children? Do you believe that it's appropriate to have senior government officials who have used drugs?
It's up to you. it's up to you. But I'm just a college kid and if it seems like everybody at the top can do anything they want to, anytime they want to, violate all the rules and just wipe out everything that I've been taught at home and in church and in Boy Scouts, then that's going to change my moral and ethical standards."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: SCRANTON, PA, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (76%); FAMILY (76%); AIRPORTS (53%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



79 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Dodd and Johnson Reach Out in Very Different Directions

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., Nov. 1

 BODY:
Wrapping up the final weekend of campaigning, Senator Christopher J. Dodd and his opponent, Brook Johnson, reached out to widely differing constituencies, as Mr. Dodd visited the low-income residents in this city and Mr. Johnson toured the state's more affluent towns.
Attending morning services at black churches in Bridgeport's East End, Mr. Dodd met people whose concerns ranged from violence and drugs to unemployment and lack of educational opportunities. His schedule also included lunch with Democrats in Norwalk and rallies with supporters in Ansonia, Middletown and Hartford. 
 During the day, Mr. Johnson, trailing by as much as 20 points in recent polls, attended rallies in Stamford, Greenwich, Norwalk and Fairfield, where his supporters wanted to hear about how the Republican would revive the state's ailing economy. He continued his attacks on Mr. Dodd, a Democrat seeking a third term, calling him fiscally irresponsible.
Along the way, Mr. Johnson, a businessman who has never held political office, stressed the need to bring "new blood" into politics and to undo the economic problems of "tax and spend" liberals.
And last night, at a rally attended by President Bush at the Igor Sikorsky Memorial Airport in Stratford, he stressed his experience in creating jobs. "Chris Dodd, let me tell you something," he told the estimated 10,000 supporters at the rally, "if it comes to jobs being an issue in this state, buddy, you lose."
 
'Politics of Division'
 Mr. Dodd, speaking earlier to more than 90 churchgoers at the Russell Temple C.M.E. Church, criticized the "politics of division" that he said has pit the poor and the wealthy against each other in recent years.
Though he made no specific commitments on any particular social agenda, Mr. Dodd's words were received with nods of approval and soft utterances of "Yes, sir." He promised to "try and bring this country back together again."
Holding a microphone at the altar, Mr. Dodd said, "If someone lacks housing, a job, or decent health care or an education, we all suffer."
Mr. Dodd did not appeal for votes directly, but urged the churchgoers to turn out on Election Day. "Your abstinence from the process will make a difference," he said, warning the congregation that those who disagreed with him would indeed vote.
 
Concern for Cities
 After the service at the Russell Temple and the East End Baptist Tabernacle Church, where Mr. Dodd also visited, people said that they felt the problems of cities had been neglected this election year, but that they were reassured by his visit.
"It was about time he came," said Belinda Young, a 28-year-old member of the Russell Temple who said she had been laid off from three jobs since 1989. "I have a house and two kids. It's rough. My husband has a stable job, but it's still tight."
Standing on the church steps, Theodore McCray announced: "We're going to give him another shot. Don't worry about that. We need to turn this world around. The way it's heading, it's not going to amount to nothing with all the drugs and violence."
Kecia Frazier said she felt that Mr. Dodd's message was relevant to her life. She said she began thinking about her godson, Rakim Tucker, 2, while Mr. Dodd spoke.
Holding the child's hand, Ms. Frazier said: "Right now, all the young people are killing each other. I don't want him to be in the middle of that. I want him to get an education.
"The problem is the youth of today are trying to stake their claim by killing each other. The youth don't feel they have a chance otherwise. Their self-esteem is down."
Yet not all were won over by the visit. People like Margarine Hardy, 49, dismissed Mr. Dodd's appearance.
"It's politics time," she said as she walked out of the East End Tabernacle Church. "That's the only time you see them."
 
'Ready for an Upset?'
 As Mr. Johnson traveled from one town to another, his supporters voiced enthusiasm, dismissing polls and comparing him to John F. Kennedy. "It's important to follow him because he'll be President one day," said Emil Judge, 69, who waited for Mr. Johnson to arrive in Fairfield.
Once there, Mr. Johnson was encircled by supporters who offered handshakes and hugs. "Ready for an upset?" he asked people gathered at the Republican Town Committee headquarters, a white colonial house at the center of town.
He amused the crowd by deriding Bill Clinton and Mr. Dodd as "Slick Willy and Deficit Dodd." Stressing his business background, he said it was time to do away with "career politicians."
"I didn't get into this race because I thought it would be a fun thing to do," Mr. Johnson told supporters in Fairfield. "But we need people who haven't been career politicians."
As he has done before, his message focused on managing the country's slumping economy. He called for the passage of a balanced-budget amendment, term limits for Congress and reduction of the Federal deficit.
Along his daylong tour, people talked about how the state had lost jobs and how there was a need for an "outsider" like Mr. Johnson to "shake things up."
He indulged his supporters with talk of having to run his political campaign like a business, playfully barking orders to the members of his convoy to move out of Fairfield on time.
Appealing to middle-class voters, Mr. Johnson stressed his blue-collar background, saying he understood the needs of the working class. Talking about jobs to a group in Norwalk, he said, "I was working at them," while Mr. Dodd "was talking about them."
He also called on supporters to push harder than ever now that the campaign was winding down. "Momentum is much more important at the end than the beginning," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; BRIDGEPORT (CONN) UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RELIGION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); JOHNSON, BROOK CHRISTOPHER DODD (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



80 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: House Races;
G.O.P., Hopeful of Big Gains, Sees Its Chances Fade

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 1

 BODY:
A historic partisan shift toward the Republicans might have come from this year's House elections. But no serious challenge to 38 years of Democratic control has developed, and no state offers better examples of why not than Georgia does.
Not only are Republicans failing to gain as much as they hoped from redistricting, the war in the Persian Gulf and the general anti-incumbency mood. But this state also displays the unforeseen Democratic advantages that affect House contests nationally. 
 Three Democratic women could win by arguing that they represent change. Three or four very conservative Republicans may squander districts that the G.O.P. could have won with moderates. And the economy and a long, flabby Presidential campaign depress all Republican efforts.
Georgia also reflects the nation in nonpartisan ways that are likely to change Congress as much as any partisan shifts. At least 6 of the 11 Representatives elected Tuesday will be freshmen, joining as many as 125 others. Not since 1948 have there been so many new members. And Georgians will contribute to the striking increases in the number of women and blacks in the House.
 
Great Expectations
 Nationally, it once seemed plausible that Republicans, who now hold 166 House seats out of 435, could gain 35 to 40 and assert ideological control over the House by allying themselves with with conservative Democrats, much as they did in 1981. Now gains of 15 to 20 seats seem more likely, with only trivial impact on the House.
Similarly, Georgia Republicans hoped to go from 1 seat out of 10 in the 102d Congress to 5 or 6 of the 11 in the 103d. Now it seems improbable they will have more than three, and none of their candidates are safe.
While national polling cannot measure individual House races, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll offers general encouragement to Democrats. Forty-five percent of the 1,912 registered voters polled by telephone from Tuesday to Friday said they would vote for a Democrat for the House; 35 percent preferred a Republican.
But the rise in Democratic hopes generally is far from reassuring to individual members. From coast to coast, incumbents are attacked for voting themselves a pay raise, for overdrafts at the House bank and for travel abroad. And if they have committed few or none of those particular sins, members like Representative Richard Ray in west-central Georgia find themselves attacked for not preventing them.
 
Many Incumbents Worry
 All over the country, House members are finding it hard to know if they have successfully countered attacks. Powerful incumbents of both parties are clearly at risk. Democrats like Representatives Les Aspin of Wisconsin, chairman of the Armed Services Committee; Vic Fazio of California, head of the party's campaign committee, and Steny Hoyer of Maryland, chairman of the caucus, all have real reasons to worry.
So do Republicans like Representatives Bill Goodling of Pennsylvania, the senior minority member of the Education and Labor Committee; Don Young of Alaska, the top Republican on the Interior Committee, and, right here, the No. 2 Republican in the House leadership, Newt Gingrich. Mr. Gingrich, attacked over checks and the car he gave up months ago, is taking more hits over incumbency than anyone else in the delegation.
Lesser-known lawmakers are at least as vulnerable, and dozens feel threatened. Their fear has often led them to use the first negative advertisements, and, if they follow most consultants' advice, not to try to explain that the 1990 pay raise was justified or that no taxpayers' money was lost at the bank. "You respond by attacking your opponent on another issue," said Neil Newhouse, a Republican consultant, who said the pay raise was deserved -- but politically "indefensible."
 
Party, Not Individuals, Survived
 There are no political vaccines that guarantee an individual protection against anti-incumbency. But Georgia offers a prime example of how a party can be protected.
Two vulnerable Democrats, Representatives Ben Jones and Charles Hatcher were defeated in primaries. Sanford Bishop, a black former state legislator in the Americus area who defeated Mr. Hatcher, a Representative with 819 overdrafts, and Don Johnson, who defeated Mr. Jones in Athens and the Augusta suburbs, are clear favorites on Tuesday.
Nationally, a postwar record of 19 incumbents were defeated in primaries. At least nine Democrats and two Republicans in that group would have had a hard time winning the general election. Another 53 House members retired or sought other offices. Many of those who stayed on anyhow are in jeopardy, like two Ohioans whose problems seemed over when they won their primaries, Representatives Bob McEwen, a Republican, and Mary Rose Oakar, a Democrat.
Reapportionment, the process of reallocating House seats because of population changes, and redistricting, the actual drawing of the new maps, both promised Republican gains. Georgia went from 10 to 11 seats, and the Justice Department blocked two plans until the state created a second and third black-majority district.
 
G.O.P. Benefit Foreseen
 Republicans hoped that packing black, Democratic voters into districts of their own would drain other Democrats of black support. On the surface, that approach seemed to work here, certainly better than it did where skillful political cartography in Texas and North Carolina seemed to keep other Democrats safe.
Redistricting brought Republicans their biggest gains in California, where a remarkably unfair pro-Democratic map of the 80's was replaced with a neutral one, and in Illinois, where six Democratic incumbents were squeezed into three districts.
But the party was not ready to capitalize here, nominating several candidates favored by the Christian right who seemed too extreme to be able to carry the new districts. The clearest case is Daniel Becker in North Georgia. He runs television advertisements showing body parts from aborted fetuses and assails homosexuality as "depravity and perversity."
The same pattern can be found in other states from California to Michigan. Democrats in 1992 were much more successful in picking candidates who could seize the political middle.
 
War Advantage Ebbs
 Another early Republican hope was the popularity of the war in the Persian Gulf, and the opportunity to label both individuals and the Democratic Party as insufficiently supportive of American troops. The issue has no vitality today, here or anywhere else.
Instead the underlying issue is the lagging economy. Its impact is less severe here than in the Northeast. But candidates like Barbara Christmas in the Savannah area or Cathey Steinberg here are getting somewhere with promises to work to create jobs. Nationally, Spencer Abraham, the co-chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, concedes, "Because of the economy, we've had to play defense to a larger extent than we'd have liked."
This is also plainly a state where renewed enthusiasm for the Democratic Presidential ticket and Republican doubts about President Bush have given the Democrats a clear advantage. In the last week, Republicans have been much readier to be seen as Mr. Bush's allies. But that narrows, rather than erases, the energy gap.
Women are the other dramatic measure of how Georgia strikingly reflects improved Democratic chances. Cynthia McKinney, a black state legislator, beat a field of men to win the nomination in an almost-safe black district that winds through rural Georgia from the Atlanta suburbs to Savannah. Ms. Christmas, a school principal, is a classic example of how women come across as outsiders this year.
 
A Democratic Chance
 Ms. Steinberg, a State Senator from Atlanta, may defeat John Linder, a very conservative former lawmaker, by emphasizing abortion rights in an upper-income, strongly Republican district where the Republican convention played badly to many women.
A near-doubling of the current total of 28 women in the House seems likely, with most of the newcomers Democrats.
The biggest imponderable in this election remains the strength of anti-incumbency. Ross Perot's Presidential candidacy fanned an already strong flame of anti-Washington sentiment. Thomas E. Mann, director of governmental studies at the Brookings Institution, called Mr. Perot's backers "contrarian and susceptible to the worst conspiracy theories about government," natural enemies of incumbents.
The would-be freshmen are often decently financed. Thirty-one challengers had raised at last $200,000 by Sept. 30. And with incumbency a less valuable commodity than it once was, the foes of incumbents may not need as much money. As Alan Secrest, a Democratic consultant, put it, "A little negative for a challenger goes a lot further than it has in the past."
But it is mood, more than money, that seems to matter. A New York Times/CBS News Poll found in late October that only 22 percent of Americans said they could "trust the government in Washington to do what is right" always or most of the time. That is the lowest percentage ever measured by the Times and CBS News.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Newt Gingrich, the No. 2 Republican in the House leadership, has been attacked over checks and the car he gave up months ago and is taking more hits over incumbency than anyone else in the delegation. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "The House: 5 Races to Watch"
 
Races that typify some patterns in a year of change.
 
CALIFORNIA: District 52
 Representative Duncan Hunter (R), a 44-year-old six-term incumbent, is facing an unexpectedly tough challenge in a very Republican district. His Democratic opponent, Janet M. Gastil, is a schoolteacher with little political experience, but 399 overdrafts on the House bank are a problem for Mr. Hunter.
 
GEORGIA: District 4
 Abortion is a key issue in this Republican-majority district in the Atlanta suburbs, where no incumbent is running. Cathey Steinberg (D), 50, has campaigned for abortion rights and labeled her Republican opponent, John Linder, 50, an extremist. He calls her a liberal.
 
IOWA: District 2
 Iowa lost a seat through reapportionment and two incumbents were thrown together. Representatives Dave Nagle (D), 49, and Jim Nussle (R), 32, are fighting about Congress itself. Mr. Nussle wore a paper bag over his head to protest the bank scandal; Mr. Nagle is an effective insider and proud of it.
 
NORTH CAROLINA: District 1
 This is one of 17 new districts drawn to insure election of minority candidates. Eva M. Clayton (D), 58, is heavily favored to defeat Ted Tyler (R), 57, and become the state's first black in Congress since 1901.
 
WISCONSIN: District 1
Les Aspin, the 54-year-old Democrat who heads the Armed Services Committee, is facing a tough anti-incumbent campaign as he seeks a twelfth term. Mark Neumann (R), 38, a builder, has surpised him with lavish spending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (63%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (63%); REPRESENTATIVES LES ASPIN OF WISCONSIN (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY REPRESENTATIVES LES ASPIN OF WISCONSIN (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GEORGIA UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REDISTRICTING (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; GINGRICH, NEWT (REPR) DUNCAN HUNTER (73%); JOHN J DUNCAN JR (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); JIM NUSSLE (73%); STENY HOYER (58%); JOHN LINDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



81 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: Fast Action Called Key For G.M. Board Meets Today To Name New Chief

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN

 BODY:
When the board of the General Motors Corporation meets this morning in New York, directors are expected to entrust John G. (Jack) Smith Jr. with the task of quickly halting the financial bleeding of the auto giant's North American operations. Whether Mr. Smith can succeed at that daunting task may well depend on whether the board sets reasonable goals for the company's reorganization and whether he moves decisively to change the way G.M. operates.
Mr. Smith, who has been G.M.'s president since April, is expected to be named chief executive, replacing Robert C. Stempel, who announced last Monday his plans to resign. Mr. Stempel's other title -- chairman -- is likely to be assumed by a director, John G. Smale, who is a retired chairman of Procter & Gamble. 
 Mr. Smith, a G.M. employee for 31 years, is credited with turning around the company's European operations, for which he was previously responsible, along with its other overseas operations.
Another executive who may receive increased power and responsibilities from the board is William E. Hoglund, the chief financial officer. Some analysts suggest that Mr. Hoglund, who has international and domestic experience, would complement Mr. Smith in his efforts to reorganize G.M.'s North American automotive operations.
Mr. Smith faces a difficult task. Not since Lee A. Iacocca helped to stave off bankruptcy at the Chrysler Corporation in the early 1980's has so much rested on a single executive.
During Mr. Stempel's 27 months at the helm of the company, G.M. reported two years of losses, including a $4.45 billion loss for 1991, the largest loss ever for an American company. On Thursday, it announced a $752.9 million loss for the third quarter of this year. Its share of the American vehicle market has dropped to 35 percent from 45 percent in 1980.
 
 
Crucial First Months
 But many experts in academia and business said that if Mr. Smith was given a clear mandate from the board, and if he moved quickly to assert his control, he could stop the financial hemorrhaging that would lead to a wholesale disaster if left unchanged. But to accomplish his aim, they said, he must take a range of actions -- from wholesale dismissals of employees to renegotiating labor contracts on an emergency basis to spending more time in the field and less in his office.
Like a new President's first 100 days in Washington, Mr. Smith's first months in office will be crucial. It will be a period of intense scrutiny, during which he must vividly demonstrate whether he can inspire the fundamental revamping that virtually every expert believes G.M. must undergo. Otherwise, he may have a short honeymoon with the United Automobile Workers union, white-collar workers, parts suppliers and, most important, the board itself.
"You want to use this crisis as an important moment of reassessment, to make changes you can't make normally," said Harry Katz, a professor of labor relations at Cornell University. Mr. Katz suggested that Mr. Smith reopen G.M.'s contract with the U.A.W. and propose that workers in G.M.'s component plants agree to more flexible conditions than those governing workers in assembly plants.
Because G.M.'s costs are higher than those of its competitors, Mr. Smith must almost certainly close plants, eliminate tens of thousands of jobs and revamp its plans for future vehicles -- without delay. Simultaneously, he must move to raise the morale of remaining workers and foster consistent production and quality from the plants that remain after cutbacks are made.
 
 
Economic Fallout
 Although G.M.'s financial condition is not as serious as Chrysler's was, its loss of market share, ebbing financial strength and enormous appetite for capital suggest an industrial failure waiting to happen. And because G.M. is almost three times the size of Chrysler, the potential fallout on the American auto industry -- and on the United States economy -- would be far greater.
Gerald C. Myers, former chairman of the American Motors Corporation and an expert in crisis management, said he thought G.M.'s vulnerability might be overstated "because it has two assets it can sell if it's in trouble: E.D.S. and Hughes Aircraft."
Still, the situation is serious, so directors may keep Mr. Smith on a very short leash. Mr. Myers suggested that to gain some freedom of movement, Mr. Smith should develop quite specific goals in agreement with directors. "As he meets the goals, one by one, the board will get off his back," Mr. Myers said.
Another former auto executive, who spoke on condition of anonymity, estimated that G.M. must slice 45,000 to 50,000 jobs from its 90,000 white-collar jobs in North America -- far beyond the 20,000 it announced last December that it was trying to eliminate. G.M. had also announced at the same time that it planned to cut 54,000 blue-collar jobs and close 21 plants over the course of several years.
"Smith should concentrate on cash rather than profit, eliminate the dividend, sell E.D.S., sell Hughes if he can get a good price for a defense business, ignore stock price and rebuild from there," this former executive said.
He added that Mr. Smith should purge as many senior executives as possible. "People who are associated with a failure, no matter how bright they are, can't stop trying to justify why the failure wasn't their fault," he said.
 
 
Resignations Expected
 People familiar with the thinking of the G.M. board said that several senior company executives -- Lloyd E. Reuss, executive vice president, and F. Alan Smith, executive vice president, and others -- are expected to resign the day Mr. Smith takes office. The departures of Mr. Reuss and Mr. Smith would be largely symbolic, since they have been out of key operating roles for some time.
James Harbour, a manufacturing consultant based in Troy, Mich., was a 50-year-old Chrysler engineer in 1980 when Mr. Iacocca abruptly dismissed him and thousands of others. "It was cruel," Mr. Harbour said. "But unless you do it right away, everyone else is sitting around doing nothing, waiting to see who goes and who stays." Within months, Chrysler trimmed white-collar employment by a third, to 18,000 jobs, he said.
Simply cutting jobs will not be enough, though, to turn the huge company around. Vehicle development teams at G.M. are large, complex and heavily bureaucratic. Their leaders change frequently, and the teams do not have the freedom to pursue their vision of what the entire vehicle should be.
Some experts suggest that Mr. Smith should copy G.M.'s domestic and Japanese competitors by organizing vehicle development into small teams that include engineering, marketing and design specialists headed by young, charismatic leaders who could better take advantage of G.M.'s brightest people. Kim Clark, a professor of business administration at Harvard University, said, "I have always been impressed that when you get into the guts of G.M., the people seated at drawing boards and design tubes, there is a tremendous base of talent."
Mr. Clark added, "G.M. must empower what I call a heavyweight team of people with absolute freedom," like the Ford Motor Company team that developed the Taurus and Sable, or the Chrysler team that designed the new and highly praised line of L/H midsize sedans.
Perhaps no single problem looms larger before Mr. Smith than G.M.'s relationship with the U.A.W. All of the Big Three auto makers have the same union contract for their assembly plants, but Ford, Chrysler and the Japanese companies with American plants buy a majority of components from outside suppliers, some that use nonunion labor. G.M., on the other hand, buys 70 percent of its parts from factories run by the company with higher-wage U.A.W. workers.
Mr. Katz, the labor relations expert from Cornell, said that either the company had "to work out a separate agreement for G.M. parts operations" that make them competitive with outside suppliers, or it had "to get rid of sizable pieces of G.M.'s parts subsidiaries."
Mr. Katz continued: "Mr. Smith must open the contract and deal with this as Chrysler did when it was in trouble. He has to convince the union he's really in trouble, and so they've got to find the solution together."
Tough prescriptions for G.M.'s survival would have sounded strange during its halcyon years in the 1950's and 1960's, when executives feared that the company's mammoth size and success would prompt the Government to order it broken up. But Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate and longtime G.M. critic, said he thought such a breakup may be the answer to G.M.'s troubles. He suggested that the company be carved into "four independent auto companies so there will be more competition, less bureaucracy, more creative energy and more shareholder value." He postulated one small-car company, two mid-size car companies and a large-car company.
 
 
Expectation of Action
 If Mr. Smith decides bold action is the answer, G.M.'s hidebound organization may finally be ready for it, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a professor of leadership studies at Emory University, said. "His predecessor's failure has been identified by all as caused by inaction, so there is an expectation now that rapid action will take place."
Yet Mr. Sonnenfeld counseled Mr. Smith not to immediately dismiss thousands of workers. "To start, what would be seen as sadistic cost-cutting would cause a revolt," he said. "He needs first to do something symbolic, like reorganize his own team. Later he can execute on a larger scale, with more confidence and justice."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (66%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (66%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (90%); WHOLESALERS (85%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P; SMITH, JOHN G (JACK); STEMPEL, ROBERT C; SMALE, JOHN G JOHN G (JACK) SMITH JR (93%); ROBERT C STEMPEL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



82 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Anger Over Income Tax Subsides

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Oct. 30

 BODY:
One year ago this month, 40,000 screaming Connecticut residents were drawn to the State Capitol to protest the state's new income tax, and many of them, in oaths and speeches, repeated a single simple line: 1992.
This was to be the year the voters would get even. 
 But despite the passion of a year ago, the income tax has not become a major issue in most legislative races. Most supporters of the tax seem unaffected by the threatened backlash.
People still talk about the tax and many still hate it, but politicians and residents in communities across the state say that the rage over the tax has become another victim of Connecticut's deepened recession.
 
Budget Surplus Helps
 "Anger has been supplanted by fear," said Senator John B. Larson, a Democrat from East Hartford who led the opposition to the income tax last year in the State Senate. He has told his constituents that the battle is over and that he would now oppose getting rid of the 4.5 percent tax because of the economic disruption it would cause. "The focus in state races is the economic slump," Mr. Larson said.
Politicians in both parties say that a riveting Presidential race also stole much of the spotlight from the tax issue, with Ross Perot in particular hammering away at the same themes that Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. did when he proposed changing Connecticut's tax law last year: the irresponsibility of running a budget on borrowing and red ink. Meanwhile, Connecticut ended its fiscal year on July 1 -- the first year with the income tax -- with its first budget surplus in five years.
Democrats, who controlled the Legislature during the tax fight and became most closely identified with the new law in the bitterest moments of the protests last year, now expect to retain control of both the state House and Senate.
The tax bill passed the House by a vote of 75 to 73 and passed the Senate by 19 to 18.
Party leaders said that Gov. Bill Clinton, the Democratic Presidential nominee who leads in the polls here, will attract more voters to the Democrat line than in past Presidential elections, and that they believe the tax issue, as a vehicle for Republican hopes, has fizzled.
 
Weicker's Popularity Up
 "The notion of an income tax was frightening, but the reality is only irritating," said Rep. Jonathan Pelto, a Democrat from Storrs and a deputy minority leader in the House of Representatives. "People do not like the income tax, but they've come to accept it."
In the most recent opinion poll on the tax, conducted in April by the University of Connecticut, 52 percent of residents said they either wanted the wage tax kept as it is or modified in some way.
Mr. Weicker, who proposed the tax and became its lightning rod, has also seen his popularity rebound, with 47 percent of residents rating his performance as good or excellent in the most recent poll in late August and early September, compared with 22 percent a year ago.
Certainly, there are races where the tax is a major issue, and there are still candidates who say the tax -- which generates about one-quarter of Connecticut's $8.2 billion budget -- can be repealed immediately, by slashing state spending. The State Republican Party chairman, Richard Foley Jr., also said he believed that the income tax was still the "No. 2 or 3 issue statewide," and that many tax-repeal candidates would be elected.
 
Opposition Has Splintered
 But other Republicans say the more revealing fact is that the anti-tax movement has splintered into varying shades of opposition that did not exist in the more black-or-white days after the law was passed.
Hard-liners want immediate repeal, while the more moderate position favors a phased-out repeal tied to spending cuts over three or four years. Some candidates say they would try repealing the tax, and if that failed would try to get the rate reduced for middle-class families.
In some races, the debate never materialized at all. Representative Paul J. Knierim, for example, a Republican from the Hartford suburb of Simsbury, opposed the tax and then helped in the unsuccessful effort to repeal it at the end of last year.
Six months ago, however, at the beginning of his race against two candidates who support the tax -- one Democrat and one member of a Connecticut Party, Mr. Weicker's fledgling third party -- Mr. Knierim said that repeal had become an impossible goal and that he would now vote to keep the law intact if the question ever came before him again.
"People see the income tax as the thing that put the budget in the black," Mr. Knierim said.
 
'A Growing Reasonableness'
 Other leaders of the anti-tax movement have dropped the language of repeal almost entirely and have run instead on promises to cut state spending and so perhaps eventually make the income tax smaller or more dispensable.
"There's a growing reasonableness," said Chris Powell, a Republican candidate for the Senate from Manchester, who opposed the tax last year, but also harshly criticized his own party for what he called the "fraudulent" alternatives to income tax that were put forward at the time. "I don't think too many candidates that I've seen have been absolutist -- repeal it now no matter how high the cost," he said.
Even ranking how much voters care about the tax has become problematic in some races. In Meriden, for example, the race for the local state House seat is another three-way affair, with two candidates for the tax and one against. "The income tax is still important," said the repeal candidate, James A. Tavegia, a Republican. "But it's sixth or seventh in priority."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite the passion of 40,000 screaming Connecticut residents protesting Connecticut's new income tax a year ago, above, the tax has not become a major issue in most legislative races. (Steve Miller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE SENATE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); TRENDS (64%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK JOHN LARSON (73%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



83 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Would Clinton Have to Fight Greenspan Over a Stimulus?

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton and Alan Greenspan have been circling each other warily for weeks now. If the Democratic nominee becomes the President-elect, they might start wrestling.
Then again, they might not.
Many people who make it their business to parse the Fed's every move see inevitable conflict between a Clinton drive to turbocharge the economy and the central bank's mandate to keep inflation in check. 
 They predict an interest rate increase soon after Inauguration Day. Pressures on a Democratic President for a stimulus package are expected to be intense, and Mr. Greenspan said as long ago as January, when President Bush proposed a modest collection of growth measures, that he thought such steps would do more harm than good.
But people familiar with the way both men operate find another sequence of events equally plausible.
Yes, a Clinton Administration would undoubtedly want to burst, not crawl, out of the starting blocks as far as economic growth is concerned. And yes, the Fed fears that the deficit spending that a short-term stimulus package would undoubtedly entail would drive up long-term interest rates, pushing down capital investment.
But Mr. Greenspan resembles Mr. Clinton in one crucial way: he much prefers consensus to confrontation. And so he might balk at raising rates soon after Inauguration Day, partly to avoid sparking a fight early on.
"On one hand, it will be a new Administration, and the Fed will feel fairly edgy, but on the other hand, they are all Republican appointees," said David A. Wyss, chief financial economist for DRI/McGraw-Hill, an economics consulting firm.
Another reason the Fed might forgo a winter increase is lethargic economic growth. Many analysts said the 2.7 percent increase in the gross domestic product reported last week could not be sustained. Some even say the central bank remains so worried about the economy's lackluster performance that it will cut rates one more time soon after Election Day, no matter who wins.
 
Arguments for Aiding Growth
 Indeed, the Fed's governors are known to believe that the economy remains weak in many areas, that inflation will remain subdued for two to three years and that households are still struggling to reduce their debt burdens.
Another consideration is that not cutting could backfire. "The longer the Fed waits to use monetary policy, the more it invites a greater fiscal response later on," said Henry Kaufman, who heads his own economics consulting firm in New York.
Mr. Kaufman argues that further cuts are needed to strengthen growth. And if the Fed lowered short-term rates today, that could help housing starts and tug downward on long-term rates.
But then again, forgoing a cut in rates now might make it easier for the governors to avoid raising them early next year.
One thing is certain: if Mr. Clinton is elected, monetary policy will no longer be the only economic policy-making game in town.
Another sure thing is that Mr. Greenspan, who was confirmed to a new four-year term as chairman as well as a full 14-year term on the Fed's seven-member board in March, will raise rates faster if a Clinton Administration enthusiastically embraces fiscal stimulus. The Fed, like the bond market, would have a stronger reaction to a $75 billion program than to a $35 billion one.
"I think the Fed will be treading water during the first six months of 1993," said David M. Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company. "But in the second half, when the effects of fiscal stimulus will begin to show up, then the prospect would be likely that they'll tighten."
 
Trying to Influence the Fed
 To keep the Fed from stepping on the monetary brakes, Mr. Clinton and his lieutenants would doubtless be working overtime in their first few months in office to persuade the Fed not to fret about stimulus because the economy is so lackluster. And if the governors dug in, then the Clinton Administration would probably borrow a page from President Bush's playbook and put pressure on them behind the scenes.
"An aggressive Administration, eager to get the economy going, normally puts pressure on the Fed to do their bidding," said Scott E. Pardee, a former Fed official who is chairman of Yamaichi International America.
For now, the Arkansas Governor and the Fed have both been paying close attention to the markets -- the politician because he wants to reassure them and the central bankers because they look closely at inflationary expectations to help determine how to jigger interest rates. And recently the prices of long bonds have fallen, partly because investors believe that Mr. Clinton will win and adopt more expansionary policies than President Bush.
Allan Meltzer, an economics professor at Carnegie-Mellon University, argues that the Fed should not hesitate to roll out the heavy artillery if it sees price stability under assault. Professor Meltzer, a well-known inflation hawk, said, "It would be the height of folly for the Fed, having paid the heavy cost of bringing inflation down, to run the risk that inflation be allowed to creep upward again."
Perhaps fearful of criticism that he is not serious about cutting the deficit, Governor Clinton has shied away from embracing fiscal stimulus. But his aides admit that if the economy is weak early next year, he may back stimulus, insisting that this would be tied to a stringent, long-term plan to cut the deficit.
The one high-profile statement Mr. Clinton has made about the central bank pleased Fed officials. During the first Presidential debate, on Oct. 11, he said, "Their policies so far, it seems to me, are pretty sound."
Noting that the Federal Reserve has cut rates two dozen times, Gene Sperling, economic issues coordinator for the Clinton campaign, said, Mr. Clinton "thinks there haven't been major problems with Federal Reserve policy."
"He feels the Fed is not at the heart of our economic problems," Mr. Sperling said.
Whether Mr. Clinton will still feel that way a year or two into a Presidential term is another question.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, who was confirmed in March to a new 4-year term as chairman of the Federal Reserve, and to a 14-year term on its board. (Marty Katz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRICES; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); GOVERNORS (59%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



84 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Hometowns Try To Help Airlines

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell

 BODY:
WHEN America West Airlines received $16 million in loans and other financial incentives from a group of private companies and public agencies in Arizona during August, that provided the green light for foreign investors to provide an additional $45 million in loans. The foreign investors had wanted to see signs of community support before opening their own wallets.
By the time the financial package was finally in place, America West, which has been in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings since June 1991, had a cash balance of about $40 million and was spending almost $100 million a month. 
 The bulk of the aid, $35 million, was pledged by GPA Group of Ireland, from which the carrier leases many aircraft, while Ansett, the Australian carrier that owns a small stake in America West, provided $10 million. But the $16 million that paved the way for the foreign investors was put together by a combination that included three Arizona banks, the state's professional football and basketball teams, Phoenix Newspapers Inc., the Dial Corporation and Phelps Dodge, plus the State of Arizona.
Together they lent the carrier $8 million, including $1 million from proceeds of Arizona's instant lottery game. In addition, several companies, including Motorola, the state's biggest employer, bought $8 million in prepaid tickets and said they would replenish the amount as it was used up.
While public and community help for airlines has not been uncommon, it has become much more visible in recent years -- probably because communities have increasingly felt the economic impact of one airline after another liquidating or being swallowed by bigger rivals.
Kiwi International Airlines, for example, which is based in Newark and started flying in September, received a $1.5 million loan guarantee from the New Jersey Economic Development Authority.
Northwest Airlines, with headquarters in Minnesota, provides its home state with some 18,000 jobs and $2 billion in wages, benefits and taxes. That economic impact helps explain why the carrier has received more than $800 million in cash and tax credits from Minnesota agencies.
When United Airlines decided a couple of years ago to build a $1 billion maintenance base, more than 90 communities vied to be chosen, a couple with incentive packages worth hundreds of millions of dollars. The winner was Indianapolis, which together with the State of Indiana offered $270 million in cash grants, said Dennis Rosebrough, director of public affairs for the Indianapolis Airport Authority. In return, he said, United agreed to provide 6,300 jobs.
The $1 million state loan to America West was granted by the Arizona Commerce and Economic Development Commission, established in 1989 to offer low-interest loans to new or expanding businesses.
"States go out of their way to chase smokestack industries, and we think it's more important to keep existing industries," said Bruce Sankey, director of communications and research for the Arizona Department of Commerce. "America West is crucial to Arizona's economic competitiveness because it supports 7,000 jobs directly, and businesses relocate here because of the wonderful, low-cost airline service."
A study published earlier this year by the Arizona State University college of business estimated that America West, with headquarters in Tempe, was responsible for a $3.4 billion infusion, direct and indirect, into the Arizona economy in 1990. It is responsible for about $100 million in purchases in Phoenix alone, said Shirley Richard, chairman of the Phoenix Chamber of Commerce. And it is the biggest employer based in Arizona. (Motorola has about 20,000 employees in Arizona, Mr. Sankey said, but its headquarters are in Schaumburg, Ill.)
The Phoenix Chamber, along with its counterparts in Tempe and Glendale, ruffled the feathers of some America West competitors with its campaign urging member companies to "Frequent Our Hometown Flier." As a result, USAir, Alaska Airlines and Trans World Airlines resigned from the chamber. An official of one of those carriers, who asked not to be identified, said, "There's a big difference between support for a hometown airline and all-out championing its cause."
Alphonse E. Frei, America West's chief financial officer, said the airline had recently negotiated a $72 million, two-year reduction in airplane rentals and leases and also negotiated $50 million in deferred payments for aircraft. Its cost-cutting plan involving the work force, fleet size and routes will save another $73 million, he said, adding, "We now have the financing in place to make it reasonably sure we'll make it through 1993."
Mr. Frei said the company was also considering an alliance with another carrier.
"Logic says that with four contestants for Continental, there's only going to be one winner," he said. "Since there's a clear desire on the part of international carriers to feed their points of entry into the United States, that leaves only T.W.A. and America West as merger possibilities. And with our financing, we expect to be in the better shape."
The most likely partner is Aeromexico, which is a bidder for Continental and with which America West already has some arrangements on marketing, code sharing and ground handling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (97%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA WEST AIRLINES; GPA GROUP PLC; ANSETT AIRLINES U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (84%); DIAL CORP (69%); PHOENIX NEWSPAPERS INC (69%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (65%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); KIWI INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES INC (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%); INDIANAPOLIS AIRPORT AUTHORITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA WEST AIRLINES; GPA GROUP PLC; ANSETT AIRLINES INDIANAPOLIS AIRPORT AUTHORITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARIZONA UNITED STATES (97%); ARIZONA, USA (97%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; CREDIT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (92%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); LOTTERIES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); BASKETBALL (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TAX LAW (62%); AIRPORT OPERATION (60%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (56%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



85 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Traders Wary of Growth Signals

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
There has been enough new economic data recently to suggest that it is time to wonder just how weak the economy is and how long it will stay that way. If these straws in the wind do portend some growth, then there may be trouble in the bond market.
"There is some anecdotal evidence to say there is some growth," one bond trader remarked last week. But the economy, he added, "is the last thing on the minds of investors right now, so that is why that could surprise them." 
 Referring to the October employment data to be released on Friday, the trader said, "if the number is strong this market will be blown away."
 
Rate Drop Assumed
 The conventional wisdom is that regardless of who is elected President tomorrow, the economic fundamentals of slow growth and low inflation will underpin the bond market for the immediate future. This means that even though interest rates have backed up in the last month, they will begin to come down again. The drop should be quicker after a victory for President Bush, but given the economy, the fall should be inevitable even with the uncertainty that would accompany a victory by Gov. Bill Clinton. There is no Perot victory in this forecast.
"I hate it, but I think there is some logic to the conventional wisdom," said Nicholas Sargen, the chief investment officer at Prudential's Global Fixed Income Advisers.
But some contrarian economic signals could mean enough change at the margin to shake the confidence in the certainty of the pro-bond, pro-lower- interest-rate outlook.
A sense of what might happen came Friday, when the market was surprised by the September report on new single-family home sales. Instead of rising to around 582,000 sales at an annual rate, as had been expected, they jumped to 617,000. But with a big revision, to 623,000, in the initially reported August rate of 570,000, the September figure was officially reported as a decrease.
But the market saw through the statistical quirk. Bond and note prices were down for the day, with the price of the 30-year bond falling 17/32 while the yield jumped to 7.62 percent.
 
Signs of Economic Growth
 Among other growth signals are these: an end of the decline in bank lending, which has been a central villain in the downturn; the leveling off of initial jobless claims to their lowest point in two years; talk of better-than-expected Christmas retail sales; a recent upturn in inventories, and the stronger-than-expected 2.7 percent growth in the nation's third-quarter gross domestic product.
Of the bank lending, some data show commercial and industrial loans up $7 billion in the last three weeks after falling $40 billion in the last two years. "There are a lot of indications this could have, including a firming of the economy," said Ken Safian, the president of Safian Investment Research in White Plains.
Initial unemployment claims rose by 8,000 in the week ending Oct. 17 to 375,000. But on the basis of a four-week moving average, claims are at their lowest level in two years.
Richard B. Hoey, chief economist at the Dreyfus Corporation, said retail stores could do well at Christmas. And he was not ready to dismiss the G.D.P.'s quarterly 2.7 percent growth as a one-time shot. "Domestically the economy is better off than it was two months ago," he said. But at the same time, the slowdown in Europe and elsewhere has cut into the American export sales which have been supporting the economy for some time.
Edward Yardeni, chief economist at C. J. Lawrence, said that if the upturn in inventories was voluntary it would produce a rise in credit demand.
When summed up, this list of little signals has pushed Mr. Yardeni and his colleagues at C. J. Lawrence to shift their outlook for the economy. "We still see little if any growth in the current quarter," he said in the firm's weekly newsletter. "But we no longer believe that all the risks are on the downside. We are willing to consider the possibility that economic activity might surprise us on the upside next year."
James S. Fralick, principal senior economist at Morgan Stanley & Company, sees another factor that could bolster the economy if Mr. Clinton wins.
"My sense is that after the first of the year the press is going to be more positive for Clinton and that we will have a pop in consumer confidence," he said. "With that pop there will be a spill over into production so I am expecting a pickup in activity."
And, he concluded, "I think that the pickup in activity together with the focus on the effect of the Clinton program on the budget deficit will push interest rates higher earlier next year."
 
Obstacles to Swift Recovery
 Not everyone supports this outlook. Elliott Platt, director of economic research at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, argued that the economy faces too many obstacles to grow beyond a range of 2 to 2.5 percent next year.
Among the problems he cited are the high vacancy rate in commercial real estate, which is bad for the construction industry; the continued decline in military spending; the low level of consumer confidence, which is hurting, among other things, auto sales; the spending restraints on state and local governments, and the slowdown of the economies in Europe and the rest of the world.
"I don't see that we are on a major move to a buoyant economy," he said.
But the bond market can be very sensitive to the slightest change, especially when it goes against expectations. So it would only take a few out-of-line economic reports -- not a thundering recovery -- to jar the market.
"Bond markets are vigilantes, and it is our role to be ahead of things," said Theresa Havel, director of fixed income at Neuberger & Berman, meaning that any unexpected development will be seized upon by traders and dealers. The paradox is that stronger-than-expected growth could eliminate the need for and worry about a Clinton stimulus program but still spook the bond market to higher interest rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RETAIL SALES (63%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



86 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK CITY MARATHON;
Given His Chance, And Lucky Charms, South African Wins

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
Willie Mtolo, a 28-year-old Zulu who works for a bank in Durban, South Africa, when he's not winning marathons, had his birthright carved onto his face with a tribal knife when he was only a year old. The scars still show, and he is proud of them.
But for so many years, Mtolo, who ran away with the New York City Marathon yesterday once he reached the hilly terrain of Central Park, was a victim of apartheid because of his heritage, and also because of the international sanctions against South Africa. 
 Mtolo, already stunted by the economics of apartheid, was born in a thatched hut in Natal, lived there with eight siblings, and ran to school each day because his father, a farmer, couldn't afford a bicycle.
He then found his running career jeopardized by that system's political fallout. Because of sanctions, Mtolo was barred from entering any marathon that did not take place within his country. The ban took a toll on his ambition and, assuming he'd never get a chance to prove himself against an elite international field, he all but retired in 1989.
 
'I Ran to Win'
 "I went down after that," Mtolo said. "I ran to win, but I wasn't running for the time." He had raced locally for $35 to $200 winner's checks in 120-degree heat, a setting that failed to incite him to challenge the record books. A letter he wrote to his sport's federation begging for an end to South Africa's exclusion from international marathons before he grew too old to win one went unanswered.
In 1992, with the end of South Africa's 32-year Olympic absence and 21-year ostracism from international meets, Mtolo began training for the Olympics, but the death of his father and a bout of flu during the trials kept him off the national team. So he refocused his 80 mile-per-week training runs on New York.
Mtolo entered this marathon field with the fastest time of any runner, but it was an old time: 2 hours 8 minutes 15 seconds for a second-place finish in the 1986 South African Championships. For that race, Mtolo wore a cache of local charms, a white necklace strung with ostrich-shells, and he was still wearing it yesterday when he ran and won his very first major international marathon. Mtolo said he intended to run New York in a maximum of 2:10 and to finish among the top five, but his 2:09:29 effort surpassed his expectations and earned him his seventh marathon victory in his last nine starts.
"When I catch the guy running in front, I couldn't believe it," he said.
 
A Victory and a Gift
 Mtolo won his first marathon outside of South Africa last June in the Netherlands, and bought for his family's potato farm a new tractor with his $2,500 winnings. Yesterday's victory, he said, probably changed his life, and his family's fortunes, forever. It was something he'd dreamed of, and plotted for, since the sanctions began loosening last year.
"But we didn't have enough time to prepare right for the Olympics this year," said Mtolo, who hopes to represent his country in the 1996 Games. So far, he said, he has noticed very little improvement in the training programs for South Africa's black athletes.
For the New York City Marathon, Mtolo trained himself, with a little strategic assistance from his manager, Ray deVries, and moral and culinary support from his fiancee.
 
At Home in the Hills
 He made his first visit to New York exactly a year ago. With the sanctions against South African runners still in effect, Mtolo scouted the course from a photography van. What he remembered most was the way the course escaped from the Upper East Side concrete into the swirling hills of Central Park. Mtolo, who scaled similar heights to finish second in the 55-mile Comrades Ultramarathon in South Africa in 1989, smiled at the sight of such hills smack in the middle of the biggest city he'd ever seen.
Central Park's terrain reminded him of home, and it was right there, as he and the front-runner, Andres Espinosa of Mexico, entered the park, that he surged ahead at the 23-mile mark.
"I told myself that I'm very strong on the hills, that no one else can go with me," said Mtolo. Earlier he had allowed Espinosa, the 1991 and 1992 runner-up, and Lameck Aguta of Kenya, like him a New York neophyte, to chug up First Avenue without him. "I knew the hills were coming, so I saved my energy for them, and when I get there and pass him I thought, 'Oh, the race is mine.' "
The runner's emotions veered from terror, as the race began and he faced a caliber of athletes who "scared" him, to an almost surreal calm by the time he was halfway home. "After halfway I thought maybe I can win, or if not first, I must be second," he said.
Just before Mtolo made the move that left Espinosa behind for good, he dug into his blue sweatband, grabbed a handful of his favorite glucose boosters, Leppin, and chewed one with relish.
He called them "magic," and that's how they worked. But the runner had also ingested another of his magic supplements the night before the race.
 
The New Diet for Runners
 Mtolo is Zulu to the core, so steadfast in his customs that he couldn't run the marathon on Sunday morning unless he'd eaten a traditional meal of phutu on Saturday night. This secret corn meal-based repast fueled the victory that earned Mtolo $20,000 for first place, a $30,000 bonus, and a $36,000 Mercedes, but it wasn't concocted without high drama.
"He almost burned the hotel down," said deVries. "But he can't run without his phutu."
Mtolo smuggled the corn meal, and a hot plate, into his suite at the Hilton. His cooking promptly set off the hotel's smoke detectors. Mtolo and his fiancee, Fikile Mhlungu, used towels to fan the smoke out the windows, unhitched the detectors, waited for the firefighters to leave, and then finished their meal in peace.
"It was worth it," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN BANK OF ATHENS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN EXPRESS AIRWAYS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN STEVEDORES LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BELTING LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BIAS METALS & PLASTICS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN PETROLEUM INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN RAIL COMMUTER CORP (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN FINE WORSTEDS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN MOTOR CORP LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN RESERVE BANK (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL LIFE ASSURANCE CO (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN CLOTHING INDUSTRIES (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN SUGAR ASSOCIATION (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN EAGLE INSURANCE CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN HOSIERY CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BANK NOTE CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRUGGISTS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN MICRO-ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN CUT GLASS MANUFACTURING PTY LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN NYLON SPINNERS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN PRESERVING LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BROADCASTING CORP (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRIED FRUIT CO-OPERATIVE LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN FORESTRY CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN TIOXIDE LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BREWERIES LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN CAP MANUFACTURERS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN FLOCK LTD (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RUNNING; NEW YORK CITY MARATHON; MARATHON RUNNING MARATHONS (93%); RUNNING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); INFLUENZA (50%); 

PERSON: FINN, ROBIN; MTOLO, WILLIE WILLIE MTOLO (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



87 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2873 words

HEADLINE: Major Races to Watch in Tomorrow's Elections in New York State

 BODY:

U.S. Senate
 
The Candidates
 
ROBERT ABRAMS, 54. Lawyer, State Attorney General since 1979. Elected Bronx Borough President, 1969. First won office as Assemblyman from the Bronx, 1965. Had raised about $5.4 million as of Oct. 15 and will spend all that and more.
 
ALFONSE M. D'AMATO, 55. Lawyer, United States Senator since 1981. Presiding Supervisor, Town of Hempstead, L.I., 1977-80; Supervisor, 1971-77; Receiver of Taxes, 1969-71. First office, Nassau County Public Administrator, 1965. Had raised $9.4 million as of Oct. 15 and will spend it all.
 
The Issues
The candidates have sharp differences on almost every important topic. Mr. D'Amato opposes abortion; Mr. Abrams is a longtime supporter of abortion rights. Mr. D'Amato supports the death penalty; Mr. Abrams opposes it. Mr. Abrams wants to cut $280 billion from the military budget over the next five years; Mr. D'Amato wants to cut $80 billion. Mr. D'Amato opposes national health insurance or any higher taxes; Mr. Abrams favors ending all private health insurance in favor of a Government plan backed by higher payroll and corporate taxes, and higher taxes on liquor and cigarettes.
 
Analysis:
Recent statewide polls have shown Mr. Abrams holding an edge, with a lead ranging from 3 to 11 points. But one-quarter or more of voters were undecided as of last week, so the race remains volatile. Mr. Abrams, a popular vote getter for years, should have a strong natural advantage, since registered Democrats outnumber Republicans about 3 to 2 in the state, Bill Clinton has a double-digit lead over President Bush and Mr. D'Amato's reputation has been tarnished by years of official inquiries into his ethical conduct in office. But Mr. D'Amato has shrewdly promoted his reputation as a "Senator Pothole" who gets things done, a rancorous Democratic primary left Mr. Abrams wounded and struggling to raise money and polls show much of the public unhappy with both candidates.
 
U.S. House of Representatives
 
3d DISTRICT: NASSAU COUNTY
 
The Candidates
 
PETER KING, 48, Republican. Served as Hempstead Councilman from 1978 to 1981 and has been Nassau County Comptroller since then. The public has long identified him as an opponent of abortion. He has taken part in demonstrations against abortion organized by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre.
 
STEPHEN A. ORLINS, 42, Democrat. A newcomer to the district making his first run for public office. He has spent the last two decades building a brokerage business, which he sold to Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. in 1985. He is now a consultant to American Express.
 
The District
The redrawn District has a population of 580,337, 91.7 percent white, with 150,000 registered Republicans, 87,000 Democrats 60,000 independents and a small percentage of voters divided between the Right to Life and Liberal parties. It stretches along the South Shore from East Rockaway through Long Beach, Merrick, Bellmore, Seaford, Massapequa, Farmingdale, Hicksville and north through Locust Valley, Brookville, Glen Cove and Glenwood Landing on the North Shore.
 
The Issues
Mr. Orlins, who strongly supports a woman's right to abortion, describes Mr. King as a zealot and extreme opponent of abortion. Mr. King describes Mr. Orlins as a carpetbagger who has lived in Manhattan for the last several years and rented a house in Manhasset this summer to run for Congress. Mr. Orlins says he grew up in the district and had his basic values formed there. Both candidates insist that the economy is the major issue. Mr. King says he blew the whistle on Nassau County's fiscal crisis. Mr. Orlins says Mr. King, as Comptroller, was part of the fiscal problem rather than part of the solution.
 
Analysis
While Republicans have held the district for the last 20 years with the repeated election of Representative Norman Lent, who decided not run again this year, the Democrats, riding a wave of anti-incumbency sentiment, have a strong chance. Although it is Mr. King's first race for Congress, he is seen by many voters in the district as part of the Republican establishment that has governed the county for several decades. Two other candidates are in the race and are expected to draw about equal votes from Mr. King and Mr. Orlins. Louis P. Roccanova, 27, is running on the Right to Life ticket, while Ben-Zion J. Heyman, 59, is on the Liberal Party line.
 
4TH DISTRICT: NASSAU COUNTY
 
The Candidates
 
DAVID A. LEVY, 38, Republican. A lawyer and former radio reporter, he is a member of the Hempstead Town Board and is also a staff political strategist and spokesman for the Nassau County Republican Committee.
 
PHIL SCHILIRO, 36, Democrat. A lawyer, he has spent more than 10 years in Washington as a staff aide to Democratic members of Congress. He is on leave from his job as chief aide to Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat and chairman of the House Health and Environment Subcommittee.
 
The District
The Fourth District was enlarged earlier this year to include most of what had been the Fifth Congressional District, and Raymond J. McGrath, a Republican who had represented the Fifth District for five terms, decided not to seek re-election in the new district.
The Fourth District covers roughly the southwestern two-thirds of Nassau County. Nearly 76 percent of its 580,338 residents are white, 14.3 percent are black and 7 percent are Hispanic. The district is wealthy, with a median household income of $52,000, compared with $32,965 for New York State. Registered Republicans outnumber Democrats, 147,000 to 87,000, with 52,000 Independents.
 
The Issues
Both candidates' positions conform roughly to those of their parties but reflect the moderate views on some social issues of a wealthy, well-educated and religiously diverse constituency. Mr. Levy, who opposes the use of Federal Medicaid funds for abortion, nonetheless rejects the official Republican Party position and supports a woman's right to an abortion during the first trimester of pregnancy. Mr. Schiliro describes himself as ardently "pro-choice," supports the use of Medicaid funds for abortion and is seeking to appeal to women by offering greater Federal involvement to combat the high incidence of breast cancer on Long Island. On economic issues, Mr. Levy favors a cut in capital-gains taxes and an income-tax credit for first-time home buyers. Mr. Schiliro supports more Federal funds for rebuilding the nation's infrastructure and for education.
 
Analysis:
No polls have been taken, but the race appears close. Both candidates are seeking national office for the first time, and voters must decide between professional politicians with sharply different backgrounds. Mr. Levy brings strong support from within the Nassau County Republican organization and years of experience dealing directly with voters in the Town of Hempstead. But his allegiance to the county's Republican establishment is criticized by many here -- including Mr. Schiliro -- who say Nassau has been dominated and hurt by its Republican machine.
Mr. Schiliro brings a decade of experience in Congress, where he has analyzed national policy on health and the environment. His campaign has raised much more money than Mr. Levy's, much of it from political-action committees outside Nassau. But Mr. Schiliro may be vulnerable because he has spent all of his adult life outside the district he hopes to represent, residing mainly in Washington and its suburbs, and returned to his family's home in Baldwin only last spring, when his campaign began.
 
13TH DISTRICT: BROOKLYN, STATEN ISLAND
 
The Candidates
 
SAL F. ALBANESE, 43, Democrat. City Councilman since 1982 representing a Brooklyn district that covers some of the most conservative neighborhoods in the city, including Bensonhurst, Dyker Heights and Bay Ridge, where he lives. Former public-school teacher whose family immigrated to Brooklyn from Italy when he was a child.
 
SUSAN MOLINARI, 34, REPUBLICAN. Former City Councilwoman and third generation of a well-known Staten Island political family. In 1990 she was elected to the seat that had been held by her father, Guy V. Molinari, now Staten Island Borough President. Known for her support of abortion rights. Lives in New Dorp, Staten Island.
 
The District
 The redrawn 13th District covers all of Staten Island and then zig-zags through southwest Brooklyn. The population is mostly white and nearly 1 in 3 voters are Republicans, making this district one of the most conservative in the city. Two-thirds of the electorate live in Staten Island, the rest in the mostly Italian, Irish and Greek neighborhoods of Brooklyn, including Bay Ridge, Bensonhurst, Fort Hamilton and Dyker Heights.
 
The Issues
 The candidates differ on who would best address voters' concerns about reducing the $5 toll on cars crossing the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge from Brooklyn to Staten Island, the Fresh Kills landfill, health care and the environment. They both support a woman's right to an abortion.
 
Analysis
 Ms. Molinari's Staten Island roots and her name recognition have afforded her the clear advantage in this race. But her strong ties to the Bush Administration and her status as an incumbent may pose problems. She faces stiff competition from Mr. Albanese, who has based his campaign on his record as a maverick on the City Council and his reputation for strong constituent service.
 A third-party candidate, Kathleen Murphy, 53, a lawyer running on the Right to Life line, describes herself as the "only true conservative" in the race and is expected to draw some voters from Ms. Molinari.

14TH DISTRICT: MANHATTAN, BROOKLYN, QUEENS
 
The Candidates
 
CAROLYN MALONEY, 44, Democrat. Worked as a public-school teacher, an administrator for the City Board of Education and an aide in the State Assembly and the State Senate before being elected to the City Council in 1982. Has served as chairwoman of the Contracts Committee for the last year.
 
BILL GREEN, 63, Republican. Former administrator of Region 2 of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development before being elected to the House of Representatives in 1978. Serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is one of the wealthiest members of the House.
 
The District
District 14 is known as the Silk Stocking District because it comprises some of the richest areas in Manhattan. It takes in a good chunk of the East Side, stretching from Grand Street north to 106th Street and also zigzags into the West Side. The lines were redrawn this year so that the district now includes the West Side from 89th to 103d Streets; Greenpoint, Brooklyn; Astoria, Queens, and Roosevelt Island. These areas tend to be heavily Democratic, and Democrats outnumber Republicans in the district 3 to 1.
 
The Issues
Mr. Green has a well-established reputation as a progressive Republican in the Jacob Javits mold, a persona perfectly suited to this area of monied Democrats, and in Congress he has tended to vote against the Administration more often than not. He and Ms. Maloney agree on most social issues, including abortion -- both support a woman's right to choose -- and gay rights, and both describe themselves as champions of the environment. Mr. Green disparages the City Council's work, saying that the Council has not been particularly effective, while Ms. Maloney has sought to cast her opponent as a big-spending tool of special interests who has sided with the Administration on economic matters harmful to the city.
 
Analysis
Mr. Green is extraordinarily popular in the district and has staved off heavyweight challenges in the past from the likes of Bella Abzug, Andrew J. Stein and Carter Burden. He is also outspending Ms. Maloney more than 3 to 1 in this race. But he faces several problems this year: a possible landslide by Gov. Bill Clinton in the district; Ms. Maloney's anti-incumbency, year-of-the-woman campaign, and new district lines that have added heavily Democratic neighborhoods, where Mr. Green has little name recognition, to the district.
 
18TH DISTRICT: WESTCHESTER COUNTY, BRONX, QUEENS
 
The Candidates
 
NITA M. LOWEY, 55, Democrat. A volunteer community advocate in such organizations as the Parent-Teacher Association until 1975, when she became an official of the New York State Department of State. Served as the state's Assistant Secretary of State from 1985 to 1987. First elected to Congress in 1988 when she unseated her current opponent, Joseph J. DioGuardi, a conservative Republican who served two terms in Congress, winning election in 1984 and 1986.
 
JOSEPH J. DIOGUARDI, 52, a certified public accountant and a former partner of Arthur Andersen and Company. Served two terms in Congress. Besides the Republican line, Mr. DioGuardi has the Conservative and Right to Life designations.
 
The District
Snaking through central Queens, parts of the Bronx and southern Westchester County, 43 percent of the voters in the 18th Congressional District are registered as Democrats and 32 percent as Republicans.
 
The Issues
The race, a classic battle between a liberal Democrat and a conservative Republican, has been portrayed by some as one of the sharpest ideological conflicts anywhere in the country this year.
Mrs. Lowey has described her opponent as a "far-right, radical, former failed member of Congress" and said that his stance against abortion made abortion rights "a defining issue" in the race.
Mr. DioGuardi portrayed Mrs. Lowey as a "100 percent certified public liberal," who has been anti-business and weak in her support of Israel.
 
Analysis
In the final days, the campaign, which had been marked throughout by harsh attacks by both candidates, became extremely bitter with each side accusing the other of ethics and campaign-finance violations. Although Mr. DioGuardi has said he doesn't expect Mrs. Lowey to benefit from the Democrats' enrollment edge, new lines for the district have brought in areas of the Bronx and Queens that traditionally have heavy Democratic turnouts.
 
New York State Senate
The elections for the 61 seats in the New York State Senate, where Republicans have been in the majority for the last 27 years, are marked by two overarching questions: Will the Democrats pick up the five seats they need to take control of the chamber? And even if they fail, will Ralph J. Marino, the majority leader and most powerful Republican in state government, be returning to Albany?
The odds would appear to favor the Republicans in each case, in part because they controlled the Senate redistricting this year and in part because the G.O.P. is way ahead in fund raising for the Senate races. But in a state where Democrats outnumber Republicans nearly 3 to 2 and where the Presidential ticket may draw a huge Democratic turnout, the sheer force of numbers could yield some upsets.
Mr. Marino is locked in a tough race in his Nassau-Suffolk district with James F. Gaughran, a Democrat whose campaign has been aided by a fierce anti-Marino advertising blitz by a conservative anti-tax group. Mr. Marino has poured money and campaign workers into the race, and his party holds a clear edge in registration in the district. But the race is still considered up in the air, in part because a large turnout for the Clinton-Gore ticket could give Mr. Gaughran a major boost.
Another race that could be especially close is in Queens, where redistricting has pitted two popular incumbents, Jeremy S. Weinstein, a Democrat, and Frank Padavan, a Republican, against each other, .
The Democrats are concentrating on several other districts where they say their challengers have a real shot at unseating Republican incumbents. Among the major challenges to Republican incumbents in the metropolitan region are:
-- District 6, Nassau County, where the incumbent, Kemp Hannon, is running against Barbara I. Amster, the Democratic challenger, a college professor.
-- District 7, Nassau County, where Senator Michael J. Tully Jr., faces Michael J. Siris, a lawyer.
-- District 38, Rockland and Orange counties, where Senator Joseph R. Holland is running against Diana Hess, a former utility executive.
 
The Ballot Question
 
Proposal 1: The Jobs for the New New York Bond Act
Voters in New York State will be asked whether they want to support the proposed jobs bond act, under which the state would borrow $800 million to invest in infrastructure projects like roads and sewer hookups, to create jobs and to attract businesses to the state.
 
Analysis
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo says the proposal would create more than 35,000 immediate jobs, mostly in construction, and result in 122,000 permanent ones when businesses were attracted to the state. His administration has released a list of more than 350 projects around the state that would be eligible for funding if the bond act passed.
Opponents of the plan say that with the state already carrying $24 billion in tax-supported debt, it can ill afford to take on $1.7 billion more (the cost of the bond issue plus interest). And they question its usefulness in creating long-term jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ABORTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); ETHICS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); REDISTRICTING (61%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); RELIGION (60%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (54%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



88 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SENATE RACE;
The Candidates on the Issues

 BODY:

Christopher J. Dodd
Democrat
 
ECONOMY AND TAXES: Favors a targeted capital-gains tgax cut aimed specifically at investments that would help create new jobs. Would seek to restore the provision making contributions to individual retirement accounts tax-deductible. Supported the plan to cut payroll taxes last year and put the Social Security system on a "pay as you go" basis.
 
HEALTH AND EDUCATION: Supports the Bentsen bill, which would make health insurance more affordable for small employers but would not impose major Government mandates. Favors a voucher system that would allow parents to choose among public schools. Supports voluntary prayer in the schools, but opposes a constitutional amendment guaranteeing it.
 
BORTION AND CIVIL RIGHTS: Supports abortion rights andopposes restrictions like parental notification for teenagers. Supports Medicaid funds for abortions for poor women. Opposes the military's policy of excluding homosexuals from active duty positions.
 
LAW AND ELECTIONS: Supports the death penalty for more than 50 Federal crimes. Favors the Brady bill, requiring a waiting period for gun purchases. Favors voluntary spending limits on Congressional campaigns, but opposes term limits.
 
MILITARY AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS: Believes troop strength in Europe could be reduced to 100,000, fewer that the 150,000 that President Bush has proposed. Opposes unilateral military intervention in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but believes the United States could play a role.
 
Brook Johnson
Republican
 
ECONOMY AND TAXES: Favors a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget and would seek a cut inthe capital-gains tax on returns from medium-and-long-term investments. Supports a budget cap tied to the rate of inflation, to reduce the Federal budget deficit over six years.
 
HEALTH AND EDUCATION: Favors making health insurance fully deductible for self-employed people, and a $3,750 tax credit on medical expenses for the uninsured. Favors President Bush's plan to give parents vouchers to choose among public and private schools.
 
ABORTION AND CIVIL RIGHTS: Supports abortion rights, andMedicaid funds for abortions, but favors parental notification for teen-agers, except in cases where the minors are from abusive homes. Opposes exclusion of homosexuals from military duty.
 
LAW AND ELECTION: Supports the Brady bill. Supports the death penalty. Would support mandatory minimum sentencing for crimes involving illegal firearms. Favors term limits for Senate and Congress and spending limitations for re-election campaigns.
 
MILITARY AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS
 
Supports the President's plan to reduce European troop strength to 150,000. Opposes military intervention in central Europe, but supports a humanitarian relief plan. Favors financial support to help Russia and other former Soviet republics convert tgo free market economies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) MEDICAID (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); GUN CONTROL (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); ABORTION (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (88%); TERM LIMITS (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); FIREARMS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); TAX RELIEF (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (77%); MEDICAID (76%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); INFLATION (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); ARMED FORCES (68%); SENTENCING (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); 

PERSON: DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); JOHNSON, BROOK CHRISTOPHER DODD (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



89 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
To Remember After E-Day

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Are you ready for the first pre-post-mortem of the '92 election? Here are some of the late hits and last-minute maneuvers that we can do without next time around.
1. Polling switches. The Gallup organization crossed the line from reporting to manipulating when it suddenly changed its methodology in the campaign's final week. Overnight, "likely voters" rather than "registered voters" became the basis for the closely watched percentages, instantly changing a six-point differential to a two-point gap. 
 If the Gallup organization, polling for CNN and USA Today, turns out to be right, other pollsters will henceforth weight their results on similar guesstimates of degrees of likelihood of respondents' actually voting. But the final-week switch in weighting misled a great many people into thinking the raw data was radically changed and a Bush bandwagon was rolling.
People who take and publish polls have an obligation to compare apples to apples, or to make a big, public point of it when switching the comparison to yesterday's oranges.
2. Campaign finance reform. Using the loose change in his own fortune, Ross Perot outspent the publicly financed candidates on television at the end by three or four to one. Not illegal; the Supreme Court has held it would infringe free speech to limit anybody's private spending. But it's not fair for any one candidate to use a huge financial advantage to dominate the airwaves and cables in the final stage of the campaign.
How to remove the inequity without limiting free speech? Require all candidates to file their spending plans 30 days in advance; then the Federal Election Commission could raise the publicly financed candidates' subsidy to match the private spenders. A billionaire would be restrained if he knew the others would charge him with forcing higher public spending.
3. F.B.I. dirty trick. After hearing the tall tales of Mr. Perot and his conspiracy consultant, the F.B.I. in Texas launched a "sting" to induce the head of George Bush's campaign in Texas -- a man who had shown no predisposition to wiretap, bug or dirty-trick anyone -- to commit a crime.
Incredibly, this entrapment was approved by the Director of the F.B.I., William Sessions, in Washington. He hotly defends his wrongful intrusion into political campaigns and threatens his readiness to tempt an honest official again when the next conspiracist points a finger.
Sunshine civil libertarians who shyly looked the other way when the F.B.I. used a sex lure to entrap the District of Columbia's mayor must now face the music: in the name of crime-prevention, the F.B.I. is in the business of crime-creation. With Mr. Bush's Attorney General in a personal war with Director Sessions, nobody can take the corrupt custodians into custody. Where is Senate Judiciary? Who will rid us of this power-abusive presumption of guilt?
4. Government statistics watch. A Hallowe'en "October surprise" to benefit the President was predicted here last summer; I suspected a strike at Saddam Hussein, with the bombers knocking over Qaddafi and Castro on the return home.
Instead, with the economy, stupid, the paramount issue, the final week of the campaign saw a surprisingly rosy estimate of the economy's third-quarter growth from Mr. Bush's Commerce Department. This provided some desperately needed ammunition to fire off a declaration that there won't be a triple dip.
In a month or so, we'll get the revised figures. If G.D.P. growth is 2.7 percent or higher, I will express chagrin at my lack of faith in the bureaucracy; if it's 2.2 percent or less, and Mr. Bush has won, suspicious souls will reach down there and demand an accounting of the projections.
5. Independent counsel restraint. In handing up his second indictment of Cap Weinberger, Judge Walsh supplied more evidence that blew away Bush protestations of having been out of the arms-for-hostages "loop."
Was Vice President Bush in the Casey-Poindexter ransom camp? Yes; his denials ring ever more false. Was the independent counsel right to drop this bombshell four days before the election? No; the indictment should have been handed up weeks earlier, or sealed -- special prosecutors should stay outside politics.
Those are for Wednesday. Meanwhile, there's Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) GALLUP ORGANIZATION (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GALLUP ORGANIZATION; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION; FINANCES; TELEVISION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ; IRAN-CONTRA AFFAIR; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); ENTRAPMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LITIGATION (74%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); CORRUPTION (70%); CONSPIRACY (70%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); APPROVALS (63%); WIRETAPPING (60%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (60%); CRIME PREVENTION (60%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (52%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (52%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); WEINBERGER, CASPAR GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



90 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Foul Words and False

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
My father was in the textile business. When I was perhaps 12 years old, he came home from the office one night looking stunned. He told my mother this story, and I listened.
Another man in the industry had made a bargain with him. That day my father discovered that the man had not carried out his promise. My father telephoned and asked him what had happened. He said: "So I lied." 
 It was not anger that I heard in my father's voice; it was bewilderment. He was an upright man, and it was beyond his understanding that someone would have no shame. "So I lied."
That childhood episode came back to me during the last days of President Bush's campaign. More than any incumbent President in memory he has been a candidate without shame. Lies, hate, vulgarity: Nothing has been too shameful for George Bush.
He referred to Bill Clinton and Al Gore as "these two bozos." Attacking Senator Gore's views on the environment, Mr. Bush called him "ozone man" and then just "ozone."
It is the name-calling of a child, a playground bully. Listening to such talk from the President of the United States, a young person said: "It makes me feel sad for America."
And the lies. I was in a New York taxi the other day when on a radio news broadcast there was Mr. Bush attacking something that he said Governor Clinton had proposed on increasing AIDS research. The taxi driver, amazed, exclaimed: "That isn't what Clinton said." I was not amazed. No one could be who has followed Mr. Bush's falsehoods in this campaign.
The lies are so shameless that they have buffaloed the press. Generally, campaign coverage has improved. The press has done more this year to watch out for deception, especially in political advertising. But reporters still have trouble confronting the President of the United States when he is untruthful.
Sam Donaldson of ABC News is not a shy person. But the other night, interviewing President Bush, he asked how Mr. Bush could blame Congress for spending too much when his own budget proposals over the years would have produced about the same spending levels. The President said that was not so. But it was exactly so. And Mr. Donaldson let him get away.
The big lie that has now been definitively exposed is Mr. Bush's repeated statement that as Vice President he did not know we were sending arms to Iran in exchange for hostages.
Several official sources, American and Israeli, had said that Mr. Bush was thoroughly informed -- indeed was a participant. Then came last week's clincher: the contemporaneous notes of Caspar Weinberger, then Secretary of Defense, showing that Mr. Bush favored the deal when a crucial White House meeting on Jan. 7, 1986, considered a proposal to sell 4,000 TOW missiles to Iran in return for the release of five American hostages.
(The Weinberger notes were disclosed in a court filing by the independent counsel on Iran-contra, Lawrence E. Walsh. It was a powerful example of the need for an independent counsel on such politically charged matters. No one would expect candid conduct of the case if Attorney General William Barr, who is busy covering up the Iraqgate scandal, were in charge of Iran-contra.)
George Bush's falsehoods have none of the justifications sometimes offered for lying. They are not white lies, to save hurt feelings. They are not lies to serve some great cause. They are only lies, small and large, to serve George Bush's ambition.
The foul words and falsehoods that have spewed from Mr. Bush in the last days of the campaign show us a man in a frenzy for something -- anything -- that might work. They show us a man without the inner values that restrain human conduct: a man without a core.
These last days have degraded the most important office in the country. They have made the Presidency a symbol of hate and division instead of unity and dignity.
The strange thing about the 1992 campaign is that the challenger has acted more like a President. Win or lose, Bill Clinton has campaigned with respect for the office. That may be why The Economist of London, a conservative magazine, concluded its lead editorial last week by saying that Mr. Clinton as President could "bring Americans, black and white, rich and poor, closer together. Despite the risks, the possibilities are worth pursuing. Our choice falls on him."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (63%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (74%); TEXTILES (73%); ETHICS (69%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (69%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (64%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (64%); HOSTAGE TAKING (60%); BUDGETS (60%); AIDS & HIV (52%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



91 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Pop and Jazz in Review

BYLINE: By ANN POWERS

 BODY:
Velocity Girl
CBGB
Lower East Side
The youngest school of tadpoles to start swimming up the alternative music scene is characterized by shyness and some fear of individuation. Produced in the bedrooms and basements of undergraduate white America, this gentle form of rock is typified by whispering vocals and sleepy rhythms. Call it rainy music, because it seems to dissolve the outside world and demand a moment of revery. Velocity Girl, from Washington, is an emerging talent on this scene, and in a C.M.J. showcase on Saturday night, the band demonstrated the streaks and limitations of this appealing musical style. 
 Weaving a chord of sonorous guitar and bass lines above the steady beat of drums, Velocity Girl jumped to its own amiable sound. Sarah Shannon, the singer, murmured difficult-to-decipher lyrics about longing and self-doubt in honey-soft tones popular among rainy-music vocals. A few of the songs moved to a more emphatic peak of guitar noise, but most stayed on the smooth ground of melancholy repetition. "It doesn't matter much if we live and die," she sang, but the message resonated not as despairing but as ethereal, as if Velocity Girl were more likely to simply float into the cloudy sky at any moment.
When she tried to sing with more power, her voice came off as strained, and the band's stabs at heavy noise seemed misdirected. Velocity Girl's strength is in tapping the seductive strain of music that also produces lullabies, aiming for sounds that charm. For a young generation already weary from an adulthood starting in a recession, Velocity Girl's rainy music is a comfortable haven, leaving room for wistful imagining without too many demands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: VELOCITY GIRL (MUSIC GROUP)

ORGANIZATION: VELOCITY GIRL (MUSIC GROUP)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS; CONCERTS AND RECITALS MUSIC (92%); MUSIC GENRES (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (72%); 

PERSON: POWERS, ANN SARAH SHANNON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992



92 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: European Suppliers of Iraq Were Known to Pentagon

BYLINE: By DEAN BAQUET with ELAINE SCIOLINO

 BODY:
Four months before President Bush signed a secret order encouraging closer relations with Iraq, the Defense Intelligence Agency provided rich details of the network of European companies President Saddam Hussein used to buy technology that could upset the balance of military power in the Mideast.
 A classified 1989 document illustrates how much information about Mr. Hussein's military ambitions and methods was available as the Administration was embarking on its policy of courting Iraq. It shows that United States intelligence knew that British tool-maker Matrix Churchill Corp., which had a branch in Solon, Ohio, played a major role in Iraq's weapons-buying program, yet did nothing to stop its operations. 
Mr. Hussein used the company to buy seemingly innocent technology and equipment, then converted it for use in building a homegrown weapons industry, law enforcement officials said.
 
Did One Agency Tell Another
 The existence and timing of the report raise the question of whether Mr. Hussein's arms-buying spree was aided by a lack of communication between United States intelligence agencies on the one hand, and export agencies and policy makers on the other.
 It is not clear whether this June 1989 report, written more than one year before Iraq invaded Kuwait, made its way to top policy makers within the Administration, or the agencies that control exports. One Pentagon official familiar with the report, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said it was the kind of document that would be widely circulated among senior Pentagon officials.
 If the report was passed on, it raises yet another question: In its pursuit of a closer relationship with Iraq, did Washington allow Iraqi-owned companies in the West to freely acquire weapons technology?
 Parts of the June 1989 report, as well as a classified Nov. 6, 1989, report by the C.I.A., were described in broad terms in a floor statement last summer by Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, the Texas Democrat, as evidence that the Government had information about Mr. Hussein's arms network.
 But other Administration and Government officials familiar with the report provided additional information about it, including the warnings about Mr. Hussein's growing power and aggressiveness.
 The Administration has repeatedly asserted that it did nothing to encourage Mr. Hussein's military buildup, and that Iraq acquired Western arms technology by lying about the purpose of equipment it bought.
 
An Intelligence Source
 But last week, documents made public in a trial in London revealed that the British Government knowingly allowed Matrix Churchill to buy arms-making equipment because two of the company's British executives were secretly informing it about Iraq's arms buildup. Rather than lose this source of intelligence, the British let the company buy equipment known to be destined to help Mr. Hussein build weapons.
 Following disclosure of the documents in London, the Senate Intelligence Committee asked Robert M. Gates, Director of Central Intelligence, what Washington intelligence agencies knew about the relationship between Matrix Churchill and the British Government. Among other things, the committee wanted to know whether American intelligence also allowed the company to buy equipment for Iraq.
 The report's warnings about Mr. Hussein mirror the criticism Democrats have leveled at the Bush Administration's policy toward Iraq. Though it is not known if the report was widely circulated, other evidence about Mr. Hussein's arms buildup was presented to President Bush and senior policy makers during a 1989 National Security Council meeting called to discuss whether economic and political incentives could be used to change Mr. Hussein's behavior.
 Richard J. Kerr, former Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, recalled that he told policy makers that Mr. Hussein had maintained his million-man army after the Iran-Iraq war and was already meddling with other countries in the region.
 "I tried to give the sense that this guy was dangerous, that he had not changed his spots," Mr. Kerr recalled in a recent interview. "I also said that he had ambitions and that he was going to be dangerous. I don't think his military buildup was ever an issue. No one ever disagreed that he was involved in these weapons programs."
 The report described more than a dozen companies in Western Europe as owned or controlled by Iraq. It said that during the latter part of the 1980-1988 war between Iran and Iraq, Matrix Churchill sold Iraq computerized lathes that were used to produce weapons, despite the company's assertion to British export authorities that they were machine tools intended for peaceful purposes. The report also linked the company's Ohio subsidiary to Mr. Hussein's arms network.
 The report said secret procurement networks could help developing countries such as Iraq acquire chemical and biological weapons and ballistic missiles. It added that such weapons in the hands of Iraq could pose a major threat to United States forces in the Middle East, and disrupt the balance of power in the region. It predicted that such secret networks would become more complex, hampering Western efforts to stop or limit the spread of military technology.
 In the months after the reports were written, Matrix Churchill continued to buy Western arms-building technology. Pentagon officials now acknowledge that its Ohio-based subsidiary helped Iraq purchase parts to make howitzers through a Virginia-based supply company.
 In addition to Matrix Churchill's Ohio operation, the report also portrayed at least one other United States-based businessman, Anees Mansour Wadi, an Iraqi national with a mansion in Beverly Hills, Calif., as integral to Mr. Hussein's arms-buying network in the West.
 The June 1989 document identified Mr. Wadi as head of a British company the report said was buying ballistic missile technology for Iraq. The report said Iraq gained control of the firm between late 1987 and late 1988 and identified its ultimate master as Hussein Kamel al-Majid, Mr. Hussein's son-in-law and the man charged with supervising Iraq's arms buying network.
 The Treasury Department seized the assets of Mr. Wadi's United States company, called Bay Industries, Inc., after Iraq's August 1990 invasion of Kuwait. Nonetheless, the Government has given Mr. Wadi permission to draw up to $12,000 a month from his assets for living expenses.
 Mr. Wadi's lawyers have said he is innocent of any crime, and has been financially devastated by the Government action.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CUQ (TSX) (83%); ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (83%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (83%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: MATRIX CHURCHILL CORP CHURCHILL CORP (83%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MATRIX CHURCHILL CORP DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KUWAIT (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; DISCLOSURE OF
INFORMATION MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); MACHINE TOOLS (75%); EXPORT CONTROLS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (54%); 

PERSON: BAQUET, DEAN; SCIOLINO, ELAINE; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1992



93 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Slovaks Finish Much-Criticized Dam on Danube

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRATISLAVA, Czechoslovakia, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Bucking a storm of criticism and threats from several nations, the Slovak republic is digging in to defend its nationalistic energy policy -- a policy that has diverted the Danube River and has apparently preserved two large nuclear reactors that many Western experts say should be dismantled.
As Hungary reviles Slovakia in terms that once might have started a war, Slovak officials stand firm. 
 Julius Binder, director of the Slovak water enterprise that has just completed a vast dam on the Danube at Gabcikovo, is particularly harried.
"I've had phone calls from five government ministers this morning, and we're trying to deal with a case of sabotage that happened two days ago," he said. "And it's not even 9 A.M. yet.
"Right is on our side, and we intend to stand fast."
 
Problem No. 1
 Slovakia is not yet sovereign; representatives of the Czech and Slovak republics have agreed that the federation will split on Jan. 1. But the republics' governments in Prague and Bratislava are already rushing to complete the details of their divorce.
Perhaps the thorniest international problem that Slovakia faces stems from its determination to generate as much electricity as possible, both for domestic industry and to export to Western Europe. Much poorer than the Czech republic in almost all ways, Slovakia faces an uphill battle for economic survival, and the sale of electricity is crucial.
More than half of Slovakia's electricity is generated by its huge nuclear complex at Jaslovske Bohunice, where four Soviet-designed plants turn out 440 megawatts each. The Gabcikovo dam, which sent its first brief jolt of power into Slovakia's grid in October, will generate some 720 megawatts.
 
The Criticism
 Hungary is determined to fight the dam tooth and claw, despite the fact that when the project began in 1977, Hungary was an equal partner.
When opponents of Hungary's former Communist Government came to power in 1989, they announced plans to end the Gabcikovo project, which many Hungarians had come to regard as a symbol of high-handed Communist rule and Soviet domination.
Since 1989, Hungary has been joined by several international environmental groups that say the dam will destroy wildlife, flood valuable land and damage one of Europe's largest underground water supplies. Nations downstream worry that a reduction in the flow of the Danube will disrupt river transport.
Many Western nations take an equally dim view of Slovakia's nuclear power program.
Two of the plants at Bohunice are relatively new and are regarded by Western experts as fairly safe, despite their lack of sealed enclosures capable of confining radioactive material during an accident. But the other two, one of which began operating two decades ago, lack even a substitute for such containment and have many other deficiencies.
Ivan Selin, director of the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission, has visited Bohunice, and he said in a recent interview: "The old reactors really look Stalinist, old-fashioned and dirty. It's a sloppy place."
Experts of the European Community generally agree with Dr. Selin, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has made credit to Slovakia conditional on closing down the old reactors, known as VVER-440/230's.
But Bohunice's director, Robert Gunis, said in an interview that Slovakia not only intended to continue operating the old pressurized-water reactors, but was also seeking Western expertise and credits to modernize them.
"Several companies are bidding for the job," said Dobroslav Dobak, the assistant plant manager, "but frankly the Westinghouse Company looks rather good to us. They're putting together a plan that would not make closing down those reactors a condition, and we like that."
 
Focus on Security
 An extensive tour of Bohunice disclosed antiquated video monitors and worn computer keyboards (with Cyrillic letters) in the main control room, a bank of old-fashioned Soviet electrical relays in the fire-control station and other aging equipment. But the turbine and reactor halls looked much like their Western counterparts (except for the absence of containments), and elaborate safeguards to protect the 2,800 workers from radioactive contamination.
A new double apron of electrified fence was being installed, and soldiers with submachine guns patrolled the plant's perimeter, alert against nuclear terrorists or other threats.
The importance of security was shown in late October at the Gabcikovo dam: as the finishing touches were put on the huge project, someone broke into the electronic system controlling the brand-new locks and destroyed two vital circuit boards, Mr. Binder, the water-resources director, said.
 
Who Was the Saboteur?
 "Temporarily, we were unable to operate the locks, and because the water was rising, we had to turn on one of the dam's turbines for a while, although we had agreed not to run the turbines until November, after concluding the international discussions," Mr. Binder said.
"But despite the sabotage, we were able to control the locks manually, and we shut down the turbine after just a brief run," he said. Mr. Binder declined to speculate who the saboteur might have been.
Whatever assaults it may face, the giant dam is finished, and ships traveling from the mouth of the Rhine at Rotterdam will soon move through its two locks on the way to the Black Sea. A huge new lake is spreading behind the dam.
Hungarian insistence on demolishing the dam notwithstanding, it would take a nuclear bomb to remove it, and the filthy, olive-drab Danube is already flowing through its new channel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Desperate to raise income through the sale of electricity, the Slovak republic is moving ahead with an energy policy that includes a vast dam on the Danube River in Gabcikovo near Bratislava. A bulldozer operator received directions from a worker along the river's edge. (Reuters)
 
Map of Czechoslovakia showing location of Bratislava.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SLOVAKIA (99%); HUNGARY (95%); EUROPE (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (56%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SLOVAKIA (CZECHOSLOVAKIA); HUNGARY; CZECHOSLOVAKIA; DANUBE RIVER; GABCIKOVO (CZECHOSLOVAKIA); JASLOVSKE BOHUNICE (CZECHOSLOVAKIA) SLOVAKIA (99%); HUNGARY (95%); EUROPE (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (56%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WATER; DAMS AND DIKES; ATOMIC ENERGY PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); MARINE SHIPPING (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); WILDLIFE (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



94 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: New York Democrats' Hopes Tied to Clinton Coattail Effect

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

 BODY:
Democratic candidates labored furiously yesterday to capitalize on the strong victory they expect Gov. Bill Clinton to capture today in New York State, while Republicans in a variety of races worked just as hard to avoid being swept away in a local Democratic landslide.
From a United States Senate race that has become the costliest and possibly the nastiest in the nation, to the struggle for control of the State Legislature in Albany, the Democrats' expected strong showing at the top of the ticket was having a marked impact on campaigns all the way down the ballot. 
 State Attorney General Robert Abrams, the Democratic candidate for the Senate, and his Republican opponent, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, both stumped the state in last-minute drives for votes. [Articles, page B1.]
Mr. Abrams cast himself as an inexorable part of the Clinton-Gore team that he believes should go to Washington. Mr. D'Amato played down the effects on his campaign of a possible Clinton victory in New York and assured voters that it was fine to vote for the Democratic Presidential nominee and then for him.
In recent days, he has even put a Democrat, former Mayor Edward I. Koch of New York City, on radio commercials to say, "I'm voting for Bill Clinton and Al D'Amato."
The Republican flight from the Bush-Quayle ticket was also evident in a New York City race for Congress, where Representative Bill Green, a Manhattan Republican, ran television commercials that flash a newspaper endorsement of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Abrams, both Democrats, and then of himself.
 
Legislative Races
 And Democrats were hoping that their strength at the top of the ticket might extend to state legislative races, where they are looking for the five victories they need to take back control of the 61-member State Senate. Several Democratic Senate candidates, aiming for a long stretch of Mr. Clinton's coattails, have distributed literature linking themselves to the Clinton-Gore ticket.
The Democrats swept to control of the State Assembly in the anti-Republican, Watergate-inspired year of 1974, but they still face an uphill climb in the State Senate this year. The Republicans, who have controlled that chamber for the last 27 years, drew districts to their advantage during this year's reapportionment and have poured money and workers into races where their incumbents, including the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino of Oyster Bay, L.I., are seen as at all vulnerable.
At an upstate airport campaign stop in Broome County, Mr. D'Amato was asked whether a Clinton victory in New York today would help Mr. Abrams win the race for Senate. "I don't think so," Mr. D'Amato replied. "Here in New York, we have some sophisticated voters who are not afraid to split the ticket. We're going to win it in upstate New York."
After years of relatively low voter turnout, intense interest in the Presidential race has fueled a surge in voter registration in New York, although few analysts expect it to result in a turnout rivaling the modern-day record of 75 percent in the 1960 Presidential election won by John F. Kennedy.
The State Board of Elections announced yesterday that 9,193,391 New Yorkers were registered to vote, just 14,000 below the record set in 1972, the year after 18-year-olds where first allowed to register.
More than a million New Yorkers have signed up to vote in the last four months, clearly one of the largest short-term increases in state history, the board said. It could not provide a breakdown at this point of how many of the new registrants were Democrats, who have long outnumbered Republicans by roughly three to two in New York, but it noted that more than 50 percent of the new registrants were in heavily Democratic New York City.
Still, it is far simpler to register to vote than to actually go to the polls, and many analysts said it was difficult to provide a reliable estimate of the number of voters who will turn out today.
 
Showers in Forecast
 One of the classic vagaries behind voting patterns, of course, is the weather, and it is not expected to be nice, at least in the early part of the day: forecasters predicted some showers and temperatures in the low 50's across most of New York State.
And even as politicians were predicting a heavy Democratic turnout for the Presidential race, there were some indications in polls and interviews with voters in recent days that voter disgust with the tenor of the United States Senate campaign in New York could cause more than the usual drop-off in voting from the top of the ticket.
Typically, 6 or 7 percent of the electorate cast a Presidential vote and then skip a Senate race or other statewide contest on the ballot, said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion. But he said that this year his polling indicated the drop-off could be larger.
As if to dramatize the potential closeness of the Senate race, Mr. Abrams plans to continue campaigning on Election Day, driving to Port Washington, L.I., at 6 A.M. and taking a commuter train back. He then planned to continue campaigning in the city throughout the day. "We want to get every last vote," he said.
 
Cuomo Supporting Bond Act
 Aside from the wide range of political races, the Democratic effort to turn out the vote also focused on a proposition on the ballot: the $800 million Jobs for the New, New York Bond Act, which would use public borrowing to create thousands of jobs with infrastructure and repair projects.
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, for whom the bond act is the centerpiece of his program to help New York out of the recession, campaigned for it on Long Island and at a Manhattan construction site even as he continued to fight off a touch of the flu. The Democratic Governor has had to contend with heavy opposition from conservative groups and from State Comptroller Edward V. Regan, a Republican, who have warned that the bond act will add unacceptably to the state's debt.
The overall get-out-the-vote drive included saturation of the airwaves with commercials, especially for Mr. D'Amato and Mr. Abrams, who together will have spent about $15 million on their race, as well as the more traditional telephone appeals to voters from squads of party employees and volunteers. For the Democrats, the phone effort was bolstered with similar efforts by large Democratic-leaning labor groups.
 
A Telephone Message
 The telephone calls in recent weeks by both parties appear to have totaled in the hundreds of thousands, although not all of them have provided accurate voting information.
For instance, a couple on the Upper West Side, Joan Coyne and Charles Benda, said they had received a message on their answering machine urging them to vote for the Democratic slate, including City Councilwoman Carolyn B. Maloney, who is running for Congress. But the Democratic Congressional candidate in their district is actually Jerrold Nadler.
Even with the strenuous efforts made by both major parties to get out the vote, interviews with several voters in New York City and the suburbs in recent days suggested that in many races, most particularly the Senate contest, voters are still struggling with considerable uncertainty and unhappiness over the tone of the campaigning.
 
Troubled by Senate Race
 Dolores Anderson, who has lived in Springfield Gardens, Queens, for the last 28 years, said she was definitely voting for Mr. Clinton but was troubled by the Democratic nominee for Senate, Mr. Abrams. "That's the only one that's hard," she said. "I never vote Republican, but I am not going to leave it blank, so I guess I'll go with D'Amato. A lot of people are saying they are going to leave that one blank."
Everton Rogers of Harlem, a custodian for the Postal Service, said he was motivated most of all to vote for a local Assembly candidate, Keith Wright, who has plastered the Harlem area with posters urging voters to "Do the Right Thing." But, said Mr. Rogers, "I'm none too thrilled with any of the national guys," meaning both the Presidential and Senate candidates.
 
A Sax-Playing Supporter
 And while many people could be found sporting buttons on behalf of a candidate, the most unusual election-time garb in Central Park probably belonged to 34-year-old Frank Greco of Manhattan, who was roller skating through the park in a black jump suit with the single word "Vote" stenciled across his back.
As he skated, Mr. Greco, a restuarant maitre d', held a saxophone aloft, playing a John Coltrane version of "My Favorite Things" and a lot of other songs. But even though he is a Clinton supporter and his act evoked the Arkansas Governor's famed sax-playing appearance on "The Arsenio Hall Show," Mr. Greco said he was more interested in encouraging people to vote than in specifically encouraging them to vote Democratic.
"I'm just doing this on my own," said Mr. Greco. "We have to express ourselves, and voting is a form of self-expression."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alexander Ovan, a 95-year-old patient at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, filling out an absentee ballot yesterday. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY; SENATE (US) ; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); STATE SENATE (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY; SENATE (US) ; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) STATE SENATE (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REGISTRATION OF VOTERS; LEGISLATURES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REDISTRICTING (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); RADIO ADVERTISING (66%); 

PERSON: KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR); ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ; VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; GREEN, BILL (REPR) BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



95 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: News Analysis;
Year of Political Changes
Voters Impose Discipline on the Candidates As Perot Finds a New Way of Campaigning

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
There was a common complaint after the 1988 election, a sense that for all the maneuvering, all the nastiness, all the millions of dollars and hours of television time, surprisingly little actually happened. The campaigns rarely dealt with the big issues of the day and never carried the country very far beyond the politics of the 1980's.
This is not a complaint likely to be heard about the election of 1992. From the New Hampshire primary on, the voters provided a merciless reality check on the candidates; those who strayed from the economy for very long were quickly punished. 
 The parties themselves were forced to adjust to a political world remade by the collapse of Communism and the demanding new focus on domestic needs. And the process of campaigning itself was transformed, turning talk shows into primaries, allowing a Ross Perot to burst full blown on the scene while the political professionals were off analyzing caucus returns.
This was a big, sweeping, utterly serious campaign that left little in its path unchanged. It certainly changed the Democrats, who seemed rudderless and destined to lose their fourth consecutive Presidential election just 16 months ago.
Whether or not Gov. Bill Clinton wins today, his campaign represents what his party has been struggling toward for years: a more mainstream image, a reconnection with the middle class through economic issues, an attempt to lay to rest the perception that the Democrats spoke only for a collection of constituent groups, from labor to minorities.
"Clinton has gotten across the point that we are a party of growth and not redistribution," argued Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House Majority Leader. Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat, added: "Bill Clinton understood the need to focus on the electorate as a whole and not our own ideological core. And he was not afraid to say to the most ideologically left of our party, I'm sorry, but you cannot have a veto over everything I say because then I will lose."
Of course, for this redefinition of the Democrats to stick, Mr. Clinton not only has to win, he has to govern the way he so often campaigned, as a "different Democrat" willing to say no and buck the orthodoxy of his party's past. This, many analysts agree, would be much harder, particularly since he would face enormous expectations from all the core Democratic constituencies that have been out of power for so long.
This was a transforming year, as well, for the Republicans, who once seemed headed for another businesslike re-election campaign complemented by heroic pictures from the war in the Persian Gulf. Instead, they were torn by the kind of divisions more typical of the Democrats.
Whether or not President Bush wins today, his party faces the formidable task of resolving the tensions between the religious right and the centrist Republicans that erupted with a vengeance this year. The cadre of Republicans who hope to follow in Mr. Bush's footsteps will have to redefine their party for an era that seems to demand a more activist Federal Government, and that seems increasingly in conflict with the party's position on such social issues as abortion.
One image seemed to capture the Republicans' stunning turnabout in this election year: Brent Scowcroft, who helped devise the foreign policy that was expected to be Bush's ticket to a second term, watching sadly from a railroad siding in a small North Carolina town while his boss struggled to defend his record on the economy and warn a group of townspeople that Mr. Clinton would do much worse.
"There's a million little groups planning to meet after the election to soul-search," said one Republican strategist close to the Administration. "And I think there needs to be one. We need fresh thinking on a variety of issues."
Few pundits (or political reporters) predicted this upheaval back in 1991, but the voters seemed to have a general shake-up in mind from the moment they entered the picture in the primaries. Former Senator Paul E. Tsongas tapped into it, and so did former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr.; both men gave Mr. Clinton a fight for the right to be the agent of change.
Patrick J. Buchanan's embarrassing challenge to Mr. Bush was egged on by the voters of New Hampshire, who set the tone for this campaign: they wanted to hear about the economy, and they wanted to hear it in detail. They felt that somehow the nation was unequipped for the new economic competition after the cold war, and they were very, very angry at Washington.
But it was Ross Perot who pushed the envelope.
 
Parallel Political Universe
 Mr. Perot helped chart the existence of a parallel universe in political campaigns: Larry King, Phil Donahue, infomercials, morning talk. Other politicians had discovered those forums before, but none used them as Mr. Perot did, as an alternative to the normal round of primaries, political meetings, conventions.
Political scientists predicted that he would fade, as independent and third-party candidates usually do. His support did show signs of flagging in recent days after his remarkable accusations on the CBS News program "60 Minutes" about Republican dirty tricks. And Nelson Polsby, a political scientist at the University of California at Berkeley, argues that Mr. Perot's legacy will be far less significant than that of George Wallace and his 1968 campaign.
But Mr. Perot exposed the limits and the vulnerabilities of conventional politicians in an angry time, when the parties often seemed to be racing to keep up with the voters, when partisanship itself often seemed an outdated concept. And Kevin Phillips, the conservative analyst, said today: "I can't imagine that Ross Perot is just going to go away. And he could be a very big force in some of these states."
If the traditional parties learned anything this year, they learned not to put too much faith in predictions that the status quo would soon reassert itself. It is a rough, new and brutally competitive world out there, and the voters seem intent on keeping it that way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: An Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; TELEVISION; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); VETO (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



96 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Democrats;
CLINTON AND BUSH IN A SPRINT AS RACE FOR WHITE HOUSE ENDS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KELLY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PADUCAH, Ky., Nov. 2

 BODY:
On the last lap of a Presidential race notable for its hard, harsh language, Gov. Bill Clinton took the high-minded tone of a man ahead in the polls, avoiding the mention of George Bush's name to focus on promises of better times.
Winging around the country in 30 hours of ceaseless campaigning, Mr. Clinton made a final, grueling effort to generate a high turnout at the polls with a 4,106-mile trip, from the East Coast to western Texas. For this last push, he chose to touch down for brief airport appearances in nine states, ending at home in Arkansas on Tuesday morning. 
 His voice a rough-edged ruin after a week of 18-hour days and relentless schedule of speeches, the Democratic Presidential nominee limited himself to the bare essential of his pitch, the lure of change.
 
Of Hope and Fear
 "Never forget, never forget on this last day what this fight has been about," he said in Philadelphia, "a fight between hope and fear, a fight between division and unity, a fight between blame and taking responsibility for ourselves and our future, a fight between comfort in the status quo and the courage to embrace new ideas, a fight between those of us who are determined not to see our children grow up to be the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents and those who say, 'Well, things could be worse.' "
The Clinton campaign also suffused two election-eve commercials and a half-hour televised program with its message of optimism. "Something's happening out there," one advertisement said. "A feeling -- call it hope -- that our country can move in a new direction."
The half-hour program, shown on the three major networks, featured pictures from the Clinton-Gore bus tour and, trying to win over independents and wavering Republicans, again declared the running mates to be New Democrats, not the tax-and-spend liberals of old.
It was left to Mr. Clinton's running mate, Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, to assail Mr. Bush. On his own seven-state marathon, Mr. Gore attacked Mr. Bush with lines like: "All George Bush has is a thousand points of blame. He just wants to blame everyone else."
Although Mr. Clinton was clearly tired today -- he slept on at least one of the 10 flights scheduled between 8:55 this morning and 11:00 A.M. Tuesday, an unfinished crossword puzzle lying in his lap -- he appeared relaxed and happy, and his tour had something of the air of a premature victory lap.
Smiling Democratic officeholders and candidates accompanied Mr. Clinton on every platform, and the Democratic National Chairman, Ronald H. Brown, flew along. The mood of the crowds was notably expectant and imbued with a happy optimism that Democrats have rarely known in recent Presidential elections.
Those who introduced the candidate talked of him as the next President.
"After Nov. 3, Missourians will have a President who knows what Missourians need, because that President will be Bill Clinton," said Hillary Clinton, who accompanied her husband on the trip, as she introduced him in St. Louis.
Even Mr. Clinton, who generally treats such talk as a jinx, allowed himself a note of mild presumption.
"I have almost lost my voice trying to give you your country back, but tomorrow, you will be my voice, and then I'll be yours for four more years," he said to a crowd of about 1,000 in a hangar at the Lambert-St. Louis International Airport, under a large digital clock set to read "01, 1992."
 
Clinton's Lead in Poll
 New poll results bore out Mr. Clinton's confidence. A New York Times/ CBS News Poll taken Thursday through Sunday with 2,248 registered voters showed Mr. Clinton supported by 44 percent of the probable electorate, while 35 percent favored Mr. Bush, 15 percent were for Mr. Perot, and 6 percent were undecided. That 9-point advantage for Mr. Clinton across the four days of the poll was composed of an 8-point lead in the interviewing conducted Thursday and Friday and an 11-point lead in the interviewing done on Saturday and Sunday. The combined results had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus two percentage points.
Of the states Mr. Clinton chose to visit with his three-jetliner entourage, polls suggested he was well ahead of Mr. Bush in Pennsylvania, Missouri, Colorado and Arkansas. In Michigan, Kentucky, and New Mexico, he was leading. In Texas and Ohio, the polls indicated the race could go either way.
Historically, Republicans turn out a higher percentage of their voters on Election Day, and it was in hopes of diminishing this differential that Mr. Clinton visited these contested states.
At every stop, Mr. Clinton urged his audience to vote on Tuesday. "Tomorrow, you will be as powerful as the President, as powerful as any billionaire, as powerful as any candidate," Mr. Clinton told more than 1,000 people who gathered here in Paducah, a small city in the tobacco-farming country of western Kentucky. "Your vote counts."
It was a day spent among the faithful, preaching to the choir. The relatively small crowds that greeted Mr. Clinton in Philadelphia, Cleveland, suburban Detroit and St. Louis were largely composed of local Democratic volunteers and union workers.
Away from the rallies, he told reporters: "We've got to keep going to the end. I want a big turnout. It's supposed to rain on the East Coast tomorrow. I want them to vote in the rain. One last stab at trickle-down economics if it rains on them tomorrow."
Mr. Clinton began the day at Mayfair Diner in a working-class neighborhood in Northeast Philadelphia where John F. Kennedy spoke on his final campaign swing of 1960.
"You know, tomorrow the great mystery of democracy will be played out again and all of you, and all of America can go into the quiet of the voting booth where your voice counts just as much as mine or Mr. Bush's or anyone else's in America," the candidate told several hundred people in the diner's parking lot.
Mr. Clinton waged a tireless and remarkably intimate campaign by the standards of Presidential general elections, as if he believed the margin of victory would lie in the number of voters he spoke to individually, or shook hands with.
The last day on the trail followed the same pattern. It was, in an odd way, an intimate day. The crowds were small, and in small areas, close to the candidate. The gray and rainy skies that accompanied the Democrats all day lent a cloistered air to the rallies. There were the moments of poignant connection. Mr. Clinton, who has something close to perfect political pitch, seemed to pick up and echo the tone of the day early, in the grace note with which he ended his first brief address of the day, in Philadelphia. "Goodbye," he said, his voice trailing off. "I love you."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton covered several thousand miles each in their final day of campaigning. Mr. Bush spoke early yesterday morning in Madison, N.J.; Mr. Clinton greeted a crowd in Philadelphia. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times; Reuters) (pg. A1); Supporters of Gov. Bill Clinton attending a rally yesterday in Burke Lakefront Airport in Cleveland during Mr. Clinton's 4,106-mile trip. (Lee Romero/The New York Times) (pg. A12)
 
Charts/Maps: "What's at Stake Today" shows elections natiowide both Congressional and gubernatorial; "The Vote for President, 1988" shows results of 1988 Presidential election with Vice Presidential George Bush receiving 53.4% of the popular vote and 426 electoral votes and Gov. Dukakis receiving 45.6% of the popular vote and 111 electoral votes; "Current Senate/Current House" shows current political makeup of Senate noting there are 57 Democrats and 43 Republicans in Senate and 268 Democrats and 166 Republicans; "Current Governors" shows current political makeup of governorships of 50 states with 28 Democrats, 20 Republicans and 2 Independents (Sources: Associated Press; Congressional Quarterly Almanac; Almanac of American Politics) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL H BROWN LTD (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); KELLY, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



97 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
President's Furious Quest Has Bittersweet Note

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Win or lose, George Bush finished on his feet today, throwing roundhouses, angry and battered, defiantly unbowed.
Striving to overtake the Democratic rival whose very name he ignored until August, Mr. Bush plowed through five final campaign stops with force and fury. 
 At every speech -- in New Jersey, in Philadelphia, at hasty airport rallies in Louisville and Akron and Baton Rouge and in Houston -- he punched every political button, hard. He invoked his tax-cutting pledge, his success in easing nuclear terror, his victory over Iraq, his Navy combat record and even Barbara Bush's visits with AIDS babies.
The President assailed Mr. Clinton's avoidance of the draft, his foreign-affairs inexperience, his Arkansas record, his support of tax increases, his image of evasiveness.
The foe whom Mr. Bush said in a television interview last weekend he would like, if it were not for the campaign, became "the slippery one," a politician "utterly without principle," whose economic platform was a "scam," and who was "coming at me with a vengeance" in the dying hours of the race.
Yet as the day lengthened, Mr. Bush mellowed, and his bite became less personal. And the impassioned calls for patriotism and character that he has wielded like clubs against his foe mellowed too.
By the time he reached Louisville, at dusk, the President's most durable applause line -- a Persian Gulf war story, crafted to contrast his wartime mettle with Mr. Clinton's youthful antiwar stance -- had shed its political facade. It became instead a tribute to the country's young that had the President's voice quavering with emotion.
"I remember very well that very cold and rainy February, just before our young men and women from Kentucky and the other states were sent into battle," he said. "Barbara and I were at the Camp David chapel. And yes, we prayed -- prayed hard to do the right thing. And we prayed that these young people would come back. And, boy, did they ever do this country proud. They did us proud."
 
'Discard the Pundits!'
 The crowd applauded and cheered. "And don't let them take that away from you," the President added.
If he was looking wistfully back at day's end, the President earlier looked defiantly ahead, as when he addressed a drizzly rally in Glen Olden, Pa., a suburb south of Philadelphia.
"We are going to pull off one of the biggest surprises in political history," he cried, his voice rising. "Discard the pundits! Discard the pollsters! Discard the rhetoric out of Governor Clinton! Vote for me, and we will lead this country to new heights!"
Much of the day carried the ring of a valedictory, a sense that -- win or lose -- this was almost surely Mr. Bush's last campaign. Throughout, he battled the perception, spread by polls that dominated the weekend's news, that the race may be slipping from his grasp.
Pounding his fist, hatless but oblivious to a cold drizzle at the rally in Pennsylvania, he exhorted the crowd to remember that Tuesday's election is not a poll, but is "up to what the American people think."
Mr. Bush saved his most cutting remarks for news organizations, which have reported the nation's economic ills and accusations about arms-for-hostages negotiations with what White House aides complain is gleeful zeal. Today, his words seemed both bitter and heartfelt in damning the reporting of the 1992 campaign as "the most biased year in the history of Presidential politics."
"But we don't need them anymore. We don't need them," he told several thousand cheering supporters at an early-morning stop in Madison, a prosperous New Jersey suburb about 30 miles west of Manhattan. "They're all running for cover, and we are going to show them -- wrong!"
In Louisville, be broke from his speech to proclaim, apparently more in sorrow than in anger, that this had been "certainly, probably, the most unpleasant year of my life."
"Which is totally unimportant," he quickly added. "But I think others know it's been a rather ugly year, with these national media just writing us off from day one."
But those barbs were the only notable indication that the frustration of an uphill re-election effort was abrading the President's normal air of confidence. And even they seemed to have largely vanished by midday when, laughing and waving, he ended a rally in Akron by holding aloft a baby and posing for pictures.
 
'Absolutely Confident'
 Mr. Bush's campaign chairman, Robert M. Teeter, said his boss was "absolutely confident" of re-election. Still, there was every indication that Mr. Bush trailed, albeit sometimes narrowly, in most of the Midwestern and border states he must carry to win.
The President's itinerary today, from New Jersey 1,400 miles southward to Louisiana, reflected his aides' judgment of which battleground states still might be swung their way with an extra Presidential nudge.
Their day ended late this evening here in Mr. Bush's adopted hometown, with a rally at the Astrodome before he retired to his hotel suite.
While Mr. Bush waged a largely negative battle today on the ground, his campaign was dividing its advertising time between positive commercials, boasting of Mr. Bush's leadership in crisis and his economic agenda, and attacks on Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Clinton and Ross Perot bought half-hour blocks of time for network television appeals. But the Bush strategists chose to spend much of their money locally, running one- and two-minute advertisements in cities where their polling suggests they need help.
Having done all they could, the President and his aides adopted a sort of last-day-of-school attitude. Aboard Air Force One, Mr. Bush played an alphabet game, giving Presidential windbreakers to staff members who picked the letter he had in mind.
And beneath his feisty, sometimes rancorous manner, there was unmistakable poignancy to the 68-year-old President's last appeals.
"And now we go," Mr. Bush said near the end of his New Jersey speech, "the last day I will ever campaign for myself for President of the United States -- or anything else."
 

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton covered several thousand miles each in their final day of campaigning. Mr. Bush spoke early yesterday morning in Madison, N.J.; Mr. Clinton greeted a crowd in Philadelphia. (Jose R Lopez/New York Times; Reuters) (pg. A1); A large crowd of supporters of President Bush waiting yesterday afternoon in an airport hangar in Akron, Ohio, as Air Force One landed with the President on board. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A13).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (88%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%); AKRON, OH, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (57%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (88%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%); AKRON, OH, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); DESERT STORM (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



98 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
The board of General Motors swept away a generation of top managers and installed a new management system to try to halt the auto maker's decline. The moves strengthened the board's powers over a younger team of executives. The directors also halved the common stock dividend. [Page A1.] In naming John F. (Jack) Smith Jr. as chief executive, the G.M. board chose a career manager who is as much an outsider as G.M. could get without actually hiring from the outside. During his 31-year career at G.M., he has spent relatively little time in Detroit. [D5.]
Joe Roth resigned as chairman of 20th Century Fox to form an independent production company at the Walt Disney studios. He will be replaced at Fox by Peter Chernin, president of the Fox Entertainment Group. [C13.] In Hollywood, insiders were surprised by the announcement, but on Wall Street investors shrugged off the changes. Market Place. [D1.] 
 Lufthansa's board reportedly overruled management in deciding the carrier would not make a bid to take part in a takeover of Continental Airlines. [D1.]
A.T.& T. plans to solicit investors in a $1 billion network linking America and 11 Asian countries. It also will build a network linking the United States and Japan. [D3.]
Nissan reported a loss of $178 million for the six months that ended on Sept. 30. It was the first such loss since Nissan began trading publicly in 1951. Its car sales have been suffering. [D3.]
A Mercedes-Benz electric car showed improved stamina this year in serving as pace car for the New York City Marathon. [D3.]
Documents were altered at Dow Corning about details of the company's manufacturing of silicone-gel breast implants. [D3.]
Marine Midland Bank promoted its No. 2 executive to president and chief executive. James H. Cleave will move up on Jan. 1. [D4.]
 
The Economy
The Supreme Court turned down an appeal by the Internal Revenue Service of a lower court's decision requiring it to deliver tax-deficiency notices to taxpayers' correct addresses. [D4.]
Construction spending rose 1.3 percent in September, the biggest advance in five months. [D9.]
The nation's manufacturing economy posted minuscule growth in October, according to a survey of purchasing managers. [D2.]
 
International
American and European negotiators made progress toward a deal to reduce farm subsidies and to break a deadlock in world trade talks. The two negotiating teams, led by the Agriculture Secretaries of the United States and the European Community, extended their meetings in pursuit of a breakthrough. [D1.]
 
Markets
Bond prices took one last tumble before the election. Nervousness about a Clinton victory and a stronger-than-expected report from purchasing managers were among the reasons cited by traders. The 30-year bond was down almost half a point. [D1.]
Unlike bonds, stocks surged on the eve of the election. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 35.93, to 3,262.21, and volume on the New York Stock Exchange topped 203.3 million shares. [D6.]
The dollar staged a strong advance as traders prepared for the possibility that if Gov. Bill Clinton was elected President, he would increase Government spending to stimulate the economy, which could result in higher interest rates. [D15.] Grain and soybean futures prices soared. [D15.]
 
Today's Columns
An American farm crisis may be developing. Farmers' incomes are starting to decline, and many are pulling back for fear that hard times will stay. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
The Presidential candidates' ads accentuated the negative. But a review of the campaign commercials finds some positive spots among the negative. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D18.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (69%); GM (NYSE) (58%); UAL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (92%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (83%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (55%); DOW CORNING CORP (53%); HSBC BANK USA NA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BONDS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); CHEMICALS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); COMMON STOCK (72%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); TAX LAW (66%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (64%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (64%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (60%); DIVIDENDS (57%); 

PERSON: PETER CHERNIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



99 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Harassment or Flirting? Europe Tries to Decide

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 29

 BODY:
For all their sniggering at American hang-ups over sex, Europeans are following the United States example of clamping down on sexual harassment in the workplace, drawing a line for the first time between old-fashioned flirting and outright abuse.
In October, France became the latest European country to adopt legislation banning sexual harassment; anyone using a position of authority to demand or exact sexual favors will be subject to a year's imprisonment and a $2,000 fine. 
 Several countries have gone further, not only punishing sexual harassment by fellow workers but also making employers ultimately responsible for combating the practice, in line with a code of conduct drawn up last year by the European Community.
 
Fear of Retribution
 Yet, while European women now discuss problems of sexual harassment more openly, few file complaints. "Sexual harassment is present everywhere," said Esperanza Gonzalez, a 28-year-old Madrid office worker. "And it's worse in a recession because women are afraid of losing their jobs."
Polls say that depending on the country, 20 to 70 percent of working women in Europe have suffered harassment, but public awareness is lagging: many women are reluctant to denounce those responsible and some men still view sexual attention as harmless flattery.
Legislators in some countries are also reluctant to go too far toward what they see as the desexualization of the United States. Veronique Neiertz, the French Secretary of State for Women's Rights, said the new law carefully avoided "American excesses," by which she apparently meant turning all sexual advances into potential criminal offenses.
Certainly in Mediterranean countries, where ordinary socializing involves far more physical contact than in the United States and northern Europe, there is a feeling that flirtation and sensuality are part of the spice of life and should not be renounced.
 
Graciousness or Harassment?
 "Compliments about the way a woman looks are not generally considered bad taste here," said Coro Mira, who is in charge of women's affairs in Spain's largest labor group. "If a woman were offended by compliments, she'd have a hard time claiming harassment."
Perhaps unsurprisingly, it is also in the south, where the peccadillos of politicians are not matters of state and rarely even topics of gossip, that occasional sex scandals involving public figures in the United States have caused most amusement and puzzlement, to men and often even to women.
Yet, just as concerns about sexual equality were imported from across the Atlantic two decades ago, Europe's new debate about sexual harassment also has its roots in the United States and, particularly, in the publicity surrounding the charges leveled last year against Judge Clarence Thomas. Many European men thought it oddly American that his nomination to the Supreme Court should be threatened by assertions that he had sexually harassed a former associate, Anita F. Hill. Some commentators even suggested that feminism was running amok.
But the case also prompted governments, labor unions, women's organizations and employers' associations in Europe to look more closely at the problem, and they found that no less than in the United States, many women felt they were victims of sexual harassment in the workplace.
"Widening awareness has a lot to do with the Thomas case," said Denise Kingsmill, a London barrister who often handles sex-discrimination cases. "Ten years ago, it was difficult to explain to people what sexual harassment was and whether it existed. Now I discuss the many subtle ways that harassment occurs."
Purificacion Gutierrez Lopez, head of the Women's Institute in Spain, said the problem has always existed. "But the fact that it is now recognized and talked about means we have started dealing with it," she said. "So far, though, Spanish women are only just beginning to understand that sexual harassment is an offense."
The debate in Spain has also been stimulated in recent weeks by accusations against a well-known television announcer, Alfredo Amestoy, who has denied charges of "sexual aggression" against an assistant during a trip abroad last June. The public prosecutor has asked for punishment of a year's imprisonment.
 
New Rules Backed by Old Rules
 European experts say there is often a gray area in workplace relationships -- off-color jokes, insistent invitations -- that many men do not regard as sexual harassment and some employers do not consider meriting disciplinary action.
The European Community's code describes sexual harassment as "unwanted conduct of a sexual nature or other conduct based on sex affecting the dignity of women and men at work, including unwelcome physical, verbal or nonverbal conduct."
In practice, though, while some countries have specific legislation addressing, say, the offer of a promotion in exchange for sexual relations, others are now interpreting existing laws to cover sexual harassment.
In northern Europe, where the concept of women's rights is more deeply entrenched, governments and trade unions have set up special offices to receive complaints. The German Minister for Women and Youth, Angela Merkel, has proposed more severe punishment -- including loss of pay -- for offenders.
 
Women Starting to Win
 Courts and ombudsmen in many countries are increasingly ruling in favor of women when cases come to trial, even though most are settled out of court. Further, since few charges have been brought against prominent personalities, cases rarely attract much publicity.
Michael Rubinstein, an American who edits the Equal Opportunities Review in London, said that on average, half the complaints brought by women in Britain are sustained. "Tribunals here tend to believe people who claim to have been harassed," he said. "In many cases in the United States, the question is asked: did she provoke it?"
Penalties in Britain are limited by law to 10,000, or $16,000. But the Industrial Tribunal can also recommend suspension or transfer of an offender, and a woman employed by the London Fire Brigade recently won the equivalent of $40,000 in damages when she charged criminal assault for abuse of a sexual nature by colleagues.
There are also signs that women in Italy are tired of gratuitous sexual allusions. "In this country, it's normal for men to say things to you, but that doesn't justify it," said Francesca Tronco, an English teacher in Rome. "It doesn't happen in other countries. Why should it happen here?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); MADRID, SPAIN (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; LIFE STYLES; WOMEN; DISCRIMINATION; FINES (PENALTIES); LAW AND LEGISLATION SEXUAL HARASSMENT (94%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); WOMEN (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SEX SCANDALS (78%); ETHICS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); CRIMINAL FINES (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); GENDER EQUALITY (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); SCANDALS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); LAYOFFS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (50%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



100 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Court to Weigh Law Forbidding Ritual Sacrifice

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HIALEAH, Fla., Nov. 2

 BODY:
To Ernesto Pichardo, a Santeria priest and devotee of the warrior god of thunder Chango, the occasional sacrifice of a goat or chicken is a religious rite sanctioned by the Constitution and centuries of tradition. But to the city of Hialeah, the practice is a public health hazard that is cruel to animals and violates local zoning laws.
For five years, ever since Mr. Pichardo tried to open the Church of the Lukumi Babalu Aye Inc. on a used-car lot a few blocks from City Hall, municipal officials and Santeria followers have been debating the issue, first in the chambers of the City Council and then in a succession of courtrooms. On Wednesday, the dispute will go before the United States Supreme Court; a ruling, experts say, could clarify the extent to which the state can regulate religion, and on what ground. 
 Legal experts say the decision may further refine the meaning of a 1990 ruling in which the Court held that the government did not violate the First Amendment right to the free exercise of religion by applying "neutral" laws of general applicability to religious practices.
 
'Not a Local Issue Anymore'
 But Mr. Pichardo and some religious experts take a more sweeping view.
"What needs to be resolved here is the restoration of religious freedom into the Constitution," Mr. Pichardo said during an interview on Friday, shortly before departing for Washington. "This is not a local issue any longer, any more than it is just about Santeria or offering animals. It has become about all religions."
In Mr. Pichardo's view, the city of Hialeah, a Miami suburb whose population of 200,000 is 88 percent Hispanic, illegally prevented him from practicing his religion when it passed an ordinance prohibiting animal sacrifice in 1987, after residents complained about his plans to open a church. It is absurd, he said, that hunters are allowed to kill animals for sport while he is barred from engaging in a practice shared by religions like Judaism and Islam.
"It is very rare that we offer animals," Mr. Pichardo said. "But the problem is that offerings are a vital part of our rites of passage. That's where the theological issue is. If there are no rites, there are no priests. So we have to defend this all the way."
The lawyer who will argue the city's case, which has already been upheld in lower courts, calls that argument nonsense. "The city is not interested in targeting any religion by name," said Richard G. Garrett. "Our position is that animal sacrifice is a legitimate governmental problem, and an ordinance banning it is neutral, because it is aimed at preventing the practice whether engaged in by a religion or for secular purposes."
Santeria, which is Spanish for "the worship of saints," blends elements of Roman Catholicism with religious beliefs brought to the Caribbean from West Africa by Yoruba slaves. Each Yoruba "orisha," or deity, is identified with a figure from Christianity. Ritual sacrifices are made to the deities when their help is being sought or any time that a "santero," or priest, is initiated.
Mr. Pichardo estimated there are about 70,000 devotees of Santeria in the Miami area, where ritual altars are often set up on lawns, and where some businesses bear the names of deities like Elegba, a god of the crossroads who is associated with the Christ child, and Yemaya, goddess of the sea. Experts who study the religion put the number of devotees at around a million nationwide, with the largest concentrations in New York, Chicago and cities with large Caribbean Hispanics populations. Other cities have laws severely restricting the slaughter of animals, but Hialeah is believed to be the first to pass such a law in response to the appearance of a Santeria church.
Many santeros here and elsewhere have hesitated to take Mr. Pichardo's side publicly, saying they fear persecution. But Mr. Pichardo and his congregation have received the support of the Presbyterian Church, the American Jewish Committee, the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights and other religious organizations.
Those groups are among those who see the case as a vehicle that could be used to weaken or overturn a 1990 Supreme Court ruling that the state no longer need prove a "compelling interest" when it limits religious freedom. In that case, Employment Division of Oregon v. Smith, an American Indian was fired from his job for chewing peyote that he said was part of a religious ritual, and he was turned down when he sought unemployment benefits from the state.
The ruling was widely criticized by religious groups, and questions about its scope still linger. However, if the Supreme Court decides that the Hialeah ordinance is not a neutral law of general applicability but rather that it seeks to curb a specific religious practice, the Justices could strike it down without revisiting the Smith ruling.
 
A Good Omen?
 But Mr. Pichardo, a former Roman Catholic altar boy who was born in Cuba in 1954 and came to Miami four years later, said the Supreme Court's willingness to hear his case is a good omen. "They wouldn't have taken this case if they didn't see it as a chance to re-examine the Smith issues," he said. "I think they are really going to try and clean up that decision."
He said he hoped the Court would be persuaded by the legal arguments his lawyers mustered, most notably the contention that his "offerings" were specifically excluded from Florida's animal cruelty statute.
The law states, "To protect freedom of religion, ritual slaughter and the handling or preparation of livestock for ritual slaughter are exempted from the terms of this act."
 
'Inhumane Treatment'
 But city officials and their lawyers say that exception was written for the benefit of rabbis who supervise preparation of kosher foods. Santeria priests, they argue, follow different procedures that do not qualify for protection from the ordinance. "It's not like kosher slaughter," Mr. Garrett said of Santeria sacrifices. "These animals would experience pain and not die instantly. There is a problem with inhumane treatment."
Hialeah's position has been supported by a number of animal rights groups here and around the nation. They contend that Santeria sacrifices are inherently cruel and they complain that animal carcasses are often left in canals or on street corners in South Florida, posing a threat to public health.
"There is no evidence whatsoever of any threat to safety, health or welfare," said Mr. Pichardo's lawyer, Jorge Duarte. Santeros either eat the animals they have slaughtered or dispose of them in accordance with existing laws, he said. In addition, he said, "It is against principles to offer any unhealthy, mistreated or suffering animal to a god."
Mr. Pichardo said he hoped a favorable decision by the Supreme Court some time next spring would allow him to proceed with his original plan, which was to bring out into "the light of day" a religion that has had to operate in secrecy. But even if the court rules against him, he said, devotions to the deities would continue.
"You can't knock something like this out just because some politician doesn't like it," he said. "This is a faith that has survived being ripped from its roots in Africa, centuries of slavery in the New World and Communism in Cuba. It can survive this, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ernesto Pichardo, a Santeria priest and devotee of the warrior god of thunder Chango, has been forbidden to sacrifice animals in Hialeah, Fla. His case is to be heard before the Supreme Court. "The problem is that offerings are a vital part of our rites of passage," he said. "That's where the theological issue is. If there are no rites, there are no priests. So we have to defend this all the way." (John Berry for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); SANTERIA CULT SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); SANTERIA CULT SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HIALEAH (FLA); FLORIDA; MIAMI (FLA) UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGIOUS CULTS; CONSTITUTIONS; FREEDOM OF RELIGION; CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; ANIMALS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) RELIGION (94%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ORDINANCES (89%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); CHURCH & STATE (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); CITIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ZONING (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); LAWYERS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (72%); INTERVIEWS (65%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); 

PERSON: PICHARDO, ERNESTO; ROHTER, LARRY ERNESTO PICHARDO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



101 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Progress in Trade Talks With Europe

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 2

 BODY:
For the first time since talks broke down 12 days ago, American and European negotiators made some progress today toward a sweeping deal to reduce farm subsidies and to break a deadlock in world trade talks aimed at reducing barriers to global commerce and stimulating the world economy.
The two negotiating teams, led by Agriculture Secretary Edward R. Madigan and Ray MacSharry, the European Community's Agriculture Secretary, announced late this afternoon that they would work into the night and possibly on Tuesday morning in pursuit of a breakthrough. Mr. Madigan, a former Representative from central Illinois, had been scheduled to spend this afternoon campaigning on behalf of President Bush but canceled all his appearances to continue negotiating. 
 "I think the fact they've extended the talks into this evening, the fact that travel arrangements have been canceled for now, I think is an indication that both sides are willing to go on, to strike an agreement," said Roger D. Runningen, the Agriculture Department's press secretary. He added that lower-level officials on both sides were working on language for various approaches that might turn into the legal framework of an overall deal.
Later in the evening Mr. MacSharry was quoted by Reuters as saying it was possible that a deal could be struck on a dispute involving oilseeds used for animal feed and cooking oil. Speaking to reporters as he and Mr. Madigan left for dinner, Mr. MacSharry said negotiators were only discussing variations of existing proposals.
 "It's the same old thing," Mr. MacSharry told Reuters.
Carol L. Brookins, an agriculture consultant in Washington, was skeptical about the prospects for an agreement. "I think the Europeans are still trying to keep the clock ticking" in an effort to avert threatened American trade sanctions, she said.
For months, the United States has been seeking steep reductions in Europe's subsidized exports of grain and subsidized production of oilseeds. European leaders, leery of angering the politically active farmers, have sought smaller reductions.
With many other issues resolved in the 108-nation world trade talks, a new set of rules for world commerce hangs in the balance. The United States has threatened to impose huge tariffs on a few European exports if the oilseed issue is not settled this week.
The latest round of talks opened on Sunday night with each side trying to persuade reporters that the other side was more willing to make concessions. Mr. Madigan was forced to hold the talks after Prime Minister John Major of Britain called President Bush on Thursday and complained that the European Community was not receiving a fair hearing.
 
Focus on Oilseed
 Three hours of talks here on Sunday night and seven more hours by this afternoon have focused almost exclusively on oilseeds, with the United States seeking a European promise to trim production to 7.5 or 8 million metric tons from an estimated 13 million metric tons this year.
The European Community has been offering a reduction in acreage that European officials contend would reduce output to 9.5 million tons. But American officials fear that the least productive acres would be taken out of production and the output would only fall to 10.5 million tons.
Ms. Brookins, who is a member of President Bush's Export Council, the nation's top private-sector advisory group on trade, said that the two sides appeared to be making many small changes without closing the basic gap.
Mr. Runningen said both sides were modifying their previous proposals, but he declined to provide specifics.
 
U.S. More Conciliatory
 The United States has been taking an increasingly conciliatory position in the trade talks. An American official said the United States had offered in the last several days to let the community reduce its tonnage of subsidized grain exports by 24 percent over seven years, instead of over six years as the United States had previously been demanding.
The European Community has offered cuts of 18 percent over six years, or 21 percent over seven years, the American official said.
The United States began seeking curbs on European oilseed subsidies in 1986, when the community produced 7.5 million tons. Steve M. Yoder, the president of the American Soybean Association, a trade group based in St. Louis, said his group would not be satisfied with a deal that left American soybean farmers worse off than they were when the United States began complaining in 1986.
Asked by reporters Sunday whether the European Community had changed its position in any way, Mr. MacSharry, the community's agriculture commissioner, replied, "We have the same papers; we're working on them."
Mr. Madigan then interjected defensively,, "They tell me Mr. MacSharry's been putting notes on the margins."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ray MacSharry, left, the European Community's Agriculture Secretary, and his American counterpart, Edward R. Madigan, speaking at a news conference yesterday before their meeting in Chicago. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; EUROPE UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AGRICULTURE; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US) TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); OILSEED FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); AGRICULTURE (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); LIVESTOCK FEED (70%); ANIMAL FOODS (65%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; MADIGAN, EDWARD R (SEC); MACSHARRY, RAY (MIN) EDWARD R MADIGAN (92%); GEORGE WALKER BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



102 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: A Downgraded Detroit Cries Foul

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
The hard-luck city of Detroit has absorbed its share of insults over the years, but none more gratuitous or less deserved, the city's partisans say, than the dropping in July of its credit rating to noninvestment grade by Moody's Investors Service. Moody's lowered the city's rating on its general obligation bonds from Baa to Ba1, a move that could harm Detroit's ability to attract investors and that certainly does not help its blighted image.
Instead of evaluating the current credit of the city, its supporters say, Moody's has judged its future and declared Detroit null and void. "Admittedly, Detroit does face significant issues," said J. Chester Johnson, president of Government Finance Associates in New York and one of Detroit's financial advisers. "But for a ratings agency to say the city is financially and structurally unviable is unprecedented." 
 The downgrading of Detroit sheds vivid light on the polite, behind-the-scenes pas de deux that is the ratings process and raises questions about its fairness. And some urban experts view Detroit as the tumbling first tile of an urban domino theory: "Detroit may be in a more extreme situation," said Rob Mier, a professor of public administration at the University of Illinois, "but many cities are experiencing the same problems."
Mr. Mier does not necessarily think Moody's pessimism about Detroit is irrational. But he worries about what may be the beginning of a trend toward disinvesting in cities with apparently intractable social problems.
"When you have hard-nosed analysts like Moody's saying 'We're not going to bet on the future of this city,' the next thing is to say 'We're not going to bet on this country,' " Mr. Mier said.
In one sense, there is no disagreement between the rater and the rated. A city proposes, Moody's disposes. There is no appeals court or court of last ratings resort.
Complaints are considered bad form and quite possibly not in the rated's best interests. "Who is going to brawl with the ratings agencies?" Bella Marshall, Detroit's financial director, asked.
So the straying of some of its officials, including Mayor Coleman A. Young, to the verge of complaint indicates just how deep the sense of injustice in Detroit runs.
Paul Devine, the man at Moody's who led Detroit's evaluation, said his report was based on the kinds of objective numbers the agency had always used to provide information to investors. Ratings, he insisted, are ruled by the iron law of fiscal analysis, and the law was not written in red ink. "It was becoming apparent that there was a chronic imbalance between revenues and expenditures," he said.
Detroit retains, just barely, an investment-grade rating from the Standard & Poor's Corporation, a difference Glenn Goldberg, an S.& P. spokesman, attributed to "fine but important distinctions of credit." Mr. Johnson, Detroit's adviser, said that would soften the impact of the blow from Moody's; Ms. Marshall said low interest rates would help as well.
Meanwhile, the conversation between Detroit and Moody's continues, as Detroit tries to hoist itself toward the rating it believes it deserves now.
The rating agencies acknowledge that they include so-called quality of life measures -- including expenditures on crime, homelessness and public health -- and that the measures have become more important as the problems grow. But they argue that such criteria are no less quantifiable than, say, a per-capita debt burden figure.
"We are providing opinions crucial to people trying to raise funds for roads and schools," Mr. Goldberg of S.& P. said. "These are not judgments about whether a city is good."
The people who guide and study cities, however, say they are confused by what seems like a game with a new set of rules. "I don't see the complete relevance of whether we take care or don't take care of the homeless," said Mayor Raymond L. Flynn of Boston, past president of the United States Conference of Mayors.
Mr. Flynn has no complaints about any of Boston's ratings, all of which are investment grade, or of the process by which they were reached, but wonders at the inclusion of policy decisions he believes should be judged by the electorate. "If mayors don't take care of the homeless," he argued, "that is something for the mayor to decide -- and then for people to decide on when they vote."
 
The Case for Detroit
 In Detroit, city officials believe Moody's should have come to praise, not bury. Ms. Marshall said Detroit responded to criticism from the agency almost two years ago by undergoing fiscal surgery that led to the relative leanness of the current $2.12 billion budget and to the city's determination to keep a scalpel at hand.
Ms. Marshall said the issue that should be under consideration was whether Detroit paid its debts and made good-faith efforts to control its budget, not judgments about the population or the projection, made by some, that in 20 years Detroit will be a sleepy city of 400,000 people with an economic base now impossible to foresee.
Mr. Mier, the University of Illinois economist, said that if, indeed, Detroit devolved into a city of 400,000, the people left would almost certainly be black and poor. He raised an issue that the principals in the ratings debate step around gingerly but that emerges quickly in most conversations about Detroit.
There are distinct -- some say hostile -- divisions between the predominantly black and poor city and its predominantly white and affluent neighbors. "The outer suburbs think their time has come," Robert V. Wassmer, an economist at Wayne State University, said. "Why should they help the center city?"
Moody's acknowledges that the city has diligently maximized its immediate resources, attacking budget deficits, cutting wages and employee benefits, channeling money to repay bonds and swelling its debt service reserves.
But the Moody's report concludes that "achieving near-term fiscal balance provides little comfort that the pressures exerted by extraordinarily weak credit fundamentals will not lead to recurring fiscal distress."
 
An Uneasy Future
 The "weak credit fundamentals" are indeed daunting. Since 1950, Detroit has lost 44 percent of its people. In the last Census, it barely qualified for tens of millions of dollars granted under state laws to cities having having more than one million residents.
It has an unemployment rate that spiked up somewhere between 12 and 14 percent; a high debt burden; maximal tax rates; declining housing stock; vaporizing private investment and, according to Moody's, an "economically distressed" population.
The city's fortunes, moreover, are welded to those of the auto industry, which now apparently views many of the manufacturing plants that employ the vast bulk of the population as manna to be rained upon Texas and Mexico.
Mr. Devine of Moody's said the issue went beyond Detroit's ability to pay bills and the city's near-term solvency.
"Let's understand what a bond rating is," Mr. Devine said. "It weighs the probability that a bondholder will pay on time and in full. It represents different shades of risk."
 
One-shot Savings
 Moody's concern is that Detroit's current state of relative health is based on one-time events that cannot be duplicated. Detroit has sold off its resource recovery plant, for example, and changed its accounting procedures. But a nonrecurring strategy is like a nonrenewable resource: once it is expended, it is gone.
Moreover, Moody objects to the way Detroit has positioned itself in the controversy that has stirred since July. "Detroit has done an effective job of trying to direct the reasoning for the downgrade away from the most traditional quantitative measures," Daniel Heimowitz, director of the public finance department at Moody's, said.
Detroit, he said, has creatively reframed some of its obligations to lessen their impact on its budget. For example, the city services its deficit this year using an $111 million bond sale, a nonrecurring source of revenue. "We don't call balancing the budget what they call balancing the budget," he said. "They are still shy of revenues meeting deficits."
Like many Detroit loyalists, Ms. Marshall bristled as she acknowledged that many people voted with their white-wall tires and fled across Eight Mile Road into the suburbs, leaving Detroit, particularly since the 1967 riots, to crumble into the detritus of urban civilization.
Ms. Marshall believes Detroit's reputation may have cost the city points with the ratings agency. "When it comes to a close call, a warm and fuzzy feeling makes a difference," she said.
For its part, Moody's says vague and subjective criteria, even if they are warm and fuzzy, are not part of its analysis. "The judgment is about credit quality in the future, not about the future of the city," Mr. Devine said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The dropping of Detroit's credit rating to noninvestment grade by Moody's Investors Service last July could harm the city's ability to attract investors. Now Detroit, whose Renaissance Center dominates the downtown skyline, is trying to hoist itself toward a rating it believes it deserves. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DETROIT (MICH) UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (66%); TRENDS (66%); DIVESTITURES (64%); APPEALS COURTS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY NORM COLEMAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



103 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Yugoslav Lawmakers Set Back Moderate Premier

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia, Nov. 2

 BODY:
The Serbian nationalists who control the Yugoslav Parliament inflicted a serious political setback on the moderate Prime Minister tonight when the lower house approved a motion of no confidence in his efforts to resolve the Balkan war and end his country's international isolation.
The chamber also accused the Prime Minister, Milan Panic, and the Federal President, Dobrica Cosic, of having acted without consulting it to improve ties with Croatian and Muslim Albanian minorities in Serbia, the larger of the two republics that make up the truncated Yugoslav federation. 
 The no-confidence motion, which was approved by a 93-to-24 vote, was the latest effort in a campaign against Mr. Panic by Serbia's nationalist President, Slobodan Milosevic, who leads the Socialist Party of Serbia, the renamed Communist Party that controls the lower house.
But tonight's vote is not necessarily decisive for the political future of Mr. Panic, a 62-year-old California pharmaceuticals millionaire who came back to lead his native country out of its difficulties over the summer, because the upper house appears likely to reject the no-confidence motion when it votes later this week.
Only if both houses vote against Mr. Panic will his political ally, Mr. Cosic, be obliged to dismiss him.
Most opposition parties that support Mr. Panic boycotted the elections that produced the present federal Parliament because they thought the rules unfair, and they thus consider Mr. Milosevic's Government illegitimate. Nevertheless, this is the first time Mr. Panic has lost the confidence of the lower house since it voted overwhelmingly to appoint him Prime Minister in July. The appointment came at the urging of Mr. Milosevic, who hoped that Mr. Panic would be able to persuade the United Nations Security Council to lift the trade embargo it imposed on Yugoslavia because of its support for the Serbian cause in the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
President Cosic has called new elections for Dec. 20, and Mr. Panic's supporters hope that the opposition parties can defeat the Socialists in the federal and Serbian Parliaments and pave the way for sanctions to be lifted.
But most opposition parties have still not decided whether they will take part in that contest.
Mr. Panic has won the praise and support of Cyrus R. Vance of the United Nations and Lord Owen of the European Community, the two international mediators trying to settle the Balkan crisis, for his efforts to promote an end to the fighting.
 
Serbs Dissatisifed
 But in recent weeks Serbian nationalists have appeared increasingly unhappy with the kind of solutions that the negotiators are proposing and which seem to have Mr. Panic's support.
Today, the Bosnian Serbs were reported to have walked out of the peace talks organized by Mr. Vance and Lord Owen in Geneva because the mediators refused to divide Bosnia and Herzegovina into "ethnically pure" areas reserved for Serbs, Croats and Muslims.
Mr. Vance, a former United States Secretary of State, and Lord Owen, a former British Foreign Secretary, fear that such a division would merely invite further ethnic expulsions and discriminate unfairly against the Muslim majority, which has suffered a string of military defeats in recent weeks at the hands of the Serbs and the Croats.
The leader of Bosnia's Serbs, Radovan Karadzic, who has had Mr. Milosevic's support so far, wants to divide Bosnia and Herzegovina into five separate and largely autonomous areas, with the two largest reserved for Serbs and Croats respectively and three smaller pockets going to Muslims around the towns of Tuzla, Zenica and Bihac. The capital, Sarajevo, would be split between the three groups.
 
Mediators' Plan for Division
 The Muslims object to any settlement along such lines. And Mr. Vance and Lord Owen have proposed dividing Bosnia and Herzegovina into 7 or 10 highly autonomous but ethnically mixed areas defined by economic rather than ethnic criteria, with a weak central government.
Meanwhile, Bosnia's Serbian forces are seeking to enlarge the gains they made on the ground last week when they captured the strategically important town of Jajce from the Muslims. They are pressing on toward Travnik and stepping up their artillery attacks on encircled Sarajevo.
These fresh attacks appear to violate the promises their leaders gave the United Nations for a "week of tranquillity" this week when fighting would stop so aid workers could deliver winter clothes and medicine to needy children throughout the region.
Most diplomats here believe that Bosnia's Serbs, with the support of Mr. Milosevic's Government, are determined to capture on the battlefield the separate Serbian state they are being denied in the conference room.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bosnians ran across a street in Sarajevo yesterday to duck gunfire hitting a former military hospital. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (93%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: YUGOSLAV PARLIAMENT (73%); BOSNIA'S SERBS (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: YUGOSLAV PARLIAMENT (73%); BOSNIA'S SERBS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA; SARAJEVO (BOSNIA) SERBIA (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (93%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); RELIGION (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); PEACE PROCESS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: PANIC, MILAN (PRIME MIN); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); VANCE, CYRUS; OWEN (LORD); LEWIS, PAUL JOSEPH C PAPA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



104 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Senate Candidates Barnstorm Around New York Last Time;
Just 'Regular Guy,' D'Amato Hones Attack

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Nov. 2

 BODY:
In a final campaign sprint to seven upstate cities today, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato reclaimed the message of class resentment that helped elect him in 1980, appealing one more time to his base of blue-collar and conservative voters.
In his Election Eve whirlwind to the upstate areas where he is locked in a close race against State Attorney General Robert Abrams, his Democratic opponent, Mr. D'Amato styled himself as the true hero of the forgotten middle class. Over and over he painted himself as the "regular guy," pitted against a "millionaire" who drives limousines and uses fancy lawyers to avoid paying taxes on "his fancy Fifth Avenue condominium." 
 Mr. D'Amato had begun his re-election campaign two months ago by fiercely and relentlessly assailing Mr. Abrams's liberal economic policies. But in hurried stops in airport hangars today, he honed his attack to this: "People expect a public official who wants to raise taxes to pay his own."
 
Calling It as He Sees It
 Before leaving Manhattan, he held a news conference at his campaign headquarters. "When the Attorney General, the chief law-enforcement official in the state, looks for a very questionable deduction on his millionaire condo on Fifth Avenue," he said, "that's a very sad thing."
The Senator did not look sad.
For Mr. D'Amato, an incumbent whose main political vulnerability has been a series of questions and investigations about his own ethics, the counter-assault on Mr. Abrams's probity carried immense private satisfaction.
"People want someone who's going to work for the little guy," Mr. D'Amato said of himself. "Someone who calls 'em as he sees them -- and pays his taxes."
Despite the fact that most polls have shown him tied with Mr. Abrams or trailing in a state where Democrats outnumber Republicans almost 3 to 2, Mr. D'Amato predicted he would win by 5 to 7 percentage points because voters would reject the "tax-and-spend" policies of his opponent.
The Senator has flooded the airwaves with commercials amplifying recent news reports that the Attorney General overestimated a home-office deduction and paid his taxes late 8 out of 10 times on his country house.
"What did he say? He said he was too busy to open his mail from the tax collector," Mr. D'Amato said, filling a drafty, almost empty hangar in Syracuse with his sarcasm. "Do you think he's going to open mail from constituents who need his help?"
As the day wore on, Mr. D'Amato began attacking Mr. Abrams as a big spender, and by the time he reached Buffalo, he made the Attorney General sound like some sort of epicene 18th-century aristocrat. He said Mr. Abrams's proposals for universal health care were like "inviting people to a sumptuous feast, and starting out with Dom Perignon Champagne, and 12 courses, and then leaving just before the bill comes."
Throughout, Mr. D'Amato spoke sorrowfully about the tenor of his opponent's attacks, telling supporters in Buffalo: "He really should apologize. I am ashamed of his conduct."
But he was asked repeatedly about Mr. Abrams's latest charge that during the primary, the Senator had privately warned Mr. Abrams against raising ethics as an issue, threatening to "destroy" him if he did. Today, Mr. D'Amato dismissed Mr. Abrams's accusation as "absurd," and a "desperate ploy" to avoid the issue of his own taxes. Mr. D'Amato said that he had merely "begged" and "pleaded" with Mr. Abrams not to get down into the gutter.
In fact, Mr. D'Amato has told friends in recent weeks about his belligerent confrontations with Mr. Abrams in which he warned his opponent against raising the ethics issue.
While Mr. D'Amato now casts himself as a choirboy pleading for civility, in the end he delivered on his promise of street-tough tactics. "When it comes to paying his own taxes," Mr. D'Amato said today of his opponent, "he just doesn't have the time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General Robert Abrams and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan dodged puddles as they arrived for an Abrams rally in Syracuse. Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato talked to reporters during a campaign stop in Albany. (Edward Keating; Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); LAWYERS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (74%); ETHICS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); 

PERSON: ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



105 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Johnson And Dodd Go To Strengths

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Nov. 2

 BODY:
The two Senate candidates in Connecticut spent their last campaign day appealing to some of their strongest bases of support, as Christopher J. Dodd shook hands at a factory gate and visited a city day-care center, while Brook Johnson ended the day greeting Fairfield County commuters stepping off trains from New York.
With his lead widening in the latest Courant/Connecticut Poll, Mr. Dodd, a Democrat seeking a third term, spent 30 minutes today wooing future voters, at the Shepherd Center Day Care.
 
Traditional Stops
 Mr. Dodd, who counts a child-care subsidy law he wrote as one of his proudest achievements, spoke in Spanish with Ivette Rodriguez, the head teacher, and then was given some instruction by the 3-, 4- and 5-year-olds in her care. 
 Superman's cape is red, not blue, he was told; and Captain Planet can fly even though he has no cape.
Mr. Dodd appeared relaxed and in no hurry to leave the day-care center, speaking with the teachers and joking at length with the children. He had come to Hartford from New Britain, where he had made his traditional election-eve visit to the gates of the Stanley Works, and he was heading on to the North End Democratic rally in Hartford, before making his traditional last stop, the Berlin Democratic Town Committee's rally.
Mr. Johnson, a Republican businessman, has campaigned on the theme that career politicians like Mr. Dodd must be sent home if Congress is to deal effectively with the Federal deficit. Shaking hands with students at Fairfield University, he made light of polls showing Mr. Dodd with a large lead.
"I know I'm the underdog," he said. "If I thought I was going to lose, I wouldn't have gotten into this race."
He was greeted warmly by many students, several of whom said they had attended President Bush's campaign appearance on Sunday at Sikorsky Airport in Stratford.
Mr. Johnson, who lives in Greenwich, spent the day in Fairfield County, the Republican Party's traditional base in the state. Before visiting Fairfield University, he stopped by luncheonettes, and afterward he headed for Metro-North stations to greet commuters.
 
Changes for Assembly
 In addition to the Senate race and Connecticut's six House seats, voters will cast ballots Tuesday for the 151 members of the state House of Representatives and the 36 members of the state Senate.
Regardless of the polling results, nearly 3 of 10 members of the next General Assembly will be new to Hartford, because so many lawmakers chose not to run. Of 187 members, at least 53 did not seek re-election, the highest number in decades, party leaders said.
Democrats control both the House, with 88 members to the Republicans' 63, and the Senate, with 20 members to the Republicans' 16.
Democratic Party leaders project that they will keep their majority in both chambers, though Republicans say some races are too close to be sure.
Representative Jonathan Pelto, a Democrat from Storrs and a deputy majority leader in the House, said that even under his party's worst-case projection -- with Republicans winning every close race -- the Democrats would still have 79 seats in the House, to 72 for the Republicans, and 19 in the Senate, to 17 for the opposition.
In the Senate race, Mr. Dodd and Mr. Johnson have generally agreed on many issues, from the need to protect Connecticut jobs to support for abortion rights to the necessity of reducing the Federal deficit and national debt.
The clearest difference lies in the candidates' experience. As Mr. Johnson has stressed in his advertising and his appearances, voters have a choice between a career politician with 18 years in Congress and a career businessman with 20 years in manufacturing.
But Mr. Dodd has tried to use the distinction to his own benefit, reminding voters of his long efforts on behalf of Connecticut, while portraying Mr. Johnson in television ads as a businessman mainly interested in his own wealth.
 
Insider vs. Outsider
 Mr. Johnson has tried to portray Mr. Dodd as a Washington insider interested mainly in his own career.
Mr. Dodd has also campaigned on the theme that education is crucial to both the state's and the nation's efforts to improve their economies, and he has stressed his work on child care, family-leave policies and expanding Federal aid for middle-class college students.
Mr. Johnson, meanwhile, has stressed his business experience, and pledged to fight the deficit by voting for a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution, term limits for Congress, and a cap on the rate of growth in Federal spending.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christopher J. Dodd, above, of Connecticut, in an effort to gain a third six-year term in the Senate, made a final push yesterday that included a visit to the Shepherd Center Day Care, where he met Brenda Murdzek and her pupil Chelsea Newkirk. Brook Johnson, left, spent the last day of his United States Senate campaign in his home base, Fairfield County. He found potential voters under umbrellas at the Greenwich train station.
(Steve Miller; David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SWK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC (58%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (80%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (80%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); TRAINS (72%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE; DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); JOHNSON, BROOK CHRISTOPHER DODD (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



106 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Fall on Eve Of Election

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The pre-election swoon in the bond market continued yesterday, with prices taking one last tumble before the voting.
The 30-year Treasury bond fell almost half a point, pushing its yield up to 7.65 percent, the highest since July. Prices on Treasury notes fell even more sharply, and the discount rates on Treasury bills jumped. Trading was thin. 
 Traders attributed much of the selling to nervousness about the likelihood of a victory by Gov. Bill Clinton. Also putting pressure on the market was a stronger-than-expected report from the National Association of Purchasing Management.
In addition, traders said, the bond market was unsettled by the big quarterly auctions next week, which will be coming as yields have been rising. And even before those auctions, the market will have to digest the results of the election and the reading of the economy it finds in the Labor Department's October unemployment report on Friday.
 
Peak in Early September
 In contrast, the stock market posted strong gains ahead of the Presidential election, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 35.93 points to close at 3,262.21. [Page D6.]
The fall of the bond market since it reached its recent high in early September has been sobering. The yield on the 30-year bond hit a six-year low of 7.21 percent on Sept. 8 and is now almost a half percentage point higher.
Most of the decline has come in the last month, as traders began to focus on the possibility of a victory for Mr. Clinton and realized that the Federal Reserve might have decided not to cut short-term interest rates further.
In that time, the yield on the 30-year bond jumped a third of a percentage point. But the price fall and yield rise for the rest of the market were even worse. The yield on the three-year note is up 83 basis points, or a hundredths of a percentage point, to 4.95 percent, while the yield on the five-year note is up 79 basis points, to 5.98 percent.
The discount rates on Treasury bills have also climbed sharply. At the weekly auction yesterday, the average rate on three-month bills was 3.05 percent, up from 2.58 on Oct. 1. The rate for six-month bills was 3.27 percent, up from 2.73 percent on Oct. 1.
Traders said yesterday that they were not sure what would happen next, though there was hope that there would be a rally after the uncertainty about the next President is over.
 
Fear Over Clinton Plan
 But many traders said they expected Mr. Clinton to win, and that could leave the market unsettled and very volatile, especially because of Mr. Clinton's promise of an economic stimulus program to help the economy. Traders say it is the fear of such a program, because it could enlarge the Federal deficit and lead to higher interest rates and inflation, that has caused some of the recent selling.
If President Bush wins, the market might rally quickly because he has talked less of the need for such stimulus.
But John Costas, managing director of government trading and sales at First Boston, said it was possible that better-than-expected economic data could mean that there would not be much of a rally at all.
"The economic fundamentals we will return to are much more of a mixed bag," Mr. Costas said. "And the clear trend of rising prices is not as sure."
A slow-growing economy, in which there is little threat of rising interest rates or a surge in inflation, was behind the bond market's strong rally this summer. And the belief that this outlook will not change for some time has led to forecasts that yields could begin to fall again after the election, even if Mr. Clinton wins.
But the report of the National Association of Purchasing Management yesterday was another bit of new economic data that was stronger than expected. It showed that the October index of manufacturing activity was up to 50.6 from 49 in September. Analysts expected a number below 50. A reading above 50 means growth in manufacturing; below 50 implies a decline.
 
Home Sales, G.D.P. Up
 The market was also surprised by the sharp rise in housing sales and the 2.7 percent increase in the gross domestic product that were reported last week. And traders are already focusing on the employment report for October on Friday.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst for Chase Securities, said the October job report would be especially interesting if Mr. Clinton wins today. The reason is that his victory will leave traders with several ways to interpret the data.
If the employment data are strong and show larger-than-expected growth in nonfarm jobs, the bond market will be expected to decline, with prices falling and yields rising. The data would raise the possibility of a faster-growing economy, which for bond traders translates to the prospect of rising interest rates and increasing inflation.
But given a Clinton Presidency, bond traders might decide that a stronger economy is not as bad as they think. Why? Because it might lessen the need for aggressive economic stimulus. Some traders said the rise in the bond market last week, when the stronger-than-expected third-quarter growth was reported, was for this same reason.
But Mr. Fine does not think there is enough data to show that the economy is strong enough to disappoint the bond market. He expects the job data to be flat and interest rates to drop from their current levels by the end of the year.
Yet, he feels that traders and investors will remain uncertain about the economic outlook if Mr. Clinton wins.
Following are the results of the Treasury's auction yesterday of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.229	98.347	Discounted Rate	3.05%	3.27%	Coupon Yield	3.12%	3.37%	High Price	99.234	98.357	Discounted Rate	3.03%	3.25%	Coupon Yield	3.10%	3.35%	Low Price	99.229	98.347	Discounted Rate	3.05%	3.27%	Coupon Yield	3.12%	3.37%	Accepted at low price	96%	82%	Total applied for	$32,231,740	$31,558,210	Accepted	$11,808,060	$11,829,510	N.Y. applied for	$28,710,720	$28,581,560	N.Y. accepted	$10,472,520	$10,689,720	Noncompetitive	$1,469,360	$966,545	

Both issues are dated Nov. 5. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 4, 1993; the six-month bills mature on May 6, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graph: 3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate at weekly auction since July. (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. D14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; CREDIT; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); BONDS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



107 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Georgetown Journal;
Doggedness? Toppled in '53, He's Top Dog Again

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GEORGETOWN, Guyana, Oct. 27

 BODY:
In 1953, Winston Churchill moved to prevent the loss of Guyana, a fantastically rich land that Anthony Trollope once described as "the one and true utopia of the Caribbean," by jailing Cheddi Jagan, the colony's newly elected Marxist Prime Minister.
The United States later repeatedly joined efforts with Britain to deny office to Mr. Jagan, an unabashed Stalinist, who, tapping his people's hurts from slavery and indentured servitude, was among the first leaders of the third world to hoist a Marxist banner. 
 For Mr. Jagan, the wheels of history have turned slowly. But with the British Empire a thing of the past, and a line of United States Presidents having come and gone, the silver-haired 74-year-old returned to office as President in October after winning his country's first free elections in three decades.
If much has changed in the world in the time between Mr. Jagan's political emergence nearly half a century ago and his triumphant return, however, time often seems to have stood still in Guyana.
Since the West backed his supposedly more moderate former lieutenant, Forbes Burnham, allowing him to usher in independence in 1966, Guyana has receded into a long isolation and tense racial divisions.
 
Wealth Goes Untapped
 Mr. Burnham, who died in 1985, quickly proved to be anything but moderate. Leading a racially based party composed largely of the descendants of former African slaves, he espoused a Communist-inspired ideology he called "cooperative socialism." Detractors say it was a thin cover for a thuggish system of personality cult, graft and cronyism.
Mr. Burnham was succeeded by Desmond Hoyte, his handpicked Prime Minister from the governing People's National Congress. Though his party had long maintained itself in power by rigging a string of elections, diplomats say foreign and domestic economic pressure cornered Mr. Hoyte into accepting the internationally monitored vote this year.
Meanwhile, Guyana's fabled wealth -- from its reserves of bauxite, gold, diamonds and timber to its agricultural potential, thought by some to be the greatest in South America -- went untapped.
Unlike most third-world countries, whose populations are booming, Guyana has more people who flee the country's misery each year -- mostly to the United States -- than are born here. Although it is 83,000 square miles in area, Guyana has a population now of only 750,000.
If Guyana seems frozen in time, Mr. Jagan also professes to be much the same man philosophically that he was when his People's Progressive Party, then a Marxist-inspired alliance of Indians and blacks, overwhelmingly won the colonial elections in 1953. He served as chief minister for six months until Britain, charging a "Communist plot," suspended the constitution and installed an interim government.
While the sharp edges have been smoothed -- in recent years he has quietly dropped the Communist label -- he clearly feels more vindicated than cheated by history.
 
New Settlements Planned
 "Had it not been for the cold war, Guyana could have been a model country for what you might call socialism with a human face," Mr. Jagan said. "Time and history are on our side. It will only take us longer now."
To solve a housing crisis in the crumbling wooden capital, Georgetown, Mr. Jagan says workers organized in cooperatives will be equipped with portable sawmills to carve out new settlements in the country's vast Amazonian wilderness.
Land must be distributed, and education must be universal and free, he says. A transportation crisis will be eased by manufacturing bicycles. "We have to use unconventional methods because we don't have money," Mr. Jagan said with a smile.
 
A Legacy From Britain
 Even as the world lines up new aid for Guyana, which was shunned by most donors until it held democratic elections, diplomats worry that what many describe as Mr. Jagan's dreamy unconventionality could further slow the advancement of a country now poised for takeoff.
Others worry that deep divisions between a large black minority and the Indian majority, of which Mr. Jagan has long been seen as the historic leader, could degenerate into ethnic violence unless people of both groups handle racial questions with great dexterity.
Guyana's Indian majority is a legacy of British policy after 1833, when slavery was abolished and the colonialists brought in indentured servants by the hundreds of thousands from India to work the territory's vast sugar plantations.
"This is the most racially divided society I've ever been in," said Dennis King, an international elections expert with the Carter Center at Emory University in Georgia who helped organize the country's vote. "Here, there is no middle ground."
Racial tensions briefly threatened to derail the elections after disturbances broke out in the capital and some provincial towns. Already in Georgetown, where most of the black population is concentrated, each decision of the new Government, from land distribution questions to moves aimed at clearing the sidewalks of vendors' stalls, has been examined through the polarizing filter of race.
"You can feel the cockiness of the Indians already," said a black bank manager, who like many people in Georgetown says he now fears marginalization after decades in which blacks dominated the country's politics. "Young Indian boys will tell you in the street, 'Move your black self; we're running things now.' "
In matters of race too, however, Mr. Jagan, whose chief of staff, like several ministers, is black, expresses his own serene brand of optimism.
"We are concerned primarily about working people, and most working people are black," he said. "Eighty percent of the people of Guyana are poor, and as we rise together, the cause for unrest will no longer be there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fears of cold warriors like Churchill led to Cheddi Jagan's political downfall in 1953. No longer carrying the Stalinist banner, Mr. Jagan became Guyana's President last month in the first free elections in three decades. He reviewed an honor guard at the Georgetown airport. (Howard W. French/The New York Times)
 
Map of Guyana showing location of Georgetown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: GUYANA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GUYANA; GREAT BRITAIN GUYANA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SLAVERY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); RACE & RACISM (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); TRENDS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); REFUGEES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: JAGAN, CHEDDI; FRENCH, HOWARD W; CHURCHILL, WINSTON SPENCER LEONARD (SIR) (1874-1965) LINDEN FORBES SAMPSON 'FORBES' BURNHAM (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



108 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Cable Becomes New Player in Political Ad Game

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PISCATAWAY, N.J., Nov. 2

 BODY:
For two minutes every hour, between "Murder, She Wrote" reruns on the USA Network, "The Days and Nights of Molly Dodd" on Lifetime and station breaks on premium sports channels, a quiet revolution is flickering across cable television systems here and around the country.
Local and state politicians are using cable more than ever before to advertise their campaigns, peppering a wide range of cable networks with their messages at a cost comparable to that of radio and far less than that of broadcast television stations. 
 New Jersey, with 41 cable franchises serving two million homes, is alive with cable ads promoting candidates for everything from city hall to Congress, candidates who in the past relied almost entirely on radio and direct mail. Cable reaches more than 70 percent of the New Jersey market; there is no major broadcast television station that concentrates on New Jersey news.
"New Jersey is perfect for political advertising on cable because it is the most wired state in the nation," said Barry Brendel, a Democratic political consultant in South Brunswick who has placed ads on the local cable system this fall in support of candidates for sheriff, surrogate judge and freeholder in Middlesex County.
 
A Matter of Efficiency
 Cable became effective for local candidates a few years ago, Mr. Brendel said, when the number of cable viewers in the state jumped from 20 percent to 40 percent of the prime-time audience.
Perhaps cable's biggest advantage for local candidates is its efficiency.
That problem is especially acute in New Jersey, which is sandwiched between New York and Philadelphia, two of the most expensive television markets in the nation. Even statewide candidates who buy time on the major broadcast channels know that a lot of their money pays to deliver their messages to uncaring viewers in New York, Connecticut and Pennsylvania.
"There has been tremendous growth in political advertising on cable at the state and local level over the past two election cycles," said Steve Feingold, advertising manager for Continental Cablevision Inc., the country's largest privately held cable company, with franchises serving 2.6 million subscribers. "Everyone is beginning to understand that cable as a supplemental or primary medium can deliver a lot less 'geo waste,' " the insiders' term for geographically useless spending.
If the cable industry is disappointed with this election year, it is because of relatively low spending by the Presidential candidates. Gov. Bill Clinton is the only candidate spending significant sums on local cable ads, and one of his campaign's targets is New Jersey, considered an important swing state, where his ads have been running for four weeks. A breakdown of spending was not available.
Ross Perot has been buying large chunks of time on network affiliates but spending little on cable. And President Bush's ads, while prominent on the networks, are absent on cable.
"Clinton's people are very media savvy," said Matt Stanton, sales manager for National Cable Advertising, a company in Alexandria, Va., that has been placing cable ads for the Democrat. "But the bottom line is the Presidential candidates are getting a lot of free network time this year, and that's taking away from paid advertising."
However, Mr. Stanton continued, "There is an incredible amount of political advertising on spot cable in statewide and Congressional races."
 
Demographics Into Play
 Radio remains a widely used adjunct of local, state and national campaigns and offers some of the same flexibility and economy of cable. However, political campaign managers have learned that messages carried on television have a greater impact on an audience than does radio.
But, Mr. Stanton said, all the "micromarketing" techniques used to sell products on cable come into play in elections. Just as advertisers use demographics to sell expensive imported automobiles, Mr. Stanton explained, media buyers for candidates can be guided to specific cable systems or cable networks that reach the right voters for their candidates -- working women, for example, or Reagan Democrats, retired people or ethnic groups.
"The campaign does polling and comes up with ZIP codes targeting population profiles," he said. "We feed the ZIP codes into our data base, and the computer will spit out the cable systems where these voters live."
The same technique can identify cable systems which would be a waste of money for the candidate, he said. "If a Republican senator, say, wants to identify areas with pockets of swing or persuadable voters, we are not going to put him on a cable system that covers a county that has voted Democrat for the past six elections."
In New Jersey, where municipalities award cable franchises, a map of the areas covered by the 41 systems is a patchwork of odd shapes and sizes. Most of the systems cut across traditional political boundaries and some are small, serving only one city.
The TKR Cable Company in Piscataway has 141,000 subscribers in Middlesex County and adjoining parts of Somerset and Monmouth, a 30-mile-long corridor that ranges from Keyport, a blue-collar town on the Jersey Shore, to Basking Ridge, a well-to-do enclave in Somerset County, and includes Rutgers University in New Brunswick.
"Political ads are becoming an increasing part of our business," said Ken Ellis, the advertising sales manager of the franchise, one of 10 TKR systems in the state. "Once we reached a market-penetration level above 60 percent a few years ago, it took off and has grown every year." Mr. Ellis estimated that 15 percent of his sales will come from political ads this year, the highest share so far.
The TKR franchise serves most of the new Sixth Congressional District, an open seat being sought by State Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., a Republican, and Congressman Frank Pallone Jr., a Democrat whose former district was carved up when New Jersey lost one of its 14 House seats after the 1990 Census.
"Some candidates are still believers in direct mail and radio, but more are becoming convinced of the advantages of cable," said Fran Hein, a Democratic media adviser who is buying cable time for Mr. Pallone. "But it must be done right. Repetition is everything on TV. If they don't have the money to buy 100 spots a week spread among five cable channels, I tell them to forget about it."
 
Favorable Political Rates
 Since the Federal Communications Commission requires that political advertising on television receive the most favorable rates -- about 25 percent below commercial rates -- and since all candidates must be offered the same slot of time at the same rate, some large cable systems will not accept political ads.
The advantages for candidates are clear, though, and one of the greatest is the flexibility to offer different messages to different voters. In the New York campaign for the United States Senate, in which Alfonse M. D'Amato, the Republican incumbent, and his Democratic challenger, Attorney General Robert Abrams, are spending millions on television, both candidates are making extensive use of cable.
Mr. D'Amato's cable commercials in New York City, for example, show him with Edward I. Koch, the former Mayor, whose appeal, analysts say, diminishes the farther one gets from New York City.
In the last week of the campaign, the Abrams forces are spending $50,000 on New York City cable in an attempt to reach Jewish voters, said Jan Crawford, whose Virginia communications company is buying media time for the Democrat. "Even within the same market, you can run different spots on different networks like CNN and ESPN to play to different audiences," she said.
For all of cable's flexibility, it does not have radio's ability to change spot advertising quickly, although that is improving.
"The industry is maturing and adding the technology that makes it easier to insert or pull ads," said Michael Labriola, national sales manager for Cable Networks of New York. "In the past they edited only once or twice a week, and there was difficulty getting spots on or off the air. Now some do it daily."
The absence of fast editing poses problems if an ad is controversial or if events in a fast-moving campaign overtake it.
"Generally," said Brad Mont, vice president of Mike Murphy Media in Washington, who buys advertising for candidates in numerous state and Congressional races, "we don't put anything on cable if there's a reason we might want to pull it, so a lot of cable stuff tends to be more positive than negative, more biographical than hard-hitting."

GRAPHIC: Map of New Jersey showing location of the TKR Cable franchise area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) CONTINENTAL CABLEVISION INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; TELEVISION; CABLE TELEVISION; ADVERTISING; POLITICAL ADVERTISING TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (92%); SPORTS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (75%); SHERIFFS (66%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (61%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



109 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Week;
History Made and History Repeating

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
In many ways, the tumultuous 1992 Presidential campaign has been unique.
Never before have so many major figures in the "out" party declined to seek the White House, which is one reason that Bill Clinton, a small-state governor who had never previously sought national office, stands where he does today. Had the Democratic big boys run, he would have had precious little chance of victory. 
 Never before have an incumbent's approval ratings fluctuated as widely as George Bush's in the last year. Acclaimed as a conquering hero after assembling and leading the victorious coalition in the Persian Gulf war, he has been derided since as a bumbler who did nothing about economic problems at home.
Never had anyone done the things that Ross Perot did. He actually led the national polls for a brief time early last summer, a one-man band, a candidate without a party and without a conventional campaign organization. He withdrew from the race, then re-entered it. And he spent, by his own account, something on the order of $60 million of his own money, largely on television ads.
But this campaign also bore more than a passing resemblance to others.
The most obvious parallels are to 1976, when the successor to a two-term Republican President came from far behind and lost only narrowly, 50 percent to 48 percent, to a Southern governor. Like President Bush this year, President Gerald R. Ford won the Republican nomination only after beating back a challenge from the right; like Mr. Bush, Mr. Ford ran a campaign that was widely criticized within his own party.
Like Mr. Clinton, Jimmy Carter ran a campaign emphasizing his moderate views, trying with some success to win back Democrats who had come to consider their party too liberal. Like Mr. Clinton, the self-proclaimed candidate of change, Mr. Carter appealed to many people mainly because they wished to turn the Republicans out of the White House after the Watergate scandal.
The Republicans, not surprisingly, dislike the analogy between 1976 and 1992. Mary Matalin, the deputy manager of the Bush campaign, said the other day that Mr. Ford had stalled after his gaffe in a television debate, when he denied Soviet influence in Poland, while Mr. Bush, she said, was gaining.
That was last week, and this is this week. The final polls show a countersurge by Mr. Clinton.
Still, the President has come from a long way back, only to find it tantalizingly hard to make up the last few points. That is a familiar scenario. Hubert H. Humphrey had seemed hoplessly engulfed in the Vietnam quagmire for most of 1968, but even with George C. Wallace siphoning off the votes of conservative Democrats, he came within 0.7 percent of Richard M. Nixon in a breathless finish.
Mr. Perot's third-force candidacy prompted comparisons, when he was at his peak, with the famous 1912 election. In that year, Theodore Roosevelt, seeking to recapture the White House, ran as the Bull Moose candidate, shoving President William Howard Taft into third place, splitting the Republican vote and permitting Woodrow Wilson, a Democrat, to sneak into the White House.
More recently, however, Mr. Perot's late-starting campaign has more closely resembled, in the size of his constituency, the insurgent 1968 campaign of George Wallace.
If Mr. Bush is defeated, the election will resemble those of 1980, when Mr. Carter was turned out of office by Ronald Reagan, and 1932, when Herbert Hoover lost to Franklin D. Roosevelt. In both cases, the only losses by elected incumbents in the last 60 years, economic crisis or painful economic reversals played a major role.
One of the oldest maxims in Presidential politics holds that no matter how far to the left or right a candidate finds he must go to put together a majority in the primaries, when only his fellow party members and a few independents vote, he should move back toward the center in the fall.
Mr. Bush, many of his Republican friends believe, failed to do that in time. Indeed, at the Houston convention, he and his managers ceded valuable time on national television to such speakers as Patrick J. Buchanan and Pat Robertson, who delivered divisive, exclusionary speeches that offended many moderate voters.
Jack F. Kemp, the Housing and Urban Development Secretary, denounced the convention's emphasis on "family values" and tougher police measures against urban rioters in a speech in Texas only last week, and said it had cost his party badly needed votes.
The campaigns that are regularly cited to prove the dangers of extremism are the Republicans' 1964 fiasco, when Barry Goldwater gained only 52 electoral votes, and the Democrats' 1972 disaster, when George McGovern took only 17. Nothing on that order seems in store this year, but an electoral-vote landslide against Mr. Bush, if it materialized, would strengthen the voices of those warning that the Republicans must move back into the middle next time.
Finally, a non-American model -- the comeback of John Major's Tories, who trailed in the final polls in this year's British general elections but nonetheless pulled off a victory. Bush backers have been talking about it for months, but they overlooked one central point: Unlike Mr. Bush, Mr. Major had not held high office for years; he himself embodied change, having replaced Margaret Thatcher as Prime Minister in a party coup a little more than a year before.
Whatever happens, the 1992 election marks a major turning point.
No matter who wins, it is highly likely that President Bush is the last nominee to have served in World War II. That constitutes an important generational change. World War II deeply marked those who took part in it, as Mr. Bush's ringing appeals to 1940's patriotism and 1950's values demonstrate. For Bill Clinton and candidates to come, the formative experience was the far more ambiguous war in Vietnam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US); HISTORY; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); DESERT STORM (70%); LIBERALISM (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



110 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
2d Asia Link Considered By A.T.& T.

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
Three days after announcing that it would help build a $1 billion telecommunications network linking the United States and Japan, A.T.& T. said yesterday that it would solicit investor interest in another $1 billion network linking America and 11 other Asian countries, including South Korea and Taiwan.
The expansion of phone service would increase the United States-Asia calling capacity by five times and lay undersea cable 10 times the length of the Roman Empire. 
 Using advanced fiber-optic technology, a single cable about the thickness of a thumb would be able to carry five billion bits of information a second. That would be equivalent to 320,000 simultaneous phone calls or the printed equivalent of a week's worth of The New York Times, including the Sunday newspaper.
 
Twice the Size
 Next February, the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and nine Asian carriers plan to hold a meeting seeking additional investors for an extension that would double the15,525-mile network announced last week. That trans-Pacific cable network, known as TPC-5, will be completed between 1995 and 1996.
The 15,525-mile extension, known as the Asia Pacific Cable Network, might be completed by 1998. The additional network, if approved, would link Brunei, Guam, Hong Kong, Japan, Indonesia, South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand.
Planning and building an undersea cable network historically takes five years. In the last few years, such networks in Europe and Asia have quickly signed up national phone carriers as investors and customers.
The Asian expansion is an indication of the powerful economic growth of the Pacific Rim countries. It also reflects the telecommunications industry's expected sharp increase in services for video conferences and data transmission like faxes and for methods of high-speed data transfer like frame relay. Much of the added capacity may go for these services, rather than ordinary voice calls.
Moreover, the Asian expansion parallels growth in Europe, especially as a gateway to Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. In Asia by 1998, if the Asian Pacific Cable Network is included, the maximum capacity will rise to the equivalent of more than 600,000 calls, from about 120,000 calls this year. In Europe by 1996, capacity is expected to rise to nearly 1.1 million calls, from about 217,000 calls this year.
Last week, A.T.& T. said it would invest the largest stake -- $402 million, or 35 percent -- in TPC-5. The $1.12 billion network will link California with Hawaii, Guam and Japan.
Forty-six other carriers from 34 countries, including MCI Communications and Kokusai Denshin Denwa of Japan, are also investing in the project. The entire network will be ready for service in 1996.
 
Language in Light
 The TPC-5 network and the Asia Pacific Cable Network, if it goes forward, will use the latest in fiber-optic technology. Unlike metal-based technology, which sends an electrical signal over a copper wire, fiber optics uses tiny lasers to send a rapid burst of invisible light over strands of glass resembling angel-hair pasta.
The light bursts are the on-off digital language of computers and can be used to encode information in much the same way Morse Code encoded a telegram in the 19th century.
TPC-5 is an improvement over previous fiber-optic networks, however, because it incorporates optical amplifiers. These amplifiers take a burst of light as it begins to fade over 20 miles, increases it, then sends it on to the next amplifier. Current fiber-optic systems use "regenerative repeaters" that receive a fading burst of light, convert it to an electrical signal, then convert it back into light, which is a less reliable process.
Also, the TPC-5 network no longer relies on satellite backup in case of an accident, like a cut cable, but on the latest "self-healing" computer software. Previously, service could be interrupted for hours as satellites gradually take over service. Repairs might take as long as three weeks, as ships find the cable cut and fix it.
With the planned TPC-5 network, a cable cut between, say, Southern California and Hawaii, simply means that all calls from Hawaii will be rerouted to Guam, then Japan, to Northern California, then to Southern California. Phone calls travel so quickly, two million miles a hour or more, that callers should not notice a change in itinerary.


GRAPHIC: Technical advances have vastly increased the capacity of telephone cable links between North America and Asia across the Pacific, and between North American and Europe across the Atlantic. Here are the cables that have been put into service since 1970 and the number of simultaneous calls each can handle.

 	 	 	 	 	Transpacific	 	 	 	 	In service	Cable 	Type 	Capacity 	Status	1974 	TPC-2 	Analog	845 	Active	1989	TPC-3 	Digital	40,000 	Active	Nov. 1992	TPC-4 	Digital	80,000 	Under construction	1996 	TPC-5 	Digital	320,000 	Planned	Not yet set	APCN 	Digital	160,000 	Planned	 	 	 	 	 	Transatlantic	 	 	 	 	In service	Cable 	Type 	Capacity 	Status	1970 	TAT-5 	Analog	1,690 	Due to be retired	1976 	TAT-6 	Analog	8,400 	Active	1983 	TAT-7 	Analog	8,400 	Active	1988 	TAT-8 	Digital	40,000 	Active	1992 	TAT-9 	Digital	80,000 	Active	1992 	TAT-10 	Digital	80,000 	Active	Aug. 1993	TAT-11 	Digital	80,000 	Under construction	Late 1994	Columbus 2	Digital	80,000 	Planned	1996 	TAT-12,13	Digital	700,000 	Planned	
 
(Source: American Telephone & Telegraph)
Chart: "Cables Under the Sea"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (90%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); TAIWAN (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T) AT&T INC (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS ASIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); TAIWAN (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); DATA TRANSMISSION (89%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (78%); FIBER OPTICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



111 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Nissan Has First Loss In 4 Decades

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Caught between shrinking sales and unyielding costs, the Nissan Motor Company posted its first net loss in four decades, the company said today in announcing its half-year results.
Nissan, Japan's second-largest auto maker, after the Toyota Motor Corporation, and the fourth largest in the world, said it had a net loss of $178 million in the six months that ended Sept. 30, the first such loss since listing its shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in 1951. 
 Nissan said it expected to break even in the second half, still leaving it with an annual loss, but analysts said even that might be difficult to achieve.
 
A Sluggish Market
"Our performance reflects the sluggish state of the Japanese market," the executive vice president, Atsushi Muramatsu, told a news conference. Cost-cutting and a rebound in domestic orders should enable Nissan not to lose money in the next six months, he said.
"The business results of the first half of fiscal 1992-93 were disappointing to our investors and to the management, mainly because of simultaneous depression in the three major markets -- Japan, the United States and the European Community," he said.
"Hopefully, domestic car sales will start recovering in the second half of calendar 1993. I expect modest profit in fiscal 1993-94."
Domestic sales are expected to recover soon but analysts said that the rise would not be big and that Nissan might not be the first to benefit.
"Nissan is going to have to review its product line very carefully because the market cannot come roaring back," said Michael Morizumi of Lehman Brothers.
Car sales have suffered severely from Japan's slowing economy. The Japan Automobile Dealers' Association said today that domestic vehicle sales in October fell 13.6 percent from a year earlier, the fourth straight monthly decline.
But Nissan's sales fared worse than most, falling 23.2 percent in October, compared with October 1991.
In the January-October period, industrywide sales fell a less drastic 6.5 percent, but Nissan's slid 10.9 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (94%); TYT (LSE) (91%); TM (NYSE) (91%); 7203 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (78%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (94%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MOTOR CO EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



112 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar in Strong Advance On Polls Favoring Clinton

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar staged a strong across-the-board advance yesterday as traders prepared for the possibility that Gov. Bill Clinton would be elected President.
Dealers said the dollar was pushed up by late polls showing Governor Clinton ahead of President Bush. Many traders expect that Governor Clinton, if elected President, will increase Government spending to stimulate the economy, which would probably result in higher interest rates. 
 High interest rates make dollar-denominated securities more valuable to investors, thereby increasing their demand for the American currency.
The dollar's impressive rally was "mainly an extension of the Clinton factor," said Andrew Hodge, a vice president at Bank Brussels Lambert.
In Tokyo, the dollar rose to a closing of 123.69 Japanese yen from 123.35 yen at Friday's close. Later, in London, it rose to 123.90 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 123.60 yen, up from 123.40 yen on Friday.
 
British Pound falls
 In London, the British pound fell to $1.5340, from $1.5625 late Friday. In New York it cost $1.5340 to buy one pound, less expensive than Friday's $1.5565.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's rates, included: 1.5660 German marks, up from 1.5420; 1.3955 Swiss francs, up from 1.3735; 5.3065 French francs, up from 5.2345; 1,342.50 Italian lire, up from 1,322.00, and 1.2412 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2385.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Friday's rates, included: 1.5665 German marks, up from 1.5435; 1.3980 Swiss francs, up from 1.3770; 5.3115 French francs, up from 5.2340; 1.7640 Dutch guilders, up from 1.7364; 1,344.00 Italian lire, up from 1,318.25, and 1.2413 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2387.
Gold prices were mostly higher. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery settled at a $339.90 troy ounce, up 50 cents from Friday. But the Republic National Bank said gold slipped 70 cents an ounce, to a late bid price of $338.80.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $340.15 a troy ounce, from $339.45 bid late Friday. In Zurich, gold fell to a closing bid of $339.25 an ounce, from $339.40 late Friday. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold rose 88 cents an ounce to close at a bid of $339.79.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (52%); HSB (PAR) (52%); HBC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: ING BELGIUM SA/NV (57%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (52%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (76%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (91%); BRITISH POUND (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GERMAN MARK (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); GOVERNORS (58%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (95%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



113 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Season of Plenty Has Hurt Farmers

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
WITH the leaks in his barn roof getting worse, Scott Nevin, who farms 165 acres in Maryland, found himself forced to make repairs. The bill was $5,000 and to pay it, Mr. Nevin sold 25 head of cattle, well before they were fully fattened for slaughter. "We did not even try for a bank loan," he said. Prices for livestock and for most other farm produce have begun to slide and Mr. Nevin feared that he could not keep up payments on a loan.
For the first time since the great drought of 1988, an American farm crisis might be in the making. So far, the pain is not as traumatic as it was in the 1980's, when foreclosures and bankruptcy were commonplace. The hardship today is more subtle. Like so many other Americans, farmers are watching anxiously as their incomes begin to decline. And like Mr. Nevin, they are pulling back, expecting the hard times to persist. 
 "Farmers over a period of time have been trying to reduce their costs, and those farmers who have not been as successful as others are really getting caught in a bind by this latest situation," said Ronald Knutson, director of the Agricultural and Food Policy Center at Texas A & M University.
The incipient crisis involves odd bedfellows. Rather than the drought that destroyed crops in 1988, the chief villain this time is a bumper grain harvest, including a record corn harvest. Bountiful grain and ample livestock herds are pushing down prices paid to farmers. That often happens when food is plentiful, but this time falling demand aggravates the price decline.
The recession and slow recovery have dampened food sales at home, and deteriorating incomes in many third world countries mean that hundreds of millions of people are purchasing less food, just when harvests overseas have also been good and the world's grain reserves are rising. What is more, Russia and the other states in the former Soviet Union, once such big and reliable customers for excess American grain, are less so today, lacking the dollars to make regular purchases.
"I don't know what to forecast; there is so much uncertainty," said Robert Young, co-director of the Food and Agricultural Research Institute at the University of Missouri. The institute attempts to forecast long-term agricultural trends.
The uncertainty is extra painful for American farmers, still shaken from their experience with debt in the 1980's. Having piled on debt to buy land and equipment, they were caught when farmland plunged in value and a few bad harvests left them without enough income to pay loan installments.
By postponing investments, the nation's farmers have reduced their total outstanding debt to $140 billion, from $194 billion in 1984. But farmland, whose average value is $557 an acre today, has failed to regain its old height of $700 an acre in the early 1980's and has not risen at all in the last two years. Still suffering from this loss in wealth and seeing crop prices falling, farmers are cutting back more than ever -- hurting farm equipment manufacturers in the process.
Tractor sales were down 12 percent for the year that ended in September, and sales of combines fell by 33 percent. The current annual production rate -- 65,000 tractors and 4,400 combines -- means the four major manufacturing companies are producing at less than 50 percent of capacity. Indeed, the average tractor in use today is 18 years old and "everyone is trying to figure out when the farmers will buy again," said Emmett Barker, president of the Equipment Manufacturers Institute.
Mr. Nevin has no plans. He purchased his "new" tractor in 1974. The "old" one is a 1950 model.
The sliding crop prices and falling demand come just when Federal farm support programs are contracting. In the past, Government subsidies kicked in to offset the declining prices and sustain farmers' incomes. But those programs were curtailed by the 1985 and 1990 farm laws. Today, support payments cover only about 50 percent of a farmer's potential crop. Reflecting the cutback, Federal outlays have fallen to an estimated $13.9 billion in the current fiscal year from $26.5 billion in 1986.
By cutting subsidies, the Reagan and Bush Administrations sought to reduce the budget deficit and to make farmers less dependent on the Government. But without ample subsidies, or rising prices to help farmers along, the smaller and less efficient farms are less and less able to survive.
Mr. Knutson at Texas A & M lists these minimum requirements for a profitable farm: a 1,000- to 2,000-acre spread, an investment of nearly $1 million in buildings and equipment and a farmer skilled both in technology and in marketing his crop. About 20 percent of the two million American farms are in this category. Mr. Nevin, whose herd has dwindled to 45 head of cattle from more than 100 a few years ago, is not among them.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (52%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (52%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (52%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (55%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (55%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FARMERS FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); TRENDS (75%); CORN FARMING (73%); GRAIN RESERVES (73%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS SCOTT NEVIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



114 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Sotheby's to Increase Charges Paid by Buyers

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
A week before the biggest sales of the fall, Sotheby's announced yesterday that it would increase the 10 percent commission it charges purchasers.
Beginning on Jan. 1, buyers are to be charged 15 percent on all goods sold for $50,000 or less. Sales of higher value are to be charged 15 percent on the first $50,000 and 10 percent thereafter. The increase was the first change since the commission was initiated, in London in 1975 and in the United States in 1979. 
 Sotheby's archrival, Christie's, said yesterday that it had no plans to change its commission of 10 percent.
The new price structure at Sotheby's means the commission -- known in the trade as the buyer's premium -- on an object sold for $50,000 will increase from $5,000 to $7,500. The new price structure will go into effect at all 22 of Sotheby's auction locations.
 
Mixed Reactions
 The increase, which was approved on Friday at Sotheby's board meeting in London, met with mixed response in the art world. "I don't think they'll be able to maintain the increase unless Christie's joins them," said Lawrence Rubin, director of M. Knoedler & Company, a Manhattan gallery. "It strikes me that this is not the time to make additional charges that will only make prices seem higher."
Peter Schaffer, an owner of A la Vieille Russie, a Fifth Avenue dealer, said: "We always thank customers for a purchase; we don't charge them extra. I don't understand it in this economy."
Ashton Hawkins, executive vice president and counsel to the trustees of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said he thought the higher premium would discourage smaller buyers. "But maybe that's what they're trying to do," he said. "It seems like a peculiar moment to have made this announcement in view of the forthcoming sales in November. However, I'm sure they've thought the strategy through very carefully. We'll have to wait and see how it affects the market."
 
Following the Market
 Michael L. Ainslie, president and chief executive of Sotheby's, said: "The impetus for the raise was our concern to continue to provide our clients with a broad range of services. We have looked at every way possible of managing our costs: we have cut costs $45 million since 1990 and frozen high-level salaries for the last three years. In the end, we feel, the decision will make Sotheby's a stronger company."
Mr. Ainslie said a significant number of smaller auction houses in countries like Germany, Switzerland and Italy have already raised their buyer's premiums to 15 percent. "We felt this was in Sotheby's and the marketplace's best interest," he said.
At the same meeting, Sotheby's also announced a net loss for the third quarter, ended Sept. 30, of $7.7 million, compared to $5.4 million for the same period last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S SOTHEBY'S (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (68%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS; COMMISSIONS (FEES) PRICE CHANGES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); COMMISSION PAY (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); APPROVALS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



115 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
The N.B.A. Discovers It Can't Outleap Reality

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
A professional sports league with a long history of being at the fore of social issues could not, finally, hold up against the weight and power of AIDS. The National Basketball Association tried its best, put on its happiest face, but ultimately shrank when confronted with a disease that divides and kills.
The league descended from the height of the gold-medal pedestal at the Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain, last summer to a world of understandable fear, unavoidable back-room sniping and, regrettably, ignorant, needless speculation about a man's sexual choices. 
 Magic Johnson said in September that he had returned to the Los Angeles Lakers to make a statement for those infected with H.I.V. But when he quit the Lakers yesterday, less than a week to the year of his shocking announcement that he had acquired the virus that causes AIDS, there was only one message to be grasped: that the N.B.A. -- including Johnson -- has been no more successful than the rest of the country in galvanizing itself to deal with this scourge.
"The N.B.A. is nothing other than a microcosm of society," said Charles Grantham, the executive director of the N.B.A. Players Association.
Perhaps, but within the N.B.A. there has always been the progressive belief that it was possible for public enterprise to be more than a reflection of the status quo. On issues like race, drugs, labor relations and practical economics, the N.B.A. consistently left the other professional sports leagues looking primitive, out of touch. But dealing with AIDS may have been too much to ask.
 
The League's Most Beloved Player
 Not that the N.B.A. didn't try valiantly for many months. Part of its resolve, no doubt, was because the player who was suddenly infected, in need of a hug, was the most beloved in the history of the sport. The N.B.A. and its players happily turned over the All-Star Game to Magic Johnson last February and welcomed him as the captain of the Olympic team.
The league sought medical experts to dismiss the possibility of danger at the All-Star Game. The players' union undertook an aggressive educational program for players at Johns Hopkins University and said it stood behind Johnson at every turn. The N.B.A.'s face seemed to be smiling in the face of AIDS, when people thought the only real choice one had was to cry.
But as Karl Malone of the Utah Jazz said in an article in last Sunday's New York Times: "The Dream Team was a concept that everybody loved. Now we're back to reality." He meant that Johnson's decision to play in the games that count, those that are fiercely fought, was not exactly what many of the players had in mind.
 
Behind the Smile
 When Johnson announced in September that he wanted back in, the leaguewide smile began to look more and more like a mask. The statements of loyal support -- in particular the kind released in September and again yesterday by the league's commissioner, David Stern, who, out of character, never made himself available for further comment -- sounded more and more hollow. Now it wasn't so much an issue of public relations as it was a matter of public opinion, the public being the players who were going to take the risk of playing against Johnson, as infinitesimal as doctors insisted the risk would be.
"For all those players who didn't feel comfortable, I would say there was an overwhelming number who were," said Grantham. "But I can't speak for everyone. There are 325 individual opinions."
It wasn't simply a heightened, even distorted, fear of playing against Johnson, despite the assurances of the medical world, that finally drove him out. It was a revulsion to a disease that has forced people to re-examine their values, their convictions, their ability to set aside life-style differences for the sake of humanity. It was the N.B.A., as Charles Grantham said, being nothing other than a microcosm of society.
 
'A Lot of Male Egos Out There'
 It turns out that it was not just the issue of transmission that players have been whispering about these last several weeks. Several admitted that there has been widespread discussion on how Johnson may have contracted the virus in the first place.
"That's a lot of male egos out there not wanting to believe they can get this from a woman so they can go on doing what they want to do without having to worry," said the Nets' Sam Bowie. "Magic's always been a standup guy. I have no reason not to believe him and there's no reason, when you really think about it, to care how he got it in the first place."
A smiling, beloved champion from the time he entered high school, Johnson obviously cared about what was being said around the league. So much so, that he dragged himself deeper into the rumors by addressing them. Suddenly, this gifted man who had brought so much good feeling to his sport was becoming a walking supermarket tabloid. Could it be that Johnson sat in a hotel room one night last week and told himself: I don't have to be out here.
The primal fears, the divisions created by a killer disease that knows no conscience, could create more stress in a man's life than all 82 N.B.A. games combined.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (72%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES LAKERS; NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA) KARL MALONE TOYATA (51%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (91%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (91%); ORLANDO MAGIC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS; NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA) NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (91%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (91%); ORLANDO MAGIC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (72%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; RETIREMENT; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS) BASKETBALL (95%); AIDS & HIV (94%); SPORTS (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (77%); VIRUSES (72%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, EARVIN (MAGIC); ARATON, HARVEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



116 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 6; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: TV SPORTS;
Bulls Gain Go-Ahead From Courts

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir

 BODY:
If Harry Caray had been sitting beside Antonin Scalia and Sandra Day O'Connor on the Supreme Court yesterday, the Chicago Cubs' barker-in-chief could have roared: "Bulls win! Bulls win!"
Not only did the Bulls win, they defeated the National Basketball Association on the eve of the 1992-93 season. 
 In a case that began two years ago, the Bulls, led by the owner Jerry Reinsdorf (who also serves as a designated agitator in baseball), challenged an N.B.A. rule that would have limited teams to 20 superstation telecasts per season.
But the Supreme Court affirmed, without comment, a lower court ruling that declared the N.B.A.'s rule an illegal restraint of trade. In so doing, the court rejected league contentions that it should be treated as "an economically integrated joint venture that competes" as one unit, not an object of antitrust enforcement.
(Even the presence of the former Supreme Court nominee, Robert Bork, arguing for the N.B.A., did not sway the Court into reversing the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals' ruling.)
The N.B.A.'s rule was imposed ostensibly to protect the four-year, $875-million value of the national broadcast and cable packages sold to NBC and TNT. The N.B.A. did not want superstation games sponging viewers from NBC and TNT, even though the superstations never compete directly.
And the N.B.A. argued: Without us, the Bulls are nothing; without other teams to play, the Bulls' contract with WGN means nothing; without a limitation on superstation broadcasts, the league's TV viability is damaged.
As the case was passed from court to higher court, the league allowed the Bulls (and the Atlanta Hawks on WTBS) to air 30 games on WGN, the increasingly notorious Chicago superstation that reaches 34 million cable viewers and is owned by the Tribune Company (which, in baseball, has gobbled up the TV rights to seven teams).
The league could not convince the courts that it was exempt from antitrust concerns because of alleged protection under a 1961 law granting exemptions to leagues when they sell TV rights to a national package of games to a network.
The law did not envision the power of superstations or the explosion of sports on TV. It seems as anachronistic as the Du Mont network.
But the Bulls succeeded in their interpretation of the law: that the league could not control the sale of a number of games to a station and any limitation on a team's right to do so violated antitrust law.
This superstation talk sounds like the ado in major league baseball, where the issue has never been joined in court. Fay Vincent, before he was ousted as baseball commissioner, had lobbied Congress hard for superstation-limiting legislation, arguing that the WGN's and WTBS's of the nation eat into local and national ratings and local advertising revenues.
Baseball and basketball have never come up with enough hard evidence to persuade a court or Congress or the public that superstations are the evil entities they are portrayed as.
"The message here," said Joel Chefitz, the Bulls' lawyer, "is you have to be prepared to defend your decisions when you try to limit the output of your joint venture partners. You have to defend with hard evidence which they didn't have or wouldn't show."
The Bulls' court victory will not likely provoke a rush by basketball and baseball teams to increase the number of games they sell to superstations. There are only two superstations operating in the N.B.A. And any rapid redeployment of broadcasts would upset existing contracts with their current rights-holders.
For the N.B.A., the next step is reviewing contractual options for the future, as outlined by the appeals court, which include the league's taking over all local broadcasts or charging fees to superstations to carry games, as baseball does.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); CHICAGO BULLS TRIBUNE CO (52%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); CHICAGO BULLS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); CHICAGO CUBS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); CHICAGO BULLS NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); CHICAGO BULLS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); CHICAGO CUBS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; TELEVISION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS BASKETBALL (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); BASEBALL (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); SPORTS (75%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (74%); JUDGES (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD ANTONIN SCALIA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



117 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1876 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Ponder Saving Planet From Earth-Bound Comet

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
THEORETICIANS of doom, who have long pondered the odds of cosmic bombardment and whether a way might be found to save the planet from destruction, always dabbling in abstractions, suddenly have a real case study on their hands with the rediscovery of a large comet now calculated to have roughly a 1-in-10,000 chance of hitting Earth.
While low odds of disaster rule out a sense of urgency, as does the distant date of potential collision, Aug. 14, 2126, doomsday scientists are nonetheless having a field day as they envision ways to track and divert the icy interloper, cheerily hoping against hope that they can ride to the rescue with their rockets and nuclear warheads. 
 They calculate that, in theory, there are three main opportunities for emergency action before the possible crackup of comet and planet: 134 years, 4 years and 15 days before collision. The longer the period of inaction, these experts say, the bigger the effort needed to deflect the speeding intruder. A last-minute diversion would require a giant nuclear explosion some 100,000 times larger than the blast that leveled Hiroshima.
The comet, a mountain of ice and dirt some six miles in diameter, is now hurtling through the inner solar system at 37 miles a second. On its return 134 years from now, it has a remote chance of striking Earth.
Its speed and size are judged to be large enough so that its impact would be similar to many thousands of nuclear warheads going off simultaneously on the same spot, creating a global pall of dust that would block sunlight, disrupt the climate and possibly end civilization. Such a collision 65 million years ago is widely believed to have contributed to the extinction of the dinosaurs.
Eager to avoid that kind of predicament, and apparently happy to try on the role of planetary saviors, Federal and private scientists are now quietly working computers, faxes and telephone lines, calculating how, when and where a nudge or two from a nuclear weapon or a futuristic reactor might divert Swift-Tuttle from a doomsday course.
"We could definitely deal with it," Dr. John D. G. Rather, assistant director for space technology at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, who led a recent Federal study on cosmic interdiction, said in an interview.
"It's a fascinating topic," said Dr. Johndale C. Solem, a physicist at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico who aided the study. "These things are going to hammer our planet every 100 million years or so and produce a massive extinction until a species evolves that can do something about it."
Skeptics say the current interest in Swift-Tuttle is a result of scheming by astronomers and bomb makers to drum up business by practicing the kind of threat inflation the Pentagon excelled at in the cold war.
But doomsday enthusiasts insist the threat is real, saying space is swarming with thousands of Earth-crossing asteroids and comets that could wreak global havoc and, given enough time, undoubtedly will do so. They note that it was Congress in 1990 that asked the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to conduct a major study of the problem after a half-mile-wide asteroid crossed Earth's path at an uncomfortably close range.
In late March, the large NASA team that conducted the study made headlines by calling for an international effort to scan the heavens for impending danger, saying an organized effort would "provide insurance for our planet."
The study's leaders now say that in all probability during the 22d century Swift-Tuttle will not be the beginning of the end. But they insist that the comet, at the very least, should now be tracked closely to better understand its orbit and to refine the odds of disaster.
"One in 10,000 is not an infinitesimal risk," said Dr. Clark R. Chapman, an astronomer at the Planetary Science Institute in Tucson, Ariz., a private group. If the comet turns out to be a serious threat, he added, "our great-great grandchildren would have to deal with it, not ourselves."
The comet got its name during the Civil War when it was sighted July 16, 1862, by an American astronomer, Lewis Swift, in upstate New York and independently three days later by another astronomer, Horace Tuttle, at Harvard University. It brightened in September into an object visible to the naked eye, which became known as the Great Comet of 1862.
Today astronomers believe Swift-Tuttle causes the annual Perseid meteor shower, which usually peaks in August. The comet's repeated passes through the solar system over the ages, all the while shedding bits of dust and debris, have formed a river of particles along its path. As Earth passes through this river each year, the sky comes alive with flashes of light. The Perseids are the best known and most reliable of the many meteor showers throughout the year.
 
Mystery Is Solved
 Swift-Tuttle's own placement in this well-known orbital band was something of a mystery until late September this year when Tsuruhiko Kiuchi, a Japanese amateur astronomer using a large pair of binoculars, rediscovered it. The sighting was the most important since the reappearance of Halley's comet nearly a decade ago.
Swift-Tuttle's closest approach to Earth on this pass is now calculated to be this coming Saturday, and soon afterward it may become visible to the naked eye. Astronomers say next year's Perseid shower will probably be unusually bright, having been recently recharged by the comet's passage.
The reappearance turned ominous after astronomers used new sightings to predict the comet's future path. On Oct. 15, the International Astronomical Union, the world astronomy authority, issued its first warning of a potential collision between Earth and a large object from outer space, saying there was a slight chance Swift-Tuttle might strike Earth on its next pass.
The uncertainty is great because astronomers have no idea how much its orbit will be shifted by the eruptive forces on the comet's surface, which increase as it nears the Sun and work like rocket engines.
"We know nongravitational effects are at work," said Dr. Brian G. Marsden of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge, Mass., "but we don't know to what extent."
 
Tracking of Comet
 Dr. Marsden, who wrote the union's warning, has encouraged the group's members to train telescopes on the comet to better understand its orbit, especially after it has left the Sun's vicinity in a few years and the jet-like activity has stopped.
Some scientists cast doubt Dr. Marsden's current 1-in-10,000 estimate for the risk of the comet's hitting Earth, saying the odds of collision may be far lower. "There's some tiny chance the thing would hit us," said Dr. Alan W. Harris, a planetary scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif.
But Dr. Harris also cautioned that the exact extent of risk could long remain a mystery since forecasts could be rendered obsolete by unrecognized gravitational forces working on the comet in the icy fringes of the solar system, beyond the ken of Earth's observatories.
"It could be subject to major perturbations in the outer planets," Dr. Harris said. "It's hard to make predictions that hold up for 134 years."
A much easier job, he said, is tracking Earth-crossing asteroids, rocky bodies that circle the Sun every few years and sometimes pass through Earth's path. The larger of these are often able to be observed continually.
Given the limitations of comet watching and predicting, some students of the doomsday collision, like Dr. Gregory H. Canavan of the Los Alamos laboratory, have informally proposed that a radio beacon be attached to Swift-Tuttle so its progress through the solar system can be more easily monitored. But others say it is already too late for such a rendezvous. They point out that the comet will soon be moving rapidly away from Earth and would be very difficult for a rocket to overtake.
The ease or difficulty of diverting a comet, experts say, depends on how much time scientists have to prepare. If decades or centuries are available, an orbit in theory could be shifted by placing a nuclear or chemical reactor on the comet's surface that would very slowly turn ice into jets of steam firing like small rockets, similar to natural volatility. Even a relatively small force, applied at an early stage, could significantly shift a comet's orbit since the small changes would add up dramatically over great distances.
But even if the comet were judged a serious threat today, while still in Earth's vicinity, there would be little or no time to develop and field the complex equipment needed for such a leisurely approach. Thus, the first plausible opportunity for a rendezvous would be out past Saturn on its return in the 22d century as the comet moved through the plane of the planets. That would be about four years before a possible collision with Earth.
Dr. Solem of Los Alamos has calculated that at that point a nuclear explosion equal to 10 million tons of high explosive would be needed to nudge the comet's orbit enough so it would just miss Earth. To be prudent, he said, the nuclear explosion should probably be on the order of 100 million tons, and backup bombs should be ready for action.
America's first hydrogen bomb, exploded in 1952, had a force of about 10 million tons of high explosive and was about 700 times more powerful than the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima. The largest nuclear blast of all time, achieved by the Russians, had a force equal to about 60 million tons of high explosive.
If an armada of nuclear-tipped interceptors failed to divert the comet beyond Saturn, another opportunity would occur in the year 2126 during its closest approach to the Sun, some 15 days before slamming into Earth. At that point, to produce the same degree of diversion, Dr. Solem said, a nuclear explosion would have to be about 100 times larger, equal to billions of tons of high explosive.
A cometary near miss, Dr. Solem noted, "would still be a spectacular sight" as the giant fireball of Swift-Tuttle blazed through Earth's outer atmosphere, lighting the sky in a brilliant display of fireworks that would last about three minutes.
If all attempts at diversion failed, and the comet and Earth collide on Aug. 14, 2126 during the exceedingly small window of vulnerability that day, which is only three or four minutes long, the results by all accounts would be horrific.
Asteroids move along at roughly 16 or 17 miles a second in relation to Earth, while Swift-Tuttle would be zipping along at more than twice that speed, 37 miles a second, increasing its energy of collision nearly sixfold over that of an asteroid.
Earth's atmosphere would offer no resistance, being essentially invisible to the speeding comet.
As the comet struck ocean or dry land, vaporizing on contact, heaving boulders into the sky, pulverizing rocks and sending clouds of dust around the globe, the explosion would be larger than the one that is thought to have helped wipe out the dinosaurs.
"This would finish us off," Dr. Solem remarked. "Whether you're in New York or Afghanistan or wherever, the impact would be global. I don't think Homo sapiens would survive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Swift-Tuttle, photographed in mid-October by Ronald W. Kohl, orthodontist and amateur astronomer, with a 20-inch telescope. (pg. C10)
 
Diagram: "Avoiding Doomsday"
 
Experts are now studying places to intercept Comet Swift-Tuttle, which is speeding through the inner solar system and has a slight chance of hitting Earth the next time around. (pg. C10)
 
Drawing (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS MONITOR (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (66%); EARTH (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; COMETS; EARTH; ATOMIC WEAPONS; SWIFT-TUTTLE (COMET) NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CASE STUDIES (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



118 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Top Congressional Races to Watch in Connecticut

 BODY:
U.S. Senate
 
The Candidates
 
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, 48, Democrat. Elected in 1980, Connecticut's senior United States Senator. Served six years as Representative of the 2d District. Has raised $3.2 million and expects to spend all of it.
 
BROOK JOHNSON, 46. A textile executive and a political neophyte. Unknown to voters and seasoned politicians alike, he won the state's Republican primary, although his opponent was the party's endorsed candidate. Has spent about $2 million so far, all but about $300,000 of it his own money.
 
The Issues
The main issue in this race, as in the House races, has been jobs. Mr. Dodd has promised that his first priority in a new term would be defending jobs in Connecticut while working to restart the economy nationwide. Echoing Gov. Bill Clinton, the Democratic Presidential nominee, he has sharply criticized the Bush Administration, particularly for offering aid and trade concessions to Russia, China and Mexico while doing nothing to end the recession at home.
Mr. Johnson, who generally does not take a highly partisan line, says the economy has turned sour and the Federal deficit has grown because the Government, controlled by special interests, does not act like a business.
 
Analysis
Mr. Dodd, who has been in Congress for 18 years, has tried to portray himself as a capable, experienced legislator, whose seniority alone has been an asset for Connecticut. Mr. Johnson, on the other hand, has emphasized his background as a businessman, saying that is what is needed to control Congressional spending and to revitalize the economy. This contest has been the most expensive Senate race in Connecticut history -- with Mr. Johnson spending more money than any single individual before him -- but Mr. Dodd holds a seemingly insurmountable lead in the polls.
 
U.S. House of Representatives
 
2D DISTRICT: EASTERN CONNECTICUT
 
The Candidates
 
SAM GEJDENSON, 44, Democrat. A six-term Democrat from Bozrah. Has served on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Also running on the A Connecticut Party line.
 
EDWARD W. MUNSTER, 51, Republican. A biostatistician and State Senator from Haddam. Won the primary against an opponent endorsed by the party.
 
The District
The district, which covers the eastern half of the state, is home to many defense-oriented manufacturers and, consequently, has high unemployment these days.
 
The Issues
Mr. Gejdenson has found himself on the defensive over checks he bounced at the House Bank and criticism that he has lost touch with the district. In an effort to rebut his critics, he takes credit for bringing contracts, money and jobs to his district. Mr. Munster has campaigned on a platform that calls for cutting perks for members of Congress and limiting terms to 12 years. He has also called for economic diversification, including retraining workers, and support for companies that specialize in new technologies.
 
Analysis
In the last two years the district has been devastated by the recession, with dramatic job lossess from reductions in the nation's defense budget. Few public polls have been done on the race, but Mr. Munster is thought to be more of a threat to Mr. Gejdenson than any of his other recent opponents. Mr. Munster stresses his status as a moderate Republican when he appeals to voters' concerns over the region's economic trouble. Although vulnerable, Mr. Gejdenson expresses confidence that his record will carry him to re-election.
 
3D DISTRICT: SOUTH-CENTRAL CONNECTICUT
 
The Candidates
 
ROSA DELAURO, 49, Democrat. A freshman Representative from New Haven who in 1990 narrowly beat Tom Scott, now her opponent once again.
 
TOM SCOTT, 34, Republican. A former State Senator, he now heads the Connecticut Taxpayers Committee, an anti-tax lobby founded two years ago.
 
The District
The district runs along the coast, from Stratford to Clinton and includes New Haven. Like most areas in the state, it has been badly hit by the recession with its layoffs and slowed economy.
 
The Issues
Ms. DeLauro has campaigned largely on her record, which includes support for the highway jobs bill and efforts at improving health care. She also sought a tax cut for the middle class during her first term, but the bill was vetoed by President Bush. A former cancer patient, Ms. DeLauro has also urged more research and programs to deal with women's health problens, including breast and ovarian cancer. Mr. Scott, a staunch conservative, has been a consistent and vocal opponent of the state's personal income tax, the first in Connecticut history. He also opposes additional taxes, as well as abortion rights
 
Analysis
The race is a repeat of the candidates' contentious campaign in 1990. After losing to Ms. DeLauro by just 7,332 votes, Mr. Scott remained in the political spotlight as the leader of the revolt against the state income tax. He maintains that the public attention will translate into enough votes to win a second time around. Ms. DeLauro's supporters point to her effectiveness in her first term, but the race is likely to be close.
 
5TH DISTRICT: WESTERN CONNECTICUT
 
The Candidates
 
GARY FRANKS, 39, Republican. Elected in 1990, the only black Republican in Congress.
 
JAMES LAWLOR, 49, Democrat. A probate judge from Waterbury.
 
LYNN TABORSAK, 49, independent. A plumber and state representative.
 
The District
The district is a bat-shaped swath of western Connecticut that includes wealthy towns like Walton and depressed ones like Ansonia, as well as Waterbury.
 
The Issues
Mr. Franks's campaign has consisted largely of defending himself against charges from his opponents that he is not sympathetic to the needs of the district. Even supporters describe his first term as inauspicious. Mr. Lawlor considers himself a moderate, but his opposition to abortion, among other stances, has earned him a reputation as a conservative. He has vowed to take immediate steps to create jobs with government subsidies and training programs. Ms. Taborsak views herself as a political rebel, but in spite of her independent candidacy, she says she is the best Democrat in the race. She favors public-works projects and tax credits for investment in industry to create jobs, as well as more Federal support for education and cities.
 
Analysis
Despite a lackluster first term that included a staff shakeup and personal financial crises, Mr. Franks has drawn support from national Republicans, including campaign help from Henry Kissinger and the Commerce Secretary, Lynn Martin. Mr. Lawlor narrowly defeated Ms. Taborsak in the Democratic primary. Ms. Taborsak decided to continue her campaign as an independent, endorsed by A Connecticut Party, founded by Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. Her campaign is generally considered to have eroded support for Mr. Lawlor and sent some voters reluctantly scurrying to the incumbent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US HOUSE ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (60%); 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (90%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



119 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Style Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: CHRONICLE

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
Asked what characteristics bound together a disparate group of winners of the 1992 Charles A. Dana Awards in Health and Education, Dr. SAMUEL O. THIER, president of Brandeis University and a member of the selection jury, reached back to paraphrase the 18th-century play "The Critic," by Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
"The number of people who undergo the fatigue of thinking for themselves is few indeed," Dr. Thier said yesterday, "and these awards recognize those people." The awards are given annually by the Charles A. Dana Foundation, a philanthropy in New York that gives grants for programs in neuroscience and education. 
 Those whose fatigue will be honored at a black-tie dinner at the Plaza tomorrow and who will receive $50,000 are Dr. STANLEY B. PRUSINER, professor of neurology and biochemistry at the University of California School of Medicine, San Francisco, for the discovery of a new disease process that is expected to increase understanding of cell biology in the brain; HENRY M. LEVIN, professor of education and economics at Stanford University, for a project that has improved the academic performance of disadvantaged students in danger of failing in 17 states, and GARY D. KELLER, professor of Spanish and Chicano studies at Arizona State University, for a project that encourages the entrance of Hispanic students into graduate schools.
Sharing a prize will be MASAKAZU KONISHI, professor of behavioral biology at the California Institute of Technology, and FERNANDO NOTTEBOHM, director of the Field Research Center for Ethology and Ecology at Rockefeller University, for their work on the interaction between the developing brain and early learning. Their research was conducted on birds that were learning to sing.
Dr. BERNADINE P. HEALY, director of the National Institutes of Health, will receive the Dana Foundation's Distinguished Achievement Award for her efforts to foster research on the health problems of women.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CHRONICLE (TIMES COLUMN); DANA, CHARLES A, AWARDS FOR PIONEERING EDUCATION

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: A DANA FOUNDATION (77%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); VERDICTS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); BRAIN (75%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); CHARITIES (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); BIOCHEMISTRY (73%); BIOLOGY (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); ZOOLOGY (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE FUNDING (70%); 

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE; PRUSINER, STANLEY (DR); LEVIN, HENRY M (PROF); KELLER, GARY D (PROF); KONISHI, MASAKAZU (PROF); NOTTEBOHM, FERNANDO; HEALEY, BERNADINE P SAMUEL O THIER (77%); CHARLES A DANA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



120 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
What Did We Learn?

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
A strange thing happened to the Presidential campaign of 1992 on the way to Election Day.
The November surprise is that the campaign turned out to be unlike so many others -- only strings of cliches and epithets strung together like sausages, giving us nothing to think about except the bellyache. 
 The 1992 campaign gave us some nutrition -- insights into our national self. It told us something about the condition of our political system -- on the whole, good. It also told us something about the condition of our national conscience -- on the whole not so good.
We hardly noticed during the campaign but this certainly pops out now that it is over:
The old lumbering American political system that we are instructed so often to despise produced exactly the right Republican and Democrat to face each other this year.
Mr. Bush was the essential Republican candidate. Nobody else would have served the country -- not the fright-masks of the far right nor any of the intellectual conservatives smoother and better spoken than he.
With Mr. Bush on the ticket, Americans who had cast the majority vote for him had to review not only his decisions, but their own. They could not run from it.
If they decided to vote for him it would be because they still agree with the Reagan-Bush philosophy: Government and taxes are the ruination of America. Good enough.
But Americans who voted for Mr. Bush in 1988 and decided to vote for Mr. Clinton or Ross Perot in 1992 could not in fairness say it was because the President had changed or betrayed them. They voted against Mr. Bush because so many could suddenly picture themselves unemployed, or begging banks for business credit, or in bankruptcy court -- themselves, not somebody else.
So what they wanted in 1992 was what they scorned in 1988 -- more and more government involvement to give them succor when needed.
Mr. Clinton talked of the new Democratic Party. But he also could convey the sense of warmth and ward that was the strength of the old Democratic Party. That link made him precisely the right choice to run against Mr. Bush among the few Democrats with guts enough to run.
If Ross Perot had been capable of the fundamental duty of a candidate -- presenting a thought-out platform and programs, staying in the race from beginning to end, keeping faith with his followers -- Americans would have had a decent choice outside the two-party system.
Yes, and if my aunt had wheels she would be a trolley car.
Mr. Perot is so peculiar a man that he did not understand that when he gave one reason in July for quitting and an entirely different reason in October, why people might conclude that he had lied -- at least once. That man has stamped himself canceled as a choice, hope or a trolley car. He is bad news.
So there is something else we can spot about ourselves as we examine the campaign: the American fantasy that the world will go away if we close our emotions real tight.
While we have been too busy to notice, Russia has been teetering on the verge of economic collapse, Communist China has been building its conventional and nuclear power and shipping overstock to Middle Eastern dictatorships, German Nazis have been having a great time beating foreigners as thousands cheer, a war is going on in Europe and African governments and gunmen are starving their own people to death in numbers known only to the God we assume is keeping statistics, although we cannot be sure.
Trouble is, we cannot blame the candidates alone. They would have talked plenty about starving Somalis and butchered Bosnians and tortured Chinese if there were the slightest evidence that Americans care enough to register on the polls, even a quiver.
Also, they would have talked a lot more about such matters as the riots in Los Angeles and whether we have dealt with all the conditions that led to them, as we swore up and down we would when the city was burning and we were so afraid.
Maybe the candidates even would have told us how we can stuff family values into children of the streets who don't happen to have families.
But now we will have plenty of time to talk. The campaign is all over, and so is fantasy time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



121 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Society, Not Science, Has Failed TB Victims

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Tuberculosis: A Killer Returns" (Oct. 11-15), your valuable series on the resurgence of tuberculosis as a major public health problem, could have given more emphasis to the role of social and economic factors.
As the series indicates, tuberculosis was the health scourge of the late 19th century, but had become a problem of negligible importance by the 1950's. Medical care had very little to do with this decline, however. 
 The impact of medical intervention on tuberculosis mortality over the last century was almost certainly less than 5 percent. What's likely to have been of far greater importance was improved housing and nutrition, higher standards of living generally, and various measures of personal and public hygiene.
This has important implications for the balance of scientific claim and policy prescription in your series. While opportunities may have been missed in biomedical research and in the application of known vaccines, a far more likely explanation for the resurgence of tuberculosis in the inner cities of the developed world is the reappearance of just those living conditions that the social and economic policies of the modern welfare state were designed to eliminate.
This is not to say that we should abandon preventive and curative medicine. Far from it. But what it does mean is that we should take far more seriously the relationship these interventions are likely to have with the underlying social and economic conditions that nurture this disease.
 
PETER DAVIS, JOHN MCKINLAY
Boston, Oct. 19, 1992
 
The writers are respectively, a visiting scholar at and director of Boston University's Center for Health and Advanced Policy Studies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (84%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (84%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (84%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (82%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (82%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (84%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (84%); BOSTON, MA, USA (84%); 

SUBJECT: TUBERCULOSIS TUBERCULOSIS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); BIOMEDICINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); VACCINES (73%); WRITERS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, PETER (BOSTON UNIVERSITY); MCKINLAY, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



122 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: New York Doesn't End At the City Limits

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"How to Keep Business in New York" (editorial, Oct. 21) praises Mayor David N. Dinkins for his administration's successful efforts in keeping the Morgan Stanley Group from moving from one part of this economic region (Manhattan) to another part (Stamford).
This myopic view of what constitutes New York is consistent with Saul Steinberg's famous New Yorker magazine cover, which sums up our xenophophia in one magnificent cartoon. Or with the Big Apple as seen by one former official: the city is Manhattan; the suburbs are Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, and the country is Staten Island and Yonkers. 
 In view of the 40-year migration of economic forces outward from Manhattan, well documented in your news reports, I suggest you consider that New York consists of any place where your newspaper can be purchased at the same price as at Times Square.
 
J. HARRY KLEMM
Stamford, Conn., Oct. 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES; MORGAN STANLEY & CO MORGAN STANLEY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; MORGAN STANLEY & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITIES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RELOCATIONS (71%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KLEMM, J HARRY

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



123 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Ship Subsidies Erode U.S. Jobs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Contrary to "U.S. Shipyards Cost Too Much" (letter, Oct. 7) by a Chevron Shipping Company representative, United States shipbuilders are not pacing the halls of Congress seeking protectionist legislation.
Rather, we have been seeking free trade in the construction and repair of ships by getting foreign governments out of the business of subsidizing and dumping commercial ships on the world market. 
 Subsidized trade is not free trade. Unfortunately, instead of welcoming the efforts of the United States shipbuilding industry to free the marketplace from government distortion, Chevron and others fear the loss of the benefits they get from foreign subsidies, while American industry and American jobs suffer. They oppose our efforts because they want foreign governments to continue subsidizing the capital costs of shipping.
The letter writer refers to an International Trade Commission report that said if antisubsidy legislation were passed, it would lead to an increase in ship prices and shipping costs. This, in turn, would cause imports to decrease, but domestic production and exports to increase.
The International Trade Commission expressed this as if it would be an undesirable outcome. Most Americans, I think, would welcome increased domestic production and increased exports to stimulate our country's economy and put Americans back to work.
Incidentally, there were many flaws in that report. For example, its conclusions about the competitiveness of American shipbuilders were based solely on figures the commission said were bid data for ship construction contracts. It was subsequently proved that none of the figures were ship construction bid data. Chevron and its supporters are protecting their access to foreign subsidies when they seek to deny our industry access to the world market. With 80,000 workers facing layoffs as defense cuts mount, maybe Chevron and its supporters should be encouraging United States shipyards to enter the global marketplace as a way of retaining America's capacity to build ships.
 
JOHN J. STOCKER
President
Shipbuilders Council of America
Arlington, Va., Oct. 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHIPBUILDERS COUNCIL OF AMERICA CHEVRON SHIPPING CO LLC (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHIPBUILDERS COUNCIL OF AMERICA INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING, CONVERSION AND REPAIR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) SHIPBUILDING (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (58%); 

PERSON: STOCKER, JOHN J

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



124 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: Major Races to Watch in Today's Election in New Jersey

 BODY:
U.S. House of Representatives
 
2D DISTRICT: ATLANTIC, BURLINGTON, CAPE MAY, CUMBERLAND, GLOUCESTER, SALEM
 
The Candidates
 
WILLIAM J. HUGHES, 60, a Democrat. The incumbent, he has represented the district for 18 years. Was an assistant prosecutor in Cape May County for a decade before that.
 
FRANK LoBIONDO, 46, a Republican. Elected as State Assemblyman in 1987. Had been a Cumberland County Freeholder for 3 years. Operations manager for a family-owned trucking business.
 
The District
 The Second is the state's largest congressional district, sprawling over six counties, from the Delaware River to the Atlantic Ocean. The vast majority of residents are white, and among voters, Republicans outnumber Democrats, 82,000 to 65,000. But the largest group of voters -- more than 138,000 -- are unaffiliated.
 
The Issues
 Gun control has become a significant issue in the race because the two men have very different views. Mr. Hughes, a gun-control advocate who has written several major anti-crime bills as chairman of the Judiciary subcommittee on crime -- he has since switched to the subcommittee on courts, intellectual property and judicial administration -- has emphasized Mr. LoBiondo's support from the National Rifle Association, which despises Mr. Hughes and applauds Mr. LoBiondo for his sponsorship of a measure to repeal Gov. Jim Florio's ban on assault weapons in the Legislature.
Mr. LoBiondo has assailed Mr. Hughes for votes against the balanced budget amendment to the Constitution and in favor of the Congressional pay raise, as well as his acceptance of such Congressional perks as a taxpayer- provided automobile.
 
Analysis
 Mr. Hughes's self-effacing popularity and attention to the district -- he has spent few weekends in Washington during his long tenure -- have made him all but unbeatable. Despite Mr. LoBiondo's aggressive campaign, the incumbent's roots in the district give him the edge.
 
6TH DISTRICT: MONMOUTH, MIDDLESEX
 
The Candidates
 
FRANK PALLONE JR., 40, Democrat. Lawyer and former Long Branch City Councilman and state legislator. Elected to Congress in 1988.
 
JOSEPH M. KYRILLOS JR., 32, Republican. A State Senator and former member of the General Assembly. Manager of business standards and ethics for the Mid-Atlantic Health Group, a hospital management company in Rumson.
 
The District
The new Sixth District is an amalgam of two areas: the northern half of Mr. Pallone's old Third District along the Jersey Shore, and southern and central Middlesex County from the old Sixth District, which was represented for the last 12 years by Bernard J. Dwyer, who has retired. The southern end of the district begins in Sea Girt, an affluent oceanfront town, and heads north and then west into industrial Middlesex County, which makes up 58 percent of the district and gives it a blue-collar and Democratic cast.
 
The Issues
Mr. Kyrillos has been basing his campaign on voter frustration over the economy and the resulting anti-incumbency mood. He said he recognized that much of the anger was aimed at President Bush, whom he supports, but that voters should remember the role of Congress. He characterizes Mr. Pallone, who attracts many large donations from political action committees, as "the ultimate insider."
Mr. Pallone calls himself a "maverick" and repeats that he was the only member of the New Jersey delegation to vote against the last Congressional pay raise in 1989. He has won the support of national and state environmental organizations for his sponsorship of clean-water legislation in the State Legislature and Congress.
Both men support abortion rights, although Mr. Pallone was a strong opponent of abortion before changing his position three years ago.
 
Analysis
Mr. Pallone has raised five times more money over the last two years than Mr. Kyrillos, who entered the race only last spring. The edge in financing and the strong showing of Gov. Bill Clinton in the Presidential race have helped install Mr. Pallone as the favorite. With Mr. Bush closing the gap in recent days, Mr. Kyrillos has been attracting new support and exhibiting increased enthusiasm as the race ends. Still, a Kyrillos victory would be considered an upset.
 
7TH DISTRICT: ESSEX, MIDDLESES, SOMERSET, UNION
 
The Candidates
ROBERT D. FRANKS, 41, Republican. A member of the Assembly since 1979. Twice served as chairman of the New Jersey Republican State Committee.
 
LEONARD R. SENDELSKY, 58, Democrat. A house builder who founded his own company in 1958. Has never run for office. One of the state's major fund-raisers for Democratic candidates.
 
The District
The newly redrawn district, for 20 years the fief of Representative Matthew J. Rinaldo, a Republican, stretches across northern New Jersey and is one of the most ethnically diverse in the state.
 
The Issues
Neither candidate has found a specific issue to exploit. Instead each has focused on portraying himself as a Washington outsider intent on reforming Congress, while painting his opponent as a political insider.
 
Analysis
Representative Rinaldo surprised everyone when he announced his retirement just days before the filing deadline for the election. With no incumbent and a new district, this is one of the most unpredictable races in the state. After winning the Democratic nomination, Mr. Sendelsky spent much of his effort compiling material for a race against Mr. Rinaldo. Nearly all of it became useless. Mr. Franks's campaign had a late start. Each candidate has claimed to hold a slight edge, while worrying about the outcome.
 
8TH DISTRICT: ESSEX, PASSAIC
 
The Candidates
 
JOSEPH L. BUBBA, 54, Republican. He was elected to the State Senate in 1981. He also served as Passaic County Freeholder and Passaic County Republican chairman in the mid 1970's and early 80's.
 
HERBERT C. KLEIN, 62, Democrat. A lawyer, he served in the State Assembly from 1971 to 1976 when he was defeated in his bid for a third term. As executive director of the Passaic County Democratic Committee, he has remained politically active. He is also one of the biggest fund-raisers for Democratic candidates and causes in the state.
 
The District
With the voting-age population almost equally divided between urban and areas, blue-collar bedroom communities and wealthy mountainside suburbs, the 8th is one of the most varied political districts in the state. Democrats outnumber Republicans, 92,000 to nearly 55,000. But in recent national and statewide elections, an unaffiliated bloc of voters, now numbering about 125,000, have given the edge to Republican candidates. About 70 percent of residents are white, with large blocs of second-generation immigrants. Blacks make up about 15 percent of residents, with most concentrated in two cities, Paterson and Passaic.
 
The Issues
Mr. Bubba, a conservative who prides himself on never having voted for a tax increase in 11 years in Trenton, has attacked Mr. Klein for voting for the state income tax when he was a member of the Assembly in 1976. Mr. Bubba also highlights his tough stance in the Legislature against crime.
Mr. Klein argues that he is "not a career politician who has lost touch with ordinary people." He also assails Mr. Bubba for accepting contributions from the National Rifle Association and supporting the overturn of the state's ban on assault firearms.
 
Analysis
 When Robert A. Roe, a very popular Republican, announced he would not run again after 22 years in Congress, the district turned into a battleground for the first time in two decades. Mr. Bubba has the edge in name recognition, and is thus favored, but the race at this point is considered too close to call.
 
13TH DISTRICT: HUDSON, ESSEX, MIDDLESEX, UNION
 
The Candidates
 
ROBERT MENENDEZ, 38. Mayor of Union City since 1986. Was serving his second term in the State Assembly when selected to fill a vacant State Senate seat in February 1991; was elected to a two-year term in the Senate in November.
 
FRED G. THEEMLING JR., 48. Lawyer and former assistant Hudson County prosecutor. Tried unsucessfully to unseat the retiring incumbent Congressman, Frank Guarini, in 1988 and 1990.
 
The District
The 13th was drawn after the 1990 Census, when New Jersey lost one seat, and comprises working-class, urban areas. Was drawn to maximize Hispanic voter strength; about 43 percent of the district is Hispanic.
 
The Issues
Both candidates have focused on jobs, the economy, health-care costs and crime. Mr. Menendez's "urban agenda" would focus on tax incentives for new development and job-training in urban areas. Both candidates favor urban enterprise zones; Mr. Theemling would also grant tax breaks to companies that hire new workers and raise taxes on businesses that lay off workers to make a profit.
 
Analysis
Mr. Menendez, the Democrat, is the heavy favorite in a district where Democrats far outnumber Republicans. Besides outspending Mr. Theemling by more than 15 to one, he has received all the major endorsements. He is a Cuban-American and many Cuban-American voters in the district, who tend to vote Republican, are expected to support him. He would become New Jersey's first Hispanic representative in Congress.
Mr. Theemling's hope is that the anti-politician, anti-incumbency sentiment in the district will work in his favor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (78%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (92%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (92%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (92%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (92%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES GUN CONTROL (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ETHICS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); BUSINESS ETHICS (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); TRUCKING (56%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (52%); HOSPITALS (50%); 

PERSON: FRANK A LOBIONDO (79%); FRANK PALLONE JR (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992



125 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Senate Candidates Barnstorm Around New York Last Times;
In Party Unity Effort, Abrams Sees 'New Era'

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD

 BODY:
Robert Abrams bumped across a relentlessly gray upstate landscape through intermittent rain, sleet and snow yesterday in a final appeal in areas where polls show a tight race for the United States Senate, then raced back to heavily Democratic Manhattan to stir enthusiasm at a union rally in Harlem and at a handshaking stop on the Upper West Side.
 Sounding a theme of party unity and pounding away at the need for change in Washington, the Attorney General spoke repeatedly of a "new era" in American politics and stressed that Bill Clinton, if elected, will need another vote on the Senate floor if he is to overcome Washington gridlock. He also contended that Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, his Republican opponent, had joined with two Republican administrations to draw jobs and money away from the state. 
Speaking again and again of the hope of a Clinton administration, Mr. Abrams told small gatherings at airports in Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse and Albany that he wanted to have a place in a revitalized Washington.
 "I want to be part of that," he told a group of party faithful and union leaders while standing in a penetratingly cold hangar in Syracuse and urging them to get out the vote. "I want to be at the table."
 
Rain and Rainbows
 By dusk, he was at a rally at the Bethel A.M.E. Church in Harlem, where he was greeted with a standing ovation by about 300 members of the New York City Hospital Employees' Union Local 420 and introduced with the promise that "we are going to wake up in the morning and we are going to go out to the polls because after the rain, comes the rainbow."
 The union rally, which brought together Mayor David N. Dinkins; Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President; Representative Charles B. Rangel, and other city leaders, used the rhetoric of revolution and promised "the end of the dark night" of 12 years of a Republican White House, in the words of one speaker. But it was perhaps most notable for the presence of the Rev. Al Sharpton, whom Mr. Abrams defeated in the bitter primary, and who has consistently refused to formally endorse Mr. Abrams's candidacy.
 Mayor Dinkins called for a Democratic sweep and urged everyone to vote. "We have the franchise," he said to enthusiastic applause. "And we ought not to waste it, because if we do, it's shame on us."
 Mr. Abrams, who sat grinning and relaxed as one speaker after another rose to take the podium, repeated his familiar litany of complaints about New York's economy and the drain of money to Washington. "You know," he said to applause and shouts of approval, "George Bush is shivering in his boots. People are gathering like this all over the state and all over the country and tomorrow they are going to send George Bush out of the White House and Al D'Amato to the dog house. For 12 years, they have been punishing the people of New York."
 Hitting away at Senator D'Amato in one of his most sustained attacks of the campaign, Mr. Abrams told the crowd: "You know, voting for Al D'Amato is like playing the Lotto. One wins. And millions lose. I want to go to the Senate to be your advocate,"
Earlier, in back-to-back stops across upstate New York, the Attorney General wheeled through his last full day of campaigning, repeating his appeal for votes.
 Between stops he chatted with his traveling companion, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who was so confident that he suggested to Mr. Abrams that he seek a seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee, as if the election were already decided.
 "All the signs are going your way now," Senator Moynihan said.
 Clearly, the agenda for the day was to highlight what Mr. Abrams called "the coming together of the campaign," from Bill Clinton's hoarse endorsement at a rally in the Meadowlands Sunday night to Geraldine A. Ferraro's somewhat strained endorsement Saturday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General Robert Abrams and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan dodged puddles as they arrived for an Abrams rally in Syracuse. Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato talked to reporters during a campaign stop in Albany. (Edward Keating; Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (87%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (87%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
AND TRENDS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MAYORS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CITIES (69%); CITY LIFE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) BILL CLINTON (78%); CHARLES B RANGEL (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); AL SHARPTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1992



126 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: Many Teachers, Required to Make Do With Less, Are Giving Less in Return

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

 BODY:
Upset by Spartan pay increases and the effect of budget cuts on schools, many teachers are venting their frustrations in a way that has angered students and parents: They are refusing to write letters of recommendation for college-bound students, to tutor after school or to perform other duties not specified by their contracts.
The tactic, called "work to the rule," is being used in growing numbers of school districts across the country to underscore teacher disenchantment over the management of public schools. At a time when teachers are under mounting pressure to produce better students, recession-induced budget cuts have meant teacher layoffs and larger class sizes, making teaching more difficult. New contracts have provided small raises, if any; in some cases teachers have been asked to take pay cuts. 
 Although teachers said striking is normally a more effective tool, it is increasingly viewed by educators as a poor weapon in economic times that are tough for everyone. Moreover, teachers strikes are illegal in 22 states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. As a result, work-to-the-rule tactics are being used widely for the first time in a decade to illustrate the extent to which teachers are disaffected.
 
'Tearing Communities Apart'
 "There's absolutely no question that this is happening more often," said Arnold Fege, director of government relations for the National Parent-Teacher Association in Washington. He said his office had been inundated with calls from parents across the country wondering what they can do. "The last time I saw this happening at this level was in the early 1980's," he said. "This is tearing communities apart."
Many students and parents do not sympathize with the teachers. While there are no definitive statistics on the number of school systems in which teachers have adopted work-to-the-rule stances, anecdotal evidence from Virginia to Michigan to California suggests that the practice is widespread.
In Los Angeles, teachers scuttled the usual back-to-school nights for parents or held them during the day, and most will take parents' calls only during school hours. Teachers in Dearborn Heights, Mich., will not sponsor clubs whose meetings are held after regularly scheduled classes. And at Madison High School in Fairfax County, Va., many teachers have refused to write recommendation letters for college-bound students or complete students' scholarship recommendation forms.
 
Scholarship in Jeopardy
 William Mathews, a 17-year-old senior at Madison who applied for a scholarship in the Navy Reserve Officers Training Corps, asked his mathematics teacher to complete a questionnaire about his academic and leadership abilities. She refused.
"What upset me most was that she didn't even have to write a recommendation," said Mr. Mathews, who is not sure he will get the scholarship now because he submitted an incomplete application. "There were 10 questions, and all she had to do was fill in a bubble on a form. I was upset."
At Woodrow Wilson High School in the District of Columbia, a controversy arose in September when teachers agreed to write college letters of recommendation only if the students' parents first wrote three letters -- to the school board, to the City Council and to the school superintendent -- protesting low pay for teachers and teacher furloughs.
While work-to-the-rule tactics have succeeded in getting the attention of school boards and parents, the approach has a price: parents are angry, and the teachers' actions have created even greater rifts between teachers and school boards, which are faced with tough decisions on where to trim budgets because of declining state aid to schools.
 
Teachers' Actions Criticized
 "Teacher unions have no concern about resources," said Thomas A. Shannon, executive director of the National Schools Board Association, an umbrella group for the nation's 15,350 local school boards. "School boards can't print money, and they are constrained by law in the resources that they can raise."
Many teachers themselves say they find work-to-the-rule actions distasteful, and recognize that their truncated workday undermines their students' education.
"It hurts education on two levels," said David Tokofsky, a teacher at Marshall High School in Los Angeles who has stopped coaching the school's academic decathalon and mock trial teams after school. "Teachers come to the profession because of their idealism, and that has been put on hold. And students aren't getting all the extras that we can give them after school."
Nonetheless, many teachers like Mr. Tokofsky are firm in their support of the work-to-the-rule strategy, and pay is the principal reason. Mr. Tokofsky, 32, has taught for nine years and now earns $43,000 a year. But this year his salary is being cut by 9 percent by the Los Angeles Unified School District, whose board voted to reduce salaries rather than lay off teachers. That is in addition to a 3 percent pay cut last year.
 
Decline in State Aid
 In many ways Los Angeles exemplifies other districts across the country, which have seen sharp declines in state aid because of the recession. The Los Angeles school district, whose 640,000 students make it the nation's second largest after New York City's, cut $400 million from this year's budget, leaving it at $3.9 billion. But teachers opposed the 9 percent pay cut, and voted to use the work-to-the-rule tactic.
"I've liked what I've done for the last nine years," said Mr. Tokofsky, who coached his school's academic decathalon team to two national championships in the 1980's, often staying late on school nights. "Now I'm asking myself, 'Why are they doing this to me?' "
Mr. Tokofsky, who teaches American history and Spanish, said he enjoyed the after-school activities because they gave him the chance to work with only 10 to 15 students, instead of the 35 to 45 he usually has in his classes.
But now, given the district's budget problem and its effect on teacher salaries, Mr. Tokofksy said he is thinking about getting out of teaching.
Budget cuts and their effect on the quality of public schools have prompted teachers in other school systems this fall to eliminate duties for which they are not paid. In Fairfax County, a Washington suburb where teachers have been fuming over the district's decline in the amount of money it spends per student, the district is now ranked fifth in spending out of five school systems in the Washington area.
"We need to take control of our professional lives," said Karen Beasley, a Madison High School teacher of students with learning disabilities. "We can't do more and more with less and less." But because Virginia law prohibits strikes by public employees, teachers chose the work-to-the-rule tactic to call attention to what they view as a dismantling of public education.
Fairfax teachers are now boycotting meetings scheduled at night and on weekends. And they will not help students or take telephone calls from parents after 2:45 P.M., the end of the teachers' contract workday.
Teachers at Madison High will co-sign letters of recommendations for college-bound students written by others, but have refused to write the letters.
"I asked one teacher to write me a letter, and she refused," said Benjamin Boykin, a Madison student and president of the senior class. "I was surprised, but I knew where she was coming from."
 
Teachers 'Take a Hit'
 "None of us like doing this," Ms. Beasley said. "The hardest part of it is the confliction all the teachers feel. But we understand that when we take an action like this, we take a hit from the public."
The teachers have, in fact, been widely criticized by parents and the community. "That's not influencing anyone," said Kenton Pattie, president of the Fairfax County Council of Parent Teacher Student Associations, referring to the teachers' refusal to help students with letters of recommendation. "It's repugnant to our sense of decency and fairness."
In other school systems where teachers have followed a work-to-the-rule policy, parents and some administrators have filled the breach by serving as club sponsors and chaperones so that students are not cheated out of extracurricular activities.
"We need teachers who are completely committed," said Annie Costanzo, president of the Parent Teacher Association at Melrose Avenue Elementary School in Los Angeles. Mrs. Costanza said teachers at that school had opposed the teachers union's work-to-the-rule tactic; teachers in other schools had agreed to the work slowdown.
"I'm certainly upset about the budget cuts to education," she added. "I understand the teachers' outrage. But their priority should be the kids."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some teachers are expressing discontent over budget cuts with a tactic known as "work to the rule," or performing only the duties specified in their contracts. "I asked one teacher to write me a letter, and she refused," said Benjamin Boykin, senior class president at Madison High School in Vienna, Va., who talked with Karen Beasley, a teacher. "I was surprised, but I knew where she was coming from." (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); STRIKES (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); LAYOFFS (69%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D DAVID TOKOFSKY (64%); WILLIAM MATHEWS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



127 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1818 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: CELEBRATION
Man in the News: Albert Arnold Gore Jr.;
A Focused Leader on an Uneven Climb

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

 BODY:
When the subject of Al Gore Jr. is raised, inevitably the phrase "born to lead" -- spoken with either admiration or sarcasm -- somehow seeps into the conversation.
Still, if it was preordained for this child of a former Senator and native son of Washington to reach the heights of power, his rise to the Vice Presidency has been accomplished through fits and starts. 
 Indeed, after his disastrous 1988 run for the Democratic Presidential nomination -- an effort that thrust him onto the national stage but also saw him alienate large blocks of traditional Democratic voters -- he is as surprised as anyone else to be in the position he's in now.
"I certainly had not given up the thought of running for President," Mr. Gore said when asked about his feelings after his defeat four years ago. "I made no bones about the fact that I wanted to be President and would run again when I had the opportunity.
"But if somebody had told me in 1988 that come January '93 you'll be inaugurated as Vice President of the United States, I would have said, 'You're nuts.' "
 
Once Disparaged Office
 Mr. Gore's astonishment to be Vice President-elect stems both from having won an office he had disparaged in the past and his feeling that he had removed himself from consideration for national office when he said in August 1991 that he would not run in 1992. At the time, he said he wanted to devote more time to his family and young son, who was nearly killed when he was struck by a car two years earlier.
But in what Mr. Gore feels is a sweet irony, the banking of the fire of his ambition moved him closer to his goal of national power rather that farther away from it.
"I think that sometimes in life -- and I'm neither old enough, nor wise enough to put this in proper words -- when you care about something a lot and you give it up for the right reasons, it will come back to you in a different form with a deeper meaning," said Mr. Gore, who once attended divinity school.
"That's what this feels like," he said. "I gave up my ambition to be President in the 1992 cycle for the right reasons, because of my family's healing process, and stayed completely out of it and really enjoyed not running for President. And then a place on the national ticket came back to me, unsolicited, unsought, in a different form and with a deeper meaning because the element of personal ambition had been in significant measure drained out of it."
 
Driven to Achieve
 Albert Arnold Gore Jr. was born March 31, 1948, in Washington, the son of Albert A. Gore Sr., a Democratic Representative, and later Senator from Tennessee, and Pauline La Fon Gore, a graduate of the Vanderbilt law school.
From childhood throughout much of his adult life, Mr. Gore seemed to be driven to achieve. He was the least rebellious of his parents' two children; an honors student and captain of the football team at St. Albans School for Boys, an exclusive preparatory school in the capital; a cum laude graduate from Harvard; a diligent Congressman, and an expert on arms control and the environment.
In 1988 he wanted to be the youngest President in the country's history.
In all his successes, and even in his failures, friends say, Mr. Gore made his mark more through doggedness than flash. "He was a very hard-working player," said James Bailey, a friend from Harvard who played alongside Mr. Gore on the freshman basketball team. "There were other players who were more talented, but nobody worked harder."
But his diligence and discipline can border on bland and boring. In 1988, after a political consultant suggested that because few voters could identify him Mr. Gore should not vary his wardrobe too much, Mr. Gore drove the patience of his staff to the wall by refusing to appear in anything but a blue suit, light blue shirt and red tie.
 
Opponent of Vietnam War
 Like many of his classmates at Harvard, Mr. Gore opposed United States involvement in the Vietnam War. But classmates say he was not an active participant in the anit-war movement.
Vietnam was to confront Mr. Gore with his own moral quandary after his graduation from Harvard in 1969. At the time, his father, an outspoken opponent of war, was locked in a bitter and close re-election battle for his Senate seat in which his opponent, Bill Brock, was making an issue over the Senator's anti-war stand.
Mr. Gore considered leaving the country to avoid the draft -- a move his parents say they would have supported -- but he knew that that would have doomed his father's chances. In the end, he enlisted in the Army. He was motivated, he says, by his desire to help his father and because if he had avoided the draft someone else from his small town of Carthage, Tenn., would have had to go. His decision, however, made little difference to his father's re-election bid. The Senator lost by 46,000 votes.
His military career was undistinguished. In Vietnam, he served as a reporter for the newspaper of the 20th Engineering Battalion, stationed outside Saigon, and never saw combat.
But his father's loss, the war and the Watergate scandal a few years later soured him on politics. "When I was a little kid, I remember thinking, maybe I would like to do what my father did," Mr. Gore said. "But I completely abandoned that notion, especially after coming back from Vietnam, going through the Watergate years and becoming so disillusioned with government and politics."
Returning home in 1971, he went to work as a reporter for The Tennessean, a newspaper in Nashville, attended the Vanderbilt Graduate School of Religion and tried his hand as a home builder and a livestock and tobacco farmer. While writing about politics and government for the newspaper he began to feel, he said, as if he "could handle some of the decisions I was writing about more creatively than some of the people I was covering."
In 1974, when the local Congressman abruptly announced he was retiring, Mr. Gore said he made a "snap decision" to run for the office. After squeezing out a victory in the Democratic primary, he won going away in the general election.
Recalling that his father's defeat in 1969 stemmed in part from accusations that he had lost touch with his constituents, Mr. Gore made sure he kept in contact with the people back home. In his eight years as a Congressman he attended more than 1,300 town meetings in his district, spending an average of three weekends a month away from his family in order to do so. Mr. Gore is married to the former Mary Elizabeth (Tipper) Aitcheson, and they have four children: Karenna, Kristin, Sarah and Albert 3d.
Attending a state convention of a civic club for high school girls in 1981, Mr. Gore was stunned when told that a number of the participants felt that nuclear war was inevitable in their lifetimes. The experience, Mr. Gore said, led him to seize on arms control as a cause.
For a year, Mr. Gore buried himself in the study of arcane disarmament issues, spending hours in weekly study sessions on the subject. He emerged with a novel approach to the arms race that emphasized replacing multiwarhead missiles, which he felt promoted fears of a catastrophic first strike, with single-warhead missiles.
After Howard H. Baker Jr. of Tennessee, the Republican leader in the Senate, announced in 1983 that he would not seek re-election, Mr. Gore sought his seat the next year and won it easily.
But 1984 was a bittersweet year for Mr. Gore. His elation over his victory was tempered by the death of his older sister, Nancy Gore Hunger, from lung cancer.
In 1988, when he sought the Presidency, Mr. Gore was responding to a request by a group of centrist Democratic fund-raisers. But he entered the race late and his main messages -- arms control, a need for a strong national defense and protection of the environment -- never connected with voters. Although he won five Southern and border states in the Super Tuesday primary, Mr. Gore's campaign foundered above the Mason-Dixon line.
He ended the race with an embarrassing showing in the New York primary, where his most prominent supporter, Mayor Edward I. Koch, so angered black voters with repeated attacks on the Rev. Jesse Jackson that Mr. Gore was forced to march in a New York City parade on a sunny Sunday wearing a bullet-proof trench coat after receiving death threats.
Yet, if Mr. Gore's badly run 1988 effort in the primaries left him in need of any political rehabilitation by his party's left wing, in many ways it was the prototype for the successful campaign waged this year by Gov. Bill Clinton.
Many of Mr. Gore's themes -- focusing on the economic needs of "the average working family," for example, or standing up to the icons of Democratic liberalism like Mr. Jackson -- found their way into Mr. Clinton's oratory.
 
Senator's 'World Changed'
 Disappointed after his loss and saddled with a $2.3 million campaign debt, Mr. Gore set about refurbishing his image and preparing the ground to run again. He paid off his debts in a remarkable 10 weeks, as much to rid himself of the financial burden as to show his continued political viability. He once again buried himself in weekly seminars, this time on economic issues, which he felt would be central to the next election.
But in April 1989 "the world changed" for the Senator, said his longtime aide, Peter Knight. That moment came when Mr. Gore's youngest child, Albert, was struck down by an automobile after the family had attended a Baltimore Orioles baseball game. The near-fatal accident and the child's monthslong rehabilitation brought about a transformation in his father, the Senator's friends say.
"Basically, a lot of people can be pretty calculating," said Carter Eskew, a political consultant and a longtime friend. "They're always looking at the next move. The chess game never stops. Well, with Al, all of sudden the chess game stopped."
As a kind of therapy, Mr. Gore threw himself into writing a book, "Earth in the Balance," in which he compared his son's medical emergency with what he considered the planet's tenuous condition and called for a radical program to halt ecological degradation.
Before the accident, Mr. Gore says, he was convinced that he could win the Democratic nomination in 1992 and that President Bush, despite his stratospheric voter-approval ratings, could be beaten. But in August 1991 Mr. Gore announced he would not run. Family considerations, he said, were paramount. As he put it:
"What I finally came to terms with was that the real cause of my conflict about running was that so long as my son's healing process and my family's healing process was still under way, I could not throw my whole heart and soul into a race for President, because I would feel terrible not being able to devote the time and attention and emotional energy that healing process still required of me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Al Gore walking back to his plane yesterday afternoon with his son, Al Gore 3d, after they played catch on the tarmac at a Nashville airport before departing for Little Rock, Ark. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); 

PERSON: GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); HOLMES, STEVEN A; GORE, ALBERT 3D AL GORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



128 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Tide of Migrant Labor Tells of a Law's Failure

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CONKLIN, Mich.

 BODY:
At dusk, the migrant workers trudge in from the orchards to the dusty courtyard of the farmer's labor camp, where they live in aged, rust-pocked trailers. From straps on their shoulders, they carry galvanized buckets with canvas bottoms so the apples they pick will not bruise. The workers get 50 cents each time they fill a bucket.
Every year, an estimated 45,000 of these men and women, nearly all originally from Mexico, spend one to six months in western Michigan. With its wide variety of fruit and vegetable crops, including asparagus in the spring and apples in the fall, the region is one of the nation's leading employers of migrant labor. 
 But it is harder than ever for workers to find a job here or, having found one, to make a living. This year, like last, farmers report that they have been turning people away. A sign on the packing shed of one farmer, Fritz E. Umlor, says "No help wanted" in foot-high letters. Mr. Umlor said that most of his 12 workers returned year after year and that he had to turn away three carloads of job seekers during one week in October.
The Government once thought it could prevent an overflow of such job seekers. Six years ago, Congress passed the Immigration Reform and Control Act, under which three million illegal immigrants, including one million migrant farm workers, were granted amnesty and permitted to remain in the United States. The law tried to prevent any further illegal immigration by imposing sanctions on employers who hired subsequent arrivals.
By making it harder for illegal immigrants to come here and work, the law was intended to alter the economics of migrant labor. Employers, having to compete harder to lure a stable or shrinking supply of legal workers, would improve workers' wages and working conditions.
But this month, the Commission on Agriculture Workers, which Congress created with the immigration act to assess the effects of the law, disclosed that illegal immigration continues largely unchecked. An overabundance of farmworkers is crowding the job market and holding down wages. State officials say the average migrant family of four in Michigan, legal and illegal, made $7,200 last year, just over half the $13,924 the Government says the family needed to escape poverty. The $7,200 salary represents no real improvement in a decade, farmworker advocates say.
The law's impotence is easily seen here: Among the people coming in from the orchard are a 25-year-old man whose wife and two children are in Mexico, and another man, 45, with a wife and six children there. About 3,300 agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service patrol the 2,000-mile border between Mexico and the United States, 100 more agents than six years ago, but the two farmworkers here got past the authorities and into Brownsville, Tex., uneventfully.
"We just crossed the bridge when it was busy," said the older man, who along with the 25-year-old man spoke on the condition that they not be identified for fear of deportation.
From Texas they caught a ride to Florida. In Tampa, they said, they each paid $900 for phony identification documents -- a Social Security card and a resident alien card -- and hitched a ride to the Midwest.
 
Passing Boss's Scrutiny
 The younger man took out his papers. His resident alien card is a copy of a new, ostensibly fraud-resistant version. It is plastic-coated, with personal data, a fingerprint and his picture in profile; all like the real thing except that the picture is blurry. He said his papers readily passed the boss's scrutiny.
He also said he believed the cards looked good enough to let him cross the border at will. "Soon the winter will come," he said. "There's no work, so no money to pay for rent and food. I will go back to Mexico then."
No one knows how many of the farmworkers in Michigan are illegal. Rick Kessler, a lawyer in Grand Rapids who specializes in migrant worker cases, gives an estimate of 30 percent. Mr. Kessler said the total number of workers does not change much here, despite the apparent rise in illegal immigration. He said many who come looking for work find none, so they go back to their bases in Florida and Texas.
Because of the threat of sanctions, employers ask for two pieces of identification. But no one expects employers to be forensic technicians; if the documents look authentic, the employer is off the hook. The authorities say the law has given rise to a growing counterfeit-document industry.
Still, the people working illegally in the fields and orchards here might have been apprehended if not for another failing of the law. To raid farms of illegal workers, Congress required that the immigration service get search warrants specifying a cause for a search, the fields where the immigrants would be working and the identity of the landowner. Because the workers move from field to field day to day, the information is hard to get, Duke Austin, a spokesman for the service said. "That dramatically deterred our ability to do enforcement," he said.
 
More Legalized Workers
 In western Michigan, Manuel Gonzalez, head of the Governor's Interagency Migrant Services Committee, said the immigration law did seem to be contributing to a slow improvement in working conditions. With help from advocates like Mr. Kessler and the Michigan Migrant Legal Assistance Project in Grand Rapids, he said workers can demand more of farmers.
But Mr. Gonzalez also said the law was paradoxically encouraging more immigration. The reason is that more workers sought amnesty than expected, partly because many were able to qualify with falsified documents. More legalized workers meant more legalized spouses, who could also work.
Under its immigration policies, the Government tries not to split up families. So if the wife and children of a newly legalized worker could show that they were in the country before the law was enacted, the immigration service permitted them to stay.
Michael C. Hyde, a lawyer with the legal assistance project, said workers' living conditions were improving somewhat in the state, but not because farmers had to compete harder to attract workers. The state has enacted new laws requiring that farmers provide drinking water and portable toilets in their fields and better housing.
 
11 People Live in One Room
 Yet enforcement of these requirements is lax, because of budget cuts in Federal and state agencies. Mr. Gonzalez, who coordinates state services to migrant workers, said his office had been reduced from six workers to one -- himself. He said a state program that subsidizes farmers who build better housing had been sharply cut, from $600,000 three years ago to $75,000, a minuscule amount in a state with 900 labor camps on its farms.
The state public health agency, which licenses the camps, has just nine inspectors. Marvin Johansen, chief of the agency's migrant labor housing office, said inspectors get to most of the camps before they open in the spring and make random checks later.
But the later checks are so rare that farmers do not seem compelled to maintain the camps through the summer. At one camp here, a large old barn had been converted to a three-story apartment house. In one ground-level, one-room apartment, four children, aged 8 to 16, cooked an early supper while their parents and older relatives worked.
The room is quite large, about 600 square feet, with a concrete floor. The children say 11 people live in it. It is midday, but the room is dark. One side of the room has been sliced from the rest by a barrier of sheets. The sheets hide a row of double beds, aligned side by side, mattress to mattress.
The 8-year-old, a boy, proposes a tour of the camp. "Want to see the bathroom?" he says. There are no toilets in the barn, so the farmer provides separate cinder-block community outhouses for men and women. The men's outhouse is dark and dank and layered with mildew and scum. It is acrid.
A narrow aisle, about two feet wide, separates five toilet stalls that face five shower stalls. State law requires provisions for privacy. But hardly anything remains of the plastic curtains the farmer has hung in front of the stalls. Visits to five camps in and around Conklin suggest that the condition of the outhouse is not unusual.
 
Few Regulators Seen
 Federal regulators are not often seen on the farms. The wage and hour division of the Federal Department of Labor enforces regulations governing child labor and the $4.25-an-hour minimum wage. Over 15 years, its investigative staff in Michigan has been cut from about 50 to 20, in line with cuts in other states.
So, rather than seek out abuses, the Labor Department can only react to complaints, and a department official said it had a backlog of them in Michigan. As a result, farmworker advocates say violations of the child labor laws are common.
With enforcement lax, conditions on the farms here depend largely on the attitudes of the farmer. Bill Rasch, probably the biggest apple grower in the area, has a well-ordered, well-swept camp close to his home. Mr. Rasch, father of 14 children, says his workers are based in Florida and that each winter he visits them there.
Much of Mr. Rasch's camp, though tidy, is old and worn, and Mr. Johansen says his office has urged Mr. Rasch to replace the housing. Still, Mr. Rasch's community outhouse is, relatively speaking, a model of comfort and hygiene. It is clean, dry, well lighted and freshly painted white. There are plywood doors enclosing the toilets and new curtains for the showers.
"They are human beings," Mr. Rash said of the workers. "They are proud people. And we need them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The overabundance of migrant farmworkers has made a precarious way of life actually dangerous for some, but on the farm of Bill Rasch in western Michigan, seasonal workers like Carmen O. Mares, above, are recruited from Florida yearly and have well-maintained housing. (Deb Kik for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MICHIGAN; CONKLIN (MICH); MEXICO; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; MIGRANT LABOR; APPLES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; AMNESTIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION ; FALSIFICATION OF DATA; FORGERY MIGRANT WORKERS (94%); FARM LABOR (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AMNESTY (87%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COUNTERFEITING (74%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (64%); 

PERSON: ;KILBORN, PETER T RICK KESSLER (55%); FRITZ E UMLOR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



129 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTION: NEW YORK STATE -- D'AMATO;
Senator Proclaims Comeback, and Victory

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Shortly after 1 o'clock this morning, after a long night of suspense, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato joined hundreds of cheering supporters in a ballroom at the New York Hilton and claimed victory over Attorney General Robert Abrams.
Looking happy but subdued, surrounded by former Mayor Edward I. Koch and a crowd of loyalists, he thanked his family, his campaign aides and particularly Jewish leaders for their assistance. Then he embraced Norman Rosenbaum, the brother of the Hasidic scholar slain last year in Crown Heights, and said, "I pledge to you, we will pursue justice" -- a reference to the acquittal of the man accused of killing his brother. 
 The Senator called it a great political comeback, and at the end of a bitter and arduous campaign, the claim seemed to be justified. Mr. D'Amato waged a fierce, ruthless and seamless battle against a lackluster challenger and spent more than any other Senate candidate, close to $10 million. But all along, he was fighting the political tide. The former Hempstead, L.I., presiding supervisor who narrowly won on the coattails of Ronald Reagan in 1980 clung to his office even as Bill Clinton soundly trounced President Bush In New York and across the nation.
 
Highs and Lows
 It was a night of highs and lows and nervous energy and taut suspense. While his supporters sipped cocktails and watched the results on a huge TV screen in the ballroom, booing whenever Mr. Abrams's face came on the screen, the Senator watched the TV results in his suite, surrounded by his parents.
Shortly after 10 P.M., moments after The Associated Press first predicted him the winner, Mr. D'Amato received 100 special supporters to thank them for their support. Dov Hikind, the Brooklyn Assemblyman who helped coordinate Jewish voters on his behalf, said he found Mr. D'Amato emotional, "choked up" and expansive. "I've never been kissed so much in my life," he said.
Mr. D'Amato had always said he was seeking "vindication" in his campaign for a third term, bitter over a two-year Senate Ethics Committee investigation that cleared him of criminal charges but chastised him for misusing his office.
But, cautious to the end, he did not claim victory until he was satisfied that his narrow lead would hold.
 
Highs and Lows
 But downstairs, in a conference room off the main ballroom, his aides quickly moved from stunned relief to rapture at the early predictions of victory.
"It's a miracle," shouted Jeff Weisenfeld, Mr. D"Amato's liaison to the Jewish community. Other staffers strove for more equanimity. "Al D'Amato spent 12 years in the Senate fighting for the people of New York," said his campaign manager, Keiran Mahoney. "In the end, people didn't believe the attacks levied against him."
Mr. D'Amato's brother Armand, whose trial on charges of illegal lobbying on behalf of defense contractors is scheduled to take place after the election, roamed quietly around the ballroom, hugging friends. He said he was surprised by the outcome. "Given the tide," he said, "and all the negative things, I didn't expect it." He said he, too, felt vindicated by the upset victory.
Publicly, Mr. D'Amato had predicted victory until the end, but on election day, before the polls had closed, there were small signs of pessimism within his campaign. Unlike Mr. Abrams, who followed the example of Mr. Clinton and continued to campaign yesterday morning, Mr. D'Amato voted in his hometown of Island Park, carrying a grandchild into the voting booth with him, gave an emotional talk to Republicans at a diner in Oceanside, then spent the day between his parents' home in Island Park and his own house a few streets away.
He had a 6 P.M. dinner at De Grezia, an East Side restaurant, with Mr. Koch, his campaign strategist, Arthur Finkelstein, and three other friends. His dinner of pasta and paillard of chicken was interrupted by periodic calls from his campaign manager, Mr. Mahoney, who called the restaurant with the latest exit polls. Before leaving, he instructed Mr. Finkelstein to prepare two speeches, one for victory and another for a concession. As if bracing himself for defeat, he asked Mr. Koch to stay close to his mother in his hotel suite, "if things don't go right."
 
Money Leads the Way
 Mr. D'Amato outspent his opponent, bested him in debates, and outmaneuvered him time and again. Mr. D'Amato, who at the beginning of the year seemed almost certainly doomed to defeat, bogged down by multiple allegations of ethical misconduct and a slumped economy, punched, kicked and spent his way back into an even contest.
He was relentless until the very end, returning to the message of class resentment that helped him win in 1980, casting himself as an ordinary Joe battling a millionaire opponent who drives "limousines" and lives in a "fancy" Upper East Side Avenue apartment.
And with his nasal Long Island accent, he spoke directly to New Yorkers' fear of rising crime and higher taxes. Those were his themes in 1980, and he repeated them in 1986 and again this year.
"The message won," said Tony Russo, who produced Mr. D'Amato's campaign commercials. "We drew the comparison between D'Amato and Abrams on taxes and jobs, the issues New Yorkers care about."
But it was the Senator's mother, Antoinette D'Amato, who stood at the podium this morning and tried to get the last word. "Everybody used to call him the pothole Senator. Please, he's not a pothole Senator, he's a people Senator."
But it was Mr. Koch who go in the final rejoinder: "Mama D'Amato, it was the potholes that elected him."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, accepting his re-election victory last night at the Hilton Hotel in Manhattan. He was flanked by Norman Rosenbaum, left, and former Mayor Edward I. Koch, right. (Edward Keating/The New York Times); Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato hugged a supporter at the Island Park firehouse early yesterday on Long Island, where he voted. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); SENATE ETHICS COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY SENATE ETHICS COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); RELIGION (76%); HOMICIDE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ETHICS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); ACQUITTAL (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); 

PERSON: D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); STANLEY, ALESSANDRA BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



130 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTION: NEW YORK STATE -- NEWS ANALYSIS;
'Senator Pothole,' and Money, Win

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

 BODY:
Alfonse M. D'Amato, the scrappy Long Island Republican who reveled in his nickname of "Senator Pothole," proved the political adage last night that all politics is local, withstanding Gov. Bill Clinton's 16-point landslide in New York State to win a third term in the United States Senate.
It was a race that the 55-year-old incumbent would have lost if New Yorkers had voted by issues and party line and logic. 
 It was, after all, his opponent, Robert Abrams, the State Attorney General for four terms, who stood squarely with New Yorkers on the issues that they most cared about, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls. Mr. Abrams was a critic of the 12 years of Republican management of the economy and far better positioned than Mr. D'Amato on such such issues as abortion rights and health care.
 
Running as Underdog
 And even if New Yorkers did value Mr. D'Amato for his ability to bring home money and projects to New York, they had to ask if he would be as successful with a Democrat in the White House.
But in a tactically brilliant campaign, Mr. D'Amato skillfully undermined his lackluster opponent and painted himself as an underdog defender of local interests, a little guy who looked out for the people like him.
"I'm not a diplomat," he said during his acceptance speech early this morning, adding in his distinctive nasal tones: "I'm your advocate. I'm your fighter and I'm going to continue to fight."
And a fighter he was. From first to last, Mr. Abrams, who had rarely faced a tough opponent in his 26 years in public office, simply seemed shocked by the ferocity of Mr. D'Amato's charge against him. And he remained stunned and frustrated as Mr. D'Amato brazenly and pre-emptively attacked Mr. Abrams's ethics although the Senate Select Committee on Ethics had criticized the Senator for running his office in an "improper and inappropriate manner."
"He totally had Abrams on the defensive for the entire campaign," said William D. Powers, the Republican state chairman.
Democrats, who rallied to Mr. Abrams's side, tried to put the best face on his bumbling campaign, saying the Attorney General had come out of a close, divisive primary, which had muddled his message and left him without funds to match Mr. D'Amato's formidable treasury of nearly $10 million.
"He wasn't given the chance to use his best political instincts -- to be progressive, be constructive, because of the unfortunate way in which the primary left him vulnerable and left him broke," said Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who turned his own personal fund-raising list over to his fellow Democrat, although the two had had their own differences in the past.
"Senator D'Amato, by his negative advertising so big and so early, had an effect on the campaign," said Kevin Thurm, state director of the New York Clinton-Gore campaign. "It took a while for Abrams to recover."
Still, Mr. D'Amato's campaign tactics should not have come as a surprise to any politician who remembered his Republican Senate primary victory in 1980 when he savaged the incumbent, Jacob K. Javits, for his age and failing health, defeating a man who was considered a New York institution.
He played just as hard in his bid for a third term. He immediately assailed Mr. Abrams as "hopelessly liberal," more liberal than the Democratic standard-bearer, Mr. Clinton. And he went further, unabashedly staking out positions that he should not have been able to get away with if his Democratic opponent had been more aggressive. He portrayed himself -- a conservative Republican opposed to abortion rights -- as close to Mr. Clinton.
Democrats had hoped that repeated official inquiries into Mr. D'Amato's conduct in office would be the Senator's great vulnerability: he had faced charges of using his office to seek special favors for relatives, friends and contributors. His brother, Armand, who goes to trial early next year on mail fraud charges, was said by the Senate ethics committee to have used the Senator's office to help win a client a defense contract.
But Mr. D'Amato fought Mr. Abrams to a draw on ethics issues, equating his own lapses with Mr. Abrams's late payment of taxes on a country house and with Mr. Abrams's campaign fund-raising techniques. Despite Mr. Abrams's efforts to take the high ground and stick to issues, both men ended up sullied by the charge and countercharge. More voters questioned in surveys by Voter Research & Surveys, the television polling consortium, thought Mr. Abrams had leveled unfair charges than thought Mr. D'Amato had.
Most importantly, Mr. D'Amato, a fiery campaigner, sought successfully to hold onto the kinds of conservative blue-collar Democrats who supported President Ronald Reagan in 1980 and swung back to the national Democratic ticket last night. He used snide references to Mr. Abrams's "Fifth Avenue" apartment and "51-acre estate" to portray the staid Attorney General as a rich man.
Mr. D'Amato, the child of Italian immigrants, also capitalized on Italian-American resentment over the way Geraldine A. Ferraro had been criticized during the Democratic primary when her opponents raised questions about her family's close contacts with organized-crime figures. And when Mr. Abrams in frustration called Mr. D'Amato a "fascist," Mr. D'Amato deftly portrayed the comment as another anti-Italian slur to solidify his own support among this base.
To draw Democrats, Mr. D'Amato highlighted his endorsement by a Democrat, former Mayor Edward I. Koch of New York City, whose sassy, abrasive qualities still have appeal among white working-class voters. Mr. Koch was at Mr. D'Amato's side at the victory podium this morning, getting an embrace from the Senator.
Mr. Abrams sought to reclaim part of the Italian-American vote with a an endorsement by Ms. Ferraro, who made a television commercial on his behalf. But the endorsement was late and Ms. Ferraro's grim face made it seem half-hearted.
But when the vote came in last night, Mr. D'Amato held strong leads among Catholics and Protestants and among both the Irish- and Italian-American voting blocs. Mr. Abrams was unable to muster huge majorities among any voter categories except blacks and Jews and people whose education included at least a college degree. He also held a small edge among women.
As the race hovered all night in a dead heat, political professionals could only express astonishment.
"I'm surprised," said Ms. Ferraro, who lost to Mr. Abrams in the Democratic primary by one percentage point. "Where's the coattails?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY REPUBLICAN SENATE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY REPUBLICAN SENATE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHICS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); FUNDRAISING (66%); ABORTION (53%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



131 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTION: NEW YORK STATE -- U.S. HOUSE RACES;
Green and Downey Lose as New York State Delegation Changes Dramatically

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
In the most drastic transformation of the state's Congressional delegation in decades, New York voters yesterday elected at least eight new members, with at least two longtime incumbents headed for defeat.
With the defeat of Thomas J. Downey, a Suffolk County Democrat with 18 years in the House, and of Bill Green, a liberal Manhattan Republican with 14 years of service, New York will be missing at least 12 incumbents, and much of its seniority, in a delegation already diminished by reapportionment. 
 Mr. Downey, who was first swept into office as a grass-roots outsider in the wake of the Watergate scandal, was defeated in a bitter negative campaign by Rick A. Lazio, a Suffolk County legislator and former assistant district attorney, who lambasted Mr. Downey as a Washington insider who had lost touch with his struggling, recession-scarred district.
Representative Green, among the most liberal Republicans, who worked to disassociate himself from President Bush in the closing days of the campaign, apparently lost in a close race to Carolyn B. Maloney, a popular Manhattan City Council member, in the overwhelmingly Democratic Silk Stocking District.
 
A Loss of Seniority
 Ms. Maloney declared victory just after midnight. Mr. Green said that the race might not be decided until the absentee votes were counted -- and offered no public concession last night.
"I've had a wonderful decade and a half and maybe I'll have another two years, but we'd better wait," Mr. Green said.
The defeats mean that New York will lose members with considerable seniority on both the Ways and Means Committee (Mr. Downey) and the Appropriations Committee (Mr. Green) and other key committee assignments that have been used to protect the state's interests in Washington.
In Staten Island, Susan Molinari, who was being challenged by a well-known Democratic city councilman, Sal F. Albanese, declared victory shortly before 11 P.M. "It's going to be a different time in our political history," she said. "The message was sent out that business as usual is going to change."
 
Battles in Nassau
 Nassau County, where Democrats hoped to make inroads in a long-entrenched Republican party, was a battleground with several close races. David A. Levy, a local Republican strategist and member of the Hempstead Town Board, defeated Philip Schiliro, a Democratic congressional aide.
Late last night, Peter King, the Nassau County Comptroller, appeared before a Republican Party gathering and said that he appeared to have won a very close race, against Stephen A. Orlins, a wealthy businessman.
In a third race, a Democratic incumbent, Gary L. Ackerman, running in a new district, that runs across Nassau into Suffolk, narrowly defeated Allan E. Binder, a Suffolk County legislator.
In Westchester County, Representative Nita M. Lowey was re-elected, defeating Joseph J. DioGuardi, a conservative Republican, who had served two terms in the mid-1980's.
In New York City, longtime incumbents such as Charles B. Rangel, and Charles E. Schumer, Edolphus Towns and Major R. Owens were swept into office with overwhelming margins, as were Republicans farther upstate like Amo Houghton Jr. and Gerald B. Solomon.
In a sign that things remain the same even as they change, nearly all of the newly elected Congressmen -- from Jerrold Nadler, an eight-term Democratic Assemblyman from Manhattan, to John M. McHugh, a four-term state Senator from Watertown -- come from the ranks of experienced legislators in Albany or in local governments around the state.
Perhaps no other Congressional delegation is changing as much as is New York State's. It has lost more incumbents and more seniority than any other state. It will be less white, less male, and younger -- with the average age of the new members perhaps 15 years than the 55-year average age of New York's incumbents.
The transformation has far more to do with the perils of redistricting than with the popular mood.
In the redistricting following the 1990 Census, New York lost seats in Congress -- as it has in each redistricting since 1950. This time it was three seats out of 34, more than any other state.
Of the 34 members of the last Congressional delegation, 8 retired. For some the problem was redistricting; for others, personal dissatisfaction with Congress. One incumbent, Ted Weiss of Manhattan, died. And another, Stephen J. Solarz, lost in the primary, unable to hold on in a district redrawn to elect a Hispanic representative.
Even in this year of change this loss of perhaps 12 members is striking. In all, the state will lose more than 200 years of combined seniority or an average of 17 years of seniority for each departing representative.
"We have the biggest turnover problem," said Representative Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat. "It presents a problem -- you don't have enough seniority -- and an opportunity -- you get new energy and new blood."
The last time there was such upheaval in New York's delegation was in 1974, following the Watergate scandal, when 11 new representatives were sent to Congress, out of 39 seats. That year all the newcomers were Democrats, including five who defeated incumbent Republicans.
Though New York has about 1 in 13 representatives in the House, it accounts for one in eight retirements this year, according to Michael J. Malbin, a researcher with the Rockefeller Institute. And among those stepping down were New Yorkers who were well placed on important committees, giving rise to to concerns that the state delegation will lose some of its ability to save military bases and bring the state a hefty share of any new Federal spending.
In the place of the veterans will be a collection of newcomers, such as Mr. Nadler and Nydia M. Velazquez, who served a short interim appointment to the New York City Council.
"New blood is good," said Ms. Velazquez yesterday. She said that she hoped to work with other new members, blacks, Hispanics and progressive whites, to put together "the kind of agenda that will address the issues of the inner cities."
Mr. Nadler said that he was pressing to get committee assignments in public works and transportation as a way of paying attention to "fundamental economics."
"We are going to have a new beginning and a 20-year backlog of pent-up progressive legislation," he said.
During the state's redistricting, a second Hispanic district was created across three boroughs. It is there that Ms. Velazquez defeated Mr. Solarz in the Democratic primary. The seats of New York City's four black representatives were protected.
Other incumbents were not so lucky. Representative Ackerman, after nine years representing a Queens district, was forced to run in a district that stretched far into Suffolk County, including less than 10 percent of his old district.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the day when New York's Congressional delegation underwent major change with at least eight new members, Nydia M. Velazquez celebrated at her campaign headquarters in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 
 
New In Congress: New faces in New York's Congressional delegation.
 
2d District; RICK A. LAZIO , 34, Republican. A lawyer and member of the Suffolk County Legislature since 1989, he upset longtime Representative Thomas J. Downey. His district covers western Suffolk County.
 
4th District: DAVID A. LEVY , 38, Republican. A lawyer and former radio reporter, he is a member of the Hempstead Town Board. He replaces Raymond J. McGrath, a Republican who retired after redistricting. The district covers southwestern Nassau County.
 
8th District; JERROLD NADLER , 45, Democrat. A State Assemblyman since 1976, he won his seat when chosen by party leaders to replace the late Ted Weiss on the ballot. He will represent a heavily Democratic and liberal district, which includes Manhattan's West Side and parts of Brooklyn.
 
12th District: NYDIA M. VELAZQUEZ , 39, Democrat. Formerly a cabinet-level representative of the Governor of Puerto Rico, she essentially won her seat in the Democratic primary, defeating an incumbent, Steven J. Solarz, and four Hispanic candidates. Her district was created especially to include Hispanic neighborhoods in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens.
 
14th District: CAROLYN B. MALONEY , 44, Democrat. A New York City Councilwoman since 1982, she has worked as a teacher, an administrator for the Board of Education and an aide in the State Assembly and State Senate. She defeated a longtime incumbent, Bill Green, and will represent some of the wealthiest areas in Manhattan.
 
24th District: JOHN M. McHUGH , 44, Republican. A member of the State Senate since 1985, he replaces David O'B. Martin, who retired after serving six terms. He will represent an overwhelmingly Republican district, which includes his hometown, Watertown, and Oswego and Plattsburgh.
 
26th District: MAURICE D. HINCHEY , 54, Democrat. A member of the State Assembly since 1974, he fills the seat left vacant by the retirement of Matthew F. McHugh. In the Legislature he earned a reputation for environmental and consumer activism. His district includes Binghamton, Kingston and Newburgh.
 
30th District: JACK QUINN , 41, Republican. A teacher and a four-term town supervisor in Hamburg, he fills the seat left vacant by the retirement of Henry J. Nowak. His district includes most of Buffalo and Erie County suburbs.
 
Chart: "Who Won Where - New York's Congressional Races"
 
x - Winner
xx - Winner and change in party control
* Incumbent

 District 1 - Reporting: 98%
 George J. Hochbrueckner, D * 111,418 - 51%
 Edward Romaine, R 105,069 - 49%

 District 2 - 97%
 Thomas J. Downey, D * 91,465 - 47%
 xx-Rick Lazio, R 104,264 - 53%

 District 3 - 87%
 Steve Orlins, D 99,413 - 47%
 Peter King, R 104,619 - 49%
 Louis Roccanova, Oth 6,122 - 3%
 Ben-Zion Heyman, Oth 2,605 - 1%

 District 4 - 83%
 Philip Schiliro, D 80,449 - 45%
 David Levy, R 89,695 - 50%
 Vincent Garbitelli, Oth 7,800 - 4%

 District 5 - 95%
 Gary L. Ackerman, D * 98,005 - 52%
 Allan Binder, R 85,048 - 45%
 Andrew Duff, Oth 4,970 - 3%

 District 6 - 99%
 x-Floyd H. Flake, D * 92,654 - 81%
 Dianand Bhagwandin, R 21,276 - 19%

 District 7 - 100%
 x-Thomas J. Manton, D * 67,843 - 56%
 Dennis Shea, R 52,734 - 44%

 District 8 - 99%
 x-Jerrold Nadler, D 126,832 - 81%
 David Askren, R 24,227 - 16%
 Margaret Byrnes, Oth 4,873 - 3%

 District 9 - 99%
 x-Charles E. Schumer, D * 111,399 - 89%
 Alice Gaffney, Oth 14,273 - 11%

 District 10 - 100%
 x-Edolphus Towns, D * 93,271 - 96%
 Owen Augustin, Oth 4,320 - 4%

 District 11 - 99%
 x-Major R. Owens, D * 75,574 - 95%
 Michael Gaffney, Oth 4,122 - 5%

 District 12 - 99%
 x-Nydia Velazquez, D 51,608 - 77%
 Angel Diaz, R 13,945 - 21%
 Ruben Franco, Oth 1,420 - 2%

 District 13 - 100%
 Sal Albanese, D 70,447 - 38%
 x-Susan Molinari, R * 102,715 - 56%
 Kathleen Murphy, Oth 10,428 - 6%

 District 14 - 100%
 xx-Carolyn Maloney, D 94,613 - 51%
 Bill Green, R * 89,423 - 49%

 District 15 - 100%
 x-Charles B. Rangel, D * 97,398 - 95%
 Jose Suero, Oth 4,817 - 5%

 District 16 - 99%
 x-Jose Serrano, D * 81,632 - 91%
 Michael Walters, R 7,868 - 9%

 District 17 - 98%
 x-Eliot L. Engel, D * 92,692 - 81%
 Martin Richman, R 15,863 - 14%
 Kevin Brawley, Oth 2,968 - 3%
 Martin O'Grady, Oth 2,842 - 2%

 District 18 - 96%
 x-Nita M. Lowey, D * 101,466 - 55%
 Joseph DioGuardi, R 82,886 - 45%

 District 19 - 98%
 Neil McCarthy, D 80,503 - 39%
 x-Hamilton Fish Jr., R * 123,695 - 61%

 District 20 - 99%
 Jonathan Levine, D 61,194 - 29%
 x-Benjamin A. Gilman, R * 139,345 - 67%
 Robert Garrison, Oth 8,003 - 4%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (99%); PUERTO RICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); COUNTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US HOUSE ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); REDISTRICTING (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); CITIES (67%); 

PERSON: BARBANEL, JOSH; DOWNEY, THOMAS J (REPR); GREEN, BILL (REPR); LAZIO, RICK A; MALONEY, CAROLYN B (COUNCILWOMAN); MOLINARI, SUSAN (REPR); ALBANESE, SAL F (COUNCILMAN); LEVY, DAVID A; SCHILIRO, PHILIP ; KING, PETER (COMPTROLLER); ORLINS, STEPHEN A; ACKERMAN, GARY L (REPR); BINDER, ALLAN E; LOWEY, NITA M (REPR); DIOGUARDI, JOSEPH J; RANGEL, CHARLES B (REPR); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); TOWNS, EDOLPHUS (REPR); OWENS, MAJOR R (REPR); HOUGHTON, AMO JR (REPR); SOLOMON, GERALD B H (REPR); NADLER, JERROLD (ASSEMBLYMAN); VELAZQUEZ, NYDIA M NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (90%); CHARLES B RANGEL (90%); CAROLYN MALONEY (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (90%); JERROLD NADLER (88%); NITA M LOWEY (78%); GARY L ACKERMAN (78%); JOHN M MCHUGH (73%); ED TOWNS (73%); JOSE E SERRANO (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); MAURICE D HINCHEY (58%); ELIOT L ENGEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



132 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTION: NEW YORK STATE -- THE NEW YORK LEGISLATURE;
Once Again, Republicans Maintain Control of the Senate

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

 BODY:
After spending more for a state legislative seat than any other candidate in New York history, the majority leader of the State Senate, Ralph J. Marino, last night comfortably fended off a vigorous challenge that had threatened his standing as the most powerful Republican in state government.
At the same time, several Republican colleagues of Mr. Marino in the Senate also appeared to have beaten back Democratic challengers and thus preserved the G.O.P.'s 27-year grip on the Senate, but with the strong possibility that the party's majority would be diminished. 
 As of 12:45 A.M. today, Republicans, who now hold a 35-to-26 edge in the chamber, were ahead in at least 32 races and seemed likely to win at least one other.
Overall, Democratic hopes of riding the Clinton-Gore coattails to victory in the local State Senate races were, in most cases, crushed.
In one bitterly contested race in Queens pitting two incumbents against each other, a Republican Senator, Frank Padavan, defeated his Democratic opponent, Jeremy S. Weinstein. With 77 percent of the precincts counted, Mr. Padavan had 60 percent of the vote.
In another hotly contested race, in the Hudson Valley, with 90 percent of the precincts counted, a Republican incumbent, Joseph R. Holland, led a Democrat, Diana Hess, a former utility-company executive and soap-opera star, by 56 percent to 44 percent.
In the conservative southwestern corner of the state, a surprisingly close race emerged as Nancy Gay Bargar, the Democratic challenger, was leading by a single percentage point over the Republican incumbent, Jess Present, with about 90 percent of the precincts counted. Mr. Present was hurt as 9 percent of the voters turned to John W. Hasper, a Republican Assemblyman whose name appeared on the Conservative line even though he had endorsed Mr. Present after losing the Republican primary.
Democrats also were on the verge of winning an open seat in the Rochester area.
 
Marino Talks Tough
 A fiery Mr. Marino declared victory around 11 P.M. at his headquarters in Jericho, L.I., and offered a blunt retort to two conservative anti-tax groups that had also spent heavily to denigrate his record in Albany. "To hell with Pack-Up, to hell with Change-NY," he said, referring to the groups by name. And he pledged to lead an effort to revitalize his party as it approaches the 1994 gubernatorial election.
At 12:45 A.M. today, with 34 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. Marino had captured 60 percent of the vote in his race against James F. Gaughran,
a Suffolk County legislator. Mr. Gaughran had conceded after early returns showed him losing even in precincts of his hometown of Huntington.
In the Assembly races, while final totals were not available, Democrats appeared assured of winning at least 88 of the 95 seats they hold now, and probably several more.
 
High-Visibility Race
 The race involving Mr. Marino was clearly the most watched among the contests for the 211 seats in the State Legislature -- 150 in the State Assembly and 61 in the Senate.
As the majority leader of the Senate, which has been in G.O.P. hands since 1965, Mr. Marino is the most powerful Republican in state government.
It is extremely rare for a legislative leader to face any serious opposition in a re-election bid, and indeed the last time one actually lost was in 1978 when the Assembly Speaker, Stanley Steingut of Brooklyn, was upended in a Democratic primary by an insurgent, Murray Weinstein.
As of Oct. 19, which was the most recent mandatory filing at the State Board of Elections, Mr. Marino had spent $560,000 and Mr. Gaughran $80,000, with both men expected to add tens of thousands of dollars to those totals by the end of the campaign.
On top of that, Mr. Gaughran benefited from the $185,000 spent in a highly unusual campaign, an effort against Marino led by an anti-tax conservative group that calls itself Pack-Up, for the Political Action Committee to Kick Out Unproductive Politicians. The campaign, listed in elections filings as an "educational effort on Ralph Marino's record," consisted of a flood of radio commercials excoriating Mr. Marino for approving billions of dollars in tax increase and deferred tax cuts during his tenure in Albany.
The drama over Mr. Marino's plight played against the backdrop of Democratic hopes that the Clinton landslide in New York state would help the party do what it had failed to do for almost three decades: take back the Senate from the Republicans.
But history, and the realpolitik of incumbency-protection politics in Albany, suggested all along that the Democrats' battle would be very much an uphill one.
The Democrats needed to pick up 5 seats to take control.
But the G.O.P., which controlled the reapportionment process in the Senate this year, drew new district lines to maximize their advantages. That made it even tougher for the Democrats to win new seats than in 1990, when a similar push for a Democratic victory failed miserably, and the Republicans actually picked up a seat.
And because the laws of political gravity in Albany push money toward expected winners, the Republicans held an overwhelming advantage in fund raising as well this year. The New York State Republican Senate Campaign Committee, the chief funnel to G.O.P. candidates, has received about $1.2 million in contributions for this campaign, almost 10 times what the Democrats got.
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, consumed with campaign work on behalf of the Clinton-Gore ticket and for the economic-development bond act that he proposed, had little time for specific campaigning for Democratic Senate candidates.
But Mr. Cuomo, angrily dismissing suggestions that he doesn't mind having the Republican-led Senate around as a whipping boy, urged voters in general to back Democratic candidates for the Senate.
With the Democrats in firm control of the Assembly, Mr. Cuomo and Democratic lawmakers repeatedly pledged that if the Democrats won the Senate, New Yorkers would quickly see passage of a range of legislation routinely blocked by the G.O.P.: stiffer environmental protections, a ban on assault weapons, changes in allocation of school aid and an overhaul of New York's infamously arcane election laws.
In the Assembly, while there were a handful of close races, and reapportionment virtually guaranteed the election of several new black and Hispanic lawmakers, there was virtually no suspense about the overall outcome: the Democrats, who now have a 95-to-55 edge and controlled redistricting in their house, all along were expected to maintain their overwhelming majority.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (55%); STATE SENATE (92%); STATE ASSEMBLY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY STATE SENATE (92%); STATE ASSEMBLY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES; ELECTION RESULTS POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); COUNTIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



133 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTION: NEW YORK STATE -- THE REGION'S VOTERS;
Finally, the Economy Was What Mattered Most

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

 BODY:
Mabel Gates calls herself a "registered Republican, life-long, family, forever." But when the moment of electoral truth came yesterday in a voting booth in White Plains, she cast tradition aside and voted for Gov. Bill Clinton.
"Bush and Reagan have had their chance, finito! I call it trickle-down poverty," said the 73-year-old retired physical-education teacher. 
Jeff Hearn, 30, also voted for change. "I spent my entire adult life living in the Reagan era," said the Brooklyn Heights computer consultant, who opted for a straight Democratic ticket. "All of my friends and acquaintances get worse and worse and worse off," he said. He was thinking particularly, he said, of three friends who had been forced to declare bankruptcy.
With anger and angst about the state of the nation, with fears that the country was growing ever more polarized, with last-minute qualms about whether a vote for Ross Perot was a gesture of useless protest, voters across the New York City region surged to the polls yesterday to take part in an election many viewed as a turning point for their country.
"I think it's a watershed election," said Brian Barrett, 49, waiting in line at the State Supreme Court building in downtown Brooklyn to support Governor Clinton. "I get the sense there's a generational change. There has to be a refocusing on what we think are the most important social issues, such things as abortion, public education, all the economic issues."
Turnout was heavy in the metropolitan region. Myriad issues ran through people's minds as they stood in unusually long lines to vote: health care, education, interest rates, abortion, foreign policy. But from Harlem to Brooklyn Heights, from leafy Westchester County suburbs to the old industrial city of Paterson, N.J., the economy was uppermost.
Christy Caridi, a comptroller from Manhattan's East Side, conceded that foreign policy was significant, but "that's not what matters now."
"The real global problem is the economy," she said, after voting at the Sutton Place Synagogue on East 51st Street, where people were waiting outside through drizzle and downpour. "We're not going to have World War III in the near future. We're going to have an economic war, and we need to learn how to fight it."
Her view was shared widely. In New York State and New Jersey, more than two-fifths of the voters selected the economy and jobs as one of the two most important issues that affected their voting decision, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls conducted yesterday by Voter Research and Surveys. And Mr. Clinton received more than half of those people's votes.
Time and again, people said they had been swayed by their personal financial situations.
"If Bush gets in again, I'm leaving the country," said Karen Shockness, 36, a social worker at P.S. 7 in East Harlem. "The economy is going down the tubes, especially for the poor and the middle income. I'm middle income, and I'm always living paycheck to paycheck. I've had my master's degree since 1980 from Temple University, and all I had to show for it is a damn piece of paper."
By contrast, 56-year-old Linda Lempit of White Plains voted for President Bush. She said she lives off investments, earning up to $100,000 annually. Of the President, she said, "It isn't that I like him so much, but I am afraid of Mr. Clinton. I'm afraid he has plans for higher taxes and for distribution of wealth to people that I don't want to distribute my wealth to." Only about a fifth of the voters in the three states said their financial situation was better than it was four years ago, and more than half of them voted for Mr. Bush.
Asked to describe the national economy, about half the voters in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut said it was not so good. And more than a third of the voters in the three states described economic conditions as poor.
 
Health Care Is No. 2
 Health care was the second most important issue on voters' minds in New York and New Jersey, selected by almost 3 in 10 of those asked as one of the two issues that mattered most. In New York, more than 7 in 10 of these voters cast their ballots for Mr. Clinton, as did more than 3 in 5 in New Jersey.
"Every time I go to the doctor his fees go up and so does the cost of medicines," said Blanche Kratz, 79, a retired saleswoman and registered Republican, who crossed party lines in Hacksensack, N.J., to support Governor Clinton.
The divisive abortion issue was cited as one of the most important by more than one in 10 voters asked in New York and New Jersey, with almost two-fifths of New York and New Jersey voters saying abortion should always be legal and 3 in 10 saying it should be legal in most cases.
Asked how she was voting, Diana Barrett, 32, held up a yellow campaign flier for Governor Clinton and the Democratic ticket. "I like the way he feels on abortion," said the Brooklyn Heights mother of three.
But for Louis Chanza, 53, of White Plains, it was Governor Clinton's support for the right to abortion that caused him to switch to Ross Perot. "I used to be a Democrat, but I do not like Mr. Clinton's position on abortion," he said. "It bothered me. I believe abortion is very wrong."
With a sense that somehow this year and this election were different, some voters agonized until the moment they stepped into the voting booth, pulled one way by an issue like the economy but another way by opposition to abortion, or else wondering whether they could really vote for Mr. Perot.
There were people like John Porter in White Plains who at age 32 had never cast a vote in a Presidential election. "There was just never anybody I wanted to vote for before," he said. But this time he voted -- for Ross Perot.
In Red Bank, N.J., Joan Krevsky, 39, also came very close to voting for Mr. Perot. But in the end, she flinched, saying she knew he couldn't be elected, and she wanted to avoid "business as usual." With her two pre-school sons in tow, she voted for Governor Clinton.
In Brooklyn, all weekend long, Steven Nitzberg, 31, of Cobble Hill, argued over the phone with a relative in the Midwest, trying to persuade him to vote for Governor Clinton. He thought he couldn't budge the man who called himself a "clothespin Republican, because he was going to hold his nose and vote for Mr. Bush."
But yesterday morning, Mr. Nitzberg received an unexpected call from his political sparring partner. "He said when he got into the voting booth he just couldn't do it," Mr. Nitzberg said. His relative voted for Governor Clinton and Republican all the way through the rest of the ticket.
Elsewhere in Brooklyn, John Garra, 64, paused on his way out of the State Supreme Court building yesterday morning and spoke ruefully of what the nation had become during 12 years of Republican rule.
"We've had a kind of selfish attitude: get what you can and to hell with the guy who's falling behind," said the retired social worker, who spends some of his days now teaching English to Russian immigrants in Brighton Beach. "I think we've got to change if we're going to be one nation. We've got to come together as one people. If we don't, we will have riots in Los Angeles and New York. It's inevitable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "If Bush gets in again, I'm leaving the country," said Karen Shockness, a social worker at P.S. 7 in Harlem. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; VOTER BEHAVIOR CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); CITIES (72%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



134 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
Trade negotiators failed to break the impasse over farm subsidies, and no new talks are scheduled. The United States Agriculture Secretary, Edward R. Madigan, said he would recommend to President Bush that the United States impose prohibitive duties on certain European goods. The European Community is likely to retaliate. [Page D1.]
OPEC's crude oil output rose in October to 25.15 million barrels a day, a 12-year high, according to a Reuters survey. [D7.]
 
The Economy
The Government's index of leading indicators fell three-tenths of 1 percent in September to produce the first back-to-back declines since 1991. The monthly Commerce Department report offered more evidence that the economic expansion is likely to remain feeble in coming months. [D1.] 
 The climate is warming for small businesses in America. While the nation's economy limps along, there are signs that the worst may be over for the small-business sector. This is the first step in the economic food chain of job creation. [D1.]
 
Companies
Caldor made a bid to acquire and reopen 6 of 11 Alexander's department stores in the New York metropolitan area. The offer puts Caldor in competition with Bradlees Inc., another leading discount chain. The bid follows a remarkable rise in the price of Alexander's since it declared bankruptcy in May. [D1.]
Travelers had a loss of $358 million, which was higher than expected, in its third quarter. The big insurer said it would cut an additional 1,500 jobs as part of a restructuring that would reduce the work force by 5,000. [D4.]
CalFed reported a loss of $42.2 million in the third quarter and announced a restructuring deal with bondholders that would allow it to forgo a $158 million debt payment. [D4.]
Air Canada scrapped a merger with Canadian Airlines, ending a proposed deal that would have created a national airline monopoly. Air Canada's board objected to details in the plan. [D4.]
A defunct Kaiser Steel steel mill will be broken down and shipped to China for reassembly, 20-story building and all. [D4.]
Fukutake Publishing of Japan asked to renegotiate its deal to merge with Berlitz International because of weak financial results at the language service business. [D5.]
Jack W. Simpson resigned unexpectedly as president of Mead Data Central Inc., a leader in electronic publishing. [D5.]
Pearl Stewart was named editor of The Oakland Tribune by the newspaper's new owner, the Alameda Newspaper Group. [D20.]
Hachette is acquiring Metropolitan Home magazine from Meredith. No terms of the deal were disclosed. [D20.]
 
Markets
The Treasury will sell $11.25 billion in current 10-year notes next week to eliminate a serious shortage of the security. The Treasury has never before used its authority to sell additional securities of an issue to combat shortages. [D1.] Yields were mixed on bank money market accounts and certificates of deposit. [D17.]
Stock prices fell modestly. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 9.73 points, to 3,252.48. The decline was attributed mainly to the influence of computerized sell programs. [D8.]
Cotton futures prices surged after the American agricultural attache lowered his estimate of China's cotton crop. [D17.] The dollar fell overseas and ended mixed in domestic trading. [D17.]
 
Today's Columns
Lifschultz Industries has long been trumpeting a lawsuit seeking $1.8 billion. But the suit has been dismissed in a summary judgment. Kurt Eichenwald. Market Place. [D8.]
Agencies are facing growing resistance to advertisements that appropriate the images or voices of celebrities and politicians, in part because of several court decisions. Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (84%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (84%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (67%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: LEXISNEXIS GROUP (84%); BRADLEES INC (67%); AIR CANADA (53%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); AIRLINES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); CARTELS (76%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); MINING OUTPUT (71%); MERGERS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); DEBT NOTES (67%); CITIES (66%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (65%); PUBLISHING (65%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



135 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTION: NEW YORK STATE;
Voters Reject $800 Million Plan For Projects in New York State

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH

 BODY:
Showing that they were more concerned about the state's already-high level of debt than its high unemployment, New Yorkers yesterday rejected Proposal One, which asked them to give the state permission to issue $800 million worth of bonds to finance public works projects.
With the votes of 68 percent of the state's precincts counted, 54 percent voted against the bond issue, dealing a blow to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. 
 The bond issue was the centerpiece of the Governor's program to stimulate the depressed economy of the state, which has lost some 550,000 jobs since June 1989. The $800 million would have been spent on projects like sewage and water systems, roads, sidewalks, ports and waterfront revitalization, business parks, and parking garages.
The proposal had the backing of the State Legislature, labor groups and several large business organizations. The state alone spent $150,000 to $200,000 distributing information on the proposal, which some critics charged was an illegal use of state funds for promotional purposes.
Mr. Cuomo contended that the bond issue would more than pay for itself by generating economic activity that would produce $2 in taxes for every $1 borrowed and invested. His experts estimated the total cost of the bond issue, including interest, would be $1.7 billion over 25 years.
At 12:30 A.M. today, Mr. Cuomo still had made no comment.
Opponents of the bond issue included conservative organizations advocating a smaller, more efficient government; rural groups generally opposed to state borrowing; environmentalists who argued the projects would harm wetlands and would increase road travel, and Edward V. Regan, the state Comptroller.
Brian Backstrom, vice president of research for Change-NY, a conservative group advocating cuts in taxes and regulation, called the defeat of the bond issue a "rebuke of the Governor's tax-and-spend policies." He added: "Obviously more debt is not the answer to creating jobs."
Mr. Regan tried to use the bond issue to increase pressure on the state to reform the way it borrows money. Specifically, Mr. Regan wants to increase the right of voters to authorize state borrowing, to subject borrowing legislation to greater public scrutiny, and to end the practice of using government authorities to borrow money for things that have nothing to do with them.
In a statement issued at midday, before the result of the vote could be known, Mr. Regan said that whether the bond proposal passed or failed, his campaign had "achieved the desired result." He added: "There is now widespread public attention and support for fiscal reform among political candidates, business and civic groups and individual taxpayers."
As the defeat of the bond proposal began to look likely last night, the Comptroller's press secretary, Marvin G. Nailor, said: "Our position is this is an additional message" for the Governor and Legislature to enact reforms. During the campaign, Mr. Cuomo stressed that he backed many of Mr. Regan's proposals.
Unwilling to comment on a political issue and noting that they had been given little time to study the projects, credit-rating agencies had declined to say whether passage of the $800 million might result in a lowering of the state's rating. Depending on the agency, New York's rating is the lowest or one of the lowest among the 50 states. The reasons are the state's high spending, its tax-supported debt of $24.29 billion, combined with pessimism about the near-term outlook for the state economy, and, as a result, for state revenues.
Economic-development experts in the Cuomo administration had predicted that the spending program would reach at least $1.27 billion when mandatory contributions from local governments were added to the $800 million from the bond issue, and that it would quickly create nearly 35,000 temporary construction-related jobs and, over the long term, would result in more than 122,000 permanent private-sector jobs.
 
Projects Throughout Region
 Local governments had requested more than $2.5 billion for more than 1,000 projects. On Oct. 23, Governor Cuomo and state Legislature leaders chose about 390 projects to receive $558 million of the $800 million.
The defeated bond issue had included nearly $234 million for 70 projects in New York City; $85.1 million for 58 projects in Nassau and Suffolk counties; $26.3 million for 24 in Westchester County and $7.6 million for six in Rockland County.
The larger projects that had been planned for New York City included $18.8 million for Battery Park and the South Street Seaport; $11 million for work on Brooklyn piers for a mixed-used development; $10.4 million for expanding the Hunt's Point Market in the Bronx; $9.2 million for the reconstruction of Main Street and a new parking garage at Flushing Center in Queens, and $8 million for reconstruction of the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
In Nassau and Suffolk, the bond issue would have allocated $8.6 million for a wastewater-treatment plant in Glen Cove; $6.5 million for Wyandanch for sewers and for revitalizing its commercial district, and $5.9 million for converting Roosevelt Raceway to commercial uses. Among the Westchester projects in the proposal were $6 million for Mount Vernon for preparing a site for commercial or light industrial use and for parking and $2.5 million for parking in Ossining.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; PUBLIC WORKS BONDS (93%); BOND ISSUES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); TRENDS (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); WATER QUALITY (68%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); WETLANDS (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN MARIO M CUOMO (91%); EDWARD V REGAN (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



136 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Talks Fail; Trade War Is Feared

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 3

 BODY:
American and European negotiators failed to achieve a breakthrough tonight on an impasse over farm subsidies that has blocked world trade talks, making a trans-Atlantic trade war likely within days.
Agriculture Secretary Edward R. Madigan said he would recommend that President Bush impose prohibitive duties on certain European exports. The European Community is likely to retaliate against American exports. 
 The election of Gov. Bill Clinton makes retaliation even more likely because world trade talks will probably be interrupted for months as Mr. Clinton picks new trade officials and reviews current American negotiating positions.
Ray MacSharry, the European Community's Agriculture Commissioner, said the American side had asked for excessive reductions in subsidized European grain exports and subsidized production of soybeans and other oilseeds. "The demands," he said, "were too much." No further meetings are scheduled, Mr. MacSharry said.
 
The 'High Ground'
 Mr. Madigan said the European Community had refused to take account of reports by two international arbitration panels, which concluded that European oilseed subsidies violate international free trade rules. "We believe that we have the moral high ground, the legal high ground and the intellectual high ground," he said.
Mr. Madigan also said that he and Mr. MacSharry had made some progress today but that Mr. MacSharry had to leave because of appointments on Wednesday in Brussels. Mr. Madigan said that he was willing to hold further talks but that he did not believe the United States had to delay its retaliation.
Steve M. Yoder, president of the American Soybean Association, called for immediate penalties on European exports. "The United States has very little option except to retaliate," he said.
The prohibitive tariffs are likely to fall first on alcoholic beverages from France but may be extended to include wines from the rest of Europe, cut flowers, industrial products and even snails. Wine importers have lobbied heavily against the imposition of punitive import duties.
On June 9, Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, released a list of $2 billion worth of European farm exports and threatened to impose punitive duties on half the list if the oilseeds issue was not resolved. At a White House meeting on Oct. 22, Mrs. Hills, Mr. Madigan and the Acting Secretary of State, Lawrence S. Eagleburger agreed that tariffs would initially be imposed on up to $350 million worth of goods and eventually on up to $1 billion.
Mr. Madigan said the United States would review whether to prepare a supplemental list of exports that would be punished. American officials say the list could include industrial products because Germany has been the main obstacle to an oilseed agreement and Germany exports mostly industrial goods to the United States rather than farm goods.
The dispute about the oilseeds, used as animal-feed supplements and cooking oil, was the most important of the farm subsidy issues that have blocked an agreement in world trade talks for the last two years, European and American officials said today.
European officials had offered to reduce their oilseed acreage, but the Americans wanted a binding commitment that actual production of oilseeds would also fall.
Mr. MacSharry organized a plan last May for reducing European subsidies through cuts in acreage and he criticized the United States tonight for refusing to negotiate on the basis on those cuts.
John S. Gummer, Britain's Farm Minister, flew to Chicago Monday night and conferred with European Community negotiators here.
Prime Minister John Major of Britain insisted on the current round of negotiations and appeared to have the most at stake. The British Parliament is scheduled to vote Wednesday on whether to approve the Maastricht agreement, which is intended to stimulate trade in Europe by creating a single European currency and by eliminating differences in social and economic policies among European Community members.
Political analysts in London have speculated that Mr. Major could be replaced as Prime Minister or could be forced to call general elections if he fails to get his fractious Conservative Party to support the Maastricht pact. Trade frictions with the United States could undermine support in Britain for the pact.
Among the 12 European Community nations, the main opponent of a trade pact has been France.
France is Europe's leading grain exporter, and has steadfastly resisted American demands that the European Community's tonnage of subsidized grain exports be reduced by 24 percent within six or seven years.
A European diplomat who insisted on anonymity said France had little direct interest in the oilseed issue, because Germany is the leading producer of oilseeds. But if Germany had received what it views as an acceptable deal on oilseeds, then it would have put pressure on France to accept limits on grain export subsidies, making an overall deal possible, the diplomat said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AGRICULTURE; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US) TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); SOYBEAN FARMING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); LIVESTOCK FEED (77%); LOBBYING (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); AGRICULTURE (72%); ANIMAL FOODS (72%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (68%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (67%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MADIGAN, EDWARD R (SEC) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



137 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Economic Indicators Drop by 0.3%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
The predictive index designed by the Government to plot the economy fell three-tenths of 1 percent in September to produce the first back-to-back declines since 1991, the Commerce Department reported today.
The report offered more evidence that despite some scattered hopeful signs, the economic expansion is likely to remain feeble in coming months, analysts said. 
 "Where we're likely to go is sideways," said Richard D. C. Trainer, chief economist for the Bank of Tokyo in New York. "The economy is still very, very sluggish."
 
G.D.P. Data Questioned
 Relatively few economists expect fourth-quarter growth to match the 2.7 percent pace reported last week for the July-September period, a figure buoyed by consumer spending that was faster than incomes can sustain and by an increase in military spending that was at odds with a well-established trend.
Robert Parker, an associate director of the Commerce Department unit that assembles the figures for gross domestic product, defended the report today after making further investigations of the military and farm components that have come into question.
He said that there had been a $1.1 billion replenishment of a separation-pay fund depleted by the Persian Gulf war but that this had no effect on the G.D.P. results. And he found "nothing peculiar" in another rise in farm inventories, noting that hurricane damage was mostly confined to limes and other fruits that are not stored.
The decline in the index of leading indicators, the third in the last four months after five straight increases, was slightly worse than had been expected but had no discernible effect on prevailing sentiment.
"The economy is weak and will stay weak for the near future," said William C. Dunkelberg, chief economist for the National Federation of Independent Business. "We will continue to downsize, right-size, rationalize and fantasize as we prepare for the next period of stronger growth."
 
Quarterly Results
 For the entire summer quarter, the predictive index edged down one-tenth of 1 percent after gains of 1.1 percent in the spring and 1.6 percent last winter.
Six of 11 components contributed to the September decline, the largest being lower prices for materials that are particularly sensitive to the business cycle and a shorter average workweek.
The other negatives were a decline in backlogs for manufacturers of durable goods, higher first-time claims for unemployment insurance, falling consumer expectations and lower contracts and orders for plant and equipment.
The five rising components were paced by a jump in building permits, followed by slower deliveries by vendors, higher new orders for manufactured consumer goods and advances in the M-2 money supply and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
The Commerce Department's companion indexes of coincident and lagging indicators also fell three-tenths of 1 percent last month. This was the second straight decline for the coincident index, which would have fallen eight-tenths of 1 percent without the effects of Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki on personal income and on industrial production.
 
Widespread Revisions
 The decline in the lagging index was the 19th in the last 20 months, the exception being the rise of two-tenths of 1 percent for August that was revised from a decline of one-tenth of 1 percent.
Today's report included revisions of all three indexes from January 1987 through August 1992. For the leading index, 53 of the 68 monthly changes were no more than one-tenth of a point. The biggest was five-tenths of a point, chopping a June 1991 gain to one-tenth of 1 percent from six-tenths of 1 percent.
The department also said the weekly jobless claims component had been redefined to include claims made under the emergency unemployment amendments enacted in July.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis" shows components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contributions to the index's change from August to September. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (pg. D6)
 
Graph: "Leading Indicators" shows the index of 11 indicators designed to predict overall economic activity from April 1991-Sept. 1992. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (57%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); TRENDS (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (74%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); HURRICANES (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



138 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: CONNECTICUT -- THE CONNECTICUT LEGISLATURE;
Aided by Vote for Clinton, Democrats Retain Control

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Connecticut Democrats, aided by a large turnout for Gov. Bill Clinton in the Presidential race, retained control of the State Legislature tonight.
Unofficial counts by both parties had the Democrats winning at least 83 seats in the 151-member House, with 3 more seats claimed by Democrats but close enough to require recounts. The Republicans took 65 seats. Democrats won 20 seats in the 36-member Senate to 16 for the Republicans, according to unofficial counts by both parties. 
 Those tallies leave the legislature, known as the General Assembly, all but unchanged in party composition despite a huge turnover of retiring lawmakers and a backdrop of political turmoil over taxes and the recession. Before the election, the Democrats had a 20-to-16 majority in the Senate and an 88-to-63 majority in the House.
 
The Difference a Year Makes
 Only a year ago, Republicans had flatly predicted a sweep that would give them majorities in one or both chambers. Voters were outraged then by the imposition of a state income tax passed in August 1991 by a Democratic-led coalition. But candidates and poll takers said that anger over the income tax cooled during the last six months, dismaying the Republicans who had expected to ride the issue to victory.
In the few races in which Republican candidates campaigned to repeal the income tax, Democrats were returned to office anyway. And at least one hard-line income tax opponent lost his bid for re-election. The former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Richard J. Balducci, a Democrat from Newington and a major proponent of the tax, made the jump from House to Senate, winning a vacant seat.
In a heavy turnout, Connecticut voters also overwhelmingly approved a measure pushed by the state's biggest business organizations, but opposed by Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., that could lead to an amendment to the State Constitution limiting the annual growth of state spending. With 76 percent of the precincts reporting, 81 percent of voters had said yes, with 19 percent voting no.
 
Democrats' Confidence
 The Democrats had been confident of retaining the House going into to day's voting, but their hopes for retaining the Senate had slipped recent ly as some districts appeared to swing toward the Republicans.
In the House, in one closely watched race, Representative Reginald L. Jones, a Republican from Darien, defeated Sally Bolster, a Republican running as a Democrat but with Governor Weicker's blessing and thousands of dollars in donations from his independent party. Four Democratic incumbents in the House were defeated and three Republican incumbents lost their seats.
The state Republican Party chairman, Richard Foley Jr., said he felt that his party had done well to hold its own in a year that saw a strong state majority for Mr. Clinton and for United States Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat who won a third term. "They swam against a strong tide," Mr. Foley said of Connecticut's Republicans.
 
2 Variables
 For both Democrats and Republicans, two variables shaped this election. The first was the scramble to fill an unusually large number of seats vacated by lawmakers seeking higher office or retiring. The second was the impact of cross-endorsements by Mr. Weicker's third party, called A Connecticut Party.
In the Senate, 10 of 36 seats were open and up for grabs. Seven of those had been vacated by Democrats and three by Republicans. In the House, incumbents did not seek re-election in 48 of the 151 seats. The seats had been occupied by 28 Democrats and 20 Republicans.
The effects of Mr. Weicker's cross-endorsements were not immediately clear. Cross-endorsed candidates appeared twice on the ballot, once on their own party line and once on the Connecticut Party line. In tallying votes tonight, however, election officials combined the two totals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LEGISLATURES; ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 LEGISLATIVE BODIES (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); JOHNSON, KIRK BILL CLINTON (92%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



139 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: CONNECTICUT -- U.S. SENATE RACE;
Gejdenson Claims Victory, but Recount Is Sought

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Nov. 3

 BODY:
Senator Christopher J. Dodd won a third term today, easily defeating Brook Johnson, a Republican businessman who spent millions of his own money trying to make Mr. Dodd's long tenure in Washington an issue.
Mr. Dodd, a Democrat first elected to Congress in 1974 as a member of the House representing eastern Connecticut, had 59 percent of the vote today, to Mr. Johnson's 38 percent, with 53 percent of the state's precincts reporting. 
 Mr. Dodd, who is 48 years old, in a sense ran toward incumbency, rather than away from it, unlike many national and local candidates. He focused on Connecticut's struggling economy, arguing that his experience and contacts in Washington would help him protect military contractors in a state that is among the most heavily dependent on military spending.
He held up his advocacy of child-care and family-leave legislation and his support for expanded Federal aid for middle-class college students as help for hard-pressed families.
 
Resorting to Negativity
 Surveys of voters leaving the polls showed Mr. Dodd running strongly among the 86 percent of voters who said the national economy was poor or not good, and he outpolled Mr. Johnson by a ratio of 2 to 1 among the 13 percent of voters who said they had not voted in the last Presidential election.
"This election was not about the candidates on the ballot," Mr. Dodd told a crowd of screaming supporters in the Sheraton Hotel in downtown Hartford at 9:30 tonight, after Mr. Johnson called him to concede. "This election was about the American people and the people of our state trying to get our economy moving and putting people back to work in America."
Facing a well-financed opponent, however, Mr. Dodd also resorted to negative television and radio advertisements for the first time, portraying Mr. Johnson, a textiles executive new to politics, as a millionaire carpetbagger who shipped jobs overseas and paid himself royally at his employees' expense. Mr. Dodd spent nearly $3.5 million, and Mr. Johnson $2.5 million.
Mr. Johnson, a 46-year-old Greenwich resident, was unknown in Connecticut in May when he announced his entry into the Republican contest to oppose Mr. Dodd, whose popularity had appeared to be eroding in polls taken in 1991.
He won the Republican primary in September after advertising heavily on television, spending mainly his own money. He then continued to rely on television and radio to spread his main message: that the Federal deficit was caused by free-spending career politicians beholden to special interests.
 
A Vow to Stay
 It was time, he told voters, to replace Connecticut's premier career politician, Mr. Dodd, with someone with business experience and business sense. He promised to vote for a Constitutional amendment requiring balanced budgets, a cap on the rate of growth in Federal spending, and term limits for Congress.
"We didn't lose, we just started," Mr. Johnson told supporters tonight in his Cos Cob headquarters, above a supermarket on Route 1. "If you can get that much of the vote in five months, think of what I can do when I get a little more time and a little more money."
He vowed to stay in politics and to help rebuild the Republican Party in Connecticut, and hinted he might consider running for either Governor or the seat of Senator Joseph I. Lieberman.
"All this country talks about is change and difficulty," he said, "but the country doesn't understand we need change in Congress and the Senate."
In this campaign's competing appeals to the negative stereotypes of politicians and businessmen, however, Mr. Dodd had the great advantage of being well known.
The Republican's portrayal of Mr. Dodd as a Washington fatcat doing nothing for his own state ran into the Senator's highly publicized success in saving a Seawolf submarine contract and thousands of defense jobs at Electric Boat in Groton -- an effort for which Mr. Johnson complimented him.
Against Mr. Johnson's charges that he was a big spender, Mr. Dodd offered his record of support for several deficit-fighting measures, as well as his lonely votes against the Reagan Administration's 1981 and 1986 tax cuts, which he had predicted would lead to huge Federal deficits.
Mr. Johnson, in contrast, had never participated in politics, and most of his business experience had been with a textiles maker, Collins & Aikman, based in Tennessee. He refused to discuss his own company, C. S. Brooks, a bath furnishings manufacturer that he had taken private in a leveraged buyout in the 1980's.
So when Mr. Dodd's advertisements began questioning Mr. Johnson's business record and commitment to Connecticut, they were often the first information anyone had had about Mr. Johnson's business. He immediately was put on the defensive.
One of the most devastating commercials pointed out that Mr. Johnson had never created a manufacturing job in Connecticut (C. S. Brooks had no plants in the state), and that he had sold an American plant and invested in ones in Canada.
Mr. Johnson, in his best moments, presented himself as a plain citizen willing to go to Washington, do his duty in helping to straighten out the nation's financial mess, and return home. By spending his own money on his campaign, he said, he would go to Washington "with no strings attached."
But Mr. Dodd's victory may also have demonstrated the value that voters place on the arena of politics, and on the skills of an experienced politician. Far from offering any apology for being a career politician, he argued that his experience and growing seniority in Washington would serve Connecticut well.
According to exit polls today, a majority of voters considered government experience more important than business experience in choosing a Senator, and even among those who favored business experience, Mr. Dodd trailed Mr. Johnson by only 44 percent to 56 percent.
Mr. Johnson, in the last days of the campaign, appeared frustrated by the effect of Mr. Dodd's attacks, which he said distorted his background. "They don't want to talk about the issues," he said. "They don't want to talk about how the country is spending itself into its grave."
But he also talked about another campaign in the future. Sounding like a businessman again, he said: "I'm not going to change the arena. I'm either going to become a good player in it, or I'm not going to be in it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brook Johnson, left, Connecticut's Republican senatorial candidate, after voting yesterday in Greenwich. He was defeated by Senator Christopher J. Dodd, who won a third term. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TERM LIMITS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (74%); FAMILY (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); FAMILY LEAVE (68%); RADIO ADVERTISING (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); CHILD CARE (53%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE; JOHNSON, BROOK; DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN) CHRISTOPHER DODD (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



140 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTION: CONNECTICUT -- U.S. HOUSE RACES;
Incumbents Stave Off Rivals Amid Economic Concerns

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Wednesday,Nov. 4

 BODY:
Defying a wave of anti-incumbency that many in Congress had feared, all six of Connecticut's United States Representatives appeared to have won on Tuesday.
In the Second District, which covers most of eastern Connecticut, the six-term incumbent Democrat, Sam Gejdenson, appeared to have squeezed out a narrow victory over Edward Munster, a Republican State Senator from Haddam. With 86 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Gejdenson appeared to have won, but his opponent refused to concede, saying, "This is no mandate." Early this morning Mr. Gejdenson declared victory, but Mr. Munster said he was entitled to a recount. 
 The incumbents who were re-elected included Barbara B. Kennelly, a five-term Democrat from the First District, centered in Hartford, and Nancy L. Johnson, a Republican who has served as long in the Sixth District, in the state's northwest corner.
In the Third District, a rematch between Rosa DeLauro, the incumbent Democrat, and her Republican challenger, Tom Scott, saw Ms. DeLauro win by 2 to 1. In the Fourth District, dominated by Fairfield County, the Republican incumbent, Christopher Shays, handily defeated a pair of challengers, David Schropfer, a Democrat, and an independent candidate, Al Smith.
In the Fifth District, Gary Franks, a freshman who is the only black Republican in Congress, eked out a victory over a pair of challengers, Lynn Taborsak and Jim Lawlor.
 
Keeping in Touch
 Problems at home, particularly unemployment with at least 185,000 jobs lost since 1989, and perceived problems in Washington, including the House banking scandal and a sense that members of Congress had lost touch with their constituents, influenced voters in House races across Connecticut. In some cases, that may have worked against incumbents; in others, it kept challengers at bay because voters questioned their qualifications.
Leaving a polling place at a high school in Milford, Elizabeth Cappello said she had voted for Ms. DeLauro because "she did very well in her last term, and I like everything she stands for."
Other voters felt that controlling spending and the threat of additional taxes meant that they should support Tom Scott, Ms. DeLauro's Republican opponent. "I know he's against the state income tax and so am I," said Debbie Perillo. "I think he looks out for those of us in the middle class and he'll work for us."
In the Second District, which covers most of eastern Connecticut, many voters interviewed seemed simply to want a change from Mr. Gejdenson.
Bruce Jablonski, a machinist at the Electric Boat shipyard in Groton, said he was angry with Mr. Gejdenson for voting to support a recent Congressional pay raise, when many people, like himself, are worried about layoffs. "I think he cares more about himself than about anyone else," Mr. Jablonski said, after voting for Mr. Munster.
 
'Clear the Incumbents Out'
 There were also people who could not decide how to express their anger, and left that space on the voting machine untouched. "I felt I could not support either of them," said Amy Kennedy, who stood in the rain waiting to vote in Norwich, part of the Second District. She added: "But I would like to see Gejdenson voted out. I'd like to clear the incumbents out of Congress."
Voter turnout was also high, reflecting widespread dissatisfaction with the status quo. "I've never seen anything like this," said George Hajjar, an election worker at the polls at John F. Kennedy High School in Waterbury, where 3,000 of 4,200 registered voters in the city's largest district had voted by 6 P.M. Another 500 were expected by the time the polls closed at 8 P.M., Mr. Hajjar said.
Mr. Lawlor, who won the state Democratic primary in September, continued to be challenged throughout the fall by Ms. Taborsak, who kept on as an independent despite her defeat in the primary. Mr. Lawlor, who conceded defeat about 9:45 P.M., declined to blame Ms. Taborsak entirely for his poor showing but said, "Taborsak had to be a factor." Ms. Taborsak contended that a two-way race in the district would have meant "no choice for a lot of people" and said last night that had Mr. Lawlor not been opposed to abortion, she would have gladly dropped out of the race after the primary.

GRAPHIC: Chart: Who Won Where
Connecticut Congressional Races
 
Results at 1:35 A.M.
x - Winner
xx - Winner and change in party control
* - Incumbent
 
District 1 - 100%
 x-Barbara B. Kennelly, D * 163,778 - 69%
 Philip Steele, R 74,061 - 31%

 District 2 - 97%
 Sam Gejdenson, D * 117,223 - 51%
 Edward Munster, R 111,639 - 49%

 District 3 - 90%
 x-Rosa DeLauro, D * 155,691 - 65%
 Tom Scott, R 82,765 - 35%

 District 4 - 91%
 Dave Schropfer, D 55,510 - 27%
 x-Christopher Shays, R * 139,477 - 67%
 Al Smith, Oth 12,021 - 6%

 District 5 - 90%
 James Lawlor, D 68,306 - 32%
 x-Gary Franks, R * 95,970 - 45%
 Lynn Taborsak, Oth 49,656 - 23%

 District 6 - 98%
 Eugene Slason, D 57,471 - 27%
 x-Nancy Johnson, R * 156,905 - 73%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US HOUSE ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LAYOFFS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); INCOME TAX (50%); SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: KENNELLY, BARBARA B (REPR); GEJDENSON, SAM (REPR); DELAURO, ROSA L (REPR); SHAYS, CHRISTOPHER (REPR); FRANKS, GARY A (REPR); JOHNSON, NANCY L (REPR); HAYS, CONSTANCE L ROSA DELAURO (90%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



141 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Credit Markets;
Treasury to Expand Offering To Stem Shortage of Note

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The Treasury announced yesterday that it would sell $11.25 billion in current 10-year notes next week in an effort to eliminate a serious shortage of the security.
This is the first time the Treasury has used its authority to sell additional securities of the same issue to combat such a shortage, which has sharply driven up the cost for trading in the 10-year note that was auctioned last August and could disrupt the market. 
 In response to the scandal involving Salomon Brothers in the summer of 1991, the Treasury announced in January that it would use this authority when there were severe shortages. The goal was to discourage illegal manipulations of the Treasury market and to help the market function more smoothly when there was a natural shortage.
In the Salomon case, the firm admitted to illegal bidding violations in the Treasury auction to gain control of a particular issue. In addition, investigations are continuing on whether there was any collusion among large dealers to control some securities and force a squeeze, or shortage, that would force some investors and dealers to pay much more than they should for those securities.
The Treasury said yesterday that there was no indication that any improper squeeze was currently taking place.
"We have no indication of any wrongdoing," said Jerome H. Powell, Treasury Under Secretary for Finance. He said the Treasury had decided to issue more of the 10-year notes because "there was an acute and protracted shortage" and that the reopening of the 10-year note first auctioned in August would "contribute to the smooth functioning of the marketplace."
The decision on the 10-year note follows close monitoring of the issue by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
 
A Popular Hedge
 Traders said that one big reason for the shortage was that the 10-year note was in great demand for hedging against losses by dealers who were buying up the recent flood of corporate and other bonds.
Because this is the first use of the Treasury's policy, dealers and investors now have some guidelines on when the Treasury will act. Mr. Powell said one gauge of an acute shortage was the number of instances in which a dealer who had sold the 10-year note could not actually deliver them because they were not available. He said this was the case in a significant number of transactions.
Another measure is demand for this issue in the market in which one investor borrows securities from another. In this market, called the repurchase, or repo, market, one investor borrows the securities. In exchange, he gives the lender cash. The lender usually pays an interest rate close to the current Federal funds rate. The usually small differences between the two give the lender his profit.
But when there is intense demand, the borrower pays a premium by giving the money to the lender at an interest rate well below the current market rate, giving the lender large profits. In the case of the 10-year note, traders said, the interest rate has not been far above zero for several weeks.
The Treasury, in official terms, will reopen the issue of the 6.375 percent 10-year note that is due in August 2002 and sell more with the same coupon and maturity. In this way, the supply of this issue will be increased and that may satisfy the demand and end the shortage. The tax status of the issue will be the same as if the note were bought in the secondary market, the Treasury said.
 
'Facilitating the Industry'
 There are certain to be traders who consider the Treasury's move to be meddling in the market. But several traders and analysts greeted the move positively, saying they were forewarned. "It is almost like facilitating the industry," said Terrence Crowe, a vice president at Nikko Securities Inc.
Acknowledging that some traders might be angry, Louis Crandall, chief economist at R. H. Wrightson & Associates, said: "It is choosing sides but that is inevitable. Any decision the Treasury makes will help those who bet right and hurt those who bet wrong."
In an analysis last week, Wrightson said that the shortage of the 10-year note was not that severe, falling "between the extreme squeezes that have caused concern in the past and business as usual."
The Treasury decision was announced as part of the regular briefing on the details of the Government's quarterly auction of securities, which is next week. In total, $37 billion in notes and bonds will be auctioned, including $15.5 billion in 3-year notes on Monday; $11.25 billion of the existing 10-year note, which will now be a 9 3/4-year note, on Tuesday, and $10.25 billion of 30-year bonds on Thursday.
The new supply from the auction next week is one reason the market has been nervous and falling lately.
But the news on the reopening of the 10-year note seemed to be favorably greeted because the price of the note finished up 6/32 on the day to yield 6.85 percent, down from 6.87 percent on Monday.
The Treasury also said that its authority for borrowing under the current Federal debt ceiling of $4.145 trillion, will run out in March.
 
Treasury Market
 Bond and note prices were up in the morning than faded some in the afternoon. While the trading was brisker than expected for an Election Day, there was no real trend, traders said. In late secondary trading, the 30-year bond was offered at 9510/32 , up 3/32 , to yield 7.65 percent, unchanged from Monday.
The price of notes was up moderately while yields fell. In the pre-auction, or when-issued, market for next week's Treasury auction, the 30-year bond closed at a yield of 7.63 percent; the reopened 10-year note, which will be a 9 3/4-year note, was at 6.90 percent and the 3-year note ended at 5.05 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows the yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data) (pg. D16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US) FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; SHORTAGES TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SCANDALS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



142 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Caldor Bids for Alexander's Stores

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
The Caldor Corporation, a big discount retailer in the Northeast, made a bid yesterday to acquire and reopen 6 of 11 Alexander's department stores in the New York metropolitan area. The bid competes with one by Bradlees Inc., another discount chain, for the properties of the 64-year-old bankrupt retailer.
The size of the Caldor bid was not disclosed in short statements by Caldor and Alexander's Inc. issued after 5 P.M. yesterday. But Alexander's said that the new bid would exceed the Bradlees bid by about $5 million in "present value," as required last month of any future bidder by the Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, which is supervising Alexander's affairs. 
 When Bradlees made its bid in September, it said it would spent $82 million to buy or take over the leases of two Alexander's stores in the Bronx, two in Queens, one in Valley Stream, L.I., and one in Yonkers. Executives of Caldor and Alexander's would not comment on yesterday's bid, and a call after business hours to Bradlees headquarters in Braintree, Mass., was not answered.
 
A Remarkable Rise
 Yesterday's proposed transaction follows a remarkable rise in the price of Alexander's stock since it declared bankruptcy in May and closed all of its stores. Its shares have risen almost two and a half times in value in less than six months and are up more than 15 percent in the last month alone. Yesterday, they slipped 75 cents, closing at $31.875 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Some analysts believe that the price will go substantially higher. "I'm assuming that Alexander's can generate cash flow after expenses of $3 to $4 a share," said Samuel Lieber, portfolio manager of the Evergreen Global Real Estate Equity Fund in Purchase, N.Y. "If they create a real estate investment trust out of it, I think we will see a share price of $50 to $60 within 18 months."
Others, particularly those who have sold the stock short, expect a sharp drop in the price of Alexander's once it emerges from bankruptcy, most likely as a real estate company.
After Alexander's presents a debt reorganization plan to the court, "I think the price will plummet," said Michael Murphy, editor of the Overpriced Stock Service in Half Moon Bay, Calif. "The maximum the stock is worth is $20, and I think it will go down to $12."
Alexander's filed for Chapter 11 protection from its creditors on May 15 amid weak sales, intense competition from suburban malls and the recession. Its retail operations have been unprofitable since 1987.
Alexander's made its deal with Bradlees in September, but Caldor, based in Norwalk, Conn., expressed an interest in the same properties within weeks. Bankruptcy Judge Cornelius Blackshear had set a deadline of yesterday for new bids and will select a winner by Nov. 12.
"Alexander's is in a position of strength because it has already done a deal for its least attractive properties," Mr. Lieber said, alluding to the offers from Caldor and Bradlees. Fund and other entities under his control own 6 percent of the company's stock. He added that the other Alexander's properties, like the flagship store on Lexington Avenue in Manhattan and a store in Paramus, N.J., were much better values for other discounters like warehouse stores or home centers.
On the other hand, Allan Roness, a managing director of Fahnestock & Company, a securities concern, called the stock "fully priced at 30." Development of the Manhattan and Paramus properties "is not going to happen tomorrow," he said.
"Why did the stock go up,?" he asked. "I think the shorts are squeezed a little bit."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Bidding Up Alexander's" shows Alexander's daily closing stock prices from April-Nov. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALX (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: ALEXANDER'S DEPARTMENT STORES; BRADLEES INC; CALDOR INC CALDOR CORP (93%); BRADLEES INC (72%); ALEXANDER'S INC (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALEXANDER'S DEPARTMENT STORES; BRADLEES INC; CALDOR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (94%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (76%); SUBURBS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); JUDGES (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (62%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



143 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
A Legal Strategy Ends in Dismissal

BYLINE: By Kurt Eichenwald

 BODY:
PUBLIC disclosure is a funny thing. While publicly traded companies must inform investors of some plans that might affect earnings, they need not disclose when the strategies are farfetched.
Consider Lifschultz Industries, a New York conglomerate that for five years has been trumpeting a single note in its investment symphony: a $1.8 billion lawsuit pending against three large trucking companies. The suit charged that the group had conspired over 25 years through bribery, fraud and other criminal activities to push Lifschultz out of the trucking business. Company executives hoped the litigation against the Consolidated Freightways Corporation, Yellow Freight System Inc. and Roadway Express Inc. would bring a windfall to holders of Lifschultz stock. 
 The stock's story gained an air of plausibility from myriad celebrities, living and dead, who were somehow connected to the case. The roster of well-known figures -- ranging from Donald Trump to Robert Bork to Jimmy Hoffa -- who played one role or another in the Lifschultz saga gave the company's story the breathless feel of a dime-store detective novel.
Too much so, in fact. Buried among years of hoopla from the company about the litigation was one serious problem: Lifschultz's evidence was painfully thin.
The company offered two witnesses with Mafia ties who testified that Hoffa, the former head of the teamsters' union, had devised the conspiracy to consolidate the trucking industry into a few large unionized carriers. The company also presented an economic analysis it had paid for that was said to detail predatory pricing. And that was the whole case.
So while it made an interesting tale, the Lifschultz lawsuit amounted to little. Last Friday, Federal District Judge Henry M. Herlong, who has been hearing the case in Greenville, S.C., dismissed the suit on a summary judgment motion from the defendants. The reason? Lifschultz did not have enough evidence to convince a rational jury that the defendants had done anything wrong.
"The conspiracy as alleged by Lifschultz is of monstrous proportions," Judge Herlong wrote. Yet "Lifschultz has been unable to product plausible evidence that supports its allegations."
Judge Herlong went on to play down the significance of Lifschultz's analysis of pricing, saying "for the most part, the report is merely a series of unsupported speculations."
This slamming of the company's case has not deterred Lifschultz, which plans to appeal. "I don't believe the judge even read our economic data," said David Lifschultz, chairman.
Investors who were looking to make a play on the Lifschultz litigation would have been hard pressed over the years to find any indication -- outside of the legal filings -- that the case the company was pressing was so weak that it would never even get to a jury. Indeed, throughout the years, Lifschultz would make new disclosures every now and then that may have raised new hope for the sagging lawsuit.
For example, in 1991, Mr. Lifschultz said the company had a deal with Mr. Trump, the developer who owned the land beneath the Lifschultz headquarters in Manhattan. Under the deal, Mr. Trump would take 10 percent of the company in exchange for allowing Lifschultz to sublease the property, a move that would generate revenue for the legal case. Essentially, the agreement allowed Mr. Trump to keep getting his rent while also receiving a free chance to ride the lawsuit.
The deal was proclaimed as evidence of the case's strength. In a news report at the time, Mr. Lifschultz was quoted as saying Mr. Trump would help to influence the defendants to settle -- a statement that surely gave investors comfort. Yesterday, Mr. Lifschultz said he had been misquoted.
Yet Mr. Lifschultz said he had never felt compelled to tell his investors that they might have been misinformed. "I didn't even think about that," he said yesterday. "Nobody advised me I had to do that."
The case gained renewed credibility in June when Lifschultz added Mr. Bork, the unsuccessful nominee for the Supreme Court, and Thomas Puccio, the former special prosecutor for the Abscam bribery case, to its legal team. But naming the two high-profile lawyers almost five years after the case began came far too late.
Even as upbeat news came from the Lifschultz camp, other developments were not played up for investors. A number of investors, including the company's own president and a corporation that was one of the largest holders of its stock, were filing reports to sell the Lifschultz shares -- at a time when the case had not even gone to trial. The stock lost a third of its value yesterday, closing at 6.25 cents a share, down 3.125 cents, in over-the-counter trading.
In the end, few people tied to Lifschultz believe that the quixotic fight will end, although no one is holding their breath for success. "I think David Lifschultz has a lot of moxie and a lot of energy," Mr. Trump said yesterday. "But obviously he didn't have a lot of case."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: YRCW (NASDAQ) (71%); CNW (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (71%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (53%); 

CITY: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: LIFSCHULTZ INDUSTRIES YRC WORLDWIDE INC (71%); ROADWAY EXPRESS INC (71%); CON-WAY INC (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIFSCHULTZ INDUSTRIES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (53%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION LITIGATION (91%); TRUCKING (91%); GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SUMMARY JUDGMENT (89%); TRUCKING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); JUDGES (76%); WITNESSES (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); TESTIMONY (71%); BRIBERY (71%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (67%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT DONALD TRUMP (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



144 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Off a Bit, With the Dow Falling 9.73

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stock prices fell modestly yesterday after traders deployed computerized sell programs in an Election Day session that was otherwise uneventful.
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, which jumped 35.93 points in the previous session, closed down 9.73 points, to 3,252.48. 
 Declining issues outnumbered advances by about 9 to 8 on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume was active, with 208.1 million shares changing hands, up from 203.3 million in the previous session.
The market's decline came a day after a rally based in part on analysts' speculation that a Bill Clinton Presidency would not be adverse to the financial markets. Alfred Goldman, market strategist for A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis, said market participants expressed relief that a decision was finally at hand in the race among Mr. Clinton, George Bush and Ross Perot.
"If the market knows what devil they have to deal with, then it will be a lot more comfortable," he said.
The market showed little change in early trading, but then prices headed lower after noon after two waves of computer-driven selling hit stocks, said Dennis Jarrett, market analyst for Kidder, Peabody & Company.
Mr. Jarrett said the selling was apparently caused by an attractive spread between stock futures prices in Chicago and cash prices on the New York Stock Exchange. There was no economic news to account for the selling, he said. Jack Solomon, an analyst at Bear Stearns & Company, said the market's decline was smooth and orderly.
Analysts dismissed as old news the Commerce Department report on the index of leading economic indicators, which was released yesterday. The Government's chief economic forecasting gauge fell three-tenths of 1 percent in September, a sign that the economy will remain sluggish for several months.
"The vast majority of market participants are looking beyond old economic news and looking at a Clinton Presidency and some moderate fiscal stimulus," Mr. Goldman said.
Oil stocks took the brunt of the day's selling after several brokerage houses downgraded prominent companies because of weak demand and the recent decline in oil prices. ARCO fell 2 7/8, to 113 1/8; Amoco, down 1 7/8, to 50 1/4; Exxon, down 3/4, tot 59 1/2, and Texaco, off 1 3/8, to 58 3/4.
The Big Board's composite index fell 1.24, to 231.24. On the American Stock Exchange, the market value index rose 0.13, to 382.83.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); BSC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (68%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); BIG BOARD (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: BIG BOARD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FUTURES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



145 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Yields Mixed On C.D.'s and Money Funds

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields offered on bank money market accounts and certificates of deposit were mixed again for the week that ends today, as banks refrained from making sharp adjustments in deposit rates.
Analysts at The Bank Rate Monitor, a Florida-based interest rate publication, said average yields were little changed as money market accounts held firm in the New York market but slipped in a survey of 20 large banks nationwide. For certificates of deposit, yields were thinly mixed in New York, but were moderately higher at the same 20 large banks. 
 At the Treasury's weekly auction of three- and six-month bills on Monday, average discount rates rose again, reaching their highest levels since late summer. For depositors the interest rate picture is a bit brighter, since the auction is often regarded as the harbinger of how banks could eventually set their deposit rates in the weeks ahead.
According to data released by the Treasury, the average rate at auction for a three-month bill this week rose 8 basis points, to 3.05 percent from 2.97 percent, achieving the highest level since Aug. 31, when the rate was 3.17 percent. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
For the six-month Treasury bill, the average discount rate rose 5 basis points, to 3.27 percent, its highest since Aug. 3, when it was 3.30 percent at auction.
 
Local Money Market Rate: 2.79%
 The combined New York area average for yields in the latest week showed the average money market account unchanged at 2.79 percent, with a three-month certificate of deposit unchanged at 2.85 percent, and the six-month certificate a basis point lower, at 3 percent.
Among commercial banks, yields were unchanged at 2.63 percent for money market accounts, but slipped on C.D.'s, with three-month and six-month certificates each down 2 basis points, to 2.75 percent and 2.89 percent, respectively.
Depositors at savings banks saw money market yields slip a basis point, to 2.95 percent, with a three-month C.D. unchanged at 2.95 percent and a six-month C.D. up a basis point, to 3.12 percent.
The sharpest adjustments made by New York banks this week included Green Point Savings, which lowered its money market account 5 basis points, to 3.05 percent. Key Bank dropped 15 basis points off its three-month C.D., to 2.48 percent, and 30 basis points off the six-month C.D., to 2.84 percent.
Outside the New York market, yields at 20 large banks surveyed were also mixed, with average money market account off 2 basis points, to 2.66 percent, and a six-month C.D. up 2 basis points, to 2.93 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GREEN POINT SAVINGS BANK (51%); NEW YORK (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (79%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



146 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 19; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Proposed Hospital Merger Concerns Medical School

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STONY BROOK, L.I.

 BODY:
The proposed merger of two Long Island hospitals, brought on by the changing economics of health care, is threatening the survival of the State University Hospital at Stony Brook, officials there say.
As Suffolk county's only referral center for specialized care, the 10-year-old hospital at Stony Brook has agreements with more than 50 hospitals on the East End of Long Island to assist patients who would otherwise have to travel more than 100 miles to medical centers in Manhattan. 
 But officials at Stony Brook say the vital income from such patients is now threatened because North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, in Nassau County halfway between here and Manhattan, is seeking to merge with the Community Hospital of Western Suffolk in Smithtown, only seven miles from the State University Hospital.
No money would change hands, but the Smithtown hospital, which has fallen on hard economic times, would agree to become a satellite of North Shore, said Carol Hauptman, a spokeswoman for North Shore.
Tertiary, or highly specialized care, would be provided at the Manhasset hospital, which is affiliated with Cornell University's medical college.
 
Interests of the County
 The merger is part of a plan by North Shore to establish a network of satellite hospitals, with the aim of reducing costs while providing improved care for patients. Such networks are part of a national trend that is now rapidly emerging in Long Island, said Dr. Jordan Cohen, dean of the School of Medicine at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
"I have no quarrel with North Shore in that they are merely pursuing their self-interest -- but that's the problem," Dr. Cohen said. "Their self-interest is not in the best interest of Suffolk County. By trying to solidify and greatly expand their base of patient referrals from Suffolk, they threaten the development, even the very existence, of the county's only tertiary referral center and Long Island's only medical school," he said.
Ms. Hauptman countered, "There's no such thing as territory in medical care."
The Stony Brook School of Medicine turns out 100 physicians a year, a large percentage of whom remain on Long Island, said Dr. Michael Geheb, associate dean for clinical affairs.
"Consequently," Dr. Geheb said, "a threat to the viability of the medical center at Stony Brook represents a serious threat to the health and welfare of the region."
 
Limits on Competition
 Stony Brook has called on the New York State Department of Health and the Nassau-Suffolk County Health Systems Agency to reject the proposed North Shore merger with Western Suffolk in favor of a proposal under development at Stony Brook, Dan Forbush, a spokesman for Stony Brook, said.
But Ms. Hauptman, noting that the State Board of Health had been encouraging such mergers, said North Shore was expecting a "quick decision."
Dean Cohen met with officials at Western Suffolk on Monday to discuss "possible alternatives." He said the talks were cordial, but, given the constraints on Stony Brook, he was not optimistic about the hospital dropping its merger plans.
Under current state regulations, Dean Cohen said, Stony Brook cannot borrow money, seek mergers or buy property. To survive in the health care environment today, he said, Stony Brook "must be given greater flexibility by the state so as to be able to compete on a level playing field."
Ms. Hauptman said it was "unfortunate that publicly owned hospitals like Stony Brook could not afford to enlarge and increase their scope of operations because they were hampered by slow-moving state regulators."
"But private not-for-profit hospitals like North Shore can and should, especially if they can provide better service at a better price," she said.
She noted that North Shore merged with the Community Hospital of Glen Cove in Nassau County two years ago and that 50 such arrangements had been completed in New York State over the last two years.
"We're free to introduce new ideas and believe the merger will be beneficial to the care of patients throughout Long Island," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH SHORE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (MANHASSET, NY); COMMUNITY HOSPITAL OF WESTERN SUFFOLK; UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL AT STONY BROOK (NY) CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH SHORE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (MANHASSET, NY); COMMUNITY HOSPITAL OF WESTERN SUFFOLK; UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL AT STONY BROOK (NY) CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; HOSPITALS HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); MERGERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (88%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T CAROL HAUPTMAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



147 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Travelers' Loss $358 Million; 1,500 More Jobs Will Be Cut

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
The Travelers Corporation announced losses yesterday for its third quarter that were higher than expected and said it would cut an additional 1,500 jobs as part of a restructuring that altogether will reduce the company's work force by 5,000.
About 1,000 of the 1,500 job cuts announced yesterday are expected to be made in Connecticut and most of those in Hartford, where the company has its headquarters. 
 The company's loss of $358 million come during a quarter when Travelers announced a significant reorganization and streamlining of the company, which includes a plan to sell a 27 percent stake to the Primerica Corporation. Travelers also attributed its poor performance to losses caused by Hurricane Andrew that grew to $240 million after taxes.
The third-quarter loss compares with a profit of $65 million, or 60 cents a share, in the corresponding period last year. Revenue dropped 7.7 percent, to $2.6 billion from $2.8 billion.
Travelers stock closed at $23 yesterday, down 12.5 cents on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
Losses From Hurricane
 "Our core businesses are sensitive to the protracted weak economy, and therefore we are continuing an intensive process to streamline operations," said Edward H. Budd, Travelers' chairman and chief executive. "Staffing decisions are directly related to the significant efficiencies we must achieve in order to compete in an environment that requires leaner and more competitive companies."
Like other leading insurers, Travelers experienced staggering losses as a result of Hurricane Andrew. These losses continue to grow and are still surprising industry experts months after the storm struck Florida and Louisiana. The company's latest estimate of $240 million in reduced income is an increase from previous estimates of $175 million to $225 million.
Travelers also announced a charge against earnings of $202 million for its restructuring efforts, up from the previously announced cost of $132 million. The additional $70 million is related to the newly announced reduction of 1,500 jobs in corporate staff and administration, the company said. The jobs will be cut over two years.
The company said it expected to begin realizing savings from the reorganization in 1993 and hoped to achieve savings of more than $100 million by mid-1994.
Westin Hicks, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein, said the announcement indicated the company was moving faster in its restructuring efforts than it indicated earlier this fall, at the time Primerica deal was disclosed. Although the pain will be slightly higher now, he said, the moves could speed up savings in the next few years.
"This was going to be a lousy year anyway," said Gloria L. Vogel, an analyst with Lehman Brothers. "I like to see them throwing a lot of these costs in here now."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Rebound Expected" shows Travelers Corporation operating income, excluding dividends paid to holders of preference shares from '88 - estimated '96. (Source: Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (95%); C (BMV) (95%); 8710 (TSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (95%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS CORP CITIGROUP INC (95%); TRAVELERS CORP (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRAVELERS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAYOFFS (LABOR) LAYOFFS (91%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); HURRICANES (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (74%); COMPANY REVENUES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); INSURANCE (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



148 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 18; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Abandoned Newborn Found in Bronx Alley

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
An newborn girl stuffed into a gym bag was abandoned in a cold, damp alley in the Bronx yesterday morning, where her cat-like cries alerted a couple who rescued her.
The child, who did not appear to have suffered any physical injuries, was taken by the police to Lincoln Hospital, where she was listed in good condition, said Detective Joseph McConville, a police spokesman. The mother has not been found. 
 Lorenzo Beltre, the superintendent of an apartment building at 787 Prospect Avenue in the Melrose section, was leaving his basement apartment shortly after 8 A.M. when he heard a noise in the dimly lighted, narrow alley outside his front door, said his wife, Tamares. The noise came from a brown gym bag propped up against a brick wall, yards from a row of garbage cans.
"He thought that perhaps it was a cat," she said. But when he approached the bag and realized a child was inside, breathing through a small opening, he told his wife to call the police.
"I went crazy," she said, "like that child was mine. I cried."
Officers canvassed the building, searching apartments with the residents' permission, but they found no leads, said Sandra Cosme, a resident. She and other residents said none of their neighbors were expecting to give birth. Detective McConville asked anyone with information to call (718) 402-2270.
The baby is emblematic of the neighborhood and its times, lamented Lorraine Montenegro, the executive director of United Bronx Parents, a community agency a few doors away from where the child was found.
She has seen drugs, poverty and unemployment tear at the neighborhood in which she was born. Her agency offers day care, meals, education and even residential drug treatment for expectant mothers.
Roberto Rivera, who lives in a building adjoining where the infant was found, pointed to a teen-age girl who passed by him on the sidewalk and whispered that she, her brother and mother roam the streets scavenging for cans at night because their father has become so ensnarled in his drug addiction that he sold off the appliances in his apartment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BRONX PARENTS (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRONX (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BABIES; ABANDONMENT INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); CATS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); CHILDREN (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); RESIDENTIAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID JOSEPH MCCONVILLE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



149 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 17; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: New York Firefighters Reject Contract, Forcing Arbitration

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
A contract settlement with New York City firefighters that some city officials hoped would be a model for other labor talks has been rejected by the union.
The negotiations will now go to an independent panel for arbitration on Monday, said James F. Hanley, the Commissioner of the city's Department of Labor Relations. 
 The tentative settlement reached in September with leaders of the Uniformed Firefighters Association called for a salary increase of 4.5 percent, nearly all of it retroactive -- an amount that was roughly the same as the police and other municipal unions won in 1990. But the proposed firefighters' contract would have covered 30 months, or twice as long as most of the other city contracts settled in 1990, leading some city officials to describe it as the equivalent of two 15-month deals, the second without a raise.
Leaders of the union, which represents 8,500 firefighters, had argued that improvements in retirement benefits in the proposed contract made up for the relatively small salary increase. But the delegates, who under union bylaws must vote on contract proposals, rejected the deal on Monday by a vote of 339 to 17.
 
Members Called Frustrated
 James J. Boyle, the president of the firefighters union, said his members were frustrated because they have worked without a raise since 1989. But he also defended the proposed contract, saying that it had offered several benefits, including an annuity and changes in pension schedules, that were significant gains in a difficult economic climate.
"Now we are left with an arbitration coming up, and our history with arbitration is not good," Mr. Boyle said.
The city and the firefighters also went to arbitration in 1987, when the union overwhelmingly rejected another proposed contract. That resulted eventually in a major victory for the city, which won the right to have four firefighters on each truck instead of five. The ruling saved the city millions of dollars in salaries and overtime.
Mr. Hanley contended that the rejection of the latest settlement was due, at least in part, to internal union dissension. He noted that the firefighters union has often rejected contracts negotiated by their leaders, and that, indeed, the leaders themselves are often voted out of office. Mr. Boyle is currently being investigated by a union committee on allegations of misusing the union's credit accounts and other questionable spending.
 
Productivity Gains Sought
 Mr. Hanley said he did not expect the contract rejection to have a major impact on the city's many other sets of labor negotiations. The contract was basically retroactive, and thus was part of the last round of city labor talks, nearly all of which have now been completed. Members of most city unions are now working under expired contracts, and few unions have reported much progress in the current round of talks.
When the proposed contract settlement with the firefighters was reached two months ago, many leaders of other municipal unions were quick to reject the assertion by senior mayoral aides that it would set a pattern for other labor negotiations.
The city has maintained for months that it will grant raises for new contracts only if the raises are financed through productivity gains and other concessions. Union leaders have rejected the city's strategy, saying they will discuss concessions only after the city puts some money on the table.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIFORMED FIREFIGHTERS ASSN (NYC) JAMES J BOYLE & CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIFORMED FIREFIGHTERS ASSN (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; CONTRACTS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); CITIES (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN JAMES F HANLEY (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



150 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 2436 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: PRESIDENT -- THE OVERVIEW;
CLINTON CAPTURES PRESIDENCY WITH HUGE ELECTORAL MARGIN; WINS A DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas was elected the 42d President of the United States yesterday, breaking a 12-year Republican hold on the White House.
Mr. Clinton shattered the Republicans' political base with a promise of change to an electorate clearly discontented with President Bush. 
 Ross Perot, the Texas billionaire who roiled this race throughout, finished third, drawing roughly equally from both major party candidates, according to Voter Research & Surveys, the television polling consortium. His share of the popular vote had the potential to exceed any third-party candidate's in more than half a century.
 
Faithful Are Won Back
 The President-elect, capping an astonishing political comeback for the Democrats over the last 18 months, ran strongly in all regions of the country and among many groups that were key to the Republicans' dominance of the 1980's: Catholics, suburbanites, independents, moderates and the Democrats who crossed party lines in the 1980's to vote for Ronald Reagan and Mr. Bush.
The Governor from Arkansas won such big, closely contested states as Michigan, Missouri, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Illinois. As polls closed across the nation, networks announced projected winners based on voter surveys. It was Ohio that put him over the top shortly before 11 P.M., followed closely by California. Based on those projections, Mr. Bush prevailed in his adopted state of Texas and other pockets of Republican states around the country.
With 83 percent of the nation's precincts reporting by 3 A.M. today, Mr. Clinton had 43 percent to 38 percent for Mr. Bush and 18 percent for Mr. Perot.
A state-by-state breakdown of those returns gave the President-elect more than 345 electoral votes, a commanding victory in the Electoral College, which requires 270 for election. His victory also provided coattails for Democrats running for Congress in the face of tough Republican challenges: Democrats, who control both chambers, appeared likely to gain in the Senate and suffer manageable losses in the House.
 
'With High Hopes'
 In a victory speech to a joyous crowd in Little Rock, Mr. Clinton declared, "On this day, with high hopes and brave hearts, in massive numbers, the American people have voted to make a new beginning."
He described the election as a "clarion call" to deal with a host of domestic problems too long ignored and to "bring our nation together." He paid tribute to the voters he had met along the campaign trail, saying they had simply demanded that "we want our future back." The President-elect, who looked euphoric and seemed to savor every cheer, added, "I intend to give it to you."
He also hailed his longtime rival, Mr. Bush, for "his lifetime of public service" and the "grace with which he conceded this election."
"Not very long ago I received a telephone call from President Bush," the President-elect said. "It was a generous and forthcoming telephone call, of real congratulations and an offer to work with me in keeping our democracy running in an effective and important transition."
The crowd hailed the victor repeatedly with cries of "We love you, Bill," especially when he paid tribute to his home state, the object of Republican ridicule throughout the campaign.
Mr. Clinton credited much of his success to his wife, Hillary, who was also a target of Republican attacks. The Clintons and their daughter, Chelsea, were joined by Vice President-elect Al Gore and his family, creating once again the tableau of youth and generational change that they projected throughout the campaign. Mr. Gore and Mr. Clinton embraced in jubilant bear hug.
 
Bush Gives Concession
 Mr. Bush, looking weary but composed, made his concession speech shortly after 11 P.M. in Houston. "The people have spoken and we respect the majesty of the Democratic system," he said. Mr. Bush congratulated Mr. Clinton, but did not mention Mr. Perot, and promised that his own Administration would "work closely with his team to insure the smooth transition of power."
Vice President Dan Quayle made his concession speech in Indianapolis a few minutes later and like Mr. Bush congratulated Mr. Clinton and hushed the boos. "We must all pull together now. If he runs the country as well as he ran the campaign, we'll be all right."
Congressional leaders said they welcomed the new era beyond divided government. "We welcome the challenge and the responsibility," said Senator George Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader.
There were other signs of change: California elected two women to the Senate, in Representative Barbara Boxer and the former San Francisco Mayor Dianne Feinstein. Illinois also elected a woman, Carol Moseley Braun, to the Senate, as did Washington State, which chose Patty Murray..
Mr. Perot made his concession speech in remarkably good spirits and seemed intent on signaling that he was not leaving the political stage. "This is not the time to get discouraged," he said. "This is the time to redouble our efforts, to make sure we live in alabaster cities undimmed by human tears."
Mr. Clinton's campaign represented the culmination of years of effort by centrist Democrats to redefine their party and reconnect with the middle class. It also represented an extraordinary turnaround for a party that for much of 1991 seemed destined to lose to a President soaring in the approval ratings in the aftermath of the war in the Persian Gulf.
 
Brown Sees 'Watershed'
 "It was a watershed election for America," said Ronald H. Brown, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee. "The case for change was made, and it resonated so much that it broke down traditional political lines. It's a new day." In fact, the voter surveys showed that economic discontent and a hunger for change were two of the engines of the Democratic victory.
Republicans sadly watched Mr. Bush become the third one-term President in 20 years. "He was a good man, he was a good President," said Representative Vin Weber of Minnesota, a co-chairman fo the Bush campaign. "But he thought that if he simply did the right thing, people would understand. Whereas I think Reagan understood the need to communicate your vision."
Lynn Martin, the Secretary of Labor, said of the voters last night, "They understand about world affairs, but they were worried about their own."
But there was also Republican anger; Mary Matalin, deputy manager of the Bush campaign, accused the news media of bias last night in their coverage of the 1992 election. Ahead, many Republicans feared, was a round of soul-searching, finger-pointing and a struggle to recast their party for an era beyond the cold war, an era that seems relentlessly focused on domestic needs.
 
A Grueling Comeback
 The voting capped a grueling campaign in which Mr. Clinton came back from seeming disaster in the New Hampshire primary, where questions were raised about how he avoided the draft in the Vietnam War, setting off a round of attacks from his political opponents on his trustworthiness. Mr. Clinton survived with a remarkably disciplined campaign that stayed focused on the economy and what he often called "the forgotten middle class."
Mr. Bush, at the same time, fell from great heights as the economy continued to falter. He spent much of the year trying to convince the voters that the country was in better shape than they thought. Still, the voter surveys showed that seven in 10 voters considerd the economy either poor or "not so good," and Mr. Clinton ran strongly among them.
Mr. Clinton also ran strongly among young voters, working women and a variety of other groups that showed the strains in the Republican coalition, which had been held together for years by economic growth and a fierce anti-Communism. And his Southern roots, like those of Jimmy Carter in 1976, made him a formidable challenger to the Republicans in the heart of their political base in the South. The big states of Florida and Texas stayed fiercely competitive until the end.
Mr. Clinton, who is 46 years old, becomes the first President born after World War II -- a changing of the guard in American politics.
Mr. Clinton's careful strategy to appeal to suburban residents, independent voters and moderates clearly paid off. Nearly half of the suburban voters backed Mr. Clinton, compared with about a third who were supporting Mr. Bush. Mr. Clinton also carried 4 in 10 of the independent voters, with Mr. Bush splitting the rest with Mr. Perot.
Here, and in several other demographic categories, Mr. Clinton broke into groups that for the past decade were clear parts of the Republican Presidential majority -- the swing voters drawn to the Republicans by the promise of fiscal responsibility and economic growth. In 1980 and 1988, for example, independents went heavily for Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush.
The President-elect also won more than half of the voters who consider themselves moderates, suggesting that he had succeeded in his goal of recasting the Democratic Party in a more centrist image. Only 3 in 10 of the moderates backed Mr. Bush, who was widely thought to be hurt by the backlash to the "family values" appeal at the Republican National Convention. Again, that was a far poorer showing than Mr. Bush had in 1988.
Mr. Clinton also succeeded in bringing home many of the Democrats who persistently crossed party lines in Presidential elections in the 1980's: More than half of the Democrats who voted for Mr. Bush in 1988 voted for Mr. Clinton this time around.
Mr. Bush essentially ran even with Mr. Clinton among white voters, but the Democratic nominee, as is the case with most recent Democratic nominees, did far better with black voters.
Mr. Bush ran better than Mr. Clinton among white Protestants, but the Democrat carried about half of the Catholic votes and an even bigger majority among Jewish voters.
 
'Way Beyond Abortion'
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton fared about the same among men, but Mr. Clinton had an edge among women, particularly among working women. Only 3 in 10 of the working women voted for Mr. Bush, according to the poll.
"It goes way beyond abortion," said Ann F. Lewis, a former Democratic strategist and commentator. "George Bush campaigned four years ago on the promise of a kinder, gentler nation, and women are keenly aware that he provided neither."
There was also a distinct generational cast to this election. Mr. Clinton, who carefully courted MTV viewers, carried half of the 18- to 29-year-olds, after a decade in which Republicans worked hard to cement their political gains by building on the loyalty of the young. Baby-boomers, those aged 30 to 44, broke more like all voters, despite Mr. Clinton's status as a card-carrying boomer.
But Americans aged 60 and over showed a clear bias in favor of Mr. Clinton, according to the poll. He also ran well among other demographic groups, including half of the military veterans, (despite the furor over his draft status during the Vietnam War), half of the first-time voters, and more than half of union members.
From the beginning of this campaign, in the chilly towns of New Hampshire, the economy was the issue that was front and center, and so it was when voters went to the polls yesterday. Jobs and the economy were cited by nearly 4 in 10 voters as the issue that mattered most in their decision. Health care and the deficit, the latter's prominence probably a reflection of the Perot candidacy, were the second-most important issues, each cited by about a quarter of the voters.
The hostility of the political terrain for Mr. Bush this year was underscored by this fact: fewer than one in 10 voters cited foreign policy as the most important issue to them. Abortion was cited as the determining issue by about one in 10.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Bush carried the anti-abortion vote, after a year when he and his party chose to reaffirm their strong opposition to legalized abortion, as codified in their platform. Mr. Clinton, equally unsurprisingly, carried the votes of those who support abortion's being legal in most or all circumstances.
There were also clear regional patterns at work: Mr. Clinton ran strongest in the East and the West, and only slightly less strongly in the Midwest. Mr. Bush's strength was greatest in the South, which was long considered his political "fire wall." But even there, the all-Southern Democratic ticket kept it neck and neck. Mr. Perot's strongest performance was in the West.
The voting ended what had become an epic campaign.
The Clinton forces, who became increasingly convinced that victory was in their grasp over the past week, flew home to Little Rock yesterday morning. There was some weeping, much rejoicing and great weariness on the Clinton plane. James Carville, the strategist who headed the campaign's "war room" in Little Rock, said there was also some weeping Monday night as the group of strategists at the heart of this campaign met for the last time.
"I'm a little overwhelmed," said Mr. Carville, the tightly wound Louisianian who became emblematic of a new, more aggressive Democratic Party. "When you get to the top of the mountain, your first inclination is not to jump for joy, but to look around."
 
How the Polls Were Conducted
 The Election Day exit poll was based on questionnaires completed by voters as they left voting stations throughout the United States. The national poll included 13,471 voters in 300 randomly selected precincts in all states and the District of Columbia.
The polling was conducted by Voter Research & Surveys, an organization created in 1990 by ABC News, CBS News, CNN and NBC News.
In addition, V.R.S. conducted further interviewing throughout the individual states. The New York Times subscribed to 12 of the individual state exit polls. These included from 700 to 1,900 voters per state in 30 to 50 randomly selected precincts per state.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by only a few percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters who turned out. The potential sampling error was one percentage point for the nationwide survey and from three to five percentage points in the individual state polls, depending on the number of interviews.
Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on Election Day, such as the reluctance of some voters to fill out questionnaires, may introduce other sources of error.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Congress at a Glance" shows the following statistics as of 2:45 A.M. Eastern time:
 
Senate
 Current balance
 Democrats 57
 Republicans 43
 At stake
 Democrats 19
 Republicans 15
 Winners
 Democrats 19
 Republicans 11
 Undecided 4
 New balance
 Democrats 57
 Republicans 39
 Undecided 4
 
House
 Current balance
 Democrats 268
 Republicans 166
 Independent 1
 At stake
 All 435 seats
 Winners
 Democrats 222
 Republicans 151
 Independent 1
 New balance
 Democrats 222
 Republicans 151
 Undecided 61
 Independent 1 (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION RESULTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) ; VOTER BEHAVIOR; ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (53%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS ; GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



151 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: NEWS ANALYSIS;
The Economy's Casualty

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

 BODY:
In the end it was the faltering economy, which had bedeviled him all year, that did George Bush in.
From the New Hampshire primary in February, through the party conventions this summer, to the start of the general-election campaign on Labor Day, public opinion held remarkably steady: three-quarters of the American people, according to New York Times/CBS News polls, disapproved of the way the President was handling the economy. 
 Mr. Bush failed to change their minds with his furious closing onslaught against Bill Clinton's character. More than 7 voters in 10 said in interviews as they left their polling places yesterday that they considered the economy not so good or poor, and a big majority opted for giving the Arkansas Governor a chance to turn it around. Though many had doubts about a man untried on the national stage, they had lost faith in Mr. Bush's ability to do the job, and they found Ross Perot too much of a gamble.
Electoral votes piled up in landslide proportions as Mr. Clinton blitzed through some of the most hotly contested terrain in this election: New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Ohio, Illinois and Missouri. He swept New England and the West Coast states of California, Oregon and Washington. With that kind of triumph, leading Democrats said, the pressure on Mr. Clinton to produce big economic improvements soon after taking office will be enormous.
 
Competing Imperatives
 Within days of moving into the White House, for example, he will have to find a balance between competing imperatives: getting a start on reducing the deficit and finding some way to jump-start the nation's stalled economic engine. With Democrats firmly in control of the House and Senate once again, the President-elect will have little excuse for inaction or confusion.
If the partisan coloration of the new Congress will be little different, its diversity will be markedly greater, with four more women and an American Indian, the first ever, in the Senate, and at least a dozen new black members in the House.
"There's nothing very profound about this election," a Pennsylvania political scientist, G. Terry Madonna, said more than a week ago. "There's a massive pro-change vote."
Altogether, something approaching two-thirds of the electorate said it wanted to put an end to business as usual. Most of the pro-change vote went to Mr. Clinton, of course, but a sizable segment also went to Mr. Perot. Politicians of both major parties said that meant Mr. Perot would retain a powerful voice in American politics, if he chose to, and that his principal issue, reducing the Federal deficit, would remain prominent.
Conceding defeat at his headquarters in Dallas, Mr. Perot promised his supporters to "keep on going as long as you want us to keep on going."
After months of speculation about whether Perot backers came principally from the Bush camp or the Clinton camp, the exit polls provided an answer of sorts: they came from both sides, with slightly more people saying they would have voted for the Democrat if Mr. Perot had not made his late re-entry.
But Mr. Perot's most important role, in addition to dramatizing the widespread sense of alienation among American voters, may have been as a halfway house. Early this year, when Mr. Clinton seemed so damaged as to be unacceptable to many people, Mr. Perot provided a temporary home for anti-Bush voters; when he pulled out, many of them switched to Mr. Clinton.
If the election was basically a referendum on President Bush's performance on domestic policy, it was also a testament to the Democratic nominee's grit. He decided to run when many people laughed at his pretension and when senior figures in the Democratic establishment in Washington declined to take the risk.
Then, in New Hampshire, Mr. Clinton was almost knocked out of the contest by Gennifer Flowers's charges. As former Gov. James Blanchard of Michigan, a close friend, recalled last night, "A lot of important Democrats pressed him hard to pull out, telling him he couldn't possibly survive, but he staggered on and won the nomination."
Yesterday, Mr. Clinton's powerful performance at the polls was built on strong showings in all sections of the nation and most demographic groups.
It was not just the hard economic statistics that dogged the President, not just the shuttered shops and lost jobs from Alameda, Calif., to Zanesville, Ohio, that cost him dear. It was also a pervasive if less quantifiable sense of economic foreboding, a fear that the United States was losing its manufacturing base and economic leadership to Germany and Japan.
The current recession had an extra political cost that earlier ones did not, because it hit not only manual laborers but also large numbers of white-collar, and highly skilled, highly paid blue-collar workers who suspected that their jobs were gone forever.
If there was a leitmotif to the 1992 campaign, it was the comment heard on a thousand doorsteps and a hundred bar stools: "I'm worried my kids will never have it as good as I do."
Such economic worries easily overcame the social concerns that had dominated most of the last six Presidential elections, all but one of them won by the Republicans. Concern about jobs -- and about the closely allied subjects of health care and education -- trumped racial tensions, fears about crime and even fervent appeals to patriotism.
That was especially true among the urban, socially conservative, largely Catholic Democrats who have been voting for Republican Presidential candidates in recent decades -- a pivotal block this year. Exit polling by Voter Research and Surveys, a consortium of the leading television networks, showed that half the Democrats who voted for Ronald Reagan and half those who backed Mr. Bush four years ago came back to Mr. Clinton in yesterday's balloting.
So George Bush suffered the fate of William Howard Taft and Herbert Hoover and Jimmy Carter, the only other elected Presidents in this century to be turned out of the Oval Office.
In one important sense, his defeat was the most ignominious of all, because he had held such a commanding position, with a stratospheric 88 percent approval rating in March of last year, and allowed it to disintegrate so quickly.
"He was the king of the mountain after the Persian Gulf War," said J. Robinson West, a Republican who served in both the Ford and Reagan Administrations. "He could have achieved almost anything. He was so popular that if he had drawn up a program, gone to Capitol Hill and battled for it, Congress would not have dared defy him. But he didn't do anything at all."
Then Mr. Bush spent much of the last six months arguing that things were not as bad as they seemed, which wasted what little credibility he had left.
Professionals of both parties were openly scornful of the campaign waged by the President and unstinting in their praise of that mounted by Mr. Clinton. Louis Harris, the poll-taker, who has watched Presidential politics closely for four decades, said recently that Mr. Bush's campaign operatives were "the most incompetent lot left to run a national election" that he had ever seen.
The Republican convention in Houston was a fiasco that failed to give Mr. Bush the kind of bounce in the polls that he expected and needed. Women in particular were offended by hard-edged "family values" appeals suggesting that those who failed to follow the prescriptions of Pat Robertson and Patrick J. Buchanan, a pair of right-wing orators given prominent time slots, were somehow not fully American.
Mr. Clinton ran particularly strongly in the suburbs and among people who called themselves independents, according to the exit polls. And among first-time voters, young voters and single parents, the Arkansas Governor rolled up huge majorities.
All of those groups tend to favor abortion rights, adamantly opposed by Mr. Bush, and to recoil from the kind of cultural conservatism espoused by the religious right -- and seemingly tolerated by the President -- at the convention.
"For years the Republican party suffered from Herbert Hoover," said Michael K. Deaver, President Reagan's master of imagery and symbol, who was offended by the prominence of evangelists at the convention. "Reagan tried to repair that, but now Bush has made us the party not only of Herbert Hoover but Billy Sunday."
The late Lee Atwater, who engineered Mr. Bush's victory four years ago, had warned of the dangers of identifying the Republican party too closely with anti-abortion forces. He called for "a big tent" that could accommodate those of differing views.
Mr. Clinton tried hard to steer a moderate course, describing himself and his running mate, Al Gore, as "new Democrats" unbeholden to special interest groups. One of his primary rivals, former Senator Paul E. Tsongas, called him a "pander bear," and Mr. Bush accused him of trying to be all things to all men. But for the first time in years, a Democrat had a real shot at the ideological center, the place where most American elections are won or lost.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush conceding defeat last night in Houston. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); George Wallace Jr., right foreground, a candidate in the second Congressional District in Alabama, waited in line with other voters for more than an hour yesterday to cast his ballot in Montgomery. (Associated Press) (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY CBS NEWS DIVISION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;NEW JERSEY; PENNSYLVANIA; MICHIGAN; OHIO; NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); WEST COAST; MIDDLE EAST UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION RESULTS; PUBLIC OPINION; VOTER BEHAVIOR; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ; LAW AND LEGISLATION ; PERSIAN GULF WAR; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); DESERT STORM (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); US LABOR DAY (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



152 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1774 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Thaw for Small Business

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The entrepreneurial urge is stirring again in John Wyatt. The 47-year-old computer expert founded his first business two decades ago, has since worked for a handful of companies large and small and now thinks the time is ripe for another start-up.
So with a promising product, two colleagues and cluttered office space above his garage in Chapel Hill, N.C., he has founded a new computer software company, Easy Entry Software. 
 The nation's economy may still be limping along. But Mr. Wyatt along with others in the high-tech hub of Raleigh, Durham and Chapel Hill, known as the Research Triangle, sense that a steady diet of low interest rates has begun to quicken business activity. "This may be the ideal time to get positioned to ride the next wave," he said.
 
Banks Starting to Lend
 Across the nation, more entrepreneurs are taking the same gamble. And that is an early indication that the climate is at last warming for small business in America, helped by banks that are gradually starting to lend again as interest rates decline and bad-loan problems ease.
Dun & Bradstreet reported on Friday that during the first half of this year the number of new businesses incorporated in the United States rose 7 percent, after declining for five straight years. "That turnaround is a significant development," said Joseph Duncan, chief economist of the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.
The pickup in new business activity is especially encouraging because it is the first step in the economic food chain of job creation. And jobs have been scarce in this sluggish economy, with big companies slashing payrolls and small companies not growing. In fact, the steady trend of cuts by Fortune 500 companies, dropping 3.7 million workers, to under 12 million by the end of last year, seems sure to continue and perhaps accelerate. The place to watch for signs that the American job machine is starting to work again, economists agree, is in the smaller companies. Small businesses -- defined as everything from one-person start-ups to 500-worker companies -- generate two-thirds of all new jobs in America, as well as half the nation's economic output.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that in August and September new businesses added about 35,000 jobs a month, up steadily from 10,000 jobs a month earlier this year. And in its September survey, the National Federation of Independent Business, a small-business group, found that its 500,000 members had added jobs at the rate of one worker for every five companies, marking the fifth straight monthly survey that recorded net additions in the head count.
No one suggests that this amounts to a grass-roots surge in the economy. The Government estimates of jobs added by new businesses are well below the 100,000-a-month level experienced during the 1980's, and business failures are still increasing, though the rate of increase is slipping fast. And recent surveys of small-business opinion show that uncertainty does persist about the economy, as well as concern about regulation, health care and other issues.
Still, the new signals that the worst may be over for the small-business sector are heartening to economists.
"If this trend continues, we could have a much stronger economy next year," said David Hale, chief economist of Kemper Financial Services in Chicago. "It certainly is a flicker of hope."
The reason smaller entrepreneurial companies create more jobs than big corporations is that they can often move more quickly to exploit new technologies, techniques and market niches. The casualty rate is high because the early stages after a start-up are tenuous and often difficult for a small group to get through. But the ones that make it beyond the incubator phase can be real job engines, sometimes even surging beyond the small-company category.
 
500,000 'Gazelles'
 David Birch, president of Cognetics Inc., a research firm in Cambridge, Mass., has identified 500,000 small- and mid-sized companies that are growing at 20 percent a year or more and adding workers.
These fast-moving innovative companies -- Mr. Birch calls them "gazelles" -- can be found pretty much across the spectrum of industries. "They are not all high-tech companies by any means," Mr. Birch said.
In Dresden, Tenn., the Stetson Boot and Shoe Company would seem an unlikely gazelle. Gus DuPuis, the 59-year-old chief executive, brags that Stetson is in a "dying industry." Stetson is a contract producer of private-label Western-style boots for major discount and department store chains, competing with producers in low-wage places like India, Mexico, South Korea and Taiwan. When Mr. DuPuis and his partner, Ken Moore, bought Stetson in 1989, the company had just one major account, the work force totaled 148 people and the business outlook was bleak.
Today, the Dresden plant is humming, with 328 people turning out 3,000 pairs of boots a day. Stetson now has 50 accounts instead of one, and the business has tripled. In June the company opened a second factory in nearby Waverly, where the payroll of 179 people is scheduled to reach 450 by next year.
"We kind of adopted the Japanese approach to business," Mr. DuPuis explained in a drawl as thick as molasses. After taking over, the two new owners eliminated foremen and formed teams on the factory floor. Piece-work payment was replaced by hourly salaries to help insure quality. They invested heavily in new molds and lasts to expand the product line. In the last 15 months, the Stetson workers have had four pay increases, bringing them to $8.50 an hour. The company has begun offering its rural Tennessee workers reading courses two nights a week, and they are paid to attend. "Better educated workers make you a more productive company," Mr. DuPuis said.
The Nunes Company of Salinas, Calif., is another fast-growing business with sales in the food industry rising 70 percent, to $85 million annually in the last five years and employment doubling to 100 people, mainly marketing and sales staff. Branded lettuce, called Foxy, is the company's brainstorm. And it has invested in specialized refrigeration equipment and sheds to permit a vacuum cooling process that enables Nunes to maintain quality for lengthy shipments to East Coast supermarket chains like Grand Union and Food Emporium, and growing export markets from Hong Kong to Saudi Arabia.
The premium for its brand-name lettuce is $1 to $2 per 24-head carton above the wholesale price for ordinary lettuce. The company also affixes the Foxy name to its cauliflower, broccoli and asparagus. "We're trying to take these products out of the commodity arena and make them value-added packaged consumer goods," said Matt Seeley, the marketing director of Nunes.
 
A Familiar Regimen
 In the North Carolina Research Triangle, entrepreneurs are striving to build companies in computer software and biotechnology. Their ages and experience vary, but the familiar regimen of 70-hour workweeks, scrambling for cash and sleepless nights is common to most of them.
The three-city hub is one of the nation's high-tech hot spots, yet even there banks have been tightfisted. But they have begun to pursue small-business lending more aggressively.
"Regardless of what the banks tell you, there really was a credit crunch," said Scott Daugherty, director of the Small Business and Technology Development Center in Raleigh, N.C., a government-financed agency. "But in the past six months, the banks have opened up here."
Reed Phillips, president of the Knowledge Systems Corporation in Cary, N.C., has certainly noticed the difference. His software development company, founded in 1985, is growing rapidly by working for corporate customers including I.B.M., Hewlett Packard and others. Its work force of programmers and technical specialists, which numbered 25 people a year ago, is up to 40 and Mr. Phillips plans to hire 10 more by January.
Knowledge Systems is not a bricks-and-mortar business, but its need for working capital has grown as the company has expanded. With banks vying for its business, Mr. Phillips has been able to increase his credit line from $120,000 to $300,000 and get his interest charge cut from the prime rate plus two percentage points to prime plus a half a percentage point.
Yet at the outset, entrepreneurial companies are typically backed by personal savings and sweat equity, not bank loans. Down the road in Cary, Burl Software Laboratories Inc. is a classic high-tech start-up, founded by David Babson and Ken Romley, both 27. The two met when they were scholarship students in the graduate computer science program at Cornell University. After Cornell, Mr. Babson joined Bellcore, the research arm of the regional Bell companies, and Mr. Romley went to work for the computer consulting unit of Price Waterhouse & Company.
They did well, but found the big-company setting bureaucratic and confining. So with a grubstake of $40,000 in personal savings, the pair started Burl. "Big companies don't understand the contribution that one innovative person in a field like this can make," said Mr. Babson, who believes that Burl has two such people.
They have one room in an office park in Cary, and three computers. The two desks were purchased for $25 apiece at a flea market. "Ken got the better desk, so I got to be president," Mr. Babson explained.
They work six and a half days a week, have exhausted their savings and are subsidized by their wives, Megan Babson, a computer engineer, and Ditas Romley, a programmer. But they now have a product that is being tested by R. J. Reynolds, Duke Medical Center and Blue Cross-Blue Shield. And the company is now being courted by venture capital firms, intrigued by Burl's potential.
Its product, called Revolve, is a tool for analyzing software code written in Cobol, the traditional language used in large business computers. Revolve provides a kind of graphic map of the software landscape that is being analyzed, and allows programmers to type in questions and move quickly to selected lines of software code to make changes. Corporate America spends perhaps $80 billion a year to maintain existing software, updating and refining it. A tool that makes the chore more efficient could be a winner. "It's an emerging market, and a huge one," Mr. Romley said.
Burl plans to add three people by the end of the year to help start marketing its product. Beyond that, everything depends on whether its offering is a hit.
"We are small, but there's going to be more and more start-up companies like this," Mr. Babson said. "That's where the growth comes from."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Wyatt, who founded Easy Entry Software, a computer software company in Chapel Hill, N.C. (pg. D1); David Babson, right the 27-year-old co-founder and president of Burl Software Laboratories Inc. in Cary, N.C., with K. Ray Allen, director of marketing for the start-up, which is trying to sell its first product. (pg. D2) (Duane Hall for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Positive Growth" shows the number of new business incorporations formed each year from '80-'92. (Source: Dun & Bradstreet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNB (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (82%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

CITY: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: EASY ENTRY SOFTWARE (CO); STETSON BOOT AND SHOE CO; NUNES CO; KNOWLEDGE SYSTEMS CORP DUN & BRADSTREET CORP (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASY ENTRY SOFTWARE (CO); STETSON BOOT AND SHOE CO; NUNES CO; KNOWLEDGE SYSTEMS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SMALL BUSINESS COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); JOB CREATION (86%); TRENDS (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); STATISTICS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE BRUCE DUNCAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



153 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Trading in Dollar Is Mixed; Gold Is Lower in New York

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was hit yesterday by profit taking and fell overseas before ending mixed in choppy domestic trading.
Gold prices settled mostly lower. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery settled at $337.50 an ounce, down $2.40 from Monday. The Republic National Bank reported a late bid of $337.75 an ounce, down $1.05. 
 Analysts said traders were locking in profits after the dollar's run-up in recent weeks. Trading was choppy because of the Presidential election.
 
Wait and See
 "People want to see what the election results hold," said Randolph Donney, research director at the Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J. "Then we can go back where we were, as long as Clinton is elected."
Currency dealers believe that Gov. Bill Clinton would, as President, increase Government spending to get the economy moving, which in turn would raise interest rates and enhance the value of dollar-denominated securities.
Activity was somewhat light, with Japanese financial markets closed yesterday for the Culture Day holiday.
The dollar, which closed at 123.69 yen in Tokyo on Monday, up 0.34 yen, later closed at 122.15 yen in London, down from 123.90 on Monday. In New York, the dollar settled at 122.40 yen, down sharply from 123.60 on Monday.
The dollar lost more than 1.5 cents against the British pound. In London, the pound rose to $1.5510, from $1.5340 late on Monday. In New York, it cost $1.5505 to buy a pound, more expensive than Monday's $1.5340
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday rates, included: 1.5675 German marks, up from 1.5660; 1.3985 Swiss francs, up from 1.3955; 5.3085 French francs, up from 5.3065; 1,337 Italian lire, down from 1,342.50, and 1.2428 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2412.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Monday, included: 1.5625 German marks, down from 1.5665; 1.3920 Swiss francs, down from 1.3980; 5.2930 French francs, down from 5.3115; 1.7575 Dutch guilders, down from 1.7640; 1,333.38 Italian lire, down from 1,344, and 1.2418 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2418.
Gold fell in London to a late bid of $338.75 an ounce, from $340.15 late on Monday. In Zurich, gold fell to $338.65 an ounce from $339.25. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold rose 64 cents, to $340.43.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); JAPAN (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); JAPAN (55%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BRITISH POUND (88%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); GERMAN MARK (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



154 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-22
 
U.N. PLEA TO CROATIA
The United Nations appealed to Croatia to open its borders to desperate refugees. Thousands have massed at the frontier since Serbs captured the Bosnian town of Jajce. A18
 
Yugoslavia's moderate Prime Minister barely survives ouster. A18 

LITHUANIA'S ABOUT-FACE
Some Lithuanians are indignant that former Communists have been elected to lead their country. But others are just as unforgiving toward the defeated liberal coalition, which set Lithuania on its painful path toward a market economy. A20
 
GERMAN TOWN KNOCKS ON WOOD
The manager of a refugee shelter in Rottheim, Germany, says that foreigners there are safe from the kind of attacks seen elsewhere in the country. Yet he is glad that most residents do not know where the shelter is. A3
 
PHNOM PENH WANTS TO FIGHT
The Cambodian Government in Phnom Penh called on the United Nations to abandon its disarmament plan so its troops can return to the battle against the Khmer Rouge. The rebels have refused to disarm. A5
 
ONE FOOT IN ISRAEL
The frontier that once separated Israel from the West Bank now bisects the village of Bartaa, and passing from one side to the other is like shuttling between two worlds. A10
 
Yangpu Journal: A flooded village tries to bounce back. A4
 
Angola told rebels to disarm and leave captured territory. A12
 
Assam's threatened tea growers plan to form an army. A15
 
The debt and trash of Buenos Aires may weaken the President. A16
 
Shoot-to-kill seems a watchword for the Sao Paulo police. A22
 
The Elections Page-by-Page Digest, B1
 
National A24-29
 
ABORTION COUNSELING BAN VOIDED
A Federal appeals court invalidated the Administration's ban on abortion counseling at Government-financed family planning clinics. A29
 
PANEL OPPOSES WOMEN IN COMBAT
In an unexpected setback for an expanded role of women in the military, a Presidential commission recommended that female pilots continue to be barred from flying combat planes. And, as expected, the panel also said women should be kept from ground combat but allowed to serve on combat ships. A24
 
JUSTICES DROP SEX THERAPY CASE
The Supreme Court said it would not decide the constitutionality of requiring sex offenders in therapy programs to admit guilt as a condition of staying out of prison. A28
 
CHIEF OF ISRAEL LOBBY STEPS DOWN
The president of the leading pro-Israel lobby resigned after he had been audiotaped making exaggerated claims about his group's influence with the Administration and the Clinton campaign. A28
 
'NO HELP WANTED'
The Federal immigration law enacted six years ago was aimed in part at staunching an overflow of migrant agricultural workers. But a reporter's tour of the apple-picking region of western Michigan found that the flow was as great as ever, and that it was harder than ever for the migrants to find a job. A24
 
MORE DETAINED MALAYSIANS FREED
A judge in Boston ordered the release of five more Malaysians detained as witnesses in an immigration smuggling case. But 15 others remained behind bars. A26
 
Education Page D23
 
Upset at budget cuts, many teachers are "working to the rule."
 
Cornell amends tenure rules to demand evidence of good teaching.
 
Campus Journal: At Middlebury, students have a marrying legend.
 
Metro Report B17-19
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-14
 
For toasting victory, or swallowing defeat. C1
 
Quest for colors that make lips smack. C1
 
At lunch with Marcia Gay Harden. C1
 
Metropolitan Diary C2
 
60-Minute Gourmet C2
 
Plain and Simple C3
 
Brazilian tastes to please the gods. C3
 
Eating Well C6
 
Food Notes C7
 
Letters C8
 
Wine Talk C10
 
Beene's question: how does it move? C14
 
Health Page C16
 
Adult bed-wetting: a closeted problem within a closet.
 
Personal Health: Understanding the causes of epilepsy.
 
Those lacking insurance face the most negligent health care.
 
Arts/Entertainment C17-24
 
Botero sculptures on the Champs-Elysees. C19
 
A minimalist actor warms to Larry Kramer's excess. C19
 
Trouble at Circle in the Square. C22
 
Theater: "Animal Crackers." C19
 
Theater in Review C22
 
Film: "The Quarrel." C22
 
Music: The Pop Life C17
 
"L'Elisir d'Amore." C19
 
"Elektra" in Chicago. C22
 
Dance: Red Army Ensemble. C24
 
Word and Image: Nuremberg, by the chief U.S. prosecutor. C21
 
Book Notes C21
 
Sports B20-24
 
Baseball: Yankees trade Roberto Kelly to the Reds. B21
 
Dodgers' Karros is N.L. rookie of the year. B24
 
Basketball: Knicks keep Kimble for now. B21
 
Nets trade Mookie Blaylock. B22
 
Johnson has no ill will toward Malone. B22
 
Column: Rhoden on Magic Johnson. B21
 
Football: Cheers for Giants if they go 8-8. B24
 
Jets fail to make grade at half-way mark. B24
 
Hockey: Islanders stop Lemieux, but not the Penguins.B21
 
Horse Racing: Gilded Time faces a jinx. B22
 
Obituaries D24-25
 
Hanya Holm, choreographer. D24
 
Dr. William F. Harrington, a physical biochemist. D25
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A30-31
 
Editorials
 
A Monumental, fragile mandate.
Don't forsake Somalia.
Iran votes for barbarism.
An insensitive celebration.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: A place called hope.
 
Assorted artists: Prexy comix.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); GERMANY (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (57%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ASSAM, INDIA (57%); 

CITY: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LITHUANIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); GERMANY (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (57%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ASSAM, INDIA (57%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WOMEN (89%); IMMIGRATION (79%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ARMIES (75%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); FARM LABOR (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); LIBERALISM (71%); TEA (70%); AGRICULTURE (69%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); FAMILY PLANNING (65%); MILITARY VESSELS (64%); TEA FARMING (64%); IMMIGRATION LAW (63%); ABORTION (63%); NAVAL VESSELS (61%); MIGRANT WORKERS (60%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); GENOCIDE (58%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



155 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Results Improve at Milacron

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Cincinnati Milacron Inc. posted third-quarter earnings of $7.3 million, or 26 cents a share, compared with a loss of $93.8 million in the period a year earlier.
Sales advanced 5 percent, to $225.5 million from $213.8 million. Overseas sales increased 37 percent. 
 The machine-tool company's earnings included a special tax benefit of $2 million, or 7 cents a share. The results a year ago included nonrecurring charges of $94 million to relocate operations, shed product lines and reassess the value of a unit for sale.
Earnings before the gain this year were in line with the consensus forecast of 19 cents a share by six analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research. In New York Stock Exchange trading, shares of Cincinnati Milacron fell 12.5 cents, to $15.875.
Separately, the company said it had revised its retiree health care program and reduced its estimated liability for retiree health benefits to about $50 million before tax, which it will record in the first quarter. Last year, the company estimated it would have to take a pretax charge of $90 million to $120 million for the benefits.
The company said new orders rose 7 percent, to $225 million from $210 million.
"While new orders for our plastics machinery and industrial consumable products were encouraging, the biggest boost came from our machine tool group," said Raymond Ross, president and chief operating officer.
Looking ahead, the company said it expects profits to grow in the fourth quarter and in 1993, assuming the economy improves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MZ (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333511 INDUSTRIAL MOLD MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324191 PETROLEUM LUBRICATING OIL & GREASE MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: CINCINNATI MILACRON INC MI 2009 INC (97%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CINCINNATI MILACRON INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (68%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PLASTICS (51%); 

PERSON: RAYMOND ROSS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



156 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Wine Talk

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial

 BODY:
THE British, who have no more than a token wine industry of their own, have long been important arbiters in the European wine market. They practically invented port and sherry; they made Bordeaux respectable and Champagne rich and were, for the longest time, far greater enthusiasts for the wines of the Rhine and Mosel than the Germans themselves.
They even gave these wines dreadful English names. Sherry is, of course, Jerez, anglicized; claret is a simple version of clairet, an old French name for Bordeaux wine, and there is that truly execrable name for German wine: hock. 
 But . . . what is this? No less authoritative a taker of the British pulse than The Financial Times seems to be saying this pre-eminance is over.
"Britain's wine market," Philip Rawstorne wrote in that newspaper recently, "seems to have been affected by a touch of Euro-skepticism." The demand for traditional wines, from France, Germany and Italy, is falling, he said, while British consumers are developing a taste for what he called "New World wines."
New World wines, Mr. Rawstorne said, come from Australia and New Zealand, South Africa and California.
He offered figures. The amount of Australian wines entering Britain grew to 18.2 million liters last year, up from 800,000 liters in 1985; volumes for July and August of this year were 88 percent higher than the same two months in 1991. United States wineries shipped 10.5 million liters of wine to Britain in the first six months of 1992, a 25.5 percent increase over the same period in 1991.
The lifting of economic sanctions against South Africa has had a big effect on that country's wine exports to Britain. Shipments in 1991 rose 65 percent above those in 1990, to 2.8 million liters, as against 1.7 million.
New Zealand established an office in London last year with a 12-month goal of selling 1.8 million liters, The Financial Times said. It sold twice that, the newspaper added.
Imports from France were down 7.4 percent in Britain last year; from Italy, down 6 percent, and from Germany, 4.4 percent. Mr. Rawstorne offered several hypotheses. French wines are overpriced, he said, while German wines are poorly promoted. But he suggested that "New World" wines may actually taste better.
For example, he said that South African producers "put a lot of research into discovering what consumers wanted." What they discovered, he said, was that the British did not fancy mean, acidic stuff like Muscadet or -- this idea must have raised an eyebrow or two -- what he called "the leathery taste of a Burgundy." Leathery? Burgundy?
He is talking about what are called "user friendly" wines in this country, although the South Africans and the Australians don't seem to have become as friendly as some bigger California producers. American wine makers don't hesitate to add a bit of sugar to their supposedly dry wines, particularly chardonnay. They know they are trying to appeal to a populace raised on sweet soft drinks.
A closely followed court case in California ended recently with a wine maker's being prohibited from taking the "secret" formula for adding sugar to chardonnay from one winery to his new job at another.
It's no secret that millions of potential wine drinkers are turned away by what they perceive to be "sour" and "bitter" tastes. In fact, the wines are neither sour nor bitter; they just aren't as sweet as Pepsi-Cola or Coke.
There are two ways to make a wine sweeter: add sugar after fermentation or stop the fermentation before all the sugar from the grapes has been converted to alcohol and carbon dioxide. I have seen no evidence that the Australians or South Africans are doing either. But even without sugar, many New World wines are much easier to drink than their European counterparts. The difference is partly a function of warmer climates, partly of wine-making techniques. The result is softer, more rounded wines, without the astringency of many red and white European wines.
Intelligent labeling is an important asset for the New World wines, Mr. Rawstorne suggested. "Just decoding a German wine label, cluttered with Gothic script, or identifying yet another French chateau inhibits many potential customers," he said. Labeling wines with the variety of the grape, like chardonnay or cabernet sauvignon, has made selecting a bottle much easier, he added.
Furthermore, he said, the similarities between an Australian cabernet and one from California would "reassure the drinker that if he has enjoyed one, he will enjoy the other."
European wine makers have made some attempts at varietal wines, which is what Americans call wines that bear the name of the grape they are made from. But it is their very particularity that is the glory of the best European vineyards. All the great red wines from Burgundy are made from pinot noir grapes, but three vineyards less than 100 yards apart will make three different wines.
The Germans are bringing their labels into the 20th century, but slowly, while Italy, which produces literally thousands of different wines, could never truly simplify its labels.
Prices are certainly a factor, probably the biggest one. Prices for European wines got out of hand in the 1980's. Many consumers were driven into the arms of the eager New World producers by outrageous prices for medium-quality European wines. The recent devaluation of the pound certainly won't help the British market.
In this market, there are signs that some of these trends have been reversed. Sales of better European wines did well in the United States in the first half of this year, in spite of a continued drop in overall wine consumption.
British wine drinkers, no more than American wine drinkers, are not about to abandon Europe's great wines; it has been a long and ardent love affair. On the other hand, it's difficult to love someone who charges you $14 for a bottle of Beaujolais.
 
TASTINGS
Chateau Giscours 1989, Margaux, Bordeaux; about $24.
In some recent tastings of Bordeaux wines from the 1988, 1989 and 1990 vintages, it quickly became evident that the 1989's would be the first to mature. It also appeared that although they would not be long-lived wines, during their good years they would be very good, indeed. Some, including this medium-bodied, supple Giscours, are just about ready to drink now. Giscours was a problematic wine in the 1960's and 1970's, when its owners, the Tari family, were waiting for their vineyards to mature and deciding what kind of wine to make. In the 1980's, Giscours came into its own. Even the 1987 vintage, underrated by many critics, was a delightful wine. The 1989, bought now, should continue to develop in the bottle for a year or two and be good to drink for 5 or 10 years after that. Not every Bordeaux has to be spectacular; some should be good, solid workaday wines like this one.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WINE TALK (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); FRANCE (93%); NEW ZEALAND (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; SOUTH AFRICA; NEW ZEALAND; AUSTRALIA; FRANCE; GERMANY; ITALY GERMANY (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); FRANCE (93%); NEW ZEALAND (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: WINES WINE (93%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); WINERIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J PHILIP RAWSTORNE (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



157 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
Nuremberg as Seen by Prosecutor

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

 BODY:
The Anatomy of the Nuremberg Trials
A Personal Memoir
By Telford Taylor
Illustrated. 703 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $35.
As a record of the international trials of Nazi Germany's major war criminals and the personal story of Telford Taylor's role as the chief American prosecutor, "Anatomy of the Nuremberg Trials" is a masterly work of military and judicial history. Mr. Taylor's book marks the apogee of his career as a crusading lawyer and law professor. It is the long-awaited narrative he had to write because of his singular experience. 
 An important theme emerges from these rich and readable pages: the need for international laws and tribunals to hold individuals responsible for war crimes against humanity. And the author sends a subliminal message: if such laws and courts are established and respected, they can be a warning of personal accountability to prevent atrocities in the name of tribalism or nationalism, crimes that are still being committed against civilians.
Mr. Taylor does indeed anatomize Nuremberg, forcefully but fairly praising or criticizing colleagues and allies. The road to the courtroom in Germany was strewn with uncertainty because the Allies were breaking new ground in international law. There were divisions among the American, British, Russian and French leaders and their prosecutorial staffs about what constituted criminality in wartime; about the written and unwritten rules of war themselves; about who should be put in the dock: only the high-level German warmongers and genocidal policy makers or also the big industrialists who supported Hitlerism with armaments and slave labor.
After serving in Army intelligence in wartime Europe, Colonel Taylor (later a brigadier general) joined the staff of Robert H. Jackson, the Associate Justice of the Supreme Court who had been appointed by President Harry S. Truman to represent the United States at an international trial of war criminals. On the ashes of victory in the spring of 1945, the plans for such a four-nation trial were chimerical at best, abrasive at worst.
The author became one of Justice Jackson's principal associates after he wrote an impressive memorandum spelling out the goals of Nuremberg. He emphasized that the trial should make the war valid and meaningful for the people of the Allied nations, who had suffered casualties and destruction, and also be a lesson for people of the Axis nations. Looking to the mechanics of the trial, he saw the need to maintain harmonious relations among the Allied prosecutors to prevent dissension before the eyes of the world.
Among the many revelations in the book is that President Franklin D. Roosevelt himself provided the informal, unpublished instructions that formed the basis of the trial. Roosevelt said that charges against the chief Nazi war criminals should include an indictment for "waging aggressive war" and that these charges be joined in "a conspiracy indictment." Mr. Taylor reminds the reader that President Roosevelt had been a New York lawyer early in his career and that the philosophical spine of the Nuremberg indictments was developed by a group of New York lawyers, including Henry L. Stimson and Samuel Rosenman.
The American prosecutors played the most important role at Nuremberg. The French and Russians only reluctantly agreed to the aggressive war and conspiracy charges. Stalin reportedly had desired quicker justice, suggesting that 50,000 German general staff officers be killed, but Charles Bohlen, the American diplomat who was Roosevelt's interpreter at the Teheran conference, said Stalin had spoken "in semi-jocular fashion" as a jibe against Winston Churchill. Gen. Charles de Gaulle, head of France's provisional government, told Mr. Rosenman that he favored a trial rather than summary execution.
Twenty-four defendants were indicted. There was unanimity about including such Hitler cohorts as Hermann Goring, Rudolf Hess, Joachim von Ribbentrop, Julius Streicher, Robert Ley and Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel. Initially, the British wanted a quick trial of the dozen worst war criminals, but the Russians and French supported American proposals to add military and big business leaders. The "economic defendants" included Hjalmar Schacht, Fritz Sauckel, Albert Speer and Walter Funk. All had knowingly provided the sinews of war.
In a fascinating account of a mix-up of names by the allies, Mr. Taylor relates that the tribunal indicted the wrong Krupp. Gustav, who was senile, was indicted instead of Alfried, his son, who was the sole owner of the huge munitions company at the height of the war, who had exploited concentration-camp slave labor. He writes that while the Americans were by no means blameless, it was the British, and in particular Sir Hartley Shawcross, Britain's Attorney General, who were primarily responsible for the mistake because Krupp headquarters was in their occupied zone of Germany.
The trial of the defendants is reported with an insider's knowledge in gripping detail, including cold-blooded testimony about the horrors of the Holocaust, activities of the SS and the German high command, and portraits of the individuals in the courtroom: the prosecutors, judges and defendants. Mr. Taylor then deals with the judgment at Nuremberg, what happened to the leading Allied trial personalities, and an assessment of this and other war-crimes trials. Judiciously, he also provides some facts about his personal life in the Nuremberg community.
What chances are there to establish a new "Nuremberg" international tribunal to adjudicate crimes against the peace and, by doing so, possibly help to prevent them in the future?
Mr. Taylor writes: "During the four or five years after the end of World War II there was an effort made at the United Nations to create a permanent International Criminal Court, but Republican Presidents have shown no interest in such a project. Application of international rules of warfare thus remains generally determined by the nations concerned, except in the comparatively rare occasions when the United Nations takes action."
This wise and authoritative book could help to stimulate such action.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Telford Taylor (Lisa Bogdan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ANATOMY OF THE NUREMBERG TRIALS, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NUREMBERG, GERMANY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; NAZI ERA; JEWS; ATROCITIES; WORLD WAR II (1939-45); WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WAR CRIMES (92%); WORLD WAR II (90%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); ARMIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); 

PERSON: MITGANG, HERBERT; TAYLOR, TELFORD (PROF) FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



158 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2194 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE;
WEST

 BODY:
ALASKA
The race between President Bush and Governor Clinton was too close to call here in this state, which had not given its three electoral votes to the Democrats since 1964. This was the case despite Mr. Clinton's opposition to drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, which Alaskans overwhelmingly favor.
Mr. Perot led the polls in early June, but his support faded after his withdrawal and re-entry. 
 In the Senate race, Frank H. Murkowski, the Republican incumbent, went into Election Day with a commanding lead over his Democratic opponent, Tony Smith, who suffered a sharp financial disadvantage.
Representative Don Young, a 19-year Republican incumbent with 57 overdrafts at the House bank, faced a sharp challenge by John Devens, the former Mayor of Valdez.
 
ARIZONA
The only state to have voted Republican in every Presidential election since 1952, Arizona gave the Bush campaign the jitters. Recent polls showed Bill Clinton slightly ahead in the contest for the state's eight electoral votes, largely because of voter dissatisfaction with the President's handling of the economy. The state was devastated by the savings and loan troubles and by plummeting commercial and residential real estate prices. Polls indicated that Mr. Perot was hurting Mr. Bush more in Arizona than in any other state except Texas.
Although Senator John McCain, a war hero and first-term Republican, was tarnished as one of the five Senators who intervened on behalf of Charles Keating, a savings and loan operator, Mr. McCain was sufficiently confident to join his colleagues on a fact-finding visit to Hanoi earlier this fall.
His opponents were Claire Sargent, a Democrat who has been active in civic affairs, and former Gov. Evan Meacham, a Republican best known for his opposition to making the birthday of Martin Luther King Jr. birthday a state holiday.
 
CALIFORNIA...CLINTON
Mr. Clinton's victory in California, with its 54 electoral votes, had been a foregone conclusion.
As interviews with voters led to projections of a Democratic triumph, attention was focused on the unprecedented election of two women to the state's two seats in the United States Senate.
Dianne Feinstein, a former Mayor of San Francisco, was projected the winner by a comfortable margin over the Republican incumbent, John Seymour, who was appointed to the Senate seat vacated when Pete Wilson was elected Governor.
The other female Senate candidate, Representative Barbara Boxer, a Democrat running to replace Alan Cranston, a Democrat who is retiring, was locked in a tight race with Bruce Herschensohn, a conservative Republican and television commentator.
Mr. Bush's decision not to seriously contest California allowed Mr. Perot to sap the President's strength further and post a fairly strong showing.
In a newly drawn district, the 41st, which includes some of Orange County, Republican registration was high, favoring the Republican Jay C. Kim's bid to become the first Korean-American immigrant elected to Congress.
Californians passed a ballot initiative on limiting Congressional terms. Representatives could serve no more than 6 years in an 11-year period, and Senators 12 years out of 17. There was also a measure to allow mentally competent adults who are terminally ill to direct a physician to kill them.
 
PRESIDENT - 14% reporting
 Bush...666,543...38%
 Clinton...780,923...45%
 Perot...298,350...17%
 
 SENATE - 14% reporting
 Boxer (D)...745,751...45%
 Herschensohn (R)...813,128...49%
 
SENATE - 14% reporting
 Feinstein (D)...840,614...50%
 Seymour (R)...726,863...43%
 
COLORADO
Colorado, with eight electoral votes, was hotly contested by all three candidates. But, despite the strong state economy, Mr. Clinton's efforts to portray himself as the candidate most likely to create jobs appeared to pay off. Surveys of voters leaving the polls projected that he would win.
President Bush pushed hard in Colorado, visiting the state twice and dispatching Barbara Bush to Denver at the 11th hour. In the cattle country of western Colorado, Mr. Bush's radio commercials asserted that Mr. Clinton favored higher fees for grazing on Federal lands and opposed agricultural subsidies.
Although Mr. Perot was backed by almost one in four Colorado voters before he pulled out, he never regained that level of support, statewide polls showed.
In the campaign to replace Senator Tim Wirth, a Democrat who is retiring, State Senator Terry Considine, a Republican, closed a wide gap with Representative Ben Nighthorse Campbell, the pony-tailed, lone American Indian in Congress. But by last night, surveys of voters leaving the polls showed that Mr. Campbell would become the first American Indian in the Senate. In the race's final weeks, as Mr. Campbell broadcast commercials stressing his support for legalized abortion, his lead in the polls had grown.
 
PRESIDENT - 53% reporting
 Bush...282,674...35%
 Clinton...338,989...42%
 Perot...177,546...22%
 
 SENATE - 53% reporting
 Campbell (D)...400,032...55%
 Considine (R)...330,717...45%
 
HAWAII
No one ever doubted that Hawaii, with its formidable Democratic machine, would vote overwhelmingly for Mr. Clinton, giving him its four electoral votes. Projections by a network consortium, based on the polling of voters, gave Mr. Clinton the state's four electoral votes.
The polls similarly showed that Senator Daniel K. Inouye, the incumbent Democrat easily won re-election.
 
PRESIDENT - 53% reporting
 Bush...64,332...36%
 Clinton...90,241...50%
 Perot...24,390...14%
 
 SENATE - 52% reporting
 Inouye (D)...102,371...59%
 Reed (R)...46,075...27%
 
IDAHO...BUSH
The oratory of the Republican convention initially soured many voters and opened the way for Mr. Clinton to make early inroads in this bedrock Republican state. But that surge quickly faded, and, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls, President Bush was winning the state's four electoral votes. Mr. Perot was poised to come in second, in one of his best states.
The race to fill the seat left by Senator Steve Symms, a Republican who is retiring, was hotly contested. Representative Richard Stallings, a conservative Democrat, ran aggressively against Mayor Dirk Kempthorne of Boise, criticizing him for raising taxes. But Mr. Kempthorne gained by backing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution and promising to cut Government regulations.
Michael D. Carpo, a Republican who is President of the State Senate, was favored to take the House seat Mr. Stallings is vacating.
 
PRESIDENT - 43% reporting
 Bush...82.768...46%
 Clinton...47,721...27%
 Perot...49,095...27%
 
MONTANA...CLINTON
Montana politics was dominated by a House race featuring two popular incumbents and a hotly contested governor's race that overshadowed the Presidential election.
Mr. Clinton hoped to be the first Democrat in 28 years to win Montana's three electoral votes.
Redistricting this year forced the state's two popular incumbents, a Republican, Ron Marlenee, and a Democrat, Pat Williams, to face each other.
The retirement of Gov. Stan Stephens opened the office to a contest between State Representative Dorothy Bradley, a Democrat, and State Attorney General Marc Racicot, a Republican.
 
PRESIDENT - 53% reporting
 Bush...65,378...35%
 Clinton...74,438...40%
 Perot...46,460...25%
 
GOVERNOR - 44% reporting
 Bradley (D)...84,447...50%
 Racicot (R)...85,896...50%
 
NEBRASKA...BUSH
Nebraska has not embraced a Democrat for President since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964, and this year Mr. Bush won an easy victory.
With no races for Senate or governor, the hottest electoral contest in the state was for the House in the Second District, anchored in Omaha. Peter Hoagland, a two-term Democratic Representative, faced a spirited challenge from a flamboyant restaurant owner, Ron Staskiewicz. Trying to ride the anti-incumbent wave, Mr. Staskiewicz burnished his outsider image by campaigning in a bus decorated like a Pullman train car. Mr. Staskiewicz based his pitch on "House Rules," a book by Robert Cwiklik characterizing Mr. Hoagland as the consumate insider and an opportunist to boot.
In a referendum, voters decided whether they wanted a statewide lottery to provide money for schools and an environmental trust fund.
 
 PRESIDENT - 90% reporting
 Bush...279,025...47%
 Clinton...178,076...30%
 Perot...140,939...24%
 
NEW MEXICO...CLINTON
Governor Clinton won in New Mexico, long a Republican Presidential stronghold, and where both major Presidential campaigns had made late campaign stops in bids for the state's five electoral votes.
Mr. Clinton made Albuquerque one of his final stops, urging his supporters on in a 3 A.M. rally on Election Day. Former President Ronald Reagan had visited the Southwestern state last week to bolster support for Mr. Bush.
Mr. Perot polled about the same in the state as he did nationally.
The state's delegation in the House of Representatives was firmly ensconced.
 
PRESIDENT - 80% reporting
 Bush...160,598...38%
 Clinton...191,714...45%
 Perot...70,776...17%
 
OREGON
To little surprise, Mr. Clinton took Oregon's seven electoral votes.. Oregon was one of two Western states to go to Michael S. Dukakis in 1988, and it was a sign of the candidates' fatalism about the state that all three relied principally on national advertising to carry their messages there.
Attention in Oregon focused instead on ballot measures and on a fierce Senate race between the four-term Republican incumbent, Bob Packwood, and Representative Les AuCoin, a nine-term Congressman.
One initiative this year, Ballot Measure 9, which would permit discrimination against homosexuals, touched off a sharp increase in violence and vandalism this fall by both its opponents and supporters.
 
PRESIDENT - 39% reporting
 Bush...154,628...33%
 Clinton...201,321...43%
 Perot...109,056...23%
 
 SENATE - 35% reporting
 Packwood (R)...222,767...53%
 AuCoin (D)...200,049...47%
 
UTAH
During Mr. Bush's down-and-up national campaign, Utah, with five electoral votes, never wavered in its loyalty to the Republicans, according to statewide polls that also showed Mr. Perot narrowly trailing Mr. Clinton with about a quarter of the vote.
In the race to replace Senator Jake Garn, a Republican who is retiring, Representative Wayne Owens, a Democrat, appeared to trail Bob Bennett, a Republican businessman. Both are Mormons, but Mr. Bennett claimed that Mr. Owens, who had overdrawn 87 checks at the House bank, had been the most liberal of the Utah delegation. Mr. Owens sought to connect Mr. Bennett to the Watergate scandal for having employed one of the burglars, E. Howard Hunt, at his public relations firm.
In a first for Utah, two women competed to represent Mr. Owens's district, which includes Salt Lake City. Karen Shepherd, a Democratic State Senator, faced Enid Greene, the chairwoman of the Young Republican National Federation.
In the Governor's race, Michael Leavitt, a Republican insurance executive, appeared likely to beat the Democrat, Stewart Hanson, a former state trial judge.
 
WASHINGTON
Mr. Clinton took Washington, according to network surveys of voters leaving polls, but the Senate race in Washington State was not nearly as easy to call.
State Senator Patty Murray, who called herself "just a mom in tennis shoes," was one of a handful of women nationwide who appeared to have a good chance of breaking into the male-dominated Senate. But recent polls showed her lead considerably reduced against Representative Rod Chandler, a five-term Republican Congressman. The two competed for the seat vacated by Senator Brock Adams, a Democrat who is retiring.
If Mr. Clinton did as well as expected and won the state's 11 electoral votes, he could help Democrats, including Representative Thomas S. Foley, into eight of the state's nine House seats.
About a month ago, State Attorney General Ken Eikenberry, a Republican, was thought to be certain to replace the retiring Governor, Booth Gardner, a Democrat. But few wanted to discount the chances of Mike Lowry, a Democratic former Congressman.
Voters also considered term limits.
 
WYOMING
Although Lyndon B. Johnson was the last Democratic Presidential candidate to carry Wyoming, Mr. Bush could not take the state's three electoral votes for granted. Voter discontent with the President's handling of the economy and support for stronger measures to protect the environment, were the most important issues.
A week before Election Day, a poll for The Casper Star-Tribune showed the President and Mr. Clinton virtually neck-and-neck. Ross Perot was making one of his strongest showings. But last night the network consortium, surveying voters leaving the polls, called the state for President Bush.
The state's lone member of the House, Craig Thomas, a Republican seeking his second full term, was opposed by John Herschler, an eye surgeon. Mr. Herschler enjoyed good name recognition, but is not related to the late Gov. Ed Herschler.
Voters also considered term limitations.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Behind the Vote: Western Close-Up: California"
What issues mattered most to those who voted for...
 
Bush
Economy/job...32%
Taxes...29%
Federal deficit...25%
Foreign policy...19%
 
Clinton
Economy/job...46
Health care...30%
Education...22%
Federal deficit...21%
 
Perot
Economy/job...51%
Federal deficit...41%
Health care...16%
Abortion...14%
 
Do you think that the condition of the nation's economy is...
 
Excellent...1%
Good...13%
Not so good...45%
Poor...40%
 
Compared to four years ago, is your family's financial situation...
 
Better today...20%
About the same...36%
Worse today...41%
 
How important is it that more women be elected to the U.S. Senate...
 
Very important...42%
Somewhat important...33%
Not important...21%
 
Source: Voter Research & Surveys exit poll

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (90%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTERN STATES (US); CALIFORNIA; ARIZONA; CALIFORNIA; COLORADO; HAWAII; IDAHO; NEBRASKA; NEW MEXICO; OREGON; UTAH; WASHINGTON (STATE); WYOMING UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (90%); ALASKA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) VOTERS & VOTING (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); CELEBRITIES (70%); HOME PRICES (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (63%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (57%); WILDLIFE (57%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (51%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (51%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); DON YOUNG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



159 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2441 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: STATES BY STATE;
Northeast

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT...Clinton
 Gov. Bill Clinton took this state of disaffected voters, which had not supported a Democratic Presidential candidate since 1968.
President Bush apparently failed to win over the ranks of Reagan Democrats and moderate Republicans he needed to help him take the eight electoral votes in Connecticut. 
 Like much of the Northeast, the state lost hundreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs in the last decade. More recently, as the economy worsened, jobs in white-collar industries like banking and insurance also disappeared.
In the race for the Senate, two-term Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat, defeated a millionaire businessman, Brook Johnson.
Early on, Mr. Dodd seemed in danger of being washed away by the anti-incumbent tide, but he managed to leap far ahead of Mr. Johnson, a political novice, by campaigning constantly and mostly on one issue -- jobs.
Mr. Johnson ran as an outsider, labeling Mr. Dodd a big spender who voted to raise his own salary and catered to special-interest groups.
But Mr. Dodd countered that his experience saved the Seawolf submarine contract for Electric Boat, eastern Connecticut's largest employer, over the Administration's opposition.
PRESIDENT - 86% reporting
 Bush...506,261...36%
 Clinton...595,661...42%
 Perot...307,337...22%
 
 SENATE - 88% reporting
 Dodd (D)...792,063...61%
 Johnson (R)...506,871...39%
 
DELAWARE...CLINTON
Mr. Clinton won Delaware and its three electoral votes, despite efforts by Mr. Bush to portray the Democrat's policies as dangerous to the state's chemical, banking and automobile industries.
Gov. Michael N. Castle, taking mandatory retirement after two terms in the statehouse, was well ahead of former Lieut. Gov. S. B. Woo, a Democrat, in the race for the state's sole House seat.
In the governor's race, Representative Tom Carper, a five-term Democrat, defeated B. Gary Scott, a retired real estate executive.
 
 PRESIDENT - 95% reporting
 Bush...96,466...36%
 Clinton...115,318...43%
 Perot...55,279...21%
 
 HOUSE - 94% reporting
 Castle (R)...142,738...57%
 Woo (D)...107,775...43%
 
 GOVERNOR - 94% reporting
 Carper (D)...165,256...65%
 Scott (R)...85,276...34%
 
MAINE
With half of the precincts reporting, Mr. Clinton held an 11 percentage point lead over Mr. Bush in the state where the President and his family have long spent their summers. Mr. Perot was falling only one percentage point short of sending the President into a third-place finish in Maine, where four electoral votes were at stake.
Mr. Bush's support fell even in Kennebunkport, his family's summer home, as the weekly newspaper endorsed Mr. Clinton.
In a rematch of their 1990 contest Representative Olympia J. Snowe led Democrat Patrick K. McGowan,who was set back by the Green Party candidate, who won 8 percent of the vote.
Early returns also showed Thomas H. Andrews, a Democrat, crushing Linda Bean, a Republican and heiress to the L. L. Bean fortune. She spent over $1 million -- including $900,000 of her own money -- on the race.
 
 PRESIDENT - 50% reporting
 Bush...96,879...30%
 Clinton...131,440...41%
 Perot...93,218...29%
 
MARYLAND...CLINTON
Mr. Clinton scored an easy victory in a state where Democrats outnumber Republicans by a margin of more than 2 to 1. Expecting as much, President Bush put little energy into the state, which carries 10 electoral votes.
Mr. Perot finished a distant third.
Maryland voters affirmed a law guaranteeing abortion rights. The law, passed by the Legislature and signed by the Governor last year, guaranteed the right even if the United States Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade, which established abortion as a Constitutional right.
An anti-abortion group, the Vote Know Coalition, had collected enough signatures to keep the law from taking effect until it was put to a popular vote.
Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, a Democrat, won easily over Alan Keyes, a black Republican who had accused the party of racial bias, saying it had not funneled enough money to his campaign.
PRESIDENT - 81% reporting
 Bush...490,738...36%
 Clinton...678,925...50
 Perot...195,907...14%
 
 SENATE - 88% reporting
 Mikulski (D)...1,018,838...71%
 Keyes (R)...413,348...29%
 
MASSACHUSETTS...CLINTON
Mr. Clinton was not beloved by Massachusetts Democrats. He came in third in the Massachusetts Democratic primary, behind both a native son, Paul E. Tsongas, and Edmund G. Brown Jr., and he failed to win a single delegate. But this state is a Democratic stronghold, where only 14 percent of the voters consider themselves Republicans and 45 percent prize their independence.
Anti-Bush feeling was so strong that the state that had twice supported Ronald Reagan before voting for Michael S. Dukakis, another native son, gave Mr. Clinton its 12 electoral votes.
Reapportionment increased the political problems of two Congressional veterans. Representative Joseph D. Early, a nine-term Democrat who had written 140 overdrafts on his House bank account, had to cope with a district in which half the voters were new. He faced State Senator Peter Blute, a conservative Republican.
Representative Nicholas Mavroules, a seven-term Democrat indicted on charges of racketeering, bribery and tax evasion, was considered the underdog against State Representative Peter Torkildsen.
 
PRESIDENT - 47% reporting
 Bush...344,844...29%
 Clinton...581,462...49%
 Perot...261,900...22%
 
NEW HAMPSHIRE
Governor Clinton took this most Republican of states, according to surveys of voters by a consortium of networks. With their state's economy in a shambles, New Hampshire voters appeared in the mood for change, and Mr. Bush never seemed to recover from the pounding he took in the February primary from Patrick J. Buchanan, his conservative challenger..
Gov. Judd Gregg, a Republican, sought the seat of Warren B. Rudman, who is retiring, against John Rauh, a businessman who challenged his opponent on the national deficit, the economy and jobs. Mr. Gregg warned that his opponent's suggestion to cut military spending by 50 percent over five years would put thousands of local shipyard workers out of work.
Competing for governor were State Representative Deborah (Arnie) Arnesen, a Democrat who proposed a 6 percent income tax on those earning more than $30,000, and Steve Merrill, a former attorney general who promised not to raise taxes but to make state government leaner.
The state's two House members, Bill Zeliff, a Republican, and Dick Swett, a Democrat, faced strong challenges, but were expected to survive.
 
NEW JERSEY
In surveys of voters leaving the polls, Governor Clinton was projected by early evening to be the winner in New Jersey after a bruising campaign there.
With 15 electoral votes and more independent voters than Democrats or Republicans, New Jersey had loomed as a crucial prize for the Republicans, who sought to link Mr. Clinton to Gov. James J. Florio, a Democrat badly wounded by tax increases. In the closing days of the race, Mr. Bush's advertising hit hard on Mr. Clinton's record in Arkansas on the environment, welfare reform and children's issues.
Mr. Clinton visited the state six times after his party's convention. As part of a huge advertising campaign that included big purchases in New York City and Philadelphia, the Democrats broadcast a commercial touting the low tax burden in Arkansas. He and Senator Gore repeatedly claimed that 218,000 residents of New Jersey had been thrown out of work under President Bush.
According to state polls, support for Mr. Perot, which topped 20 percent after he re-entered the race, faded after his allegations of Republican dirty tricks.
Many of the 13 Congressional races were also ferocious, with redistricting and the retirement of four incumbents raising the possibility that Republicans could outnumber Democrats in the state's Congressional delegation for the first time since 1964.
In a district drawn to increase Hispanic representation, New Jersey elected its first Hispanic Congressman, Robert Menendez, a Cuban-American who is a Democratic State Senator and Mayor of Union City.
 
PRESIDENT - 69% reporting
 Bush...913,897...41%
 Clinton...946,763...43%
 Perot...349,654...16%
 
NEW YORK...CLINTON
From the moment the campaign began in earnest, Mr. Clinton seemed a certain winner in New York, with its 33 electoral votes. As the polls closed, Mr. Clinton was declared the winner by a large margin over Mr. Bush.
And so the main show was the Senate race. And what a show it was with Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato eking out a narrow victory over his Democratic challenger, Robert F. Abrams, the State Attorney General. Despite Mr. Clinton's commanding lead at the top of the ticket, Mr. Abrams was unable to prevail in a blistering campaign that may have been the nation's nastiest campaign. Mr. D'Amato made it clear that he did not want to be identified with Mr. Bush, often speaking more favorably of Mr. Clinton's programs than those of Mr. Bush.
The two candidates differed on almost all the issues: Mr. D'Amato opposed abortion under most circumstances; Mr. Abrams staunchly supported the right to obtain an abortion. Mr. D'Amato supported the death penalty, and Mr. Abrams opposed it.
Yet the campaign was fought mostly on other grounds, notably attacks and counterattacks about ethics. Although Mr. D'Amato has been the subject of years of ethics inquiries, he moved deftly to pre-empt Mr. Abrams, accusing him of being slippery about his own tax payments and campaign donations.
In the House races, Representative Bill Green, a Republican who represents what is left of Manhattan's Silk Stocking District, also worried that a Democratic landslide could give the seat to Carolyn B. Maloney, a Democratic City Councilwoman.
Democrats hoped that a Clinton victory might also help them win control of the State Senate for the first time in 28 years.
 
PRESIDENT - 96% reporting
 Bush...2,152,732...34%
 Clinton...3,138,287...50%
 Perot...982,542...16%
 
SENATE - 88% reporting
 Abrams (D)...2,600,661...49%
 D'Amato (R)...2,677,220...51%
 
PENNSYLVANIA...CLINTON
Mr. Clinton won Pennsylvania's 23 electoral votes, taking a state that was narrowly in President Bush's column in 1988. Fears about the economy had eroded Mr. Bush's support among coal miners, steel workers and other Reagan Democrats this year, despite the President's efforts to paint the Democrats as overzealous on gun control and environmental regulation.
Mr. Clinton successfully echoed the 1991 campaign themes of Senator Harris Wofford, whose surprise victory last year over former Attorney General Dick Thornburgh had been orchestrated by James Carville, Mr. Clinton's chief strategist. Mr. Perot drew support from blue-collar Democrats and moderate Republicans, but not enough to hurt Mr. Clinton.
In a closely watched Senate race, Senator Arlen Specter, a Republican considered vulnerable after his questioning of Anita Hill at the Clarence Thomas confirmation hearings last year, narrowly defeated Lynn Yeakel, the Democrat..
In an expensive campaign with a nasty personal edge that gained momentum in the final days, Ms. Yeakel attacked Mr. Specter for humiliating Ms. Hill. Mr. Specter responded with advertisements calling Ms. Yeakel a one-issue candidate, emphasizing his support for women's issues and attacking her for having failed to pay her Philadelphia income tax until a day before announcing her candidacy.
 
 PRESIDENT - 84% reporting
 Bush...370,346...35%
 Clinton...1,820,285...47%
 Perot...690,556...18%
 
SENATE - 79% reporting
 Specter (R)...1,703,490...51%
 Yeakel (D)...1,665,084...49%
 
RHODE ISLAND
Gov. Michael S. Dukakis took this state in 1988, and Rhode Island once again handed its four electoral votes to the Democratic Presidential candidate, according to network projections, even though the candidates paid scant attention to the nation's tiniest state.
While Mr. Bush was not expected to do well here, Mr. Perot, the independent, was counting on doing better in the Ocean State than in the rest of the Northeast.
In the governor's race, Elizabeth Ann Leonard, a Republican car dealer, tried to use the recession and the state's banking crisis to unseat Gov. Bruce Sundlun, a Democrat. In this year of anti-incumbent sentiments, Ms. Leonard was called the "perfect outsider" by the Republican Governors' Association.
Representative Ronald K. Machtley, a Republican who unseated a 28-year Democratic Congressman in 1988, faced a tough re-election bid against State Senator David R. Carlin Jr. Representative John F. Reed, a Democrat, was expected to win handily over his Republican challenger, James W. Bell, a building contractor.
 
VERMONT...CLINTON
Mr. Clinton took Vermont and its three electoral votes, the first time a Democrat won the state since 1964.
Gov. Howard Dean a medical doctor, also beat out State Senator John McClaughry, a Republican. Mr. McClaughry is a former White House aide under Ronald Reagan.
Bernard Sanders, a socialist who ran as an independent, was seeking re-election for the state's only House seat against Lewis E. Young, a Democrat, and Tim Philbin, a Republican.
Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Democrat, won re-election, over Secretary of State Jim Douglas, a Republican.
 
PRESIDENT - 43% reporting
 Bush...31,496...30%
 Clinton...51,982...49%
 Perot...22,752...21%
 
SENATE - 40% reporting
 Douglas (R)...41,364...42%
 Leahy (D)...57,114...58%
 
WEST VIRGINIA...CLINTON
 With twice as many registered Democrats as Republicans, and with Democratic control of the Statehouse and a monopoly over representation in Congress, West Virginia was expected to provide Mr. Clinton its five electoral votes, and did so. Having had severe economic problems for the last decade, the state viewed the rest of the nation simply as catching up.
West Virginia voted for Richard M. Nixon in 1972 and Ronald Reagan in 1984, but those votes proved aberrations.
Gov. Gaston Caperton, a Democrat, won re-election yesterday. He won election four years ago by campaigning against new taxes. But once elected, he shepherded a tax bill through the Legislature, alienating many voters.
His Republican opponent was Cleve Benedict, the state's Agriculture Commissioner. Charlotte Pritt, a Democrat, , waged a write-in campaign.
 
PRESIDENT - 64% reporting
 Bush...125,273...33%
 Clinton...193,120...51%
 Perot...57,279...15%
 
GOVERNOR - 65% reporting
Benedict...130,103...35%
Caperton...214,733...59%
Pritt...22,107...6%

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Behind the Vote: Eastern Close-Up: New York"
What issues mattered most to those who voted for...
 
Bush
Economy/job...35%
Taxes...23%
Foreign policy...17%
Federal deficit...16%
 
Clinton
Economy/job...52%
Health care...41%
Education...14%
Federal deficit...14%
 
Perot
Economy/job...56%
Federal deficit...44%
Health carey...15%
Taxes...13%
 
Do you think that the condition of the nation's economy is...
 
Excellent...1%
Good...14%
Not so good...46%
Poor...38%
 
Compared to four years ago, is your family's financial situation...
 
Better today...19%
About the same...37%
Worse today...43%
 
Would you have preferred Mario Cuomo as the Democratic nominee for President?
 
Yes...34%
No...60$
 
Source: Voter Research & Surveys exit poll

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MAINE, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); CONNECTICUT; DELAWARE; WASHINGTON (DC); MAINE; MARYLAND; MASSACHUSETTS; NEW HAMPSHIRE; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; PENNSYLVANIA; RHODE ISLAND; VERMONT; WEST VIRGINIA UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MAINE, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION RESULTS US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (69%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (63%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (52%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); MICHAEL N CASTLE (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); TOM CARPER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



160 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2639 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE;
South

 BODY:
ALABAMA...BUSH
President Bush captured Alabama in part by attacking Mr. Clinton on social issues. At an anti-Clinton rally last week parents said their children would be exposed to homosexual scout masters if the Democrat won.
With nine electoral votes, Alabama last went Democratic in 1976. 
 Senator Richard C. Shelby, a Democrat, won an easy re-election campaign against Richard Sellers, a Republican business consultant. And State Senator Earl F. Hilliard, a Democrat, became the first black Alabaman in Congress since Reconstruction, running in a new black majority district.
George Wallace Jr., the Democratic State Treasurer, carried his famous name into a Congressional battle for an open seat previously held by the Republicans. He faced Terry Everett, a newspaper executive who spent more than $600,000 to win the primary.
Representative Ben Erdreich, a five-term Democratic incumbent, faced a tough fight in a redrawn Birmingham district, now overwhelmingly Republican.
 
PRESIDENT - 84% reporting
 Bush...710,055...48%
 Clinton...620,250...42%
 Perot...161,072...11%
 
SENATE - 84% reporting
 Shelby (D)...921,735...67%
 Sellers (R)...459,642...33%
 
ARKANSAS...CLINTON
Mr. Clinton easily landed his home state's six electoral votes, marking the first time Arkansas had voted Democratic for President since 1976. Mr. Perot and Mr. Bush, after writing off the state, even went so far as to ridicule it.
Senator Dale Bumpers, the three-term incumbent, defeated his Republican challenger, Mike Huckabee. In the heavily Democratic Congressional district in the northeastern corner of Arkansas, Blanche Lambert, the Democrat who beat her former boss, Bill Alexander, in the primary, defeated the Republican challenger, Terry Hayes.
John R. VanWinkle, the Democratic underdog in the northwestern section of the state, was hoping to hitch a ride on Mr. Clinton's victory train to upset State Representative Tim Hutchinson, a Baptist minister favored in the historically Republican district.
Voters were also expected to approve a measure to limit the terms of state and Federal officials.
 
PRESIDENT - 80% reporting
 Bush...250,466...36%
 Clinton...370,011...53%
 Perot...76,478...11%
 
SENATE - 70% reporting
 Bumpers (D)...364,714...59%
 Huckabee (R)...251,014...41%
 
FLORIDA
Florida came to epitomize Mr. Bush's difficulties. Four years ago, he won the state by nearly a million votes. But late last night, with 70 percent of the vote counted, the race in this former Republican stronghold remained too close to call.
Mr. Perot, meanwhile, was enjoying one of his best showings. He had made one of his few campaign appearances here, in Tampa, where he drew a packed house.
Governor Clinton had been benefiting from the economic fears of Floridians, unaccustomed to the downturn in their boom economy. The Democratic National Committee ran television advertisements that courted the elderly by asserting that the Republicans would cut the Medicare program.
The Republicans countered with their familiar charges that Mr. Clinton lacked character and fiscal restraint.
Senator Bob Graham, a Democrat won an easy re-election race against Bill Grant, a business consultant and ex-Congressman.
Mr. Graham, the state's most popular politician, did not extend more than perfunctory support to Mr. Clinton.
The state's Congressional delegation is expanding by four seats, to 23, at a time when six members of its delegation are retiring. It is now split between 10 Republicans and 9 Democrats, a ratio that could be reversed.
A referendum that would impose an eight-year term limit on state legislators, and members of the state executive branch and of Congress seemed likely to pass easily.
 PRESIDENT - 70% reporting
 Bush...1,347,592...41%
 Clinton...1,289,147...39%
 Perot...633,966...19%
 
 SENATE - 71% reporting
 Graham (D)...1,965,645...66%
 Grant (R)...1,007,048...34%
 
GEORGIA
 Georgia gave George Bush an overwhelming margin four years ago, but the Southern-grown Democratic ticket of Bill Clinton and Al Gore was declared the victor by the network consortium that surveyed voters leaving the polls. The same consortium projected that Wyche Fowler Jr., the one-term Democratic Senator, would defeat Paul Coverdell, a former state chairman of the Republican Party.
Mr. Coverdell had boasted of his association with President Bush, whom he once pronounced "one of the strongest Presidential personalities in history." As Mr. Bush's popularity plummetted, Mr. Coverdell mentioned him less frequently.
Democrats tried hard to insure Mr. Fowler's re-election, seeing that he campaigned with Georgia's senior Senator, Sam Nunn, an enormously popular figure.
Most gripping among several interesting House contests was Representative Newt Gingrich's bid for re-election from a newly drawn district. Democrats salivated at the prospect of forcing the retirement of Mr. Gingrich, a slashing partisan fighter. His Democratic opponent, Tony Center, is a trial lawyer.
 
PRESIDENT - 64% reporting
 Bush...493,416...41%
 Clinton...540,015...45%
 Perot...165,478...14%
 
 SENATE - 65% reporting
 Coverdell (R)...532,163...46%
 Fowler (D)...595,010...51%
 
KENTUCKY...CLINTON
After a hard-fought race in which both candidates made last-minute campaign visits, Mr. Clinton defeated Mr. Bush to take Kentucky's eight electoral votes. Mr. Bush, who won Kentucky handily in 1988, attacked Mr. Clinton's policies as dangerous to local industries like automobile manufacturing and coal mining.
But in his visits, Mr. Clinton emphasized his experience as Governor of a Southern state, a tactic that also worked well for Jimmy Carter in 1976, the last time Kentucky voted Democratic.
In the Senate race, the Democratic incumbent, Wendell H. Ford, the majority whip, easily defeated David Williams, a Republican State Senator.
 
PRESIDENT - 100% reporting
 Bush...615,752...42%
 Clinton...659,706...45%
 Perot...202,739...14%
 
 SENATE - 100% reporting
 Ford (D)...832,717...64%
 Williams (R)...475,160...36%
 
LOUISIANA...CLINTON
Mr. Clinton won Louisiana from the Republicans for the first time the Democrats have taken the state since 1976. He enjoyed strong support from two leading Democrats, Senator John B. Breaux and Representative William J. Jefferson, who backed the Governor before he was the presumptive nominee. Mr. Bush won easily in 1988, in part by portraying himself as an oil man who would help the state's troubled chief industry. But oil remains depressed.
The Republicans ran commercials that featured comments made by Mr. Gore calling for a ban on offshore drilling in all coastal waters. The Democrats responded that Mr. Clinton had not called for a ban.
Mr. Bush made seven visits this year, seeking the state's nine electoral votes, and Mr. Clinton visited five times.
In the state's Congressional races, Mr. Breaux cruised to re-election on Oct. 3 by capturing a majority in an open primary.
The nation's only standoff between two incumbent Republicans, Representatives Clyde Holloway and Richard H. Baker, remained too close to call at midnight.
In another fight between incumbents, Jim McCrery, a conservative Republican, defeated Jerry Huckaby, a Democrat who had 88 overdrafts on the House bank.
 
 PRESIDENT - 99% Reporting
 Bush...719,910...41%
 Clinton...808,069 746,660...47%
 Perot...207,215...12%
 
MISSISSIPPI...BUSH
Despite Republican strength in the state, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore both come from neighboring states, and the Democrats campaigned in Mississippi as they sought unsuccessfully to chip away at the Republican grip over the South.
Among the unknown factors this year was how enthusiastically blacks, who make up 36 percent of the electorate but were not aggressively courted by the Democrats, would turn out for Mr. Clinton and the Democrats.
Mississippi had five Democrats in Congress, all elected the last time around with overwhelming majorities. But Representative Jamie L. Whitten, the dean of the delegation who has spent 50 years bringing back the bacon to his constituents, is now 82 years old and in ill health. Republicans, sensing vulnerability, put up Clyde E. Whitaker, a former Mayor of Tupelo. Mr. Whitten had run unopposed 18 times; Mr. Whitaker said Congressional terms should be limited. For Mr. Whitten, it was one last stand for incumbency.
 
PRESIDENT - 88% reporting
 Bush...411,346...50%
 Clinton...336,952...41%
 Perot...74,142...9%
 
NORTH CAROLINA
North Carolina, with 14 electoral votes, is the third biggest prize in the South after Texas and Florida. As in those states, Mr. Clinton decided to go all out, regularly visiting the state and sending Mr. Gore for a last-minute stop on Monday.
Mr. Clinton sought to become the first Democratic contender to capture the state since 1976.
Senator Terry Sanford was upset by his Republican challenger, Launch Faircloth, a former Sanford ally, after a tight, hotly fought race. Mr. Faircloth, a businessman and farmer, reminded voters of Mr. Sanford's opposition to the Persian Gulf war and made an issue of the Senator's recent heart operation.
In the governor's race, the Democrat, Jim Hunt, beat Jim Gardner, the Republican who had been Lieutenant Governor since 1989.
Two Democrats in House races, Eva Clayton and Mel Watt, won, becoming the first blacks to represent North Carolina in the House since 1901.
 
PRESIDENT - 84% reporting
 Bush...896,443...43%
 Clinton...897,900...43%
 Perot...282,247...14%
 
 SENATE - 85% reporting
 Sanford (D)...979,529...48%
 Faircloth (R)...1,045,160...52%
 
 GOVERNOR - 81% reporting
 Hunt (D)...1,066,838...53%
 Gardner (R)...858,503...43%
 
OKLAHOMA...BUSH
Oklahoma is about as Republican as any state in Presidential politics, and Mr. Bush was an easy winner.
Steve Lewis, a Democrat who is the former Speaker of the State House, failed to make a strong showing against Senator Don Nickles, the Republican incumbent, in part because he was short of money.
Mr. Lewis made an issue of Mr. Nickles's strong opposition to abortion rights, a novel approach in a Bible Belt state. Mr. Nickles, who was chairman of the Republican platform committee, might have been vulnerable on that issue in other states.
The Democrats were expected to hold their 4-to-2 advantage in House seats. Representative James M. Inhofe, a Republican, once again faced a tough challenge but was expected to slip by.
 
PRESIDENT - 96% reporting
 Bush...557,988...43%
 Clinton...447,795...34%
 Perot...303,404...23%
 
SENATE - 96% reporting
 Nickles (R)...715,238...58%
 Lewis (D)...468,723...38%
 
SOUTH CAROLINA...BUSH
Though South Carolina was one of President Bush's best states in 1988, he had to scurry with an 11th-hour whistle-stop tour to win the state's eight electoral votes.
The close Presidential race gave a boost to Senator Ernest F. Hollings, the veteran Democrat, whom Republicans marked as vulnerable as soon as he had voted against authorizing United States participation in the Persian Gulf war. Mr. Hollings made a number of gaffes, but by early evening he was also projected to win. But his challenger, former Representative Tommy Hartnett, failed to muster enough money and his advertisement that linked Mr. Hollings to gay rights appeared to backfire.
Democrats were expected to keep their 4-to-2 edge over Republicans in the House. Jim Clyburn was expected to win easily and become the first black member of the delegation.
 
PRESIDENT - 94% reporting
 Bush...535,692...48%
 Clinton...445,633...40%
 Perot...127,822...12%
 
 SENATE - 92% reporting
 Hartnett (R)...500,474...48%
 Hollings (D)...536,656...52%
 
TENNESSEE...CLINTON
Governor Clinton's choice of Senator Gore as his running mate put this state into the Democratic column.
The last Democrat to capture Tennessee's 11 electoral votes was Jimmy Carter of neighboring Georgia in 1976.
Despite polls showing a predictable Democratic lead, Mr. Bush, Mr. Quayle and surrogates, including Lamar Alexander, the state's former Governor and now Education Secretary, had all campaigned there in hopes of taking the state from the Democrats. Mr. Quayle made Tennessee one of his last stops before Election Day.
Mr. Gore, however, got in the last word, since he returned to Tennessee for two rallies yesterday before casting his vote there.
The Democrats counted on Mr. Gore's coattails not only to help Mr. Clinton but also to bolster showings by Democratic members of Tennessee's delegation in the House.
Marilyn Lloyd in the Third Congressional District faced an easier time than in the past, when in order to win re-election she usually had to outperform the Democrat at the head of the ticket by thousands of votes. So did Bart Gordon in the Sixth District.
Even David Davis, a minister, hoped to benefit in the Seventh District from the strength of the Presidential ticket in challenging Don Sundquist, the five-term Republican incumbent.
 
PRESIDENT - 93% reporting
 Bush...750,934...42%
 Clinton...858,095...48%
 Perot...179,733...10%
 
TEXAS...BUSH
On this rock Presidential strategies begin: The candidate must carry his home state. Since World War II, all the winners have done so.
But in 1992, more so than ever, the Republicans saw Texas, Mr. Bush's adopted home state, as crucial to a second term. He won the state's 32 electoral votes, even though it was not enough to win him the election.
It was a measure of the President's woes, as well as a reflection of Mr. Clinton's regional appeal, that Mr. Bush worked so hard in Texas, outspending Mr. Clinton on direct media expenses by more than $3 million.
Mr. Bush won the state by 12.7 percentage points four years ago. Surveys of voters also indicated that Mr. Perot's maverick campaign hurt Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton virtually evenly in the state.
Three veteran Democrats in the House who wrote many overdrafts on House bank accounts were vulnerable to anti-incumbent sentiments. Representative Charles Wilson, a 20-year veteran from East Texas who had 81 overdrafts, overcame a stiff challenge from Donna Peterson, a Republican. A five-term incumbent, Ronald D. Coleman of El Paso who wrote 673 overdrafts, faced Chip Taberski, a popular sportscaster. Representative Albert G. Bustamante of Laredo, under Federal investigation for helping a friend win a bingo contract on an Indian reservation, lost to Henry Bonilla, a Republican television executive.
 
PRESIDENT - 87% reporting
 Bush...2,218,065...41%
 Clinton...2,049,762...38%
 Perot...1,188,907...22%
 
VIRGINIA...BUSH
President Bush won by a sizable margin in Virginia, which had not given its 13 electoral votes to a Democrat since the Lyndon B. Johnson won in a landslide in 1964. Still, the race had been tighter than some had expected, especially after one debate, held in Richmond, hurt Mr. Bush and gave Mr. Clinton momentum.
The state's Congressional districts were extensively redrawn, resulting in sure bets in some House races and in close races elsewhere. But incumbents did not suffer at the hands of the voters; eight of the state's House members were re-elected.
The creation of a district with a 64 percent black population, guaranteed that the winner of the Democratic primary, State Senator Robert C. Scott, would become the first black sent to the House by the state in this century. He won easily.
In another new district, the 11th in the suburbs of Washington, Leslie L. Byrne, a Democrat, became the first woman elected by Virginians to the House. Mr. Bush's coattails proved inadequate for Henry Butler, a Republican economics professor.
 
PRESIDENT - 82% reporting
 Bush...918,304...45%
 Clinton...841,423...41%
 Perot...276,408...14%

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Behind the Vote: Southern Close-Up: Texas"
What issues mattered most to those who voted for...
 
Bush
Economy/job...17%
Family values...15%
Taxes...13%
Federal deficit...13%
 
Clinton
Economy/job...32%
Health care...22%
Education...11%
Federal deficit...9%
 
Perot
Federal deficit...36%
Economy/job...34%
Health care...9%
Taxes...6%
 
Do you think that the condition of the nation's economy is...
 
Excellent...1%
Good...20%
Not so good...49%
Poor...30%
 
Compared to four years ago, is your family's financial situation...
 
Better today...25%
About the same...35%
Worse today...36%
 
Do you approve or disapprove of the free trade agreement with Mexico?
 
Approve...46%
Disapprove...43$
 
Source: Voter Research & Surveys exit poll

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTHERN STATES (US); ALABAMA; ARKANSAS; FLORIDA; GEORGIA; KENTUCKY; LOUISIANA; MISSISSIPPI; SOUTH CAROLINA; TENNESSEE; VIRGINIA; TEXAS; NORTH CAROLINA UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION RESULTS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); MEDICARE (66%); APPROVALS (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TERRY EVERETT (59%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



161 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2361 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE;
Midwest

 BODY:
ILLINOIS...CLINTON
Illinoians made history by sending Carol Moseley Braun, the 45-year-old Cook County Recorder of Deeds, to the United States Senate. Ms. Braun will be the first black woman, as well as the first black Democrat, ever in the United States Senate.
With nearly two-thirds of the vote counted, Ms. Braun, a former State Senator, had won 56 percent of the vote, with the remainder going to the Republican, Rich Williamson.
Surveys of voters leaving polls showed that Ms. Braun had scored particularly well among women, but won among men by only two points. Ms. Braun won 93 percent of the black vote, but only 49 percent of white votes. 
 The Senate campaign overshadowed the Presidential contest, in which Mr. Clinton won overwhelmingly.
Bobby Rush, a former Black Panther, won a House seat on Chicago's South Side. Another Chicagoan, Luis V. Gutierrez, will become Illinois's first Hispanic House member. Donald Manzullo, a Republican, defeated the Democratic incumbent in the district once held by Secretary of Labor Lynn Martin.
 
PRESIDENT - 62% reporting
 Bush...959,182...34%
 Clinton...1,423,859...50%
 Perot...461,500...16%
 
 SENATE - 64% reporting
 Braun (D)...1,574,755...56%
 Williamson (R)...1,241,356...44%
 
INDIANA...BUSH
Vice President Quayle's home state has gone Democratic in only one election since 1932, that being 1964. Yesterday's voting continued that trend, as Mr. Bush won the state's 12 electoral votes.
The President visited the state just once during the general election campaign, but sent in a steady stream of surrogates, including Mr. Quayle and his wife, Marilyn, and Labor Secretary Lynn Martin. Nevertheless, as state polls showed Mr. Clinton gaining ground in October, the Republicans were forced to invest in local television commercials, even though Mr. Clinton never campaigned or advertised in Indiana.
Other incumbents were also successful in Indiana. Senator Daniel R. Coats, a Republican, fended off a challenge from the Democratic Secretary of State, Joe Hogsett. Mr. Hogsett never recovered from a damaging radio advertising volley from Senator Coats that portrayed Mr. Hogsett as a career politician who had broken a pledge to serve out his term as Secretary of State. .
Gov. Evan Bayh, a Democrat first elected in 1988 at the age of 32, also held onto his job, defeating the Republican, Linley E. Pearson, the State Attorney General.
 
PRESIDENT - 91% reporting
 Bush...893,597...43%
 Clinton...751,722...37%
 Perot...410,679...20%
 
 SENATE - 85% reporting
 Coats (R)...1,040,253...58%
 Hogsett (D)...766,110...42%
 
GOVERNOR - 85% reporting
 Bayh (D)...1,132,913...62%
 Pearson (R)...682,035...38%
 
IOWA...CLINTON
Mr. Clinton experienced some surprising difficulties in a state that backed Michael S. Dukakis in 1988, but with more than two-thirds of vote in, he had established a comfortable lead over Mr. Bush.
With Senator Charles E. Grassley, the in-cumbent and a Republican, crushing his Democratic challenger, State Senator Jean Lloyd-Jones, interest in the state's Congressional delegation focused on two House seats affected by redistricting.
In a race between two incumbents, Jim Nussle, a Republican who won fame by wearing a bag over his head on the floor of the chamber to symbolize his disgust over the House banking scandal, held a small lead over Democrat Dave Nagle with 70 percent of the vote counted.
In southern Iowa, Jim Ross Lightfoot, a Republican member of the House Appropriations Committee tarnished by 105 overdrafts at the House bank, established a more comfortable margin over Elaine Baxter, the Iowa Secretary of State.
 
PRESIDENT - 69% reporting
 Bush...373,903...38%
 Clinton...426,703...44%
 Perot...180,316...18%
 
 SENATE - 67% reporting
 Grassley (R)...631,976...72%
 Lloyd-Jones (D)...248,976...28%
 
KANSAS
Kansas, which has not voted for a Democrat for President since 1964, should be friendly territory for any Republican. But it was a measure of Mr. Bush's troubles, especially with the economy, that polls throughout the campaign showed Mr. Bush in a close race. Mr. Perot showed surprising strength in polls, scoring above 20 percent.
Mr. Bush's greatest hope in Kansas was always taken to be the coattails of Senator Bob Dole, the Senate's Republican leader who was projected the winner early in the evening. Mr. Bush did not even campaign for the state's six electoral votes.
The Democratic Senate candidate, Gloria O'Dell, a state treasury official, tried to make the most of her differences with Mr. Dole over abortion rights, which she favors.
Representative Dan Glickman ran less against his Republican opponent, State Senator Eric Yost, than against the local Metromedia cable system, which campaigned against him because of his vote to re-regulate cable television.
 
SENATE - 35% reporting
 Dole (R)...271,883...64%
 O'Dell (D)...134,171...32%
 
MICHIGAN...CLINTON
Michigan was a swing state considered vital to Mr. Bush's re-election prospects. It suffers from a beleaguered automobile industry, which hurt Mr. Bush. The Associated Press said the state gave its 18 electoral votes to Mr. Clinton.
The Reagan Democrats, blue-collar workers whose disenchantment with their party led them to support Ronald Reagan and Mr. Bush, apparently proved the key to Mr. Clinton's victory. Many who lost their jobs making cars in recent years returned to the Democratic fold.
The candidates campaigned intensely in the state. President Bush made his final visit on Sunday, and Governor Clinton visited Monday.
Neither the governorship nor Senate seats were at stake. Representative David E. Bonior, the Democratic whip who is his party's third highest official in the House of Representatives, wrote 76 overdrafts on the House bank, which became an issue in his campaign against State Senator Doug Carl.
Representative William D. Ford, a 14-term Democrat who is chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, was helped by the addition of Ann Arbor to his district.
Michigan voters also considered a referendum that would limit House members to three terms in any 12-year period and senators to two terms in 24 years.
 
PRESIDENT - 39% reporting
 Bush...605,253...38%
 Clinton...676,965...42%
 Perot...327,255...20%
 
MINNESOTA
Having led in the state for months, Mr. Clinton did not pay much attention to Minnesota. Nor, for that matter, did Mr. Bush. Their tactical decisions were borne out by voter surveys, which showed Mr. Clinton carrying the state decisively.
With 42 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Clinton held an 18-point lead, an even greater bulge than polls suggested. Mr. Perot received one in five votes for the state's 10 electoral votes. With more than a third of the vote counted, Gerry Sikorski, the five-term Democratic Congressman from the northern suburbs of Minneapolis, was losing badly to his Republican opponent, Ron Grams, a former television anchorman. Mr. Sikorski was a prime target for anti-incumbency sentiments, with 697 overdrafts at the House bank.
In a test of Mr. Clinton's coattails, a Democrat, David Minge, had a narrow lead over Cal Ludeman, a former candidate for governor, for the seat being vacated by Representative Vin Weber, one of President Bush's national campaign chairmen.
 
MISSOURI...CLINTON
Mr. Bush made a point of visiting Missouri often, but Mr. Clinton was declared the winner shortly after the polls closed, putting the state's 11 electoral votes in the Democrat's column.
Senator Christopher S. Bond, the Republican incumbent, did little to disguise the fact that he was running away from Mr. Bush. Mr. Bond wondered publicly whether the President's unpopularity would sink his re-election chances.
His Democratic opponent, Geri Rothman-Serot, a St. Louis County Council member, emphasized her commitment to abortion rights, a view that Mr. Bond does not share, but she trailed throughout the race.
The race for the governor's mansion became a kind of referendum on abortion.
The Democratic contender, Lieut. Gov. Mel Carnahan, emphasized abortion rights and, according to a survey of voters leaving the polls, was projected the winner last night. His opponent was William L. Webster, the state attorney general, who had argued the case for restricting abortion rights that led to the 1989 Supreme Court ruling, Planned Parenthood v. Webster.
 
PRESIDENT - 25% reporting
 Bush...143,215...31%
 Clinton...224,932...49%
 Perot...87,678...19%
 
 GOVERNOR - 31% reporting
 Carnahan (D)...346,477...60%
 Webster (R)...227,838...40%
 
NEBRASKA...BUSH
Nebraska has not embraced a Democrat for President since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964, and this year Mr. Bush won an easy victory.
With no races for Senate or governor, the hottest electoral contest in the state was for the House in the Second District, anchored in Omaha. Peter Hoagland, a two-term Democratic Representative, faced a spirited challenge from a flamboyant restaurant owner, Ron Staskiewicz. Trying to ride the anti-incumbent wave, Mr. Staskiewicz burnished his outsider image by campaigning in a bus decorated like a Pullman train car. Mr. Staskiewicz based his pitch on "House Rules," a book by Robert Cwiklik characterizing Mr. Hoagland as the consumate insider and an opportunist to boot.
In a referendum, voters decided whether they wanted a statewide lottery to provide money for schools and an environmental trust fund.
 
 PRESIDENT - 51% reporting
 Bush...140,160...47%
 Clinton...94,767...32%
 Perot...63,464...21%
 
NORTH DAKOTA...BUSH
With 64 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Bush was the winner of three electoral votes in North Dakota, The Associated Press projected, receiving 43 percent of the vote as against 33 percent for Mr. Clinton and 24 percent for Mr. Perot .
The state faced substantial changes with the retirement of Gov. George Sinner, a two-term Democrat. In the race to succeed him, Ed Schafer, a Republican businessman, was running well ahead of Nicholas Spaeth, a Democrat and the State Attorney General.
In the race to succeed retiringSenator Kent Conrad , Representative Byron L. Dorgan, a Democrat, defeated Steve Sydness, a Republican member of the Fargo City Council.
North Dakota also voted on an initiative to limit Federal lawmakers to 12 years in office.
 
 PRESIDENT - 64% reporting
 Bush...70,189...43%
 Clinton...40,154...33%
 Perot...39,530...24%
 
 GOVERNOR - 65% reporting
 Schafer (R)...93,319...58%
 Spaeth (D)...67,365...42%
 
 SENATE - 64% reporting
 Dorgan (D)...96,785...61%
 Sydness (R)...62,260...39%
 
OHIO...CLINTON
In 1976, Jimmy Carter defeated Gerald R. Ford in Ohio by a whisker of 11,000 votes, and the battle this year promised to be as close. Four years ago, Mr. Bush won the state by an 11-point landslide, but this year Mr. Clinton won, even though Mr. Perot's re-entry into the race cut into Mr. Clinton's support among independents and among Reagan Democrats looking for a change.
In the final week, Mr. Bush revitalized his campaign for Ohio's 21 electoral votes with an exuberant tour, honing his attack on Mr. Clinton's character. The Clinton campaign tried to blunt the Bush comeback and shore up votes among automobile workers in Ohio and Michigan with an advertisement describing how Japanese minivans avoided import duties through labeling.
The Bush surge helped Lieut. Gov. Michael DeWine's run at Senator John Glenn, a three-term Senator whose public career began withhis historic trip into space as an astronaut. But it was not enough, and Mr. Glenn won with a comfortable margin.
House races featured a mud-slinging match in Cleveland involving Representative Mary Rose Oakar, an eight-term Democratic incumbent weakened by her association with the House bank and post office scandals. The Republican, Martin R. Hoke, a lawyer and political newcomer, had problems exploiting the ethics issue. The race was a tossup.
Anti-incumbent challengers were aided by the inclusion of popular term-limits referenda covering state and Federal officeholders.
 
 PRESIDENT - 91% reporting
 Bush...1,692,151...38%
 Clinton...1,800,245...41%
 Perot...924,458...21%
 
 SENATE - 91% reporting
 DeWine (R)...1,783,348...45%
 Glenn (D)...2,188,538...55%
 
 SOUTH DAKOTA
Although South Dakota has only three electoral votes, both parties campaigned vigorously for the state's farm vote. In September, President Bush announced a $1 billion subsidy program for American wheat exports, after having criticized similar subsidies in Europe. On his one visit, Governor Clinton promoted a Federal program for rural health care, ethanol production and called for a farm development bank. Polls showed Mr. Perot running a strong third in a state that has voted Democratic only twice.
Senator Tom Daschle, a Democrat seeking his second term, defeated Charlene Haar, the only Republican woman running for the Senate.
 
 PRESIDENT - 55% reporting
 Bush...61,926...40%
 Clinton...56,542...37%
 Perot...34,901...23%
 
 SENATE - 56% reporting
 Daschle (D)...102,651...65%
 Haar (R)...52,114...33%
 
WISCONSIN...CLINTON
Republican strategists said Wisconsin could be the only state Mr. Bush lost in 1988 that he might win this year. Mr. Clinton, however, pulled out an ample victory.
Hearty dairy prices helped the President, and Gov. Tommy G. Thompson worked hard for him. But in the end, the Bush forces could not resist a heavy Democratic turnout and a considerable following for Mr. Perot.
The Presidential race was nearly overshadowed by an exciting Senate contest between the Republican incumbent, Bob Kasten, and State Senator Russell Feingold. Although Mr. Kasten surged back in the final weeks, Mr. Feingold won an comfortable victory.
Representative Les Aspin, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, was in a tight race with Mark Neumann, a Republican businessman.
 
PRESIDENT - 52% reporting
 Bush...524,506...35%
 Clinton...642,703...44%
 Perot...293,704...20%
 
 SENATE - 52% reporting
 Kasten (R)...622,862...44%
 Feingold (D) 780,777...56%

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Behind the Vote: Midwest Close-Up: Illinois"
What issues mattered most to those who voted for...
 
Bush
Economy/job...29%
Taxes...22%
Family values...18%
Federal deficit...18%
 
Clinton
Economy/job...47%
Health care...38%
Federal deficit...20%
Education...19%
 
Perot
Economy/job...53%
Federal deficit...45%
Health care...18%
Taxes...14%
 
Do you think that the condition of the nation's economy is...
 
Excellent...1%
Good...16%
Not so good...49%
Poor...32%
 
Compared to four years ago, is your family's financial situation...
 
Better today...19%
About the same...37%
Worse today...43%
 
How important is it that more women be elected to the U.S. Senate...
 
Very important...39%
Somewhate important...39%
Not important...21%
 
Source: Voter Research & Surveys exit poll

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) DEMOCRATIC SENATE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) DEMOCRATIC SENATE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US); ILLINOIS; INDIANA; IOWA; KANSAS; MICHIGAN; MINNESOTA; MISSOURI; NEBRASKA; NORTH DAKOTA; OHIO; SOUTH CAROLINA; WISCONSIN UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ; VOTING REQUIREMENTS AND VOTERS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); RADIO ADVERTISING (62%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS DAN COATS (77%); BOBBY L RUSH (59%); EVAN BAYH (58%); LUIS V GUTIERREZ (57%); DONALD A MANZULLO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



162 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: THE STATES -- THE GOVERNORS;
Democrats Are Victorious In Gubernatorial Races

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

 BODY:
On a night of sweeping Democratic victories, all four Democratic incumbent governors won and three other Democratic candidates triumphed in states previously held by Republicans.
Re-election victories by Gov. Evan Bayh of Indiana, Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont, Gov. Gaston Caperton of West Virginia and Gov. Bruce Sundlun of Rhode Island led the way for the Democrats. 
 In North Carolina, Jim Hunt, a Democrat, won back the governor's mansion he left in 1984, reclaiming the seat from a Republican, and in Missouri the Democratic Lieutenant Governor, Mel Carnahan, defeated William Webster, the state's Republican Attorney General. Mr. Webster became well-known for winning the 1989 Supreme Court case bearing his name, which restricted women's access to abortions.
Tom Carper, a 45-year-old Democrat and five-term Congressman, won in Delaware, taking back a state house that had been held by a Republican.
 
No Clinton Coattails
 But despite Gov. Bill Clinton's triumph in the Presidential race, in New Hampshire, which Mr. Clinton won, a conservative Republican and former state Attorney General, Steve Merrill, narrowly won the governor's seat, defeating Deborah (Arnie) Arnesen, a Democrat. And in North Dakota, Ed Schafer, a 46 year-old Republican businessman, won the governor's race, unseating a Democratic incumbent, Nicholas Spaeth.
In Utah, Stewart Hanson, a 53-year-old Republican lawyer, also won, maintaining the Republican's hold there.
The contest in New Hampshire was perhaps the most closely watched because Ms. Arnesen, an outspoken, energetic four-term state legislator, had taken the daring step of proposing an income tax to try to overcome New Hampshire's budget troubles and economic recession.
New Hampshire is the only state except Alaska that has neither an income or sales tax, and candidates have routinely taken what is known as "the pledge" not to impose a state-wide tax. Mr. Merrill had promised not to impose any new taxes.
Ms. Arnesen was one of three women trying to break the sex barrier in governors' races. The others were Elizabeth Leonard, a Republican, who was beaten in Rhode Island, and Dorothy Bradley, a 16-year Democratic state legislator in Montana. At 1 A.M., returns from Montana were too close to determine the outcome.
 
Mirroring Big Race
 The returns from Washington State -- where the state's Republican Attorney General, Ken Eikenberry, and Mike Lowry, a former Democratic Congressman, waged a close contest -- were also too small to project a victor.
The governors' races in many ways mirrored the Presidential campaign, with voters concerned about the economy, taxes and budget deficits.
In the dozen states picking governors this year, each major party controlled six. Going into the election, there were 28 Democratic governors, 20 Republicans and two independents.
Democrats had the advantage of having four incumbents on the ballot. For the first time in this century there were no Republican incumbents.
Not counting the results in Montana and Washington, the Democrats had won seven of the governors' seats, for a net gain of one. The Republicans triumphed in three.
In North Carolina, Mr. Hunt, the former Democratic governor, defeated Jim Gardner, the Republican Lieutenant Governor and a co-founder of Hardees fast food chain. Mr. Hunt had been out of office since he lost a hotly contested race to unseat Senator Jesse Helms in 1984.
Governor Bayh, at 36 years old the nation's youngest governor, beat Linley Pearson, the Republican Attorney General in Indiana, Vice President Dan Quayle's home state, by what appeared to be the largest margin in Indiana history. With 62 percent of the vote counted, he had 62 percent of the vote to 38 percent for his opponent. Mr. Bayh is the son of former Senator Birch Bayh.
In West Virginia, Governor Caperton, a 51 year-old millionaire insurance executive, beat the Republican, Cleve Benedict, a 57 year-old millionaire dairy farmer who is the state's agriculture commissioner.
In Rhode Island, Governor Sundlun, a 72 year-old millionaire former businessman, had initially appeared vulnerable because of three years of recession, a state banking crisis that shut many savings banks and a series of corruption cases. But his Republican challenger, Ms. Leonard, a foreign car dealer and political neophyte, moved slowly and had trouble formulating her positions.
 
Doctor Wins
 Farther north in New England, Governor Dean of Vermont, the only sitting governor who is a doctor, triumphed by a wide margin over Republican state Senator John McClaughry, a staunchly conservative former economic adviser to President Reagan. Dr. Dean, a 43 year-old moderate who has sponsored a sweeping health insurance reform plan for Vermont, was elected Lieutenant Governor in 1986 and became governor when Gov. Richard Snelling, a Republican, died in 1991.
With 23 percent of the vote counted, Dr. Dean was winning 78 percent of the vote to 20 percent for Mr. McClaughry, the largest margin in any governor's contest.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "WHO WON WHERE: The Races for Governor"
Results at 2:30 A.M.
 
x - Winner
xx - Winner and change in party control
* Incumbent
 
DELAWARE - 100%
 xx-Tom Carper, D 179,268 - 66%
 B. Gary Scott, R 90,747 - 33%
 Floyd McDowell, Oth 3,615 - 1%

INDIANA - 98%
 x-Evan Bayh, D * 1,327,505 - 63%
 Linley Pearson, R 795,039 - 37%

MISSOURI - 90%
 xx-Mel Carnahan, D 1,189,201 - 59%
 William Webster, R 834,355 - 41%

MONTANA - 72%
 Dorothy Bradley, D 138,602 - 49%
 Marc Racicot, R 144,111 - 51%

NEW HAMPSHIRE - 76%
 Deborah Arnesen, D 147,310 - 40%
 x-Steve Merrill, R 207,315 - 56%
 Miriam Luce, Oth 14,659 - 4%

NORTH CAROLINA - 94%
 xx-Jim Hunt Jr., D 1,244,565 - 53%
 James Gardner, R 1,020,874 - 43%
 Scott McLaughlin, Oth 94,727 - 4%

NORTH DAKOTA - 73%
 Nicholas Spaeth, D 79,045 - 41%
 xx-Edward Schafer, R 111,903 - 59%

RHODE ISLAND - 99%
 x-Bruce Sundlun, D * 250,323 - 64%
 Elizabeth Leonard, R 138,881 - 36%

UTAH - 43%
 Stewart Hanson, D 64,083 - 25%
 x-Mike Leavitt, R 108,388 - 42%
 Merrill Cook, Oth 84,534 - 33%

VERMONT - 74%
 x-Howard Dean, D * 144,030 - 75%
 John McClaughry, R 43,644 - 23%
 Richard Gottlieb, Oth 2,186 - 1%
 August Jaccaci, Oth 2,014 - 1%

WASHINGTON - 45%
 Mike Lowry, D 412,931 - 53%
 Ken Eikenberry, R 368,064 - 47%

WEST VIRGINIA - 68%
 x-Gaston Caperton, D * 230,676 - 58%
 Cleve Benedict, R 141,525 - 36%
 Charlotte Pritt, Oth 24,925 - 6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION RESULTS GOVERNORS (95%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); BUDGETS (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); SALES TAX (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); ABORTION (54%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX EVAN BAYH (88%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TOM CARPER (73%); ED SCHAFER (72%); MICHAEL O LEAVITT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



163 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: CELEBRATION;
Excerpts From the Victory Speech by President-Elect Clinton

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Governor Clinton's Presidential acceptance speech at the Old State House in Little Rock, Ark., as recorded by The New York Times:
My fellow Americans, on this day with high hopes and brave hearts in massive numbers the American people have voted to make a new beginning. 
 This election is a clarion call for our country to face the challenges of the end of the cold war and the beginning of the next century. To restore growth to our country and opportunity to our people. To empower our own people so that they can take more responsibility for their own lives. To face problems too long ignored -- from AIDS to the environment to the conversion of our economy from a defense to a domestic economic giant.
And perhaps most important of all, to bring our people together as never before so that our diversity can be a source of strength in a world that is ever smaller, where everyone counts and everyone is a part of America's family.
I want to begin this night by thanking my family, my wife, without whom I would not be here tonight. And who I will be -- I believe will be one of the greatest First Ladies in the history of this republic. And you can cheer for her. I also want to say a special word of thanks to our daughter for putting up with our absence, for supporting our effort, for being brave in the face of adversity and for reminding us every day about what this election is really all about. . . .
I want to thank the people of this wonderful small state.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Not very long ago I received a telephone call from President Bush. It was, it was a generous and forthcoming telephone call, of real congratulations and an offer to work with me in keeping our democracy running in an effective and important transition. I want all of you to join with me tonight in expressing our gratitude to President Bush for his lifetime of public service, for the effort he made from the time he was a young soldier in World War II to helping to bring about an end to the cold war, to our victory in the gulf war, to the grace with which he conceded the results of this election tonight, in the finest American tradition. Let's give Mr. Bush and his family a hand.
I heard tonight Mr. Perot's remarks and his offer to work with us. I say to you of all the things that he said I think perhaps the most important that we understand here in the heartland of Arkansas is the need to reform the political system, to reduce the influence of special interests and give more influence back to the kind of people that are in this crowd tonight by the tens of thousands. And I will work with him to do that.

 	 	 		. . .	 	I accept tonight, the responsibility that you have given me to be the leader of this, the greatest country in human history. I accept it with a full heart -- heart and a joyous spirit. But I ask you to be Americans again, too. To be interested not just in getting, but in giving, not just in placing blame but now in assuming responsibility, not just in looking out for yourselves, but in looking out for others, too. In this very place one year and one month ago today, I said we need more than new laws, new promises, or new programs. We need a new spirit of community, a sense that we're all in this together. If we have no sense of community, the American dream will continue to wither. Our destiny is bound up with the destiny of every American. We're all in this together and we will rise or fall together.
That has been my message to the American people for the past 13 months and it will be my message for the next four years. Together we can do it. Together we can make the country that we love everything it was meant to be. I still believe in a place called hope. God bless America. Thank you all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARK ASA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (76%); WORLD WAR II (71%); DESERT STORM (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



164 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Iran Votes for Barbarism

 BODY:
A state-run religious charity in Iran chose a moment when Americans were electing a President to announce that it was increasing the $2 million bounty for killing Salman Rushdie, the novelist. Typically, the Iranian Government had no comment; its "moderate" leaders will doubtless assure Westerners that the whole Rushdie affair is much ado about nothing.
This fresh appeal for the murder of an Indian-born British subject follows other inflammatory gestures by a clerical regime that has no answers to Iran's economic miseries. In the Sudan, Iranian "advisers" now help an Islamic dictator slaughter non-Islamic peoples in the south. Iranian forces recently seized two disputed islands in the Persian Gulf. And at home, ruling mullahs have intensified persecution of unveiled women and adherents of the Bahai faith. They calculate that none of this matters to Westerners eager to do business. 
 Britain's Foreign Office rightly condemns the new threat to Mr. Rushdie as a "monstrosity" and "gross infringement on human rights." Britain has not always roared so loudly since Ayatollah Khomeini first denounced Mr. Rushdie as a blasphemer in 1989 and called for his scalp. The new Foreign Office statement is a welcome sign of a tougher stance.
Washington, too, has wobbled. The State Department shunned a meeting with Mr. Rushdie this year, while the White House likened him to a publicity-seeking author on a book tour. One hopes Iran did not misread this as evidence of American indifference. Britain's protest calls for a strong second in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: SATANIC VERSES, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GULF STATES (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (69%); 

COMPANY: FOREIGN OFFICE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREIGN OFFICE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN; GREAT BRITAIN IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GULF STATES (79%); SUDAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (69%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; THREATS AND THREATENING MESSAGES; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISLAM RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LITERATURE (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); CELEBRITIES (70%); 

PERSON: RUSHDIE, SALMAN SALMAN AHMED RUSHDIE (94%); AYATOLLAH RUHOLLAH KHOMEINI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



165 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: A Monumental, Fragile Mandate

 BODY:
The American public thundered yesterday for, above all, change.
Yes, voters endorsed Bill Clinton both for his positive program and his dignity in facing down nasty negative attacks. Yes, the voters brought joy to Democrats long out of power and relief to millions worried that Republicans would pack the Supreme Court for years to come. But the public said more than that: 
 The vote was a relentless rejection of Mr. Bush's Presidency. A White House aide got it almost precisely right last week: "Basically, things are pretty steady. Sixty percent of the people didn't want to re-elect him nine months ago, and 60 percent don't want to re-elect him today."
 The surprising number of votes for Ross Perot demonstrated an eagerness for change that transcended Mr. Clinton's appeal. Nearly one voter in five chose the candidate ("I'm Ross and you're the boss") of no party at all.
 Polls showed that many voters were choosing the candidate least disliked. All three candidates, including Mr. Clinton, drew remarkably high unfavorable ratings.
 Finally, by their numbers, the voters sent a reverberating message. The tide that swept into all those church basements and school auditoriums embodied public impatience, even anger, over the course of the economy and Government.
What all that adds up to is an Electoral College victory of monumental but tenuous proportion. The test now will be how quickly President-elect Clinton can convert his mandate into momentum.
If he is to avoid the fate of Jimmy Carter, the last Democrat to follow a failed Republican Administration, he'll have to set out a short list of clear goals -- and work fast to meet them, before the political concrete dries.
Mr. Bush's rejection appeared, from exit polls, to be devastating. Women voted against him by twice the margin of men. Two of five 1988 Bush voters abandoned the President this year. For every first-time voter who voted for Mr. Bush, two voted for Mr. Clinton.
Just how far Mr. Clinton has come can be judged by recalling a graph on page 1 of USA Today on May 28. Who would win the Electoral College? A long red bar indicated "Bush 190." Another one said "Perot 128." A tiny red strip said "Clinton 6." "Ho, ho, ho," analysts hooted. "Bill Clinton's been marginalized."
Ho, ho, ho. A little-known underdog, splattered and battered by controversy in the campaign's earliest days, defended himself with dignity, offered a promising, even inspiring program -- and persevered.
The exit polls showed wide support for his domestic ideas. Among people concerned about health care, education and the environment, for instance, he won overwhelming majorities. Having won that support, can he make it last?
Armadas of special interests, armed with rich, sophisticated PAC's, lie in wait. And members of Congress who once could be rallied by legendary leaders like Sam Rayburn and Lyndon Johnson now heed no discipline but their own.
That means the President-elect needs a short list of immediate goals. The four most urgent, consistent with his long-term program, are: Jobs and infrastructure, especially for people in deteriorating cities . . . Immediate stimulus for the sluggish economy, perhaps through a one-year-only tax credit for investment in infrastructure . . . Reform of the health care system that now costs so much yet excludes so many . . . Flushing out the sewer of campaign finance.
Still and all, after 12 years in the wilderness, the Democrats are entitled to celebrate first. And there's good reason for bipartisan satisfaction as well. Through 13 arduous months, Bill Clinton has urged racial tolerance, social justice and national unity. Much as Americans thirst for steady economic management, those could be the most important goals of all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: USA TODAY (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION RESULTS; VOTER BEHAVIOR; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTION LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



166 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: In Britain, Ideology Wars Against Miners

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"In Village Under Ax, British Miners Feel Betrayed" (news article, Oct. 25), like earlier coverage of threatened pit closures in Britain, overlooks the ideological battle being played out. Prime Minister John Major, despite his differences over Europe with his predecessor, Margaret Thatcher, remains committed to the vast privatization program that she set in train. Electricity is the most recent of the public enterprises (including British Airways, British Gas, British Telecom) that have been "liberated" into the market economy. 
 Coal, on the other hand, remains the most stubbornly persistent productive enterprise in public ownership, its labor-management relations colored by the confrontational politics of the mineworkers' union leader, the indefatigable Arthur Scargill.
This most recent attempt to rid the country of coal has been justified by economic arguments that are hotly disputed. In substituting gas for coal to fire the newest generation of private power stations, Britain will be depending on an energy source whose reserves will become rapidly depleted and whose price (according to Ian Fells, an energy expert at Newcastle University), is likely to double over the next 10 years. The cost in income lost to miners, in mines lost to productivity, in communities destroyed and infrastructure abandoned are incalculable. Even the Government's natural supporters have rebelled.
As David McErlain, chairman of Coalite, one of British Coal's biggest customers put it: "As an arch-Tory, I have never thought I would agree with Arthur Scargill. But on this he is right. What the Government has done is industrial vandalism."
Government success in implementing its draconian proposals for coal will also grease the wheels for the next round of privatization. Coal currently accounts for 75 percent of freight carried by the still publicly held rail service. Once that disappears, it will be increasingly difficult to protect British Rail -- and its workers -- from the juggernaut of privatization.
 
ELLEN LEOPOLD
Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 29, 1992
The writer was an economist for the Greater London Council.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH GAS (84%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRIVATIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COAL; MINES AND MINING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MINE CLOSINGS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); MINE WORKERS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); COAL MINING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); UTILITY PRIVATIZATION (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); VANDALISM (73%); WRITERS (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); TRENDS (67%); 

PERSON: MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN); THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN); LEOPOLD, ELLEN MARGARET THATCHER (73%); ARTHUR SCARGILL (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



167 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Never Called

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "How to Keep Business in New York" (editorial, Oct. 21): Pity the struggling mom-and-pop stores of the city that together employ many more than the 4,100 employees of the Morgan Stanley Group. Because they do not go under a single name they will never get the same attention from the Mayor. Yet the mom-and-pops will pick up the tab for the preferential tax breaks (looks like a 3.9 percent tax reduction for Morgan). If the city benefits from these deals, why not offer them to all business? Perhaps it's time to improve this city in ways that make people and businesses want to stay, instead of offering bribes to those who wish to leave. I worked for a company with about 50 employees that moved to Jersey City. The Mayor never called to say goodbye.
 
 
WILLIAM H. WOODROFFE
Brooklyn, Oct. 21, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY & CO MORGAN STANLEY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STANLEY & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; SMALL BUSINESS; TAX CREDITS SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (87%); TAX LAW (86%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); RELOCATIONS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); WOODROFFE, WILLIAM H MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992



168 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2373 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: DISAPPOINTMENT -- ROAD TO DEFEAT
Sifting Strategies: What Went Wrong, and Right;
Bush: As the Loss Sinks In, Some Begin Pointing Fingers

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
It was beginning to sink in, very painfully, that he had been fired and now he was expected to go back to Washington and take all his stuff out of the Oval Office, the worn Yale baseball mitt, the drawers full of tennis balls, the family pictures, the black and white horseshoes, his black Swiss army knife with "President Bush" engraved in silver.
As George Bush got ready to leave Houston yesterday morning and fly back to the capital, he took a call from one of the few senior Administration officials who had remained loyal to the end. Could he have been better served by the people in charge of his campaign? the official asked, in an account of the conversation.
 
Frustration and Anger
 "Don't get me started on that," the President snapped, his voice raw with anger, frustration and blame. 
 On his flight back to Washington from Indianapolis, Vice President Dan Quayle was openly critical of the campaign management, telling reporters that their defeat was less a result of the depressed economy than of the failure of the campaign to articulate its own domestic agenda. They never had a message, he said scathingly, because "that takes a strategy."
A Republican electoral debacle is not a pretty thing. The finger-pointing and back-stabbing that had consumed the White House and the party for months got even worse yesterday, with everyone blaming everyone else for "the worst camapign ever seen," in the words of Ed Rollins, the Republican strategist who presided over Ronald Reagan's 1984 landslide, and defected this year to briefly help run Ross Perot's campaign.
 
End of Cold War
 Trapped in an atmosphere described by one White House official as "a little surreal," Republicans offered dozens of reasons for the humiliating rejection of the man who had been wildly popular only a year and a half ago, reasons stretching back to the beginning of the Bush Administration and going right up to the last weekend of the campaign.
"Look, we ran out of steam in the second half of the second Reagan Administration," said William J. Bennett, a former official of the Reagan and Bush Administrations. "We've been in office for 12 years. We got tired. We forgot why we came."
And in a poignant echo of the Democratic message that the 68-year-old President's time had passed, he added: "It's generational. George Bush genuinely believed that the major job he had was to win the peace and end the cold war."
While there were acres of criticism about the dispirited leadership of James A. Baker 3d, the maladroit management of Robert M. Teeter and Frederic V. Malek, the politically disastrous economic advice of Richard G. Darman and Nicholas F. Brady, there was also a sense that George Bush was responsible for his own failure in the end, because he was unable to read or give voice to the public's mood and imbue his Presidency with passion, poetry and a plan.
"It's him," Mr. Rollins said of Mr. Bush. "He's a guy who thought he was a great politician because he had been the national party chairman and because he knew the name of every national committeeman and state party chairman. But he never understood what was going on in the country. Ronald Reagan was never a state party chairman and he didn't know the names of any committeemen, but he always knew where the country was."
 
Alarms Sound But Go Unheeded
 Although his manner was modest, Mr. Bush is a politician, with a politician's ego, and he grew complacent, freezing out old friends and advisers who long ago tried to sound the alarm, and surrounding himself with politically tone-deaf economic advisers who were reviled by the conservatives who helped elect the President.
"As down home as he and Barbara were," an old friend of Mr. Bush said, "after a while they got used to the idea that they were in the White House and that's the way it ought to be."
It was a measure of Mr. Bush's alienation that as late as Saturday, Mr. Teeter was telling reporters on the President's final campaign train trip through Wisconsin that they were still working on consolidating the Republicans' base. And it was not until Saturday morning that Mr. Bush began to realize that he might have underestimated Bill Clinton, when the President saw that he had dropped 10 points after Thursday night's internal tracking polls showed the election in a dead-heat at 39-to-39, and many of the respondents on Friday night had mentioned the day's news reports suggesting there was more to his role in the Iran-contra scandal than he had admitted.
"Our numbers just went in the tank after that," said a senior campaign adviser, who believed the Iran-contra report was the most damaging thing that happened in the stretch, along with the bite that Ross Perot took out of Mr. Bush's support in Louisiana, Ohio, Michigan and New Jersey.
There were sharp paradoxes here. George Bush had made a point of distinguishing himself from the Reagan style as soon as he was elected, implying that his predecessor was too packaged, too handled and too out-of-touch.
"Wake me, shake me," Mr. Bush said at his first post-election news conference, responding to a question that recalled the time that Mr. Reagan was not awakened to deal with the Soviet Union's downing of a South Korean airliner.
 
Missing Ingredient: A Lee Atwater
 "The joke is he speaks of himself as a hands-on person when he's as hands-off as Reagan in his own way," said one Bush intimate outside the Administration, who could talk for an hour straight at the top of his lungs about the way Mr. Bush had surrounded himself with second-rate talent and clones. "He was only comfortable with a damn white-bread crowd, a bunch of white male Protestants numbers-crunchers and bean-counters. He lacked a Lee Atwater."
He also lacked any women in his governing inner circle, and today top campaign officials were mourning that lack of diversity in the mix of advice the President received. "The place where we really got killed was in the suburbs, where Republican women left us," said one Bush campaign official, who believes it was a mistake, given the party's unyielding anti-abortion stance, to veto the family leave bill.
There was a debate within the campaign in September about whether the President should reverse his position and sign the bill, which would have required employers to give leaves to workers for medical and family emergencies. Margaret Tutwiler, Mr. Baker's chief aide, argued in favor of a reversal and Mr. Darman, Boyden Gray and Mr. Quayleargued against the idea because it would give Mr. Bush an appearance of waffling. Mr. Baker was uncharacteristically undecided.
Everything about the Republican campaign seemed three beats behind, a strange phenomenon given the fact that Mr. Baker was considered "the gold standard for running Presidential campaigns in this era," as James Carville, the Clinton strategist said, yesterday.
Mr. Baker, who deeply resented the move and loathed the prospect of being a handler once more, waited until the last minute to move to the White House from the State Department. When many Republicans urged the President to fight back against the pounding he was getting from Democrats and Patrick J. Buchanan in the primaries, he insisted he would stick to his habit of starting the campaign as late as possible, after Labor Day.
Many of Baker's own aides agreed with Mr. Carville's assessment that the Republican convention was "idiotic," and many high-level Republicans privately pronounced themselves ashamed of the strident tone. Mary Matalin, the deputy campaign manager, went to the President to complain that the party was getting an image of being "intolerant" and "homophobic," but Mr. Bush seemed surprised that she could say that.
He had handed off responsibility for the tone of the convention to his former aide, Craig Fuller, who felt that a dramatic play was needed to consolidate the disenchanted conservative base. Mr. Baker refused to become engaged in the convention planning, only reviewing Mr. Bush's speech, because he took a brief vacation in Wyoming after his efforts in the Middle East.
After the convention, Mr. Baker was never able to focus Mr. Bush as tightly as he had in 1988. Even campaign officials who admired Mr. Baker said it was clear to everyone inside that "had lost his edge, and was much more indecisive and not sure of his own judgment."
Mr. Baker, who had spent much of the last four years out of the country, was ambivalent about the campaign and relying on old instincts that were now out of sync, his campaign staffers said, adding that he was slow to pick up on the Perot-inspired revolution in media. Mr. Bush "waited way too long to go the Larry King route," one senior campaign official said.
Mr. Baker decided to hide in the White House, avoid the press that he had once courted so brilliantly. "He wasn't sharp, he wasn't boning up every day by dealing with press questions," said one campaign official.
With Mr. Baker working hard but in a slump, fearing he would end up on the cover of a magazine with James Carville, as though he had never been a statesman, Mr. Bush was left more to his own devices.
The President did not keep pounding away on the economic message he had presented in a speech in Detroit at the beginning of the fall campaign and in the end, was reduced to an almost completely negative message bashing Clinton on trust and character.
"At the end of the day, Bush was always more comfortable attacking Clinton and tearing him down than he was articulating his own vision," said one campaign official. "He never convinced voters he was going to do something here at home. He never offered a compelling picture of what he would do or how he would do it."
A year ago, when the country was growing anxious about the economy and the conservatives were demanding that Mr. Bush adopt an aggressive economic agenda and a confrontational stance toward Congress, Mr. Bush decided to go by his own internal clock and the official Washington political calendar. At Mr. Darman's urging, he waited more than a month for the State of the Union address and repackaged his familiar, tepid agenda.
As long ago as September of 1991, when Mr. Bush's popularity was still topping 70 percent, Bill Kristol, Mr. Quayle's chief of staff, and others in the White House were alarmed at the polling numbers showing that more than 75 percent of the respondents thought the country was on "the wrong track."
 
Flurry of Motion But Lack of Agenda
 Mr. Bush did not care. From the beginning of his Administration, it was clear that he had no ideas or programs he wanted to enact, that his greatest pleasure came from simply being President. After his first hundred days in office, it was clear that he was practicing the politics of minimalism. Although Mr. Bush came to be a man in constant motion -- always on the road, especially as the threat from Mr. Clinton grew -- pundits were charging that the President had no agenda, no money, no strategy, no message, no ideology, no world view. They also accused him of having no explanation of his mysterious role in the Iran-contra scandal.
Unlike Mr. Reagan, Mr. Bush had no fixed principles to fall back on, because his ideology was friendship. So he was only as good or as bad as the advisers he relied on, and many of his advisers in the last four years were remarkably inept and unpopular.
His advisers' plan from the beginning was to maintain the status quo on domestic affairs and only to do enough to have something to run on in 1992. The plan for foreign affairs was not much more ambitious before war in the Persian Gulf intervened, and Mr. Bush's advisers dubbed his initial policy toward the Soviet Union "status quo plus."
In the fall of 1990, after Congress had passed the Americans with Disabilities Act and amendments to the Clean Air Act, John H. Sununu, Mr. Bush's abrasive chief of staff, said that as far as the Bush Administration was concerned, Congress could take the rest of the President's term off because "there's not a single piece of legislation that needs to be passed in the two years" remaining.
After the Los Angeles riots, when Mr. Bush did not seem to be able to react in any substantive way and had rejected White House officials' suggestions that he create a sort of civilian conservation corps that would help rebuild the inner cities, one Administration official sighed, "He can't even fake it."
As he has often done in his career, Mr. Bush thought he could throw red meat to the conservatives and reassure the moderates, without either group's catching on. Just so, he would sometimes wear a red AIDS ribbon that would appear on his lapel for the politically correct photograph opportunity and then disappear when he spoke to more conservative audience.
As he demonstrated again and again, with his tepid responses to the horror of the slaughters in Tiananmen Square and to the excitment of the historic moments when the Berlin Wall came down and Communism collapsed in the Soviet Union, Mr. Bush had no feel for capturing and projecting the fears, angers and delights of the American public.
Words meant little to him. The first act of his White House was to downgrade the speechwriters and take away their White House mess privileges. On the campaign, Mr. Baker no longer reviewed all of Mr. Bush's stump speeches and they were written by Steven Provost, a former public relations officer for Kentucky Fried Chicken who was reviled by Mr. Baker's aides as "the chicken salesman writing Bush's speeches."
When Mr. Bush broke the "Read My Lips" pledge about not raising taxes, and made the joke "Read My Hips," he truly believed that Americans did not expect politicians to keep such pledges.
"When he rescinded read my lips, he asked people to read his mind," said Peggy Noonan, who wrote the "Read My Lips" line into Mr. Bush's speech.
"He was a doomed President because he simply misunderstood, as a pol with an ego, what had happened to him in 1988," she said. "He thought that the American people elected him resoundingly in a landslide because of his own charming, gallant, ambivalent self. They elected him because of what he said he was, a continuance of Reaganism."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush braced against the cold in Houston yesterday as he approached Air Force One to return to Washington. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A1); Waving good-bye to President Bush yesterday, supporters watched Air Force One depart Ellington Field in Houston for Washington. (Associated Press); Back at the White House after Tuesday's defeat, Vice President Dan Quayle and his wife, Marilyn, and President Bush and his wife, Barbara, waved to a throng of supporters on the South Lawn. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (56%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (60%); WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (56%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COLD WAR (68%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (67%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); TEETER, ROBERT M; MALEK, FREDERICK V; DARMAN, RICHARD G (DIR); BRADY, NICHOLAS F (SEC) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



169 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: DISAPPOINTMENT -- NEWS ANALYSIS
An Eccentric but No Joke;
Perot's Strong Showing Raises Questions On What Might Have Been, and Might Be

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Ross Perot, a political neophyte who said and did enough bizarre things during the Presidential campaign to allow his critics to brand him as an eccentric or worse, scored a more impressive showing than any third-party candidate since Theodore Roosevelt ran on the Bull Moose ticket 80 years ago.
More than 19 million people voted for him Tuesday. And though he personally campaigned in only 16 states, Mr. Perot received more than 20 percent of the vote in 31. He actually finished second in Utah. He finished third in every other state, but in one, Maine, he pulled 30 percent of the vote. 
 A performance that strong tempts speculation about what might have been. What if Mr. Perot had stayed in the race through the summer and fall instead of dropping out for months? What if he had not appeared on "60 Minutes" the week before the election and made unsubstantiated accusations about the Republican Party and his daughter's wedding?
 
Money Was No Problem
 To be sure, some of Mr. Perot's strength must be laid to his own formidable resources. Third-party or independent candidates of the past could not buy half-hours on all three networks as if they were campaign buttons, and they generally could not afford to subsidize the effort to get themselves on the ballot in all 50 states. Mr. Perot could not have done what he did without his own tens of millions, as he would be the first to acknowledge.
Still, the public was under no obligation to respond to his appeal, and it does appear that Mr. Perot may have mobilized a brand new army, one that is primarily under 45 and one that considers itself neither Republican nor Democrat, but independent -- all the more fitting since Mr. Perot did not run on a party label.
The Perot army is overwhelmingly white. Mr. Perot did best in states where the black population is below the national average of 12 percent, receiving 22.7 percent of the vote in those states. In states where the black population is above average, Mr. Perot received 13.1 percent of the vote.
Thirty-four states have black populations below 12 percent. In 16 states and the District of Columbia, more than 12 percent of the population is black.
A deep distrust of politicians is another distinguishing mark of Mr. Perot's camp. In interviews with voters leaving the polls, conducted by Voter Research and Surveys, 57 percent of the Perot voters agreed that the Government would work better if the voters got rid of all elected officials and selected new ones this year. By comparison, 48 percent of all voters surveyed felt that way.
 
Can't Even Stop It
 What the Perot partisans will do, with or without him, is a question that is no doubt nagging leaders of both major parties. In a briefing today, Perot aides made clear they intend to try to turn United We Stand, America, the grass-roots organization Mr. Perot helped found and nurture, into a permanent group.
"Are we going to keep this thing going?" said Orson G. Swindle 3d, executive director of the organization and Mr. Perot's campaign manager. "In all candor, there's no way we can stop it. This is truly a phenomenon that is unparalleled in the history of our country, politically."
Mr. Swindle's prideful sentiments notwithstanding, the impact of Mr. Perot's supporters on the campaign's outcome appears to have been minimal. If Mr. Perot had not been on the ballot, 38 percent of his voters said, they would have voted for Gov. Bill Clinton, and 38 percent said they would have voted for President Bush. Of the 31 states where Mr. Perot garnered more than 20 percent, 17 were won by Mr. Clinton and 14 by Mr. Bush.
 
A Breeze, Not a Storm
 "Perot may have breathed some fresh air into the campaign, in terms of his personality, but the outcome doesn't appear to have been influenced by him at all," said David Bositis, senior research fellow at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies.
Whether United We Stand will continue to play a significant role is a question. The group languished between the time Mr. Perot quit the race in July and his re-entry last month. And on Tuesday and today, Ross Perot Jr. left little doubt his father would rather be on the sidelines.
But the large block of angry and energized Perot voters, having seen the strength of their numbers and having had their frustrations and their concern about the economy and the budget deficit articulated, will be a factor to be considered by Mr. Clinton as he waltzes gingerly between deficit reduction and fiscal stimulation. Interviews at Mr. Perot's rallies indicate that many of his followers are small-business owners, and Mr. Clinton may have to be careful if he tries to impose a raft of government mandates on them.
 
Guaranteed a Voice
 Charles Jones, a professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, took note of the Perot potential: "Any time he wants to serve as a kind of monitor of the new administration, he can do that by buying TV time. Or he could just go on Larry King or the rest of the talk shows."
If Bill Clinton must look over his shoulder, neither can the Republican Party, now picking its way through the wreckage of what used to be its winning coalition, take any joy in Mr. Perot's looming presence.
Certainly Mr. Perot espoused a kind of fiscal conservatism and toward the end of his campaign a strong law-and-order theme. But he also drew cheers when he staunchly defended a woman's right to choose an abortion and when he bashed the religious right. Indeed, in the voter survey, only 34 percent of Mr. Perot's voters said they attended religious services at least once a week, compared with 42 percent in the survey sample as a whole.
Mr. Perot's army seems to include a strong libertarian streak: people seeking a measure of freedom from what they perceive as the heavy hand of institutions, religious as well as governmental. If the fundamentalist right holds sway in the coming battle for the soul of the Republican Party, Perot followers could go elsewhere.
 
A Moderate, in Fact
 "What was different about Ross Perot is that he was a moderate," said Frank I. Luntz, who served as Mr. Perot's poll taker early in the campaign and predicted that the Texan would get 20 percent of the vote. "How often do we have a third-party candidate who is a moderate?"
Mr. Perot also demonstrated that voters yearned for information on candidates without having to sift it through the traditional filter of the news media. His use of talk shows and the consistently high ratings of his 30-minute and hourlong commercials indicated a voter preference for direct communication from the candidate, for substance over attacks or mawkish advertisements.
"We showed that you don't have to run 30-second or one-minute ads; 'Good Morning America,' or 'Morning in America' -- gauzy commercials that look like you're selling margarine," said Clayton Mulford, the campaign's general counsel and Mr. Perot's son-in-law.
Some experts say that it will be virtually impossible for a candidate to duplicate Mr. Perot's effort unless he has a personal fortune and finds the country once again in such a foul mood. But if the Republican and Democratic parties conclude that they can ignore the lessons of the Ross Perot phenomenon, they will do so at their peril.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "What Perot's Voters Said"
 
That if Ross perot had not been on the ballot today, they would have voted for?...
 
Clinton 38
Bush 38
Other 6
Would not have voted 14
 
That these issues mattered most in deciding how they voted?
 
Economy/jobs 53
Federal deficit 42
 
That they usually think of themselves as...?
 
Republican 31
Democrat 26
Independent 43
 
That the debates were very important in making their choice
 
57% Yes
43% No
 
That their perception of the candidate's ability to bring about needed change was one of the things that mattered most in deciding how to vote?
 
44% Yes
56% No
 
(Based on interviews by Voter Research & Surveys with 15,240 voters leaving polling places throughout the country on Tuesday.)
 
"The Odd Man In: Strongest Third-Party Finishes"
Minor party candidates and the percentage of the popular vote they received. Their major party competitors are in italic type. Elections are ordered by the size of the minor party vote: only candidates winning more than 1 percent ofthe vote ar shown
 
1912
 
Theodore Roosevelt (Progressive) - 27.39%
Eugene V. Debs (Socialist) - 5.99%
Eugene W. Chafin (Prohibition) - 1.38%
Woodrow Wilson (D) - 41.84%
William H. Taft (R) - 23.18%
 
1992
Ross Perot (Independent) - 18.78%
Bill Clinton (D) - 42.97%
George Bush (R) - 37.49%
 
1924
 
Robert M. LaFollette (Progressive) - 16.56%
Calvin Coolidge (R) - 54.06%
John W. Davis (D) - 28.84%
 
1968
 
George C. Wallace (American Independent) - 13.53%
Richard M. Nixon (R) - 43.42%
Hubert H. Humphrey (D) - 42.72%
 
1980
 
John B. Anderson (Independent) - 6.6%
Ronald Reagan (R) - 50.7%
Jimmy Carter (D) - 41.0%
 
1920
 
Eugene V. Debs (Socialist) - 3.42%
Warren G. Harding (R) - 60.30%
James M. Cox (D) - 34.17%
 
1980
 
Allan L. Benson (Socialist) - 3.18%
J. Frank Hanley (Prohibition) - 1.19%
Woodrow Wilson (D) - 49.24%
Charles E. Hughes (R) - 46.11%
 
1904
 
Eugene V. Debs (Socialist) - 2.98%
Silas C. Swallow (Prohibition) - 1.91%
Theodore Roosevelt (R) - 56.41%
Alton Parker (D) - 37.60%
 
1908
 
Eugene V. Debs (Socialist) - 2.82%
Eugene F. Chafin (Prohibition) - 1.70%
William H. Taft (R) - 51.58%
William J. Bryan (D) - 43.05%
 
1948
 
J. Strom Thurmond (States' Rights Democrat) - 2.40%
Henry A. Wallace (Progressive) - 2.38%
Harry S. Truman (D) - 49.51%
Thomas E. Dewey (R) - 45.12%
 
1932
 
Norman M. Thomas (Socialist) - 2.22%
Franklin D. Roosevelt (D) - 57.42%
Herbert C. Hoover (R) - 39.64%
 
1936
 
William Lemke (Union) - 1.96%
Franklin D. Roosevelt (D) - 60.79%
Alfred M. Landon (R) - 36.54%
 
1900
 
John G. Woolley (Prohibition) - 1.50%
William McKinley (R) - 51.67%
William J. Bryan (D) - 45.51%
 
1972
 
John G. Schmitz (American) - 1.40%
Richard M. Nixon (R) - 60.69%
George S. McGovern (D) - 37.53%
 
(Source: Congressional Quarterly, Guide to U.S. Elections.)
 
Map: "How the Nation Voted: Where Perot Ran Strongest" showa states where Ross Perot, the independent Presidential candidate, got 20 percent or more of the vote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); JIMMY CARTER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



170 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: PRESIDENT-ELECT -- THE OVERVIEW;
Clinton, Savoring Victory, Starts Sizing Up Job Ahead

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

 BODY:
After an election whose results rang with a cry for change but offered no specific mandate, President-elect Bill Clinton set to work shaping his new Administration yesterday, huddling with his transition team, issuing a scarcely veiled warning to Iraq and promising that over the next six months, he would "focus like a laser beam on this economy."
The 46-year-old Mr. Clinton committed his Administration not only to ending the lingering recession, but also to lifting the nation to a higher level of economic productivity for years to come. 
 "My immediate job is, yes, to get us us out of this recession, but to do it with a long-term strategy that will lead to real income growth, so that you won't have people in 10 years working longer work weeks for lower wages than they made 10 years ago," he said in an interview with ABC News.
Earlier in the day in Little Rock, Mr. Clinton briefly turned his attention to foreign policy. Amid word that supporters of President Saddam Hussein of Iraq were rejoicing over his victory, he told reporters: "The greatest gesture of good will any nation can make to me during this period is to continue full cooperation with our President, George Bush."
Aides said that Mr. Clinton had worried for some time that Mr. Hussein might be tempted into some new adventure by a changeover in Washington, and that today's declaration was a signal to the Iraqi leader and others not to try. [Page B10.]
Mr. Bush, only the fourth elected President in this century to seek a second term and lose, flew from his hometown, Houston, back to Washington to begin winding down a dozen years of Republican rule in the White House. He told a flag-waving crowd, "Let's finish this job with style."
With almost all the popular votes counted, the Arkansas Governor had 43 percent, the President had 38 percent and Ross Perot had 19 percent -- the best showing by an independent or third-party candidate since Theodore Roosevelt polled 27 percent on the Bull Moose ticket in 1912. It was a broad-based, decisive victory, if not a crushing one, for Mr. Clinton.
Sweeping the New England states, the three on the Pacific coast and the big industrial states in the Middle Atlantic region and the Middle West, Mr. Clinton also cut sharply into the Republican bastions of recent years in the South and the Rocky Mountains. That gave him 370 electoral votes to 168 for Mr. Bush, who took Texas and Florida by narrow margins, and none for Mr. Perot.
It was Mr. Perot's powerful run that confused the message of the election. A large majority rejected Mr. Bush and thus backed change, but it was divided on who was the better agent of change.Surveys of voters leaving the polls showed that many people had serious doubts about all three candidates, including the winner.
 
Third Party Considered
 Orson G. Swindle 3d, the head of the national Perot supporters' group, suggested that he and others might consider forming a third party to press their candidate's program, especially quick reduction of the deficit.
The big turnout on Tuesday, which was expected to reach about 55 percent of those eligible, reflected the widespread interest generated by a campaign that was waged on television talk shows and radio call-in programs as well as more conventional information media. In 1988, barely 50 percent voted.
Mr. Clinton made no appointments to his nascent Administration today, but aides said he would do so soon. He must also establish a sense of direction. Will he offer gestures to a variety of groups that supported him, as has been his past pattern, for example, or will he heed the famous maxim of the one-time French Prime Minister, Pierre Mendes-France, that "to govern is to choose"?
 
Economic Stimulus
 Among the items that he placed at the top of his agenda during the long campaign are an economic stimulus package, including large-scale public construction projects, a comprehensive health-care program, a family leave law, educational initiatives and campaign-finance reform.
It is far from clear, however, how Mr. Clinton will pay for all that while also beginning to reduce the mushrooming Federal deficit.
The President-elect's party will control both houses of the new Congress, though anti-incumbent sentiment proved less virulent than expected. Threatened Senators from John Glenn, an Ohio Democrat, to Bob Packwood, an Oregon Republican, managed somehow to survive. Roughly 93 percent of all the House incumbents who sought re-election achieved it.
The Democrats scored a net gain of one Senate seat, if Senator Wyche Fowler Jr., a Democrat, holds his seat in a runoff in Georgia on Nov. 24, and lost fewer than 10 in the House.
But there will still be significant change on Capitol Hill. The Congress that assembles next year will have 39 black members, compared with 25 now, and it will include Carol Moseley Braun of Illinois, the first black woman ever elected to the Senate. It will also include 17 Hispanic lawmakers, compared with 10, and the first American Indian elected to the Senate in more than 60 years, Ben Nighthorse Campbell, a Colorado Democrat.
Women did very well indeed in the Year of the Woman. There will be 47 female House members next year, compared with 28 at present, and six female Senators, by far the largest number in history.
Mr. Bush's plans for the 77 days left in his Presidency are not clear. Yesterday he vetoed a bill that would have given tax breaks to businesses willing to invest in poor neighborhoods, complaining about tax increases included in the same legislation. A vacation trip next week, to a destination not yet decided, was said to be a possibility, but a planned trip to Moscow has been scrubbed, White House officials said.
"I can think of nothing other to say then let's finish this job with style," the President told the loyalists who gathered on the White House lawn to welcome him and his wife, Barbara, back to Washington. "Let's get the job done, cooperate fully with the new Administration. The Government goes on, as well it should."
Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate minority leader, who was described by an aide yesterday as "the most powerful Republican in Washington now," served notice that there would be no rubber-stamping of Mr. Clinton's legislative proposals.
"He didn't get a majority," Mr. Dole said in an interview. "The country obviously didn't want Bush, but they weren't ready for Perot and they had plenty of doubts about Clinton. They want change. Well, we want to be responsible and deliver change, whatever that means, but we're skeptical, so we'll wait and see."
Mr. Clinton was in a reassuring mood when he and the Vice President-elect, Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, met with a small group of reporters. Mr. Clinton read a relatively brief prepared statement and answered no questions.
For the benefit of Mr. Hussein and anyone else who might need reminding, the Arkansas Democrat, whose lack of foreign-policy experience was a campaign issue, said that "the greatest mistake any adversary could make would be to doubt America's resolve in this period of transition."
 
Soothing Financial Markets
 For businessmen and the financial markets, Mr. Clinton said, "We understand the need to pursue stability even as we pursue growth," and added, "the changes I seek will strengthen America's market systems, not weaken them."
Mr. Clinton has about 8,500 Federal jobs to fill with political appointees, including 16 cabinet posts.
Mickey Kantor, a Los Angeles lawyer who served as campaign chairman and who has been mentioned as a possible White House chief of staff, said key Administration appointments would be announced later this week. But other aides emphasized Mr. Clinton's deliberate work habits, as exemplified in his choice of a running mate last summer.
Either Mr. Kantor or Eli Siegel, who also played a major part in the campaign, is expected to head be chosen as transition chief of staff.
 
Pausing to Look Back
 In addition to looking forward -- Mr. Bush said he planned to "get very active in the grandchild business" -- the Democrats and the Republicans also paused for a moment to look back.
James Carville, one of Mr. Clinton's principal strategists, said at a briefing for reporters that Mr. Bush's criticisms of the Democrat had hurt, but that toward the end, "his attacks didn't have the same pop." Like a boxer's, he said, the President's "hands got heavy."
On the Republican side, Vice President Dan Quayle, whose chances of winning his party's 1996 Presidential nomination were sharply curtailed by Tuesday's results, blamed the state of the economy and the quality of the Republican campaign for the loss.
"Bill Clinton ran a much better campaign and the economy wasn't good," the Vice President said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President-elect Bill Clinton with his mother, Virginia Kelley, at a friend's house in Little Rock. Partially obscured behind her was Hillary Clinton. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times) (pg. A1); President-elect Bill Clinton and Vice President-elect Al Gore arriving for a news conference in Little Rock. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. B2)
 
Table: "State By State: The Vote for President"
 
Electoral vote
 Clinton: 370
 Bush: 168
 
Popular vote
 Clinton: 43%
 Bush: 38%
 Perot: 19%

 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	States	% Rpt.	Clinton	%	Bush	%	Perot	%	Ala.	99	686,571	41	798,439	48	180,514	11	Alaska	99	63,498	32	81,875	41	55,085	27	Ariz.	99	525,031	37	548,148	39	341,148	24	Ark.	99	498,548	54	333,909	36	98,215	11	Calif.	100	4,815,039	47	3,341,726	32	2,147,409	21	Colo.	99	626,207	40	557,706	36	362,813	23	Conn.	100	680,276	42	575,778	36	347,638	22	Del.	100	125,997	44	102,436	36	59,061	21	D.C.	100	186,301	86	19,813	09	9,284	04	Fla.	100	2,051,845	39	2,137,752	41	1,041,607	20	Ga.	99	1,005,889	44	989,804	43	307,857	13	Hawaii	100	178,893	49	136,430	37	52,863	14	Idaho	99	136,249	29	201,787	43	129,897	28	Ill.	98	2,379,510	48	1,718,190	35	832,484	17	Ind.	99	829,176	37	970,457	43	448,431	20	Iowa	100	583,669	44	503,077	38	251,795	19	Kans.	100	386,832	34	444,599	39	310,458	27	Ky.	100	664,246	45	616,517	42	203,682	14	La.	100	815,305	46	729,880	42	210,604	12	Maine	100	261,859	39	207,122	31	205,076	30	Md.	100	941,979	50	671,609	36	271,198	14	Mass.	100	1,315,016	48	804,534	29	630,440	23	Mich.	99	1,858,275	44	1,587,105	37	820,855	19	Minn.	97	998,552	44	737,649	32	552,705	24	Miss.	99	392,929	41	481,583	50	84,496	09	Mo.	100	1,053,040	44	811,057	34	518,250	22	Mont.	100	153,899	38	143,702	36	106,869	26	Neb.	100	214,064	30	339,108	47	172,043	24	Nev.	99	185,401	38	171,378	35	129,532	26	N.H.	100	207,264	39	199,623	38	120,029	23	N.J.	99	1,366,609	43	1,309,724	41	505,698	16	N.M.	99	259,500	46	212,393	38	91,539	16	N.Y.	99	3,246,787	50	2,241,283	34	1,029,038	16	N.C.	99	1,103,716	43	1,122,608	44	353,845	14	N.D.	100	98,927	32	135,498	44	70,806	23	Ohio	100	1,965,204	40	1,876,445	39	1,024,598	21	Okla.	100	473,066	34	592,929	43	319,978	23	Ore.	98	525,123	43	394,356	32	307,860	25	Pa.	99	2,224,897	45	1,778,221	36	896,177	18	R.I.	99	198,924	48	121,916	29	94,757	23	S.C.	99	476,626	40	573,231	48	138,140	12	S.D.	100	124,861	37	136,671	41	73,297	22	Tenn.	100	933,620	47	840,899	43	199,787	10	Texas	99	2,279,269	37	2,460,334	40	1,349,947	22	Utah	100	182,850	26	320,559	45	202,605	29	Vt.	99	125,803	46	85,512	31	61,510	23	Va.	99	1,034,781	41	1,147,226	45	344,852	14	Wash.	99	855,710	44	609,912	32	470,239	24	W.Va.	100	326,936	49	239,103	36	106,367	16	Wis.	100	1,035,943	41	926,245	37	542,660	22	Wyo.	100	67,863	34	79,558	40	51,209	26	Totals	43,728,375	43	38,167,416	38	19,237,247	19	 	
(Source: Associated Press) (pg. B2)
 
Table: "Portrait of the Electorate"
 This portrait of Americans at the polls shows how different groups have voted in the last five presidential elections, measuring the ebbs and flows of political alliances that have elected, and defeated, Presidents. The vast size of each sample makes it possible to study the preferences of some groups, such as Jews, Asians, and Hispanic voters, whose small numbers make them almost invisible in typical national telephone polls.
 
Sex and Age
As they have ever since 1980, women gave the Democratic candidate more votes than the Republican. In particular, Clinton did best with black women, getting 86 percent of their votes. And while he did no better with women of a either political particular party than with men of that same party, he got more support from independent women than from independent men.
The Democratic candidate captured more young voters than either of his opponents, for the first time since 1976. Beginning with Ronald Reagan, Republicans had made inroads among younger voters that led them to hope that a political realignment was under way in the nation. Clinton also led among the oldest voters, which Democrats failed to do in 1976, 1980, 1984 or 1988.
 
Coalitions
 In many ways, the components of Clinton's plurality coalition resembled the old New Deal coalition. He did best among the poor, among Jews, blacks and Catholics, among union members and liberals. But Clinton also did well among independents, and moderates, and middle income groups that Democratic Presidential candidates have had difficulty attracting during the past 12 years. But since Democrats remain the biggest political grouping in the electorate, it may have been even more important that he commanded as much loyalty from Democrats as President Bush did from Republicans. Previous Democratic presidential candidates -- Jimmy Carter in 1976 or 1980, Walter Mondale in 1984 and Michael Dukakis in 1988 -- failed to do as well in their party as their Republican opponents did in theirs.
President Bush held the backing of conservatives, and was strong among the affluent, and among white Protestants, all traditional elements of the Republican coalition.
Ross Perot got about one fifth of the votes cast Tuesday, and was strongest among independents of both sexes, where he got almost as much support as Mr. Bush and did not lag far behind Mr. Clinton. Perot did well among young men and groups in the middle ranges of income and education. He got very little support from blacks.
 
The Pocketbook
 Presidential elections are often about the economy, and recessions are the most frequent cause of defeats for incumbents. In 1984, Ronald Reagan won as the economy boomed, getting the votes of 86 percent of people who thought their financial situation was improving. This time, Mr. Bush got the votes of 62 percent of such people, but they amounted to only a quarter of the electorate, a much smaller share than in 1984. Among the third of voters who said they were worse off in 1992, Mr. Clinton got 61 percent, and the two candidates split the votes of people who thought their situations had not changed.
 [NOTE: This table may be divided, and additional information on a particular entry may appear on more than one screen.]

 	 	 	 	 	 	 	% of	 	 	 	 	 	 	'92		1976	1980	total 		Carter	Ford	Reagan	Carter	Anderson	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Total vote	50	48	51	41	7	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	46 	Men	50	48	55	36	7	54 	Women	50	48	47	45	7	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	87 	Whites	47	52	56	36	7	8 	Blacks	83	16	11	85	3	3 	Hispanics	76	24	33	59	6	1 	Asians	--	--	--	--	--	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	65 	Married	--	--	--	--	--	35 	Unmarried	--	--	--	--	--	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	22 	18-29 years old	51	47	43	44	11	38 	30-44 years old	49	49	55	36	8	24 	45-59 years old	47	52	55	39	5	16 	60 and older	47	52	54	41	4	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	6 	Not a higher school graduate	--	--	46	51	2	25 	High school graduate	--	--	51	43	4	29 	Some college education	--	--	55	35	8	40 	College graduate or more	--	--	52	35	11	24 	College graduate	--	--	--	--	--	16 	Post graduate education	--	--	--	--	--	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	49 	White Protestant	41	58	63	31	6	27 	Catholic	54	44	50	42	7	4 	Jewish	64	34	39	45	15	17 	White born-again Christian	--	--	63	33	3	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	19 	Union household	59	39	44	49	6	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Family Income	 	 	 	 	 	14 	 under $15,000	58	40	42	51	6	24 	 $15,000-$29,000	55	43	44	47	7	30 	 $30,000-$49,000	48	50	53	39	7	20 	 $50,000-$74,999	36	63	59	32	8	13 	 $75,000 and over	--	--	63	26	10	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Family's financial	 	 	 	 	 	 	situation is	 	 	 	 	 	25 	Better today	30	70	37	55	7	41 	Same today	51	49	46	47	7	34 	Worse today	77	23	66	25	8	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	24 	From the East	51	47	47	42	9	27 	From the Midwest	48	50	51	41	7	30 	From the South	54	45	52	44	3	20 	From the West	46	51	53	34	10	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	35 	Republicans	9	90	86	9	4	27 	Independents	43	54	55	30	12	38 	Democrats	77	22	26	67	6	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	21 	Liberals	71	26	25	60	11	49 	Moderates	51	48	49	42	8	29 	Conservatives	29	70	73	23	4	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	68 	Employed	47	51	54	37	7	5 	Full-time student	--	--	--	--	--	6 	Unemployed	65	34	39	51	8	8 	Homemaker	--	--	--	--	--	13 	Retired	--	--	--	--	--	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	11 	First time voters	--	--	--	--	--	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Congressional Vote	 	 	 	 	 	54 	For the Democratic candidate	75	23	22	69	7	46 	For the Republican candidate	13	86	83	11	5	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	40 	White men	47	51	59	32	7	46 	White women	46	52	52	39	8	3 	Black men	80	19	14	82	3	5 	Black women	86	14	9	88	3	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10 	Men, 18-29 years old	50	47	47	39	11	12 	Women, 18-29 years old	51	47	39	49	10	17 	Men, 30-44 years old	49	49	59	31	8	21 	Women, 30-44 years old	49	49	50	41	8	11 	Men, 45-59 years old	48	51	60	34	5	13 	Women, 45-59 years old	46	53	50	44	5	7 	Men, 60 and older	44	55	56	40	3	8 	Women, 60 and older	49	50	52	43	4	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	18 	Whites, 18-29 years old	48	50	48	38	12	2 	Blacks, 18-29 years old	81	18	7	90	3	33 	Whites, 30-44 years old	45	53	59	31	8	3 	Blacks, 30-44 years old	87	12	12	84	3	21 	Whites, 45-59 years old	44	55	59	34	5	2 	Blacks, 45-59 years old	80	19	13	84	3	15 	Whites, 60 and older	45	54	56	39	4	1 	Blacks, 60 and older	71	29	20	77	3	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	30 	Married men	--	--	--	--	--	35 	Married women	--	--	--	--	--	15 	Unmarried men	--	--	--	--	--	19 	Unmarried women	--	--	--	--	--	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	17 	Republican men	9	90	87	8	4	18 	Republican women	10	90	85	10	5	14 	Independent men	44	53	60	27	10	14 	Independent women	42	55	50	34	13	16 	Democratic men	77	22	29	63	6	22 	Democratic women	78	22	23	71	5	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	30 	White Democrats	74	25	30	62	6	6 	Black Democrats	94	6	4	94	2	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	2 	Liberal Republicans	17	82	78	17	5	15 	Moderate Republicans	11	88	83	10	7	18 	Conservative Republicans	6	93	91	5	3	5 	Liberal independents	64	29	26	51	17	14 	Moderate Independents	45	53	53	30	14	7 	Conservative Independents	26	72	75	18	6	13 	Liberal Democrats	86	12	14	73	10	20 	Moderate Democrats	77	22	27	67	5	6 	Conservative Democrats	64	35	39	56	4	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	3 	Men without a high	--	--	51	47	2	 	 school diploma	 	 	 	 	 	3 	Women without a high	--	--	41	56	2	 	 school diploma	 	 	 	 	 	10 	Male high school graduates	--	--	53	42	3	14 	Female high school graduates	--	--	50	44	5	13 	Men with some college	--	--	59	31	8	 	 education	 	 	 	 	 	17 	Women with some college	--	--	52	39	8	 	 education	 	 	 	 	 	20 	Male college graduates	--	--	59	28	11	20 	Female college graduates	--	--	42	44	12	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	21 	Whites in the East	49	50	52	38	10	2 	Blacks in the East	82	17	12	85	3	25 	Whites in the Midwest	46	52	55	37	7	2 	Blacks in the Midwest	90	9	11	84	4	24 	Whites in the South	47	52	61	35	3	4 	Blacks in the South	81	18	9	89	2	16 	Whites in the West	44	54	55	32	10	1 	Blacks in the West	83	16	26	67	4	
 	 	 		-----------------------------	 	
 	 	 	 	 	 	% of	 	 	 	 	 	'92		1984	1988	total 		Reagan	Mondale	Bush	Dukakis	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Total vote	59	40	53	45	 	 	 	 	 	 	46 	Men	62	37	57	41	54 	Women	56	44	50	49	 	 	 	 	 	 	87 	Whites	64	35	59	40	8 	Blacks	9	90	12	86	3 	Hispanics	37	62	30	69	1 	Asians	--	--	--	--	 	 	 	 	 	 	65 	Married	62	38	57	42	35 	Unmarried	52	47	46	53	 	 	 	 	 	 	22 	18-29 years old	59	40	52	47	38 	30-44 years old	57	42	54	45	24 	45-59 years old	60	40	57	42	16 	60 and older	60	40	50	49	 	 	 	 	 	 	6 	Not a higher school graduate	50	50	43	56	25 	High school graduate	60	39	50	49	29 	Some college education	61	38	57	49	40 	College graduate or more	58	41	56	43	24 	College graduate	--	--	62	37	16 	Post graduate education	--	--	50	48	 	 	 	 	 	 	49 	White Protestant	72	27	66	33	27 	Catholic	54	45	52	47	4 	Jewish	31	67	35	64	17 	White born-again Christian	78	22	81	18	 	 	 	 	 	 	19 	Union household	46	53	42	57	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Family Income	 	 	 	 	14 	 under $15,000	45	55	37	62	24 	 $15,000-$29,000	57	42	49	50	30 	 $30,000-$49,000	59	40	56	44	20 	 $50,000-$74,999	66	33	56	42	13 	 $75,000 and over	69	30	62	37	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Family's financial	 	 	 	 	 	 situation is	 	 	 	 	25 	Better today	66	14	--	--	41 	Same today	50	50	--	--	34 	Worse today	15	85	--	--	 	 	 	 	 	 	24 	From the East	53	47	50	49	27 	From the Midwest	58	41	52	47	30 	From the South	64	36	58	41	20 	From the West	61	38	52	46	 	 	 	 	 	 	35 	Republicans	92	7	91	8	27 	Independents	63	36	55	43	38 	Democrats	25	74	17	82	 	 	 	 	 	 	21 	Liberals	28	70	18	81	49 	Moderates	53	47	49	50	29 	Conservatives	82	17	80	19	 	 	 	 	 	 	68 	Employed	60	39	56	43	5 	Full-time student	52	47	44	54	6 	Unemployed	32	67	37	62	8 	Homemaker	62	38	58	41	13 	Retired	60	40	50	49	 	 	 	 	 	 	11 	First time voters	61	38	51	47	 	 	 	 	 	 	Congressional Vote	 	 	 	 	54 	For the Democratic candidate	23	76	27	72	46 	For the Republican candidate	93	7	82	17	 	 	 	 	 	 	40 	White men	67	32	63	36	46 	White women	62	38	56	43	3 	Black men	12	85	15	81	5 	Black women	7	93	9	9	 	 	 	 	 	 	10 	Men, 18-29 years old	63	36	55	43	12 	Women, 18-29 years old	55	44	49	50	17 	Men, 30-44 years old	61	38	58	40	21 	Women, 30-44 years old	54	45	50	49	11 	Men, 45-59 years old	62	36	62	36	13 	Women, 45-59 years old	57	42	52	48	7 	Men, 60 and older	62	37	53	46	8 	Women, 60 and older	58	42	48	52	 	 	 	 	 	 	18 	Whites, 18-29 years old	68	36	60	39	2 	Blacks, 18-29 years old	6	94	12	86	33 	Whites, 30-44 years old	63	36	60	39	3 	Blacks, 30-44 years old	10	89	13	85	21 	Whites, 45-59 years old	65	34	63	36	2 	Blacks, 45-59 years old	10	87	10	86	15 	Whites, 60 and older	63	37	54	45	1 	Blacks, 60 and older	15	83	9	90	 	 	 	 	 	 	30 	Married men	65	35	60	39	35 	Married women	59	41	54	46	15 	Unmarried men	55	42	51	47	19 	Unmarried women	49	59	42	57	 	 	 	 	 	 	17 	Republican men	93	7	91	8	18 	Republican women	92	8	90	9	14 	Independent men	66	32	58	40	14 	Independent women	59	40	52	46	16 	Democratic men	28	71	18	80	22 	Democratic women	22	77	16	84	 	 	 	 	 	 	30 	White Democrats	30	69	21	79	6 	Black Democrats	3	96	4	95	 	 	 	 	 	 	2 	Liberal Republicans	88	11	73	27	15 	Moderate Republicans	93	7	87	12	18 	Conservative Republicans	95	4	95	4	5 	Liberal independents	40	58	26	71	14 	Moderate Independents	57	42	51	47	7 	Conservative Independents	85	13	77	20	13 	Liberal Democrats	11	88	6	93	20 	Moderate Democrats	22	78	18	81	6 	Conservative Democrats	46	54	34	65	 	 	 	 	 	 	3 	Men without a high	52	47	49	50	 	 school diploma	 	 	 	 	3 	Women without a high	46	52	38	62	 	 school diploma	 	 	 	 	10 	Male high school graduates	62	37	50	49	14 	Female high school graduates	58	41	50	50	13 	Men with some college	65	33	60	38	 	 education	 	 	 	 	17 	Women with some college	58	41	54	45	 	 education 	 	 	 	 	20 	Male college graduates	63	36	63	36	20 	Female college graduates	52	47	49	51	 	 	 	 	 	 	21 	Whites in the East	57	42	54	45	2 	Blacks in the East	7	92	12	85	25 	Whites in the Midwest	64	35	57	42	2 	Blacks in the Midwest	6	92	8	91	24 	Whites in the South	71	28	67	32	4 	Blacks in the South	10	89	12	86	16 	Whites in the West	66	33	58	41	1 	Blacks in the West	22	77	13	83	
 	 	 		-----------------------------	 	
 	 	 	 	 	% of	 	 	 	 	'92		1992	total 		Clinton	Bush	Perot	 	 	 	 	 	 	Total vote	43	38	19	 	 	 	 	 	46 	Men	41	38	21	54 	Women	46	37	17	 	 	 	 	 	87 	Whites	39	41	20	8 	Blacks	82	11	7	3 	Hispanics	62	25	14	1 	Asians	29	55	16	 	 	 	 	 	65 	Married	40	40	20	35 	Unmarried	49	33	18	 	 	 	 	 	22 	18-29 years old	44	34	22	38 	30-44 years old	42	38	20	24 	45-59 years old	41	40	19	16 	60 and older	50	38	12	 	 	 	 	 	6 	Not a higher school graduate	55	28	17	25 	High school graduate	43	36	20	29 	Some college education	42	37	21	40 	College graduate or more	44	39	18	24 	College graduate	40	41	19	16 	Post graduate education	49	36	15	 	 	 	 	 	49 	White Protestant	33	46	21	27 	Catholic	44	36	20	4 	Jewish	78	12	10	17 	White born-again Christian	23	61	15	 	 	 	 	 	19 	Union household	55	24	21	 	 	 	 	 	 	Family Income 	 	 	 	14 	 under $15,000	59	23	18	24 	 $15,000-$29,000	45	35	20	30 	 $30,000-$49,000	41	38	21	20 	 $50,000-$74,999	40	42	18	13 	 $75,000 and over	36	48	16	 	 	 	 	 	 	Family's financial 	 	 	 	 	 situation is 	 	 	 	25 	Better today	24	62	14	41 	Same today	41	41	18	34 	Worse today	61	14	25	 	 	 	 	 	24 	From the East	47	35	18	27 	From the Midwest	42	37	21	30 	From the South	42	43	16	20 	From the West	44	34	22	 	 	 	 	 	35 	Republicans	10	73	17	27 	Independents	38	32	30	38 	Democrats	77	10	13	 	 	 	 	 	21 	Liberals	68	14	18	49 	Moderates	48	31	21	29 	Conservatives	18	65	17	 	 	 	 	 	68 	Employed	42	38	20	5 	Full-time student	50	35	15	6 	Unemployed	56	24	20	8 	Homemaker	36	45	19	13 	Retired	51	36	13	 	 	 	 	 	11 	First time voters	48	30	22	 	 	 	 	 	Congressional Vote 	 	 	 	54 	For the Democratic candidate	74	11	15	46 	For the Republican candidate	10	71	18	 	 	 	 	 	40 	White men	37	41	22	46 	White women	41	41	22	3 	Black men	77	15	9	5 	Black women	86	9	5	 	 	 	 	 	10 	Men, 18-29 years old	38	36	26	12 	Women, 18-29 years old	48	33	19	17 	Men, 30-44 years old	39	38	22	21 	Women, 30-44 years old	44	38	18	11 	Men, 45-59 years old	40	40	20	13 	Women, 45-59 years old	43	40	17	7 	Men, 60 and older	49	37	14	8 	Women, 60 and older	51	39	10	 	 	 	 	 	18 	Whites, 18-29 years old	38	38	24	2 	Blacks, 18-29 years old	83	9	8	33 	Whites, 30-44 years old	37	41	22	3 	Blacks, 30-44 years old	81	11	8	21 	Whites, 45-59 years old	37	42	20	2 	Blacks, 45-59 years old	79	15	6	15 	Whites, 60 and older	47	40	13	1 	Blacks, 60 and older	89	7	4	 	 	 	 	 	30 	Married men	38	40	21	35 	Married women	42	39	19	15 	Unmarried men	45	32	22	19 	Unmarried women	51	34	15	 	 	 	 	 	17 	Republican men	10	71	19	18 	Republican women	10	74	16	14 	Independent men	36	33	32	14 	Independent women	41	32	27	16 	Democratic men	77	9	14	22 	Democratic women	78	10	12	 	 	 	 	 	30 	White Democrats	74	11	15	6 	Black Democrats	92	5	4	 	 	 	 	 	2 	Liberal Republicans	17	54	29	15 	Moderate Republicans	15	63	21	18 	Conservative Republicans	5	82	14	5 	Liberal independents	54	16	30	14 	Moderate Independents	42	28	30	7 	Conservative Independents	18	54	28	13 	Liberal Democrats	85	4	11	20 	Moderate Democrats	76	10	14	6 	Conservative Democrats	60	24	16	 	 	 	 	 	3 	Men without a high	49	30	21	 	 school diploma 	 	 	 	3 	Women without a high	58	27	15	 	 school diploma 	 	 	 	10 	Male high school graduates	43	34	23	14 	Female high school graduates	43	38	19	13 	Men with some college	39	37	24	 	 education 	 	 	 	17 	Women with some college	43	38	18	 	 education 	 	 	 	20 	Male college graduates	40	41	19	20 	Female college graduates	49	35	16	 	 	 	 	 	21 	Whites in the East	45	36	19	2 	Blacks in the East	79	14	8	25 	Whites in the Midwest	39	39	22	2 	Blacks in the Midwest	86	9	5	24 	Whites in the South	34	48	18	4 	Blacks in the South	82	12	6	16 	Whites in the West	39	37	24	1 	Blacks in the West	83	7	11	 1992 data were collected by Voter Research and Surveys based on questionnaires completed by 15,490 voters leaving 300 polling places around the nation on election day. 1976 data were based on a survey conducted by CBS News with questionnaires from 15,300 voters. Data for other years were based on surveys of voters conducted by The New York Times and CBS News: 15,201 in 1980; 9,174 in 1984; and 11,645 in 1988. Those who gave no answer are not shown. Dashes indicate that a question was not asked or a category was not provided in a particular year. Family income categories in 1976: Under $8,000, $8,000-$12,000, $12,001-$20,000, and over $20,000. In 1980: Under $10,000, $8,000-$14,999, $15,000-$24,999, $25,000-$50,000 and over $50,000. In 1984: Under $12,500, $12,500-$24,999, $25,000-$34,999, $35,000-$50,000, and over $50,000. In 1988: Under $12,500, $12,500-$24,999, $25,000-$34,999, $35,000-$49,999, $50,000 and over. "Born-again Christian" was labeled "born-again Christian/fundamentalist" in 1992 and "fundamentalist and evangelical Christian" in 1988. Male and female college graduates include those with post graduate education. In 1976 and 1980, "occupation" referred to the head of the household. Family financial situation is compared to one year ago in 1976 and 1980; four years ago in 1984 and 1992; 1976 and 1984 numbers from NBC News.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (51%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (69%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); MIDWEST USA (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (51%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEVISION ; RADIO CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); WORK WEEK (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); JIMMY CARTER (78%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



171 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: NEW YORK STATE -- U.S. SENATE RACE;
D'Amato: Combining Money, Attacks and Foe's Blunders

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato's campaign strategists describe their remarkable defeat of New York Attorney General Robert Abrams as a long, brilliantly plotted march to victory. But it might not have happened had it not been for a word.
At the time that Mr. Abrams called his opponent a "fascist" one cold late night in Binghamton, Mr. D'Amato's poll indicated he was stalled. His campaign, which after the Democratic primary had narrowed a 15-point gap with a fusillade of negative advertisements, had hit a plateau, persistently trailing Mr. Abrams by 4 to 5 percentage points. Bogged down by an accumulation of allegations of ethical misconduct and fighting an inevitable New York landside for Bill Clinton, his prospects seemed to be dimming. 
 The remark was picked up in only one newspaper, The Binghamton Press and Sun-Bulletin. The next day was Columbus Day, and the New York City parade provided Mr. D'Amato with an ethnically correct forum to denounce the slur in quivering tones of righteous indignation.
Soon after Mr. Abrams made the remark, new D'Amato ads, featuring scenes of Benito Mussolini and casting "fascist" as an insult to Italian-Americans, appeared on the air. The first tracking poll after the ads were broadcast showed that Mr. D'Amato had moved up 3 points.
By itself, the "fascist" remark did not cost Mr. Abrams the election, but it was a glaring gaffe, one that set off a stream of mistakes and missteps that eventually undermined his race. And while Mr. D'Amato was snatching up the moral high ground, publicly lamenting the insult, his aides were privately skipping with glee.
 
A Source of 'New Life'
 "It breathed new life into our campaign," Anthony W. Marsh, a media consultant whose firm, Russo & Marsh, produced Mr. D'Amato's ads. "We turned it into an anti-Italian attack and we kept it alive for a week and a half." Chuckling with professional pride, he added, "It was sheer gall."
Sheer gall, backed up by a $10 million war chest and an experienced, well-organized, professional staff helped Mr. D'Amato beat back a challenger who seemed to have all the advantages, from issues, like abortion and the economy, to reputation.
And it wasn't solely being outspent nearly 3 to 1 that drove Mr. Abrams to defy all odds and lose. His strategy of holding his fire until the final week of the campaign did not work. Instead, he seemed to show an absence of nerve at crucial moments, an inability to consistently convey his own message or expose the soft underbelly of his opponent. And he failed to impose order on his chaotic campaign staff. And when he tried to muddy his opponent, he was the one who got caught in the mire.
"The whole campaign was so troubled that about halfway through I really thought we would be lucky if we won," said an Abrams aide who spoke on condition of anonymity. "The voters really know what's going on, and they looked at this campaign and they just decided that it was not ready for prime time."
Time after time, in their often bloody, mostly nasty campaign, it came down to this: Mr. D'Amato was his own best friend, and Mr. Abrams proved to be his own worst enemy.
Mr. Abrams came limping out of a brutal primary having spent $4.2 million of the $8 million he eventually raised. And his attacks on the character of his main rival in the primary, former Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro, had made an enemy of a fellow Democrat whose help with women and Italians he badly needed.
The day after the primary, Mr. Abrams was met by a blistering pre-emptive strike in which Mr. D'Amato branded him "hopelessly liberal." It was an unmistakable signal that Mr. Abrams was about to drawn into a far rougher form of warfare than he had previously encountered.
But Mr. D'Amato had already conveyed that message privately, accosting the Attorney General at three events before the primary election, and warning him, in his customary blunt manner, not to attempt to raise the issue of ethics. Mr. Abrams, aides said, was taken aback by Mr. D'Amato's fury. (The Senator later boasted about the confrontation to friends, dismissing Mr. Abrams contemptuously as a "wimp.")
On primary victory night, Mr. Abrams called his Republican opponent "Senator Shakedown," and Mr. D'Amato said this was so insulting, he had no choice but to go negative.
In fact, the D'Amato campaign had long been ready to define whomever won the primary as "hopelessly liberal," preparing one set of ads on Ms. Ferraro's record, and another on Mr. Abrams's. Their research had long before dug up a state commission's report that found fault with the Attorney General's fund-raising practices.
Ever since Mr. Abrams had flaunted his support for a more radical bill against Ms. Ferraro's health insurance proposals in their last debate, the campaign had locked into that bill's call for higher taxes and had pasted Mr. Abrams with it.
At the same time, trying to neutralize the Senator's own vulnerability on the ethics issue, the D'Amato campaign broadcast ads attacking Mr. Abram's ethics. "We raised questions about Abrams that nobody had heard before," said Gary Maloney, a research consultant to Mr. D'Amato. "Ferraro had never attacked Abrams. She just dissed him a little."
For its part, the Abrams campaign had planned to keep a low profile at the outset and fill the coffers with as much money as possible for a grand push at the end. To do that, the campaign team virtually closeted the candidate with fund-raisers, sending him out only once a day, usually, to do a standup before reporters in which he essentially retraced old ground. In his efforts to be creative, he was particularly proud of a photo session of himself playing basketball with Senator Bill Bradley, but to some it only emphasized the fact that he was short, balding and no athlete.
He clung to Mr. Clinton's coattails, emulating his message on health care and abortion rights. But curiously Mr. Abrams failed to absorb the lesson the Arkansas Governor learned from the 1988 Presidential election: when the enemy goes negative, retaliate.
Many on the Abrams staff seemed so convinced that Senator D'Amato was an unbearable figure that they behaved as though they would win the election primarily by dint of Mr. Abrams's right-mindedness -- and the Clinton coattails.
But after a week of negative ads accusing Mr. Abrams of wanting to raise taxes and questioning the Attorney General's fund-raising practices, their own house polls suggested that Mr. D'Amato was gaining.
On Sept. 22, Mr. Abrams held a key strategy meeting with his top 10 aides to plot a response.
Their in-house polls showed voters were already aware of the allegations surrounding Mr. D'Amato, and the campaign's research staff had not turned up new ammunition.
According to one aide who was present, Mr. D'Amato's media consultants, Douglas Schoen and Glenn Totten, who had already drawn up a plan to attack Mr. D'Amato on ethics issues, pressed Mr. Abrams to go negative. Others disagreed, the aide said, including the Attorney General.
 
Pleased With Focus
 D'Amato advisers say they were secretly pleased with Mr. Abrams's focus on their candidate's ethical problems. "It was stupid: they hammered and hammered on something people already knew," Mr. Marsh said. "I bless every day he did it."
That confidence built slowly. The Senator's campaign manager, Kieran Mahoney, was at home, when the campaign's first tracking poll after the primary election arrived by messenger at 1 A.M. It was worse than most public polls that showed Mr. Abrams trailing by between 10 and 15 points. The sampling, by Arthur Finkelstein, the D'Amato campaign strategist, showed the Senator more than 20 points behind the Democrat. Mr. Mahoney and Mr. Finkelstein decided not to show Mr. D'Amato those numbers for two weeks.
"Once we successfully defined the race," he said. "We obliterated that lead within 14 days." Public polls, including those conducted by the Marist Institute in Poughkeepsie, showed Mr. Abrams with a comfortable 4 to 5-point lead throughout most of the campaign. Mr. Finklestein's polling instead showed Mr. D'Amato to be only one or two points behind, and at times, even.
Timothy Gilles, Mr. Abrams's press secretary, said yesterday that the campaign's biggest problem was "the cumulative impact of week after week of D'Amato's advertising campaign." Actually, Mr. D'Amato held back. His media advisers produced more than 50 different television ads, and only used 16. Some positive ads, such as a gauzy endorsement from his daughter, were produced, aired, then discarded as unhelpful. "Once the public has an unfavorable view, it's hard to turn them around and convince them he's an O.K. guy," is how Mr. Marsh explained the campaign's reluctance to waste a lot of money on positive ads.
And one of the most negative ads, entitled "Check Please," which brutally slammed Mr. Abrams for his fund-raising practices, was never released. Mr. D'Amato was not squeamish: he and his advisers determined that the ethics issue had played itself out.
Mr. D'Amato outspent Mr. Abrams on television advertising, but he also had a shrewder knack for getting free television coverage, plastering Long Island subway stations with a poster citing an old newspaper article his staff dug up in which Mr. Abrams declined to spend money on suburban mass transportation while he was Bronx Borough President. (The D'Amato campaign left out the date: 1978.)
And while Mr. D'Amato was gathering 100 rabbis for their endorsement, for example, Mr. Abrams appeared at the dedication of a small Hebrew school in Westchester County, a heartwarming event but one that was never in any danger of leading the nightly news.
Mr. D'Amato's strong support in the Orthodox Jewish community, won after years of support of Israel and the Hasidim in Crown Heights, paid off. He sought his Jewish supporters' help relentlessly throughout the campaign -- both to raise money and turn out the vote. He not only received nearly 40 percent of the Jewish vote, but his loyalists in the Jewish community also helped him win historically high margins for a Republican in Brooklyn and Queens.
Not until the penultimate weekend of the campaign did his aides get Mr. Abrams in front of larger crowds, appearing once at a union meeting with about 1,000 Jewish electrical workers and later at a Baptist church in Crown Heights, again with an audience of about 1,000. In each appearance, Mr. Abrams came alive.
By then, Mr. D'Amato had seen newspaper reports that the Attorney General had overestimated a home-office deduction on his Fifth Avenue condominium and also that he paid property taxes on his country home late 8 out of 10 times. Once again, within 24 hours, Mr. D'Amato flooded the airwaves with ads denouncing the Attorney General as someone "who wants to raise your taxes, but has trouble paying his own."
And that was Mr. D'Amato's closing message. It allowed him to reclaim his old mantle of class resentment, pitting himself as the working guy's hero fighting a "millionaire" who drove "limousines" and hired "fancy lawyers" to avoid paying his fair share of taxes.
"We could have survived the fascist remark," one Abrams aide said. "We could have survived the taxes. We could have survived the co-op. But I thought D'Amato was fantastic, and we could not, finally, survive it all simultaneously."
Mr. Mahoney, understandably, did not agree. "He had every break in the game," he said, "and we still beat him."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Early yesterday morning, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato found himself a victor, but not a weightlifter. In the jubilation, he tried to lift his son, Daniel, and strained his knee. Later, with his son still at his side and a cane in hand, he spoke with reporters about the effort he did achieve. (Associated Press) (pg. B14)
 
Chart: "New York, County by County: The Race for the Presidency and Senate"

	% Rptg.	Clinton	Bush	Perot	Abrams	DAmato	Albany	83	66,898	43,102	18,991	63,409	54,364	Allegany	100	4,507	8,392	4,486	5,619	9,541	Bronx	100	218,218	62,156	14,535	178,305	83,602	Brooklyn	100	393,152	131,620	33,889	301,443	204,952	Broome	100	40,370	32,275	19,491	36,176	47,436	Cattaraugus	100	9,489	13,148	10,156	11,885	15,767	Cayuga	100	12,136	11,292	9,808	9,688	14,556	Chautauqua	100	21,534	19,873	17,400	23,906	26,603	Chemung	100	14,930	15,966	7,210	11,920	23,027	Chenango	100	7,439	7,339	5,043	6,805	10,580	Clinton	100	12,628	13,349	5,135	11,578	16,209	Columbia	100	10,958	11,265	5,695	10,552	14,349	Cortland	100	7,324	7,212	4,717	6,624	10,226	Delaware	100	6,951	8,555	4,200	7,361	10,303	Dutchess	100	40,413	45,877	25,258	42,075	60,327	Erie	96	187,067	123,746	116,136	190,124	177,749	Essex	100	6,599	8,311	3,760	6,688	9,049	Franklin	100	7,018	6,254	3,668	6,743	8,217	Fulton	100	7,892	8,635	4,894	7,606	11,733	Genesee	100	7,703	11,342	5,982	8,570	13,372	Greene	100	6,851	9,337	4,278	6,265	12,114	Hamilton	100	945	2,021	777	1,152	2,232	Herkimer	100	10,081	11,202	6,572	9,212	14,816	Jefferson	100	12,449	13,453	8,708	11,183	18,705	Lewis	100	3,421	3,787	3,211	3,133	5,292	Livingston	100	8,503	12,152	5,713	8,945	14,052	Madison	100	10,168	11,034	7,293	9,724	14,358	Manhattan	100	387,537	80,889	25,816	355,921	103,302	Monroe	100	133,261	127,919	60,169	130,346	151,400	Montgomery	100	9,274	8,686	4,953	9,191	11,568	Nassau	95	258,505	232,206	70,676	217,821	315,648	Niagara	100	35,195	29,919	29,060	39,844	41,531	Oneida	95	35,783	38,123	19,670	32,776	50,576	Onondaga	100	88,887	76,700	44,058	78,418	105,281	Ontario	100	14,983	17,892	9,147	15,138	21,571	Orange	99	42,671	49,534	20,676	39,022	63,285	Orleans	100	5,089	7,437	4,137	5,255	8,657	Oswego	100	16,476	17,989	14,539	15,716	25,220	Otsego	100	10,737	9,571	5,566	9,988	11,769	Putnam	100	8,676	14,516	5,976	9,101	17,984	Queens	100	330,817	150,134	43,589	260,032	229,227	Rensselaer	100	29,209	28,658	15,629	29,537	36,819	Rockland	100	52,658	47,174	14,180	43,099	64,787	St.Lawrence	100	17,931	13,510	9,519	16,232	18,490	Saratoga	99	32,634	36,791	18,409	33,372	44,932	Schenectady	100	31,611	25,964	14,453	31,452	34,622	Schoharie	100	4,678	5,325	3,131	4,897	7,150	Schuyler	100	2,721	3,199	2,030	2,557	4,382	Seneca	100	5,375	4,983	3,484	4,380	7,501	StatenIsland	100	54,353	67,615	18,711	41,480	90,527	Steuben	100	11,949	19,521	9,164	11,365	24,255	Suffolk	98	215,058	256,501	103,729	202,485	299,580	Sullivan	100	13,393	11,171	6,214	12,617	15,476	Tioga	100	7,722	9,192	5,794	7,720	12,370	Tompkins	100	21,609	10,991	6,351	20,560	13,693	Ulster	99	31,759	28,489	17,297	30,768	38,848	Warren	100	8,721	11,061	6,334	9,513	12,969	Washington	100	7,795	9,389	5,792	8,136	12,103	Wayne	100	11,495	17,803	8,969	11,983	20,695	Westchester	96	160,047	135,491	34,398	145,364	165,410	Wyoming	100	4,792	7,362	5,544	4,929	8,808	Yates	100	3,338	4,329	2,240	3,250	5,189	Totals	99	3,242,383	2,268,729	1,026,410	2,890,956	2,999,156	(pg. B14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); ONTARIO, CANADA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) PRESS & SUN-BULLETIN (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); ONTARIO, CANADA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (73%); MISCONDUCT (70%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



172 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Iran Announces Arrest of American Businessman

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran, Nov. 4

 BODY:
A day after the American elections, Iran took a hard line against the United States today by announcing the arrest of an American executive on charges of corruption and "links with agents serving foreign intelligence services."
Iranian radio said the American, Milton Meier, 58 years old, who ran a well-known travel agency here, had "confessed to all the mentioned charges," including links with the Shah's secret police, Savak, and "receiving hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes from foreign companies." 
 Although the announcement was made today, it was not known how long Mr. Meier had been detained. [State Department officials in Washington said they were informed about a week ago through the Swiss, who represent American interests in Iran.]
 
Warning From Ayatollah
 The announcement of the arrest was made on the 13th anniversary of the takeover of the American Embassy in Teheran, as thousands of civil servants and families of the Iran-Iraq war dead marched in front of the former embassy chanting, "Death to America!" In a speech commemorating the takeover, the supreme religious leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, accused the United States of fabricating charges of human rights violations against Iran.
"But which country is the real violator of human rights?" Mr. Khamenei asked a group of students. "Who is still supporting Israel? That is why nations must fight back. The issue of human rights or terrorism is an accusation against us that they use like a tool."
Mr. Khamenei further warned President-elect Bill Clinton against repeating "the scandalous slogan about violations of human rights" in other countries, adding, "Iran is standing united in confrontation with that policy."
 
Execution of Head of Savak
 Mr. Meier, who is from Texas and is married to an Iranian, has lived in Iran for 17 years. The state-run news agency said Mr. Meier's wife is the sister of Gen. Nematollah Nassiri, head of the Shah's secret police, who was executed after a trial in February 1979, shortly after the Iranian revolution.
Mr. Meier's friends and acquaintances described him as an affable man who did not join the evacuation of Americans in 1979, citing his love of Iran and his wife. He was also characterized as apolitical whenever questioned about the revolution.
During the embassy takeover, in which 52 Americans were held for 444 days, Mr. Meier stayed in Iran.
The charges against him, the official Iranian news agency said today, include "illegal establishments of several trade firms, collecting important economic information, identifying leading elements of commercial institutions and receiving hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes from foreign companies for providing them with information."
 
'Pretext' of Iranian Wife
 A press release from the information ministry added that Mr. Meier was "accused of having links with agents serving foreign intelligence services."
"Meier," Iranian radio said, "has confessed to all the mentioned charges. He is brother-in-law of the head of the former regime's secret police. Meier, who enjoyed Nassiri's backing before the revolution, continued to stay in the country after the revolution on the pretext of having an Iranian wife."
Though reports did not indicate when Mr. Meier was arrested or where he was detained, the announcement was made as a new anti-Western mood has raised questions about Iran's future politics. Last week Iran reaffirmed Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's death sentence against Salman Rushdie, the British writer, and raised the reward for his killing to more than $2 million.
Politicians say that in the last three months President Hashemi Rafsanjani's authority has been limited to setting economic policy, and Ayatollah Khamenei has become increasingly involved in foreign policy, internal security and cultural affairs.
Other Iranian officials have expressed concern over the stress by the incoming Democratic Administration in Washington on the observance of human rights. 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
U.S. Knew of Case a Week Ago
 WASHINGTON, Nov. 4 (Special to The New York Times) -- State Department officials said today that they were informed of the arrest about a week ago through the Swiss, who represent American interests in Teheran, and kept the case secret. The officials said they hoped that Mr. Meier could be quietly released through diplomatic channels.
Mr. Meier has not been given access to consular officials.
Mr. Meier, a Texan who speaks in a marked Southern drawl, was familiar to many foreigners who visited his travel agency, Mandy, named after his daughter.
The State Department has tried to play down the political significance of Mr. Meier's arrest. "We've seen the reports that a U.S. citizen has been arrested in Iran," a spokeswoman, Sondra McCarty, said. "We have asked the Swiss Embassy in Teheran, which handles American interests, to investigate the reports. Without a Privacy Act waiver from the individual reportedly involved, we are unable to release further information."
Another State Department official added: "At this point it is strictly a consular issue and does not have any political dimension. We don't take it as as a charge that was trumped up to get at the United States."
But the timing of the arrest suggests that it was orchestrated to send signals to the Rafsanjani Government and Mr. Clinton's transition team that they should not expect an improvement in relations with the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of civil servants and families of the Iran-Iraq war dead marched yesterday in front of the former American Embassy in Teheran to celebrate the 13th anniversary of the taking of hostages at the embassy. A demonstrator waved a poster of one of the hostages from the takeover. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN (88%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN (88%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

SUBJECT: AMERICANS ABROAD; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; HOSTAGES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); BRIBERY (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); SCANDALS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RIOTS (71%); TERRORISM (64%); HOSTAGE TAKING (64%); TRAVEL AGENTS (57%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: MEIER, MILTON BILL CLINTON (79%); ALI KHAMENEI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



173 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Major Barely Wins Test Vote on European Union

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Prime Minister John Major narrowly beat back an alliance of Conservative Party rebels and rival Labor Party politicians who came within three votes tonight of dealing the Government's political authority a crippling setback.
In a highly charged showdown in the House of Commons, Mr. Major and his aides managed to cobble together a coalition of some 300 Conservative loyalists and members of the small, pro-European Liberal Democratic Party to pass, 319 to 316, a symbolic motion that pledged his Government "to play a leading role in the development of the European Community." 
 In doing so, Mr. Major managed to pry away just enough waverers from a quarrelsome core of 35 Tory rebels bitterly opposed to Mr. Major's support for the treaty on European union. They had been joined by nearly all 270 members of the opposition Labor Party, whose pro-European leadership had seized on the issue hoping to deal Mr. Major a lethal blow.
The Prime Minister, whose Government has been forced into several embarrassing reversals on economic and monetary policy in recent weeks, had staked his personal and political prestige on winning the motion.
Mr. Major's victory came after hours of intense lobbying among wavering Tory backbenchers, at least one of whom was reduced to tears tonight after a session with party whips.
While Mr. Major narrowly reasserted his authority tonight, the matter of the treaty is not resolved. The House of Commons will now begin to debate it in full, leading toward a final ratification vote, likely early next year.
The ongoing rebellion among Tory backbenchers insures the the 651-seat House of Commons will be the scene of considerable political drama through the winter, since Mr. Major and his Government hold only a 21-seat majority, as a result of their victory in national elections last spring.
Warning that Britain could be left without influence on the fringe of Europe, should it turn its back on European union, Mr. Major declared in an impassioned, 50-minute speech that Britain's "national self-interest" was at stake in the vote.
On the surface, the vote had little procedural impact, merely setting out when the House of Commons was to resume debate on ratification of the treaty, agreed to by Mr. Major and other European leaders last year in the Dutch city of Maastricht.
But the Prime Minister said he wanted the backing of the Commons to strengthen his hand when he gathers with other European leaders at a summit meeting next month in Edinburgh to discuss differences over the future of European political and monetary union, including ways to limit the power of bureaucrats in Brussels.
As European leaders prepared for next month's summit, there are continuing strains within the community over the treaty, which must be ratified by all 12 members state to take effect.
In addition to British wavering, the Danes, who already rejected the agreement once in a nationwide referendum, say they would be willing to put the treaty up for a second vote only if the community agrees to legally binding exemptions from the treaty.
The Danes want to be exempted from joining a single currency, adopting a common defense policy or surrendering sovereignty over judicial and police matters, but some European officials feel the Danish demands go too far, because they might require changes in the text of the treaty.
Before passing its own motion, the British Government's supporters also defeated a Labor amendment to delay debate on the treaty, 319 to 313.
The votes followed seven hours of noisy debate in Commons. Labor backbenchers taunted the Prime Minister with calls of "Goodbye John."
Both sides accused their opponents of political opportunism. During the debate, John Smith, the Labor leader, sharply criticized the Government for turning what was ostensibly a motion on the European treaty into a vote of confidence.
The Conservatives, in turn, attacked Mr. Smith and Labor for betraying their own pro-European agenda, by seeking to delay progress toward ratification of the treaty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (57%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (79%); DENMARK (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (57%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (75%); EURO (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); MONETARY POLICY (52%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E; MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



174 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: THE WORLD -- NEWS ANALYSIS;
At Dawn of New Politics, Challenges for Both Parties

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
The Democrats came out of the political wilderness on Tuesday. The Republicans entered it.
The Democrats set aside all the self-doubts, the years of feeling on the wrong side of history, the election nights when the proud party of Roosevelt, Truman and Kennedy seemed consigned to a painful irrelevance. 
 Ahead is the challenge of governing, and the clear accountability that comes with controlling both Congress and the White House. No more political cover for the Democrats, no more room for fingerpointing between Capitol Hill and the White House, no more excuses.
But the Republicans face the hard, brutal struggle of deciding who they are, resolving the tensions between moderates, conservatives, evangelical Christians, country-clubbers, supply-siders, suburbanites -- all the disparate elements held together by Ronald Reagan that collapsed under President Bush.
 
Perot Over the Shoulder
 The task of both parties will be complicated by Ross Perot, who served notice this week that he has no intention of fading away.
He certainly didn't fade in the voting on Tuesday. While he did not win a state, as George Wallace did when he captured five in 1968, Mr. Perot polled 19 percent of the popular vote nationwide, compared with Mr. Wallace's 13.5 percent. And while that showing was certainly stoked with Mr. Perot's money, people in both parties worried that it was also fueled by a disaffection with the parties themselves.
But Democrats were not much given to worries this week. It would be hard to exaggerate their euphoria, especially the generation in its 30's and 40's that spent its adulthood out of power, told again and again that it was "out of the mainstream."
"It was like having been a member of a religious minority in a country with a state religion," said David Dreyer, communications director for Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader.
 
Rethinking a 'Lock'
 Ronald H. Brown, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, gleefully announced that the Republican "electoral lock" on the White House was "broken forever." Allowing for overstatement, the Republicans' aura of invinicibility -- which was very real in the 1980's -- was certainly gone.
Mr. Clinton carried the popular vote in the East, the Midwest and the West, and fought Mr. Bush to a standstill in the popular vote in the South, the region that was the basis of the Republican "electoral lock." He held the party's base, bought home many of the Reagan Democrats and struck deep into the suburbs and the ranks of independents and moderates.
Centrist Democrats viewed the Clinton candidacy as a vindication of their long struggle to push the party to the center, to broaden its base and reconnect with the middle class, to shatter the view that the party was a mere collection of liberal constituent groups. But the Rev. Jesse Jackson, a principal spokesman for the party's left, asserted yesterday that Mr. Clinton's victory was largely a result of broader forces: a bad economy, the votes of blacks energized by black candidacies this year and the mobilization of women by what he calls "the Anita Hill factor."
 
Understanding the Stakes
 Those tensions will remain in the party, and will become more than debating points when Mr. Clinton takes office and begins to make policy on trade, welfare, education, jobs and taxes. Some Republicans took a little quiet pleasure yesterday in predicting the ideological tugs and pulls of a Clinton Presidency, particularly as they will play out in the Administration's relations with Congress.
But Stan Greenberg, Mr. Clinton's poll taker and a principal strategist for his campaign, said both Congressional Democrats and Mr. Clinton understood the stakes and the responsibilities of one-party government.
"Congressional Democrats understand they're on the line, and the Clinton Administration will understand it. There has to be movement," Mr. Greenberg said.
Hanging over both is the memory of the last Democratic Administration, when relations between President Jimmy Carter and the Democratic-controlled Congress were hardly a model of partisan cooperation, for which both paid a price.
 
Clouds Over Republicans
 Republicans, for their part, face a much more fundamental task, as any Democrat who tried to pick up the pieces after 1980, 1984 and 1988 will attest. Their long hegemony in Presidential politics is over, and it did not leave the lasting gains in Congress or below that many Republicans had hoped for. Their political professionals seem sapped by the long, enervating campaign of Mr. Bush, and the exit polls carried chilling news, notably the strength of Mr. Clinton among the young.
The faultlines in the party are clear, beginning with the social agenda of the religious right, including abortion. And ahead lies the challenge of finding a new governing conservatism that can regain the loyalties of voters who seem to demand a new domestic agenda and who simply seemed to lose faith with the Republicans on the economy, as they lost faith with the Democrats 12 years ago. All of this will play out in the early jockeying for 1996.
 
Appeal to Perot
 Many Republicans are expecting a fight as the party enters its wilderness sojourn. "The first verbal assault will come from the right, which will argue that if the Republicans were just purer, they'd be in no trouble," said Representative Jim Leach, a moderate Iowa Republican. "The second assessment, from the more mainstream and the public at large, will be that the party has become too co-opted by narrow groups."
Mr. Leach added, "I personally think a great challenge for the party will be to establish a sense of tolerance."
The battle for control of the party could begin this winter, around the chairmanship of the Republican National Committee.
In the midst of all this is the Perot factor.
If the exit polls showed anything on Tuesday, they showed that Mr. Perot is a force to be reckoned with by both parties; he drew roughly equally from both.
Mr. Clinton clearly recognizes that, making a gesture of outreach Tuesday night to the Perot supporters on the issue of government reform and "reducing the influence of the special interest," one of Mr. Perot's favorite themes. "I will work with him to do that," Mr. Clinton said.
The major parties have long adapted to -- and co-opted -- third forces in politics, many analysts note. But not many third forces have behind them the Perot fortune, which this year proved to give Mr. Perot's movement considerable staying power.
Kevin Phillips, the conservative analyst, suggests that Perot backers could become major players in the struggle for control of Republican parties in some states.
It is all part of the mix of the politics to come.

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN LITTLE ROCK, supporters of President-elect Bill Clinton signed a banner across the street from the governor's mansion saying, "Good morning, Mr. President, we are proud of you and Hillary." The sign was put up by neighbors. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); IN WASHINGTON, Supporters of President Bush at a ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House were in a somber mood as they welcomed Mr. Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle after their defeat on Tuesday at the hands of President-elect Bill Clinton. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) (pg. B1); Democratic supporters at the convention center in Little Rock, Ark., celebrating President-elect Bill Clinton's victory on Tuesday night. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (64%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY H BROWN LTD (64%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EASTERN STATES (US); MIDWESTERN STATES (US); WESTERN STATES (US) ; SOUTHERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION RESULTS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RELIGION (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SUBURBS (74%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



175 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: VOTERS -- THE POLLS;
Despite Some Puzzling Readings, '92 Polls Came Through at End

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.

 BODY:
As in most election years, poll takers had their own ups and downs during the 1992 Presidential race.
Most came within two or three percentage points of predicting the margins by which Gov. Bill Clinton would beat President Bush and Ross Perot. In fact, most major poll takers came within one point of Mr. Clinton's percentage of the vote. 
 But earlier in the year there were some total misses by poll takers, as well as some inexplicable readings.
One of the significant misses occurred during the New Hampshire primary in February, when some surveys of voters leaving polling places, the so-called exit polls used by news organizations to predict eventual outcome, indicated that Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative columnist, would run stronger against President Bush than he actually did.
 
Late Surge Questioned
 As for puzzling readings of voter preferences during the year, none stirred more debate than two polls by the Gallup Organization over the weekend of Oct. 28-29, one for Newsweek, the other for CNN and USA Today. They indicated that President Bush was making a late surge and had closed to within one to two points of Mr. Clinton.
Most other polls at that point were showing a spread at least twice that large, and many poll takers questioned the timing of the Gallup sampling and the composition and breadth of its sample. The Gallup Organization insisted it had detected a genuine Bush surge, even if the surge eventually fell back.
Overall, the performance of poll takers this year compared favorably with their projections in 1988, when they also came within two or three points of predicting the winning margin. Their 1992 performance was slightly better than their 1980 performance, when some missed the final spread by as much as seven points, and better still than in 1984, when some missed by as much as eight points.
 
The Year of the Poll
 "This has been a polling year with some bad things but also some good things," said Martin Wattenberg, a political scientist at the University of California at San Diego who specializes in public opinion surveys. "There were too many polls, many of them not carefully done. Early on, they indicated Ross Perot was a real player, when in fact the voters being polled didn't really know anything about him. On the other hand, this was the year that a lot of news organizations finally began to run the results of other polls with the results of their own polls. That provided people with some badly needed context."
In the end, five of six major polls, exhibiting unusual agreement, indicated at the end that Mr. Clinton would win 44 percent of the vote. The sixth predicted 43 percent.
His final margin: 43 percent.
Most polls predicted that Mr. Bush would get from 35 to 38 percent of the final vote. His final figure: 38 percent.
"People like to criticize us, but I think poll takers had a remarkably good year," said Frank Newport, the president of the Gallup Organization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (56%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION RESULTS; PRIMARIES; FORECASTS POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (69%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



176 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Kenya Sets Date for First Open Vote in 3 Decades

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Nearly a year after opening up the political system under foreign and domestic pressure, President Daniel arap Moi has announced that this country's first multiparty elections in nearly three decades will be held on Dec. 7.
The decision on Tuesday comes amid concern about how fair the elections will be. 
 Although this East African country was once regarded as one of the most politically mature in Africa, it has lagged in introducing a multiparty democratic system. The scheduled elections here would follow about 20 other open elections across Africa in the last year.
Mr. Moi, the second President in Kenya's 29 years since independence, has ruled for 14 years.
Until last December, after the World Bank suspended new financial aid because of Kenya's resistance to political liberalization, Mr. Moi ruled over a single-party state with an increasingly authoritarian hand. His Government was regarded by many Kenyans and some major Western donors as blatantly corrupt, a factor that moved donors, including the United States, to reduce aid.
Since the legalization of opposition parties, two new major parties and about eight other minor parties have emerged. One of the two main opposition parties, the Forum for the Restoration of Democracy, went through months of internal bickering and finally split into two parts last month.
The fragmentation within the Forum, led by politicians of the 68-year-old Mr. Moi's generation, disappointed many Kenyans who were looking forward to a strong challenge to the ruling party, the Kenya African National Union, known as KANU.
The current issue of Society, a new magazine that has been unfriendly toward the Government, said this week: "While it is clear Mr. Moi's party has lost its grip in most parts of the country, it is also clear that none of the opposition parties has wide national versatility like KANU. Without forming a united front, there is little doubt KANU will, through hook or crook, hang them."
The Forum split along tribal lines. Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, a Luo from western Kenya and former Vice President, leads one faction. Kenneth Matiba, a Kikuyu and former Cabinet minister, who was detained for almost a year in 1990 by Mr. Moi for urging an end to one-party rule, leads the other.
Another party, the Democratic Party, is led by a former Vice President and Finance Minister, Mwai Kibaki, who is also from the Kikuyu tribe, the largest and wealthiest in Kenya.
Political rallies have been held with frequency in the last few months, but many of them have been marred by violence.
A meeting held by Mr. Moi's party last month at which his vice president, George Saitoti, appeared was interrupted by hecklers. Mr. Saitoti denounced the hecklers by yelling "Burn D.P.," the Democratic Party, "Burn the Devil," and "Burn FORD," the Forum. Stones were then thrown toward Mr. Saitoti.
 
Monitoring of Vote
 Under pressure from Western donors, the Government agreed to delegations of foreign observers for the elections, but not as many or as much in advance as Zambia allowed for its first open elections, which were held last year.
The American Ambassador here, Smith Hempstone, said in a speech last month that while Mr. Moi had pledged free and fair elections, "there's always the 10 percent who don't get the word."
"In this instance, I'm afraid the percentage may be considerably higher," he added.
Mr. Hempstone said his skepticism was caused by the Government's refusal to allow for an effective domestic monitoring system on election day.
He said it was not a good sign that the registration process had been terminated before one million young people, who did not have Government identification cards, had a chance to register. He said he was also disturbed about reports that teachers, civil servants, soldiers and police officers had been "admonished" to vote for Mr. Moi's party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KENYA (97%); AFRICA (93%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (58%); 

COMPANY: KENYA AFRICAN NATIONAL UNION (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: KENYA AFRICAN NATIONAL UNION (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KENYA KENYA (97%); AFRICA (93%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; MOI, DANIEL ARAP (PRES) MWAI KIBAKI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



177 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: CONGRESS -- THE NEW CONGRESS;
Democrats Promise Quick Action on a Clinton Plan

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

 BODY:
Democrats moved quickly yesterday to commit the 103d Congress to fast action on President-elect Clinton's legislative plans, saying the election results assured him of effective support on Capitol Hill.
Starved for legislative successes against President Bush, they have told each other, Mr. Clinton and reporters that they expect to be able to pass his main proposals, once he tells them what they are, in the first months of his Administration. That is when unity, rather than individual agendas, will matter most politically. 
 Remarkably slim Democratic losses in the House gave force to that promise, as the Democrats ended up with 259 seats, or only nine less than they have now. And the increase in young, black, Hispanic and female members seems likely to leave the new House more liberal and committed to action than the old.
But while Democrats held their own in the Senate against initially difficult odds, they did not make the gains needed to squelch determined opposition, which Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, indicated he would often provide.
 
Filibuster Calculations
 The final tally in the Senate gave Democrats 57 seats, as many as they hold now, and the Republicans 42, or enough to prevent bills from coming to a vote with united opposition. It takes 60 votes to end a filibuster.
One Senate seat will be decided Nov. 24 in a runoff between Senator Wyche Fowler of Georgia and Paul Coverdell, a Republican. Georgia law requires a runoff if no candidate gets more than half the vote, and Mr. Fowler got 49 percent.
The new Congress will have 110 new representatives, the most since the 118 elected in 1948, and 11 to 13 new senators, depending on results in the Fowler-Coverdell runoff and a special election in North Dakota on Dec. 4.
It will have nearly double the numbers of women, blacks and Hispanic lawmakers. There will be six women in the Senate with the elections of Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer in California, Carol Moseley Braun in Illinois and Patty Murray in Washington, and the re-election of Barbara A. Mikulski in Maryland. All are Democrats. There is also one Republican woman, Senator Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas.
 
Increase in Women
 The House will have 47 women, up from 28. Thirty-five will be Democrats, up from 19, and 12 will be Republicans, up from 9.
Along with Ms. Braun, who is black, in the Senate, there will be 38 blacks in the House, an increase of 13, including the first blacks elected in this century from North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Alabama and Florida. All but one are Democrats.
The ranks of Hispanic lawmakers will increase from 10 to 17. Three are Republicans. The first lawmaker of Korean descent, Jay Kim, was elected in California as a Republican, and Representative Ben Nighthorse Campbell, a Colorado Democrat, will be the first American Indian in the Senate in 60 years.
House Speaker Thomas S. Foley said on the NBC News program "Today" that its demographic changes would help make the new Congress more representative of the American people and more in tune "with the message of change and movement."
Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the Senate majority leader, said at a news conference that he expected Mr. Clinton to present n agenda for action early next year. "I know President-elect Clinton wants to act," he said. "The American people want to act. And we in the Democratic majority in the Senate and the House want to act."
And Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader, said in an interview that control of both the White House and Congress came with heavy responsibilities to solve the problems the nation faces. He also said Mr. Clinton would also "reach out to moderate Republicans" to get his bills passed.
But Senator Dole, while offering to cooperate "where we can," also asserted a Republican duty to "reflect the views of the Republicans, the independents, the Perot supporters who did not vote for Clinton and watch out for more taxes and more spending." He also on appeared "Today."
Mr. Gephardt explained the Democrats' success in holding their House losses in single digits by arguing that his party hd concentrated on the economy while Republicans emphasized subjects of less impact on most voters, like political reform of Congress.
The results seemed to support his assertion and not that of Representative Guy Vander Jagt of Michigan, the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, that the gain of nine seats was a remarkable achievement.
He justified that description by saying it was the first time in this century that House Republicans had gained seats while their Presidential candidate lost an election. But in fact Republicans hoped as late as yesterday morning to gain as many as two dozen seats. Earlier in the year, they dreamed of controlling the House for the first time since 1953.
In the end, few leading lawmakers were defeated, though many had the toughest race of their careers. Mr. Foley, for example, got only 55 percent of the vote. Perhaps the two most effective legislators to lose were a pair of New Yorkers, Bill Green, a Republican, and Thomas J. Downey, a Democrat.
But there was one clear indication that the nation's anti-incumbent mood was deferred, not destroyed. Voters in 14 states passed initiatives to limit how long lawmakers can serve in Congress. Those measures, which have different specifications and effective dates, are sure to be challenged on the ground that the only the Federal Constitution can establish requirements for holding Federal office.
The results might have been much different if Democrats had not won 21 of the 35 races decided by four percentage points or less.
They also improved, compared with 1990, in holding their own core voters. This time, interviews with 12,875 voters leaving polling places showed that 89 percent of Democrats said they had voted for Democrats for the House. In 1990, a poll by Voter Research and Surveys, the television network polling combine, showed 79 percent staying with the party.
 
Where Republicans Prevailed
 In the Senate contests, victories in close races were crucial to the Republicans' ability to hold their own. In five races won by four percentage points or less, they won four.
In New Hampshire, Gov. Judd Gregg, with 50 percent of the vote, defeated John Rauh, a retired corporate executive, who got 48 percent. They battled to succeed Senator Warren Rudman, who retired.
In New York, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato won a third term with 51 percent of the vote, defeating state Attorney General Robert Abrams, who got 49 percent.
In North Carolina, Lauch Faircloth, a former appointed state official, defeated a one-time friend, Senator Terry Sanford, with 52 percent to 48 percent. Mr. Sanford, a former Governor and president of Duke University, had been in public life for 40 years. But at 75, he was attacked as too old, especially after he interrupted campaigning last month for surgery to replace a heart valve.
In Pennsylvania, Senator Arlen Specter won a third term with a 51-to-49 victory over Lynn H. Yeakel, who began her campaign against him in reaction to his hostile questioning of Prof. Anita F. Hill over her accusations of sexual harassment against Clarence Thomas, the Supreme Court nominee.
 
Close Race Goes Democratic
 The only Democrat to win a race that close was Senator Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina, who got 51 percent to the 49 percent recorded by former Representative Thomas F. Hartnett. Mr. Hollings, who was first elected in 1966, is one of the longest-serving junior senators in history. Strom Thurmond, elected in 1954, is the state's senior senator.
Other Republicans prevailed after races that were closer than expected. Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon won his fifth term with 52.2 percent of the vote to the 47.8 percent recorded by Representative Les AuCoin.
The two Republican incumbents who lost were Senator John Seymour, defeated by Ms. Boxer after being appointed to the seat last year, and Bob Kasten of Wisconsin, beaten by State Senator Russell Feingold.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "The New Senate: Who Arrives, Who Remains"
x - Incumbent
xx - First-time winner
* - Incumbent who lost
 
ALABAMA - 99%
x-Richard C. Shelby, D 1,017,332 - 66%
Richard Sellers, R 517,644 - 34%
Howell Heflin D (1996)
 
ALASKA - 99%
Tony Smith, D 77,654 - 39%
x-Frank H. Murkowski, R 107,026 - 53%
Mary Jordan, Oth 16,498 - 8%
Ted Stevens (1996)
 
ARIZONA - 99%
Claire Sargent, D 421,905 - 32%
x-John McCain, R 740,578 - 56%
Evan Mecham, Oth 140,536 - 11%
Kiana Delamare, Oth 21,874 - 2%
Ed Finkelstein, Oth 6,111 - 0%
Dennis DeConcini, D (1994)
 
ARKANSAS - 99%
x-Dale L. Bumpers, D 545,325 - 60%
Mike Huckabee, R 362,203 - 40%
David Pryor D (1996)
 
CALIFORNIA - 100%
 xx-Dianne Feinstein, D 5,496,905 - 55%
John Seymour, R * 3,780,880 - 38%
Paul Meeuwenberg, Oth 264,913 - 3%
Richard Boddie, Oth 231,015 - 2%
Gerald Horne, Oth 287,167 - 3%
xx-Barbara Boxer, D 4,859,119 - 48%
Bruce Herschensohn, R 4,292,237 - 43%
Jerome McCready, Oth 351,598 - 3%
June Genis, Oth 220,400 - 2%
Genevieve Torres, Oth 350,460 - 3%

COLORADO - 99%
 xx-Ben Nighthorse Campbell, D 798,864 - 55%
Terry Considine, R 656,426 - 45%
Hank Brown R (1996)
 
CONNECTICUT - 100%
x-Christopher J. Dodd, D 887,734 - 61%
Brook Johnson, R 568,269 - 39%
Joseph Lieberman D (1994)
 
DELAWARE
 Joseph Biden, D (1996)
 William Roth Jr. R (1994)
 
FLORIDA - 100%
x-Bob Graham, D 3,214,708 - 66%
Bill Grant, R 1,688,522 - 34%
Connie Mack R (1994)
 
GEORGIA - 99%
Wyche Fowler Jr., D * 1,098,658 - 49%
Paul Coverdell, R 1,067,294 - 48%
Jim Hudson, Oth 69,779 - 3%
Sam Nunn D (1996)
 
HAWAII - 100%
x-Daniel K. Inouye, D 207,794 - 58%
Rick Reed, R 97,653 - 27%
Linda Martin, Oth 49,789 - 14%
Daniel K. Akaka D (1994)
 
IDAHO - 99%
 Richard Stallings, D 207,124 - 43%
xx-Dirk Kempthorne, R 269,209 - 57%
Larry E. Craig R (1996)
 
ILLINOIS - 98%
xx-Carol Moseley Braun, D 2,555,304 - 55%
Richard Williamson, R 2,107,955 - 45%
Paul Simon D (1996)
 
INDIANA - 99%
Joseph Hogsett, D 882,737 - 42%
x-Dan Coats, R 1,243,172 - 58%
Richard G. Luger R (1994)
 
IOWA - 100%
Jean Lloyd-Jones, D 349,461 - 28%
x-Charles E. Grassley, R 894,235 - 72%
Tom Harkin D (1996)
 
KANSAS - 100%
Gloria O'Dell, D 349,379 - 32%
x-Bob Dole, R 700,534 - 64%
Christina Campbell-Cline, Oth 45,709 - 4%
Nancy Landon Kassebaum R (1996)
 
KENTUCKY - 100%
x-Wendell H. Ford, D 835,883 - 64%
David Williams, R 477,040 - 36%
Mitch McDonnell R (1996)
 
LOUISIANA
x-John Breaux, D Uncontested
J. Bennett Johnston D (1996)
 
MAINE
 George J. Mitche.. D (1994)
William Cohen R (1996)
 
MARYLAND - 100%
x-Barbara Mikulski, D 1,247,386 - 71%
Alan Keyes, R 503,956 - 29%
Paul Sarbanes D (1994)
 
MASSACHUSETTS
 Edward M. Kennedy D (1994)
John Kerry D (1996)
 
MICHIGAN
 Donald Riegle Jr., D (1994)
Carl Levin D (1996)
 
MINNESOTA
 Paul Wellstone D (1996)
Dave Durenberger R (1994)
 
MISSISSIPPI
 Thad Cochran R (1996)
Trent Lott R (1994)
 
MISSOURI - 100%
Geri Rothman-Serot, D 1,057,357 - 46%
x-Kit S. Bond, R 1,221,453 - 54%
John C. Danforth R (1994)
 
MONTANA
 Conrad Burns R (1994)
Max Baucus D (1996)
 
NEBRASKA
 Bob Kerrey D (1994)
Jim Exon D (1996)
 
NEVADA - 98%
x-Harry M. Reid, D 247,732 - 52%
D ar Dahl, R 194,527 - 41%
None of These, Oth 12,815 - 3%
H. Kent Cromwell, Oth 7,091 - 1%
Joe Garcia Jr., Oth 11,045 - 2%
Richard H. Bryan D (1994)
 
NEW HAMPSHIRE - 100%
 John Rauh, D 232,846 - 48%
xx-Judd Gregg, R 247,215 - 50%
Larry Brady, Oth 9,577 - 2%
Robert C. Smith R (1996)
 
NEW JERSEY
 Bill Bradley D (1996)
Frank Lautenberg D (1994)
 
NEW MEXICO
 Jeff Bingaman D (1994)
Pete Domenici R (1996)
 
NEW YORK - 99%
Robert Abrams, D 2,899,888 - 49%
x-Alfonse D'Amato, R 3,007,882 - 51%
Daniel P Moynihan D (1994)
 
NORTH CAROLINA - 99%
 Terry Sanford, D 1,176,939 - 48%
xx-Lauch Faircloth, R 1,276,831 - 52%
Jesse Helms R (1996)
 
NORTH DAKOTA - 100%
xx-Byron Dorgan, D 178,443 - 60%
Steve Sydness, R 117,832 - 40%
Jocelyn Burdick D (1994)
 
OHIO - 100%
x-John Glenn, D 2,418,464 - 55%
Michael DeWine, R 1,992,793 - 45%
Howard M. Metzenbaum D (1994)
 
OKLAHOMA - 100%
Steve Lewis, D 494,350 - 38%
x-Don Nickles, R 757,876 - 59%
Thomas Ledgerwood, Oth 20,972 - 2%
Roy Edwards, Oth 21,225 - 2%
David L. Boren D (1996)
 
OREGON - 98%
Les AuCoin, D 558,015 - 48%
x-Bob Packwood, R 612,238 - 52%
Mark O. Hatfield R (1996)
 
PENNSYLVANIA - 99%
Lynn Yeakel, D 2,215,472 - 49%
x-Arlen Specter, R 2,344,397 - 51%
Jarros Wpffprd D (1994)
 
RHODE ISLAND
 Claiborne Pell D (1996)
John H. Chafee R (1994)
 
SOUTH CAROLINA - 99%
x-Ernest F. Hollings, D 578,749 - 51%
Thomas Hartnett, R 550,900 - 49%
Strom Thurmond R (1996)
 
SOUTH DAKOTA - 100%
x-Tom Daschle, D 216,869 - 66%
Charlene Haar, R 108,573 - 33%
Gus Hercules, Oth 4,347 - 1%
Larry Pressler R (1996)
 
TENNESSEE
 Jim Sasser D (1994)
 Al Gore D (1996)#
 
UTAH - 100%
 Wayne Owens, D 300,404 - 42%
x-Robert Bennett, R 418,309 - 58%
Orrin G. Hatch R (1994)
 
VERMONT - 99%
x-Patrick Leahy, D 145,653 - 55%
James Douglas, R 116,847 - 45%
James Jeffords R (1994)
 
VIRGINIA
 Charles S. Robb D (1994)
John W. Warner R (1996)
 
WASHINGTON - 99%
xx-Patty Murray, D 1,036,845 - 55%
Rod Chandler, R 857,610 - 45%
Slade Gorton R (1994)
 
WEST VIRGINIA
 Robert C. Byrd D (1994)
Jay Rockefeller D (1996)
 
WISCONSIN - 100%
xx-Russell Feingold, D 1,284,285 - 53%
Robert W. Kasten Jr., R 1,123,715 - 47%
Herb Kohl D (1994)
 
WYOMING
 Alan Simpson R (1996)
 Malcolm Wallop R (1994)
 
# Vice President-elect Al Gore's term will be filled by appointment after he resigns. A special election will be held in 1994 to fill the remaining two years.
 
"Results of Contests For the U.S. House, District by District"
 
D - Democrat
R - Republican
* - Incumbent
x - Winner
xx - Winner and change of party control
 
ALABAMA
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
William Brewer, D 77,305...38%
x Sonny Callahan, R* 125,201...62%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
G. Wallace Jr., D 109,114...49%
x Terry Everett, R 112,431...51%

DISTRICT 3 -- 99%
x Glen Browder, D* 118,599...62%
Don Sledge, R 74,101...38%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Tom Bevill, D* 157,937...70%
Mickey Strickland, R 66,907...30%

DISTRICT 5 -- 98%
x Bud Cramer, D* 154,679...67%
Terry Smith, R 77,592...33%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Ben Erdreich, D* 125,942...46%
xx Spencer Bachus, R 146,351...54%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
x Earl Hilliard, D 144,255...80%
Kervin Jones, R 36,066...20%
 
ALASKA
AT-LARGE -- 99%
John Devens, D 87,281...43%
x Don Young, R* 93,673...47%
Mike Milligan, O 7,694... 4%
Michael States, O 12,231... 6%
 
 ARIZONA
DISTRICT 1 -- 99%
xx S. Coppersmith, D 125,545...54%
John Rhodes III, R* 106,938...46%

DISTRICT 2 -- 99%
x Ed Pastor, D* 88,010...69%
Don Shooter, R 40,088...31%

DISTRICT 3 -- 99%
Roger Hartstone, D 86,894...36%
x Bob Stump, R* 154,242...64%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
Walter Mybeck II, D 68,355...27%
x Jon Kyl, R* 149,021...59%
Tim McDermott, O 11,167... 4%
Debbie Collings, O 24,571...10%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Jim Toevs, D 73,894...31%
Jim Kolbe, R* 166,937...69%

DISTRICT 6 -- 99%
x Karan English, D 120,865...56%
Doug Wead, R 93,653...44%
 
 ARKANSAS
DISTRICT 1 -- 99%
x Blanche Lambert, D 145,464...70%
Terry Hayes, R 63,633...30%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Ray Thornton, D* 149,952...74%
Dennis Scott, R 52,032...26%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
John VanWinkle, D 117,486...47%
x Tim Hutchinson, R 125,065...50%
Ralph Forbes, O 6,319... 3%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
Bill McCuen, D 103,045...48%
xx Jay Dickey, R 113,580...52%
 
CALIFORNIA
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
xx Dan Hamburg, D 114,151...48%
Frank Riggs, R* 106,807...45%
Matthew Howard, O 7,152... 3%
Phil Baldwin, O 10,278... 4%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
Elliot Freedman, D 69,504...28%
x Wally Herger, R* 161,064...65%
Harry Pendery, O 17,924... 7%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Vic Fazio, D* 117,027...51%
Bill Richardson, R 91,865...40%
Ross Crain, O 19,620... 9%

DISTRICT 4 -- 96%
Patricia Malberg, D 116,190...46%
x John Doolittle, R* 125,618...50%
Patrick McHargue, O 11,343... 4%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Robert T. Matsui, D* 151,318...69%
Robert Dinsmore, R 55,381...25%
Gordon Mors, O 4,498... 2%
Tian Harter, O 4,138... 2%
Chris Rufer, O 4,331... 2%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
x Lynn Woolsey, D 178,445...66%
Bill Filante, R 90,751...34%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
x George Miller, D* 147,860...71%
Dave Scholl, R 52,237...25%
David Franklin, O 9,491... 5%

DISTRICT 8 -- 100%
x Nancy Pelosi, D* 182,564...83%
Marc Wolin, R 24,064...11%
James Elwood, O 7,162... 3%
Cesar Cadabes, O 7,192... 3%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
x Ronald Dellums, D* 154,122...72%
Billy Hunter, R 48,756...23%
Dave Linn, O 9,740... 5%

DISTRICT 10 -- 100%
Wendell Williams, D 128,942...48%
x Bill Baker, R 137,313...52%

DISTRICT 11 -- 100%
Patti Garamendi, D 82,006...46%
Richard Pombo, R 82,911...47%
Christine Roberts, O 12,331... 7%

DISTRICT 12 -- 100%
x Tom Lantos, D* 149,392...69%
Jim Tomlin, R 50,112...23%
George O'Brien, O 7,443... 3%
Mary Weldon, O 9,714... 4%

DISTRICT 13 -- 100%
x Fortney H. Stark, D* 117,701...61%
Verne Teyler, R 60,709...31%
Roslyn Allen, O 15,966... 8%

DISTRICT 14 -- 100%
xx Anna Eshoo, D 136,174...57%
Tom Huening, R 92,091...39%
Chuck Olson, O 6,699... 3%
David Wald, O 3,647... 2%

DISTRICT 15 -- 100%
x Norman Mineta, D* 157,146...64%
Robert Wick, R 76,216...31%
Duggan Dieterly, O 12,469... 5%

DISTRICT 16 -- 100%
x Don Edwards, D* 89,923...62%
Ted Bundesen, R 45,450...32%
Amani Kuumba, O 8,756... 6%

DISTRICT 17 -- 100%
x Leon Panetta, D* 141,804...72%
Bill McCambell, R 46,827...24%
John Wilkes, O 3,788... 2%
Maureen Smith, O 4,486... 2%

DISTRICT 18 -- 100%
x Gary Condit, D* 125,291...84%
Kim Almstrom, O 23,098...16%

DISTRICT 19 -- 100%
Rick Lehman, D* 95,147...47%
Tal Cloud, R 94,259...47%
Dorothy Wells, O 12,463... 6%

DISTRICT 20 -- 100%
x Calvin Dooley, D* 66,291...65%
Ed Hunt, R 36,163...35%

DISTRICT 21 -- 100%
Deborah Vollmer, D 63,673...35%
x Bill Thomas, R* 119,256...65%

DISTRICT 22 -- 100%
Gloria Ochoa, D 82,137...35%
xx M. Huffington, R 120,356...52%
Mindy Lorenz, O 22,216... 10%
Howard Dilbeck, O 7,040... 3%

DISTRICT 23 -- 100%
Anita Ferguson, D 83,543...42%
x Elton Gallegly, R* 108,152...54%
Jay Wood, O 8,584... 4%

DISTRICT 24 -- 100%
x Anth. Beilenson, D* 132,343...56%
Tom McClintock, R 91,463...39%
John Lindblad, O 12,778... 5%

DISTRICT 25 -- 100%
James Gilmartin, D 67,687...36%
x Howard McKeon, R 104,552...55%
Charles Wilken, O 6,464... 3%
Peggy Christensen, O 6,444... 3%
Nancy Lawrence, O 4,782... 3%

DISTRICT 26 -- 100%
x Howard Berman, D* 69,515...61%
Gary Forsch, R 33,595...30%
Bernard Zimring, O 3,280... 3%
Margery Hinds, O 6,740... 6%

DISTRICT 27 -- 100%
Doug Kahn, D 78,559...40%
x Carlos Moorhead, R* 95,169...49%
Jesse Moorman, O 10,312... 5%
Dennis Decherd, O 4,427... 2%
Margaret Edwards, O 6,853... 4%

DISTRICT 28 -- 100%
Al Wachtel, D 72,177...37%
x David Dreier, R* 112,990...58%
Walter Sheasby, O 5,869... 3%
Thomas Dominy, O 4,022... 2%

DISTRICT 29 -- 100%
x Henry Waxman, D* 149,292...66%
Mark Robbins, R 60,995...27%
Felix Rogin, O 4,291... 2%
Susan Davies, O 12,996... 6%

DISTRICT 30 -- 100%
x Xavier Becerra, D 45,502...59%
Morry Waksberg, R 18,150...23%
Blase Bonpane, O 5,852... 8%
Andrew Consalvo, O 2,059... 3%
Elizabeth Nakano, O 5,729... 7%

DISTRICT 31 -- 100%
x Matthew Martinez, D* 64,430...63%
Reuben Franco, R 37,729...37%

DISTRICT 32 -- 100%
x Julian C. Dixon, D* 142,271...87%
Bob Weber, O 11,470... 7%
William Williams, O 9,205... 6%

DISTRICT 33 -- 100%
x L. Roybal-Allard, D 30,235...63%
Robert Guzman, R 14,383...30%
Dale Olvera, O 1,137... 2%
Tim Delia, O 2,012... 4%

DISTRICT 34 -- 100%
x Esteban Torres, D* 86,721...62%
Jay Hernandez, R 47,357...34%
Carl Swinney, O 6,676... 5%

DISTRICT 35 -- 100%
x Maxine Waters, D* 98,338...83%
Nate Truman, R 16,122...14%
Carin Rogers, O 1,523... 1%
Alice Miles, O 2,643... 2%

DISTRICT 36 -- 100%
xx Jane Harman, D 117,202...49%
Joan Milke Flores, R 100,062...42%
Richard Greene, O 12,413... 5%
Marc Denny, O 5,088... 2%
Owen Staley, O 5,167... 2%

DISTRICT 37 -- 100%
x Walter Tucker, D 92,394...86%
Kwaku Duren, O 15,160...14%

DISTRICT 38 -- 100%
Evan Braude, D 77,367...44%
x Steve Horn, R 85,415...48%
Blake Ashley, O 6,374... 4%
Paul Burton, O 7,934... 4%

DISTRICT 39 -- 100%
Molly McClanahan, D 76,683...38%
x Edward Royce, R 113,678...57%
Jack Dean, O 8,945... 4%

DISTRICT 40 -- 100%
Don Rusk, D 62,433...31%
x Jerry Lewis, R* 125,874...63%
Margie Akin, O 11,481... 6%

DISTRICT 41 -- 100%
Bob Baker, D 56,339...35%
x Jay Kim, R 94,867...59%
Mike Noonan, O 9,679... 6%

DISTRICT 42 -- 100%
x George Brown Jr., D* 77,996...51%
Dick Rutan, R 67,525...44%
Fritz Ward, O 8,212... 5%

DISTRICT 43 -- 100%
Mark Takano, D 83,291...47%
Kenneth Calvert, R 82,057...47%
Gary Odom, O 5,740... 3%
Gene Berkman, O 4,676... 3%

DISTRICT 44 -- 100%
Georgia Smith, D 76,910...41%
x Al McCandless, R* 101,806...54%
Phil Turner, O 10,785... 6%

DISTRICT 45 -- 100%
Patricia McCabe, D 84,267...39%
x D. Rohrabacher, R* 116,501...54%
Gary Copeland, O 14,091... 7%

DISTRICT 46 -- 100%
Robert Banuelos, D 40,587...41%
x Robert Dornan, R* 49,633...50%
Richard Newhouse, O 8,711... 9%

DISTRICT 47 -- 100%
John Anwiler, D 71,657...31%
x Christopher Cox, R* 151,143...64%
Maxine Quirk, O 11,538... 5%

DISTRICT 48 -- 100%
Michael Farber, D 62,318...30%
x Ron Packard, R* 128,213...61%
Ted Lowe, O 8,017... 4%
Donna White, O 12,336... 6%

DISTRICT 49 -- 100%
x Lynn Schenk, D 118,101...52%
Judy Jarvis, R 96,135...42%
John Wallner, O 9,817... 4%
Milton Zaslow, O 4,379... 2%

DISTRICT 50 -- 100%
xx Bob Filner, D 71,251...57%
Tony Valencia, R 35,942...29%
Barb. Hutchinson, O 14,218...11%
Roger Batchelder, O 3,927... 3%

DISTRICT 51 -- 100%
Bea Herbert, D 77,023...34%
x R. Cunningham, R* 125,913...56%
Richard Roe, O 4,796... 2%
Bill Holmes, O 9,322... 4%
Miriam Clark, O 9,502... 4%

DISTRICT 52 -- 100%
Janet Gastil, D 80,878...42%
x Duncan Hunter, R* 101,936...52%
Joe Shea, O 6,292... 3%
Dennis Gretsinger, O 5,281... 3%
 
COLORADO
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x Pat Schroeder, D* 155,037...69%
Raymond Aragon, R 70,407...31%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x David E. Skaggs, D* 164,790...65%
Bryan Day, R 88,470...35%

DISTRICT 3 -- 99%
Mike Callihan, D 114,225...44%
xx Scott Mcinnis, R 143,050...56%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
Tom Redder, D 102,004...42%
x Wayne Allard, R* 139,595...58%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
Charles Oriez, D 60,090...26%
x Joel M. Hefley, R* 167,117...74%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Tom Kolbe, D 90,525...39%
x Dan Schaefer, R* 140,792...61%
 
 CONNECTICUT
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x Barb. Kennelly, D* 164,381...69%
Philip Steele, R 74,367...31%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Sam Gejdenson, D* 123,290...51%
Edward Munster, R 119,415...49%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Rosa DeLauro, D* 162,075...66%
Tom Scott, R 84,950...34%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
Dave Schropfer, D 58,543...27%
x Chris. Shays, R* 145,911...67%
Al Smith, O 11,814... 5%

DISTRICT 5 -- 93%
James Lawlor, D 70,325...31%
x Gary Franks, R* 101,438...45%
Lynn Taborsak, O 52,909...24%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Eugene Slason, D 60,327...27%
x Nancy Johnson, R* 165,002...73%
 
DELAWARE
AT-LARGE -- 100%
S.B. Woo, D 117,294...43%
xx Michael Castle, R 152,761...57%
 
FLORIDA
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x Earl Hutto, D* 110,046...55%
Terry Ketchel, R 90,089...45%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Pete Peterson, D* 155,284...74%
Ray Wagner, R 53,519...26%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Corrine Brown, D 89,625...60%
Don Weidner, R 60,586...40%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
Mattox Hair, D 99,554...44%
x Tillie Fowler, R 127,758...56%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Karen Thurman, D 129,677...53%
Tom Hogan, R 114,331...47%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Phil Denton, D 75,806...35%
x Clifford Stearns, R* 142,499...65%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
Dan Webster, D 96,889...44%
x John Mica, R 125,755...56%

DISTRICT 8 -- 100%
Chuck Kovaleski, D 64,763...31%
x Bill McCollum, R* 141,011...69%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
Cheryl Knapp, D 110,002...41%
Michael Bilirakis, R* 157,786...59%

DISTRICT 10 -- 100%
Karen Moffitt, D 114,027...43%
x Bill Young, R* 149,657...57%

DISTRICT 11 -- 100%
x Sam M. Gibbons, D* 100,816...57%
Mark Sharpe, R 77,451...43%

DISTRICT 12 -- 100%
Tom Mims, D 92,228...48%
xx Charles Canady, R 100,298...52%

DISTRICT 13 -- 100%
Rand Snell, D 115,725...42%
x Dan Miller, R 158,826...58%

DISTRICT 14 -- 100%
x Porter J. Goss, R* 223,410...82%
James King, O 48,874...18%

DISTRICT 15 -- 100%
x Jim Bacchus, D* 132,284...51%
Bill Tolley, R 128,749...49%

DISTRICT 16 -- 100%
John Comerford, D 101,179...39%
x Tom Lewis, R* 157,190...61%

DISTRICT 17
x Carrie Meek, D (U)

DISTRICT 18 -- 100%
Magda Davis, D 52,095...33%
x I. Ros-Lehtinen, R* 104,715...67%

DISTRICT 19 -- 100%
x Harry Johnston II, D* 177,376...63%
Larry Metz, R 103,819...37%

DISTRICT 20 -- 97%
x Peter Deutsch, D 130,895...59%
Beverly Kennedy, R 91,289...41%

DISTRICT 21
x Lincoln Diaz-Balart, R (U)

DISTRICT 22 -- 100%
Gwen Margolis, D 91,540...42%
x E. Clay Shaw Jr., R* 128,254...58%

DISTRICT 23 -- 100%
x Alcee Hastings, D 84,207...65%
Ed Fielding, R 44,758...35%
 
GEORGIA
DISTRICT 1 -- 99%
Barbara Christmas, D 75,044...43%
xx Jack Kingston, R 99,204...57%

DISTRICT 2 -- 99%
x Sanford Bishop, D 94,977...64%
Jim Dudley, R 54,036...36%

DISTRICT 3 -- 99%
Richard B. Ray, D* 90,966...45%
xx Mac Collins, R 112,640...55%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
Cathey Steinberg, D 123,819...49%
xx John Linder, R 126,502...51%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x John Lewis, D* 147,397...72%
Paul Stabler, R 56,847...28%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Tony Center, D 116,147...42%
x Newt Gingrich, R* 158,670...58%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
x Buddy Darden, D* 111,259...57%
Al Beverly, R 82,820...43%

DISTRICT 8 -- 98%
x J. Roy Rowland, D* 107,601...56%
Rob. Cunningham, R 85,774...44%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
x Nathan Deal, D 114,020...59%
Daniel Becker, R 77,877...41%

DISTRICT 10 -- 99%
x Don Johnson, D 108,494...54%
Ralph Hudgens, R 92,776...46%

DISTRICT 11 -- 99%
x Cyn. McKinney, D 120,169...73%
Woodrow Lovett, R 44,243...27%
 
HAWAII
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x N. Abercrombie, D* 128,942...76%
Warner Sutton, R 41,415...24%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Patsy Mink, D* 131,256...77%
Kamuela Price, R 39,963...23%
 
IDAHO
DISTRICT 1 -- 98%
x Larry LaRocco, D* 139,899...61%
Rachel Gilbert, R 90,487...39%

DISTRICT 2 -- 99%
J.D. Williams, D 81,354...37%
xx Michael Crapo, R 139,612...63%
 
ILLINOIS
DISTRICT 1 -- 91%
x Bobby Rush, D 187,926...82%
Jay Walker, R 41,363...18%

DISTRICT 2 -- 96%
x Mel Reynolds, D 172,191...85%
Ron Blackstone, R 31,118...15%

DISTRICT 3 -- 98%
x William Lipinski, D* 156,900...63%
Harry Lepinske, R 91,447...37%

DISTRICT 4 -- 97%
x Luis Gutierrez, D 83,340...77%
Hildegarde Rodriguez-Schieman, R 24,426...23%

DISTRICT 5 -- 99%
x D. Rostenkowski, D* 128,818...59%
Elias Zenkich, R 88,360...41%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Barry Watkins, D 86,737...34%
x Henry J. Hyde, R* 164,739...66%

DISTRICT 7 -- 94%
x Cardiss Collins, D* 166,236...83%
Norman Boccio, R 33,141...17%

DISTRICT 8 -- 100%
Sheila Smith, D 96,397...42%
x Philip M. Crane, R* 132,855...58%

DISTRICT 9 -- 97%
x Sidney R. Yates, D* 156,949...72%
Herb Sohn, R 62,327...28%

DISTRICT 10 -- 99%
Michael Kennedy, D 84,650...35%
x John E. Porter, R* 153,801...65%

DISTRICT 11 -- 99%
x G. Sangmeister, D* 133,400...56%
R. Herbolsheimer, R 106,480...44%

DISTRICT 12 -- 100%
x Jerry Costello, D* 168,755...71%
Mike Starr, R 68,119...29%

DISTRICT 13 -- 100%
Dennis Temple, D 82,974...32%
x Harris Fawell, R* 179,245...68%

DISTRICT 14 -- 100%
Jonathan Reich, D 75,286...33%
x Dennis Hastert, R* 155,271...67%

DISTRICT 15 -- 100%
Charles Mattis, D 97,184...41%
x Thomas Ewing, R* 142,160...59%

DISTRICT 16 -- 100%
John W. Cox Jr., D* 113,553...44%
xx Donald Manzullo, R 142,388...56%

DISTRICT 17 -- 100%
x Lane Evans, D* 156,233...60%
Ken Schloemer, R 103,719...40%

DISTRICT 18 -- 100%
Ronald Hawkins, D 114,413...42%
x Robert H. Michel, R* 156,533...58%

DISTRICT 19 -- 100
x Glenn Poshard, D* 187,137...69%
Douglas Lee, R 83,515...31%

DISTRICT 20 -- 100%
x Richard Durbin, D* 154,869...57%
John Shimkus, R 119,219...43%
 
INDIANA
DISTRICT 1 -- 99%
x Peter Visclosky, D* 146,815...69%
David Vucich, R 64,767...31%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Philip Sharp, D* 130,881...59%
William Frazier, R 90,593...41%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Tim Roemer, D* 121,269...57%
Carl Baxmeyer, R 89,709...43%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Jill Long, D* 129,980...62%
Charles Pierson, R 78,716...38%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
James Jontz, D* 107,973...49%
xx Steve Buyer, R 112,492...51%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Natalie Bruner, D 68,308...27%
x Dan Burton, R* 181,786...73%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
Ellen Wedum, D 88,005...41%
x John T. Myers, R* 129,189...59%

DISTRICT 8 -- 100%
x F. McCloskey, D* 113,018...53%
Richard Mourdock, R 98,241...47%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
x Lee H. Hamilton, D* 160,823...70%
Michael Bailey, R 70,030...30%

DISTRICT 10 -- 100%
x A. Jacobs Jr., D* 111,339...64%
Janos Horvath, R 61,641...36%
 
IOWA
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
Jan Zonneveld, D 81,225...31%
x Jim Leach, R* 177,333...69%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
David Nagle, D* 130,833...49%
x Jim Nussle, R* 134,033...51%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
Elaine Baxter, D 120,541...49%
x Jim Lightfoot, R* 125,620...51%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Neal Smith, D* 155,557...63%
Paul Lunde, R 93,013...37%

DISTRICT 5
x Fred Grandy, R* Uncontested
 
KANSAS
DISTRICT 1 -- 99%
Duane West, D 83,672...30%
x Pat Roberts, R* 193,541...70%

DISTRICT 2 -- 99%
x Jim Slattery, D* 150,849...58%
Jim Van Slyke, R 109,674...42%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
Tom Love, D 109,548...39%
x Jan Meyers, R* 169,668...61%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Dan Glickman, D* 139,828...55%
Eric Yost, R 114,246...45%
 
KENTUCKY
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x Tom Barlow, D 128,233...60%
Steve Hamrick, R 82,991...39%
Marvin Seat, O 1,012... 0%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x William Natcher, D* 126,808...61%
Bruce Bartley, R 79,619...39%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Romano Mazzoli, D* 148,066...53%
Susan Stokes, R 132,689...47%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
Floyd Poore, D 86,713...38%
x Jim Bunning, R* 139,465...62%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
John Hays, D 97,768...46%
x Harold Rogers, R* 113,809...54%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
xx Scotty Baesler, D 135,021...61%
Charles Ellinger, R 87,636...39%
 
LOUISIANA
DISTRICT 1
x Robert Livingston Jr., R* Uncontested

DISTRICT 2
x William Jefferson, D* Uncontested

DISTRICT 3
x Billy Tauzin, D* Uncontested

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Cleo Fields, D 142,822...74%
Charles Jones, D 50,796...26%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
Jerry Huckaby, D* 89,923...37%
x Jim McCrery, R* 153,232...63%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
x Richard H. Baker, R* 123,869...51%
Clyde Holloway, R* 120,900...49%

DISTRICT 7
x James A. Hayes, D* Uncontested
 
MAINE
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x T. Andrews, D* 231,363...65%
Linda Bean, R 126,079...35%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
Patrick McGowan, D 130,958...42%
x Olympia Snowe, R* 152,285...49%
Jonathan Carter, O 29,953...10%
 
MARYLAND
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
Tom McMillen, D* 106,914...48%
x Wayne Gilchrest, R* 114,017...52%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
Michael Hickey, D 85,931...35%
x Helen Bentley, R* 157,194...65%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Benjamin Cardin, D* 156,085...74%
William Bricker, R 56,125...26%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Albert Wynn, D 132,776...76%
Michele Dyson, R 42,743...24%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Steny H. Hoyer, D* 113,280...55%
Larry Hogan, R 92,636...45%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Thomas Hattery, D 100,753...46%
xx Roscoe Bartlett, R 119,684...54%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
x Kweisi Mfume, D* 147,133...85%
Kenneth Kondner, R 25,013...15%

DISTRICT 8 -- 100%
Edward Heffernan, D 72,190...28%
x Connie Morella, R* 189,420...72%
 
MASSACHUSETTS
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x John Olver, D* 134,954...54%
Patrick Larkin, R 113,796...46%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Richard E. Neal, D* 131,147...63%
Anth. Ravosa Jr., R 76,780...37%

DISTRICT 3 -- 99%
Joseph D. Early, D* 115,493...47%
xx Peter Blute, R 131,406...53%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Barney Frank, D* 182,207...72%
Ed. McCormick III, R 70,628...28%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Martin Meehan, D 134,417...58%
Paul Cronin, R 96,827...42%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Nich. Mavroules, D* 130,597...45%
xx Peter Torkildsen, R 158,577...55%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
x Edward Markey, D* 182,850...70%
Stephen Sohn, R 78,194...30%

DISTRICT 8 -- 75%
x Jos. Kennedy II, D* 114,125...83%
Alice Nakash, O 23,795...17%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
x Joe Moakley, D* 175,187...76%
Martin Conboy, R 54,061...24%

DISTRICT 10 -- 100%
x Gerry E. Studds, D* 188,720...62%
Daniel Daly, R 75,686...25%
Jon Bryan, O 39,111...13%
 
MICHIGAN
DISTRICT 1 -- 99%
xx Bart Stupak, D 144,930...56%
Phil Ruppe, R 116,948...44%

DISTRICT 2 -- 98%
John Miltner, D 84,179...35%
x Peter Hoekstra, R 152,282...63%
Dick Jacobs, O 4,731... 2%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
Carol Kooistra, D 96,666...37%
x Paul Henry, R* 164,518...63%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
Lisa Donaldson, D 87,662...36%
x Dave Camp, R* 157,032...64%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x James Barcia, D 147,657...61%
Keith Muxlow, R 92,791...39%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Andy Davis, D 89,020...38%
x Fred Upton, R* 143,943...62%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
x Nick Smith, R 133,323...87%
Kenneth Proctor, O 20,071...13%

DISTRICT 8 -- 100%
x Bob Carr, D* 135,491...51%
Dick Chrysler, R 131,804...49%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
x Dale Kildee, D* 133,980...54%
Megan O'Neill, R 112,322...46%

DISTRICT 10 -- 100%
x David Bonior, D* 134,946...55%
Douglas Carl, R 111,776...45%

DISTRICT 11 -- 100%
Walter Briggs, D 117,030...41%
x Jos. Knollenberg, R 166,982...59%

DISTRICT 12 -- 100%
x Sander Levin, D* 137,615...54%
J. Pappageorge, R 119,448...46%

DISTRICT 13 -- 95%
x William Ford, D* 119,072...53%
Robert Geake, R 103,497...47%

DISTRICT 14 -- 100%
x John Conyers Jr., D* 165,172...84%
John Gordon, R 32,054...16%

DISTRICT 15 -- 100%
x B.-Rose Collins, D* 148,755...82%
Charles Vincent, R 31,100...18%

DISTRICT 16 -- 100%
x John Dingell, D* 156,964...67%
Frank Beaumont, R 75,694...33%
 
 MINNESOTA
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x Tim Penny, D* 205,393...74%
Timothy Droogsma, R 72,457...26%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
xx David Minge, D 131,888...50%
Cal Ludeman, R 131,302...50%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
Paul Mandell, D 104,431...34%
x Jim Ramstad, R* 199,872...66%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Bruce Vento, D* 159,326...61%
Ian Maitland, R 101,313...39%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Martin Sabo, D* 174,027...69%
Stephen Moriarty, R 77,059...31%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Gerry Sikorski, D* 99,002...36%
xx Rod Grams, R 132,059...47%
Dean Barkley, O 47,780...17%

DISTRICT 7 -- 99%
Collin Peterson, D* 133,737...51%
Bernie Omann, R 129,973...49%

DISTRICT 8 -- 82%
x James Oberstar, D* 144,940...66%
Phil Herwig, R 73,704...34%
 
MISSISSIPPI
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x Jamie Whitten, D* 120,987...60%
Clyde Whitaker, R 82,275...40%

DISTRICT 2 -- 99%
x Mike Espy, D* 134,453...78%
Dorothy Benford, R 37,853...22%

DISTRICT 3 -- 99%
x S. Montgomery, D* 160,576...81%
Michael Williams, R 37,447...19%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Mike Parker, D* 131,660...72%
Jack McMillan, R 42,585...23%
James Meredith, O 9,013... 5%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Gene Taylor, D* 118,750...63%
Paul Harvey, R 66,809...35%
Shawn O'Hara, O 2,621... 1%
 
MISSOURI
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x Wm. Clay Sr., D* 158,418...68%
A. Montgomery, R 74,308...32%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
Joan Kelly Horn, D* 148,658...49%
xx James Talent, R 157,556...51%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Rich. Gephardt, D* 173,906...66%
Mack Holekamp, R 89,978...34%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100
x Ike Skelton, D* 176,884...70%
John Carley, R 74,575...30%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Alan Wheat, D* 150,693...62%
Edward Moody, R 93,421...38%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
xx Pat Danner, D 148,889...55%
Tom Coleman, R* 119,638...45%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
Pat Deaton, D 99,642...38%
x Mel Hancock, R* 157,700...62%

DISTRICT 8 -- 99%
Thad Bullock, D 86,695...37%
x Bill Emerson, R* 147,398...63%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
x Harold Volkmer, D* 124,696...50%
Rick Hardy, R 118,806...47%
Duane Burghard, O 7,108...3%
 
MONTANA
AT-LARGE -- 100%
x Pat Williams, D* 202,929...50%
Ron Marlenee, R* 189,164...47%
Jerome Wilverding, O 10,398...3%
 
NEBRASKA
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
Gerry Finnegan, D 95,397...40%
x Doug Bereuter, R* 140,994...60%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Peter Hoagland, D* 118,486...51%
R. Staskiewicz, R 112,779...49%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
Lowell Fisher, D 66,202...28%
x Bill Barrett, R* 168,177...72%
 
NEVADA
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x James H. Bilbray, D* 127,292...58%
J. Coy Pettyjohn, R 83,527...38%
Scott Kjar, O 8,914...4%

DISTRICT 2 -- 97%
Pete Sferrazza, D 113,364...44%
x B. Vucanovich, R* 125,118...48%
Dan Becan, O 7,312...3%
Daniel Hansen, O 12,831...5%
 
NEW HAMPSHIRE
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
Bob Preston, D 107,189...44%
x Bill Zeliff, R* 134,575...56%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Dick Swett, D* 157,199...63%
Bill Hatch, R 91,090...37%
 
NEW JERSEY
DISTRICT 1 -- 99%
x Robert Andrews, D* 150,560...70%
Lee Solomon, R 63,607...30%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x William Hughes, D* 127,987...57%
Frank LoBiondo, R 95,231...43%

DISTRICT 3 -- 99%
Timothy Ryan, D 89,347...38%
x Jim Saxton, R* 142,850...62%

DISTRICT 4 -- 99%
Brian Hughes, D 80,550...37%
x Chris. Smith, R* 139,304...63%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
Frank Lucas, D 66,746...26%
x Marge Roukema, R* 193,468...74%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
x Frank Pallone Jr., D* 111,653...54%
Joseph Kyrillos, R 95,585...46%

DISTRICT 7 -- 97%
L. Sendelsky, D 101,548...44%
x Bob Franks, R 127,726...56%

DISTRICT 8 -- 97%
x Herbert Klein, D 91,262...49%
Joseph Bubba, R 80,734...43%
Gloria Kolodziej, O 15,618...8%

DISTRICT 9 -- 99%
x Robert Torricelli, D* 132,201...61%
Patrick Roma, R 83,867...39%

DISTRICT 10 -- 99%
x Donald M. Payne, D* 104,817...79%
Alfred Palermo, R 28,061...21%

DISTRICT 11 -- 100%
Ona Spiridellis, D 65,024...27%
x Dean A. Gallo, R* 179,083...73%

DISTRICT 12 -- 98%
Frank Abate, D 80,731...33%
x Richard Zimmer, R* 167,127...67%

DISTRICT 13 -- 96%
x Robert Menendez, D 88,358...68%
Fred Theemling Jr., R 42,524...32%
 
NEW MEXICO
DISTRICT 1 -- 99%
Robert Aragon, D 75,966...38%
x Steven Schiff, R* 127,287...62%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
Dan Sosa Jr., D 73,118...44%
x Joe Skeen, R* 94,826...56%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100
x Bill Richardson, D* 120,020...67%
F. Gregg Bemis Jr., R 53,169...30%
Ed Nagel, O 4,654...3%
 
NEW YORK
DISTRICT 1 -- 98%
George J. .Hochbrueckner, D* 111,418...51%
Edward Romaine, R 105,069...49%

DISTRICT 2 -- 97%
Thomas Downey, D* 91,465...47%
xx Rick Lazio, R 104,264...53%

DISTRICT 3 -- 98%
Steve Orlins, D 112,063...47%
Peter King, R 118,345...49%
Louis Roccanova, O 6,889... 3%
Ben-Zion Heyman, O 2,949... 1%

DISTRICT 4 -- 99%
Philip Schiliro, D 97,583...46%
x David Levy, R 107,285...50%
Vincent Garbitelli, O 9,168... 4%

DISTRICT 5 -- 95%
x Gary L. Ackerman, D* 97,425...52%
Allan Binder, R 86,316...46%
Andrew Duff, O 5,180... 3%

DISTRICT 6 -- 99%
x Floyd H. Flake, D* 92,654...81%
D. Bhagwandin, R 21,276...19%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
x Thomas Manton, D* 67,843...56%
Dennis Shea, R 52,734...44%

DISTRICT 8 -- 99%
x Jerrold Nadler, D 126,832...81%
David Askren, R 24,227...16%
Margaret Byrnes, O 4,873... 3%

DISTRICT 9 -- 99%
x C. Schumer, D* 111,399...89%
Alice Gaffney, O 14,273...11%

DISTRICT 10 -- 100%
x Edolphus Towns, D* 93,271...96%
Owen Augustin, O 4,320... 4%

DISTRICT 11 -- 99%
x Major R. Owens, D* 75,574...95%
Michael Gaffney, O 4,122... 5%

DISTRICT 12 -- 99%
x Nydia Velazquez, D 51,608...77%
Angel Diaz, R 13,945...21%
Ruben Franco, O 1,420... 2%

DISTRICT 13 -- 100%
Sal Albanese, D 70,447...38%
x Susan Molinari, R* 102,715...56%
Kathleen Murphy, O 10,428... 6%

DISTRICT 14 -- 100%
xx Carolyn Maloney, D 94,613...51%
Bill Green, R* 89,423...49%

DISTRICT 15 -- 100%
x Charles B. Rangel, D* 97,398...95%
Jose Suero, O 4,817... 5%

DISTRICT 16 -- 99%
x Jose Serrano, D* 81,632...91%
Michael Walters, R 7,868... 9%

DISTRICT 17 -- 98%
x Eliot L. Engel, D* 92,802...81%
Martin Richman, R 15,898...14%
Kevin Brawley, O 2,977... 3%
Martin O'Grady, O 2,861... 2%

DISTRICT 18 -- 96%
x Nita M. Lowey, D* 102,269...55%
Joseph DioGuardi, R 83,282...45%

DISTRICT 19 -- 98%
Neil McCarthy, D 81,941...39%
x Hamilton Fish Jr., R* 125,417...61%

DISTRICT 20 -- 99%
Jonathan Levine, D 61,630...29%
x Benjamin Gilman, R* 139,712...67%
Robert Garrison, O 8,045... 4%

DISTRICT 21 -- 91%
x M. McNulty, D* 147,173...63%
Nancy Norman, R 82,668...34%
William Donnelly, O 7,108... 3%

DISTRICT 22 -- 99%
David Roberts, D 80,713...34%
x Gerald Solomon, R* 154,416...66%

DISTRICT 23 -- 98%
Paula DiPerna, D 56,841...29%
x S.Boehlert, R* 126,879...64%
Geoffrey Grace, O 7,496... 4%
Randall Terry, O 8,045... 4%

DISTRICT 24 -- 100%
Marg. Ravenscroft, D 44,798...23%
x John McHugh, R 116,254...61%
Morrison Hosley, O 25,848...14%
Stephen Burke, O 4,330... 2%

DISTRICT 25 -- 100%
Rhea Jezer, D 105,364...44%
x James T. Walsh, R* 132,279...56%

DISTRICT 26 -- 99%
xx Maurice Hinchey, D 114,133...51%
Bob Moppert, R 105,037...47%
Mary Dixon, O 6,556... 3%

DISTRICT 27 -- 99%
W. Douglas Call, D 86,531...37%
x Bill Paxon, R* 150,451...63%

DISTRICT 28 -- 100%
x Louise Slaughter, D* 138,318...55%
William Polito, R 111,233...45%

DISTRICT 29 -- 98%
x John J. LaFalce, D* 124,276...55%
William Miller Jr., R 95,328...42%
Kenneth Kowalski, O 7,118... 3%

DISTRICT 30 -- 96%
Dennis Gorski, D 105,391...46%
xx Jack Quinn, R 119,102...52%
Mary Refermat, O 5,857... 3%

DISTRICT 31 -- 100%
Joseph Leahey, D 49,379...24%
x A. Houghton Jr., R* 143,463...71%
G. McManus, O 10,190... 5%
 
 NORTH CAROLINA
DISTRICT 1 -- 99%
x Eva Clayton, D 115,508...68%
Ted Tyler, R 54,133...32%

DISTRICT 2 -- 99%
x Tim Valentine, D* 112,367...55%
Don Davis, R 92,164...45%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Martin Lancaster, D* 100,602...56%
Tommy Pollard, R 80,062...44%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x David E. Price, D* 170,753...66%
Vicky Goudie, R 89,147...34%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Steve Neal, D* 117,256...54%
Richard Burr, R 101,605...46%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Robin Hood, D 66,810...29%
x Howard Coble, R* 161,880...71%

DISTRICT 7 -- 96%
x Charles Rose III, D* 85,684...59%
Robert Anderson, R 61,267...41%

DISTRICT 8 -- 99%
x Bill Hefner, D* 109,779...61%
Coy Privette, R 70,177...39%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
Rory Blake, D 71,415...33%
x Alex McMillan, R* 145,455...67%

DISTRICT 10 -- 100%
Ben Neill, D 78,979...35%
x Cass Ballenger, R* 148,900...65%

DISTRICT 11 -- 100%
John Stevens, D 107,894...45%
x Charles Taylor, R* 130,103...55%

DISTRICT 12 -- 100%
x Melvin Watt, D 126,836...72%
Barb. Washington, R 49,191...28%
 
NORTH DAKOTA
AT-LARGE -- 99%
x Earl Pomeroy, D 168,371...59%
John Korsmo, R 116,979...41%
 
 OHIO
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x David Mann, D 117,689...51%
Jim Berns, O 12,444... 5%
Steve Grote, O 99,741...43%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
Thomas Chandler, D 75,127...30%
x Willis . Gradison, R* 175,514...70%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Tony Hall, D* 144,854...60%
Peter Davis, R 98,049...40%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
Raymond Ball, D 91,718...39%
x Michael G. Oxley, R* 145,484...61%

DISTRICT 5
x Paul Gillmor, R* Uncontested

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
xx Ted Strickland, D 121,223...51%
Bob McEwen, R* 117,681...49%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
Clifford Heskett, D 65,525...29%
x David Hobson, R* 162,764...71%

DISTRICT 8 -- 100%
Fred Sennet, D 68,159...29%
x John Boehner, R* 167,485...71%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
x Marcy Kaptur, D* 176,877...77%
Ken Brown, R 52,431...23%

DISTRICT 10 -- 100%
Mary R. Oakar, D* 102,573...43%
xx Martin Hoke, R 134,711...57%

DISTRICT 11 -- 100%
x Louis Stokes, D* 152,328...78%
Beryl Rothschild, R 43,152...22%

DISTRICT 12 -- 100%
Bob Fitrakis, D 68,250...29%
x John Kasich, R* 169,548...71%

DISTRICT 13 -- 100%
x Sherrod Brown, D 133,489...60%
Margaret Mueller, R 88,202...40%

DISTRICT 14 -- 100%
x Thomas Sawyer, D* 163,454...68%
Robert Morgan, R 77,953...32%

DISTRICT 15 -- 100%
Richard Cordray, D 97,599...37%
x Deborah Pryce, R 115,710...44%
Linda Reidelbach, O 47,178...18%

DISTRICT 16 -- 100%
W. Mendenhall, D 89,509...36%
x Ralph Regula, R* 156,963...64%

DISTRICT 17 -- 100%
x J. Traficant Jr., D* 214,433...84%
Salvador Pansino, R 40,381...16%

DISTRICT 18 -- 100%
x D. Applegate, D* 164,390...68%
Bill Ress, R 76,868...32%

DISTRICT 19 -- 100%
x Eric Fingerhut, D 137,140...53%
Robert Gardner, R 123,308...47%
 
OKLAHOMA
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
John Selph, D 106,619...47%
x James M. Inhofe, R* 119,211...53%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Mike Synar, D* 118,542...56%
Jerry Hill, R 87,657...41%
William Vardeman, O 7,314... 3%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Bill Brewster, D* 155,934...75%
Robert Stokes, R 51,725...25%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Dave McCurdy, D* 140,841...71%
Howard Bell, R 58,235...29%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
Laurie Williams, D 107,579...47%
x Ernest Jim Istook, R 123,237...53%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
x Glenn English, D* 134,734...68%
Bob Anthony, R 64,068...32%
 
OREGON
DISTRICT 1 -- 92%
Elizabeth Furse, D 118,133...54%
Tony Meeker, R 100,955...46%

DISTRICT 2 -- 99%
Denzel Ferguson, D 82,823...33%
x Bob Smith, R* 166,394...67%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Ron Wyden, D* 177,745...81%
Al Ritter, R 40,752...19%

DISTRICT 4 -- 99%
x Peter DeFazio, D* 183,358...72%
Richard Schulz, R 71,446...28%

DISTRICT 5 -- 99%
x Mike Kopetski, D* 159,617...65%
Jim Seagraves, R 86,254...35%
 
PENNSYLVANIA
DISTRICT 1 -- 99%
x T. Foglietta, D* 150,183...81%
Craig Snyder, R 35,345...19%

DISTRICT 2 -- 98%
x Lucien Blackwell, D* 160,786...77%
Larry Hollin, R 47,393...23%

DISTRICT 3 -- 96%
x Robert Borski, D* 125,596...60%
Charles Dougherty, R 82,909...40%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Ron Klink, D 186,346...79%
Gordon Johnston, R 48,332...21%

DISTRICT 5
x Bill Clinger Jr., R* Uncontested

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
x Tim Holden, D 106,939...52%
John Jones, R 97,156...48%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
Frank Daly, D 93,453...34%
x Curt Weldon, R* 179,541...66%

DISTRICT 8 -- 100%
Peter Kostmayer, D* 114,039...47%
xx Jim Greenwood, R 129,737...53%

DISTRICT 9
x Bud Shuster, R* Uncontested

DISTRICT 10 -- 100%
Joseph McDade, D 76,863...36%
x Joseph McDade, R* 113,503...54%
Albert Smith, O 19,800...10%

DISTRICT 11 -- 100%
x Paul E. Kanjorski, D* 138,557...67%
Michael Fescina, R 66,743...33%

DISTRICT 12
x John Murtha, D* Uncontested

DISTRICT 13 -- 100%
xx M. Mezvinsky, D 127,534...50%
John Fox, R 126,445...50%

DISTRICT 14 -- 100%
x William Coyne, D* 164,827...73%
Byron King, R 60,932...27%

DISTRICT 15 -- 100%
xx Paul McHale, D 110,865...53%
Don Ritter, R* 98,482...47%

DISTRICT 16 -- 100%
Robert Peters, D 74,648...35%
x Robert S. Walker, R* 137,818...65%

DISTRICT 17 -- 100%
Bill Sturges, D 65,826...30%
x George Gekas, R* 150,074...70%

DISTRICT 18 -- 100%
Frank Pecora, D 96,736...39%
x Rick Santorum, R* 153,154...61%

DISTRICT 19 -- 100%
Paul Kilker, D 73,849...34%
x William Goodling, R* 96,883...45%
Thomas Humbert, O 43,939...20%

DISTRICT 20 -- 100%
x Austin Murphy, D* 114,408...51%
Bill Townsend, R 108,261...49%

DISTRICT 21 -- 100%
John Harkins, D 74,049...33%
x Thomas Ridge, R* 149,857...67%
 
RHODE ISLAND
DISTRICT 1 -- 99%
David Carlin, D 45,460...26%
x Ronald Machtley, R* 130,282...74%

DISTRICT 2 -- 99%
x Jack Reed, D* 138,780...75%
James Bell, R 47,456...25%
 
SOUTH CAROLINA
DISTRICT 1 -- 100
Bill Oberst Jr., D 59,538...34%
x A. Ravenel Jr., R* 117,599...66%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100
x Floyd Spence, R* 148,041...88%
Geb Sommer, O 20,714...12%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Butler Derrick Jr., D* 118,927...61%
Jim Bland, R 75,558...39%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
Liz Patterson, D* 94,179...49%
xx Bob Inglis, R 99,838...51%

DISTRICT 5 -- 99%
x John Spratt Jr., D* 111,439...61%
Bill Horne, R 71,604...39%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
x James Clyburn, D 119,282...65%
John Chase, R 64,372...35%
 
SOUTH DAKOTA
AT-LARGE -- 100%
x Tim Johnson, D* 229,646...71%
John Timmer, R 89,123...28%
Robert Newland, O 3,932...1%
 
 TENNESSEE
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
J. Carr Christian, D 48,122...29%
x Jimmy Quillen, R* 115,095...71%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
Troy Goodale, D 52,766...26%
x John Duncan Jr., R* 148,203...74%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Marilyn Lloyd, D* 106,899...51%
Zach Wamp, R 103,409...49%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Jim Cooper, D* 99,113...66%
Dale Johnson, R 49,949...34%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Bob Clement, D* 125,181...72%
Thomas Stone, R 49,385...28%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
x Bart Gordon, D* 119,595...58%
Marsha Blackburn, R 85,949...42%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
David Davis, D 75,008...37%
x Don Sundquist, R* 126,766...63%

DISTRICT 8 -- 99%
x John S. Tanner, D* 134,444...84%
Lawrence Barnes, O 9,598... 6%
Millard McKissack, O 4,628... 3%
John Vinson, O 5,412... 3%
David Ward, O 6,922... 4%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
x Harold E. Ford, D* 123,269...67%
Charles Black, R 60,603...33%
 
 TEXAS
DISTRICT 1
x Jim Chapman, D* Uncontested

DISTRICT 2 -- 99%
x Charles Wilson, D* 116,246...56%
Donna Peterson, R 90,571...44%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Sam Johnson, R* 201,670...86%
Noel Kopala, O 32,542...14%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Ralph Hall, D* 127,987...60%
David Bridges, R 83,867...40%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x John Bryant, D* 98,160...61%
Richard Stokley, R 62,181...39%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
John Dietrich, D 73,787...28%
x Joe Barton, R* 188,762...72%

DISTRICT 7
x Bill Archer, R* Uncontested

DISTRICT 8 -- 100%
Charles Robinson, D 53,164...24%
x Jack Fields Jr., R* 172,881...76%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
x Jack Brooks, D* 118,607...56%
Steve Stockman, R 94,980...44%

DISTRICT 10 -- 100%
x Jake Pickle, D* 177,233...72%
Herbert Spiro, R 68,646...28%

DISTRICT 11 -- 100%
x Chet Edwards, D* 119,206...67%
James Broyles, R 57,813...33%

DISTRICT 12 -- 100%
x Pete Geren, D* 125,343...63%
David Hobbs, R 74,334...37%

DISTRICT 13 -- 100%
x Bill Sarpalius, D* 118,370...60%
Beau Boulter, R 77,783...40%

DISTRICT 14 -- 99%
x Greg Laughlin, D* 137,184...72%
Humberto Garza, R 54,567...28%

DISTRICT 15 -- 100%
x Kika de la Garza, D* 86,197...60%
Tom Haughey, R 56,811...40%

DISTRICT 16 -- 100%
x Ron Coleman, D* 66,731...52%
Chip Taberski, R 61,870...48%

DISTRICT 17 -- 100%
x C. Stenholm, D* 136,106...66%
Jeannie Sadowski, R 69,834...34%

DISTRICT 18 -- 100%
x C. Washington, D* 110,794...68%
Edward Blum, R 52,984...32%

DISTRICT 19 -- 100%
Terry Moser, D 47,326...23%
x Larry Combest, R* 161,896...77%

DISTRICT 20
x Henry Gonzalez, D* Uncontested

DISTRICT 21 -- 100%
James Gaddy, D 62,791...25%
x Lamar Smith, R* 190,712...75%

DISTRICT 22 -- 100%
Richard Konrad, D 67,520...32%
x Tom DeLay, R* 146,639...68%

DISTRICT 23 -- 99%
A. Bustamante, D* 63,423...39%
xx Henry Bonilla, R 98,012...61%

DISTRICT 24 -- 100%
x Martin Frost, D* 104,167...60%
Steve Masterson, R 70,036...40%

DISTRICT 25 -- 100%
x Mike A. Andrews, D* 97,656...59%
Dolly McKenna, R 68,407...41%

DISTRICT 26 -- 100%
John Wayne Caton, D 55,237...27%
x Dick Armey, R* 150,209...73%

DISTRICT 27 -- 100%
x Solomon Ortiz, D* 87,223...57%
Jay Kimbrough, R 66,449...43%

DISTRICT 28 -- 100%
x Frank Tejeda, D 122,068...87%
David Slatter, O 18,158...13%

DISTRICT 29 -- 100%
x Gene Green, D 63,192...66%
Clark Ervin, R 32,754...34%

DISTRICT 30 -- 100%
x Eddie B. Johnson, D 107,830...74%
Lucy Cain, R 37,853...26%
 
UTAH
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
Ron Holt, D 68,549...28%
x James Hansen, R* 159,601...65%
William Lawrence, O 16,463... 7%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Karen Shepherd, D 127,543...52%
Enid Greene, R 118,013...48%

DISTRICT 3 -- 99%
x William Orton, D* 134,190...62%
Richard Harrington, R 83,104...38%
 
VERMONT
AT-LARGE -- 99%
Lewis Young, D 20,989... 8%
Tim Philbin, R 82,443...32%
x Bernie Sanders, O* 152,551...60%
 
VIRGINIA
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
Andrew Fox, D 89,353...40%
x Herb. Bateman, R* 132,685...60%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100
x Owen B. Pickett, D* 99,127...56%
Jim Chapman, R 77,789...44%

DISTRICT 3 -- 99%
xx Robert Scott, D 130,998...79%
Daniel Jenkins, R 35,348...21%

DISTRICT 4 -- 99%
x Norman Sisisky, D* 144,965...69%
Tony Zevgolis, R 66,405...31%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Lewis Payne Jr., D* 132,867...69%
Bill Hurlburt, R 59,761...31%

DISTRICT 6 -- 99%
S. Musselwhite, D 83,967...40%
xx Robert Goodlatte, R 126,590...60%

DISTRICT 7 -- 99%
x Thomas Bliley Jr., R* 209,919...83%
Gerald Berg, O 42,971...17%

DISTRICT 8 -- 99%
x James Moran, D* 135,698...57%
Kyle McSlarrow, R 101,447...43%

DISTRICT 9 -- 99%
x Rick Boucher, D* 131,557...63%
L. Garrett Weddle, R 77,718...37%

DISTRICT 10 -- 100%
Raymond Vickery, D 75,744...34%
x Frank R. Wolf, R* 143,778...66%

DISTRICT 11 -- 100%
x Leslie Byrne, D 113,461...52%
Henry Butler, R 103,091...48%
 
WASHINGTON
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
xx Maria Cantwell, D 128,885...57%
Gary Nelson, R 96,540...43%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Al Swift, D* 116,118...56%
Jack Metcalf, R 89,923...44%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Jolene Unsoeld, D* 124,393...56%
Pat Fiske, R 96,773...44%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
xx Jay Inslee, D 91,118...51%
Richard Hastings, R 86,127...49%

DISTRICT 5 -- 99%
x Thomas S. Foley, D* 123,110...55%
John Sonneland, R 99,692...45%

DISTRICT 6 -- 99%
x Norman D. Dicks, D* 121,162...70%
Lauri Phillips, R 51,297...30%

DISTRICT 7 -- 100%
x Jim McDermott, D* 198,657...81%
Glenn Hampson, R 45,351...19%

DISTRICT 8 -- 99%
George Tamblyn, D 73,654...34%
x Jennifer Dunn, R 129,475...60%
Bob Adams, O 12,354... 6%

DISTRICT 9 -- 99%
x Mike Kreidler, D 94,656...53%
P. von Reichbauer, R 73,763...42%
Timothy Brill, O 2,886... 2%
Brian Wilson, O 5,787... 3%
 
WEST VIRGINIA
DISTRICT 1
x Alan B. Mollohan, D* Uncontested

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
x Bob Wise Jr., D* 143,923...71%
Samuel Cravotta, R 58,666...29%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
x Nick Joe Rahall II, D* 119,500...66%
Ben Waldman, R 61,887...34%
 
WISCONSIN
DISTRICT 1 -- 100%
x Les Aspin, D* 147,026...58%
Mark Neumann, R 104,349...42%

DISTRICT 2 -- 100%
Ada Deer, D 107,480...37%
x Scott Klug, R* 181,845...63%

DISTRICT 3 -- 100%
Paul Sacia, D 107,458...43%
x S. Gunderson, R* 145,200...57%

DISTRICT 4 -- 100%
x Gerald Kleczka, D* 172,903...67%
Joseph Cook, R 84,463...33%

DISTRICT 5 -- 100%
x Thomas Barrett, D 159,446...70%
D. Hammersmith, R 68,676...30%

DISTRICT 6 -- 100%
Peggy. Lautenschlager, D 128,350...47%
x Thomas E. Petri, R* 143,843...53%

DISTRICT 7 -- 99%
x David R. Obey, D* 165,365...64%
Dale Vannes, R 91,591...36%

DISTRICT 8 -- 100%
Catherine Helms, D 82,032...30%
x Toby Roth, R* 191,037...70%

DISTRICT 9 -- 100%
Ingrid Buxton, D 77,903...29%
x J. Sensenbrenner, R*
 193,335...71%
 
WYOMING
AT-LARGE -- 100%
Jon Herschler, D 77,364...39%
x Craig Thomas, R* 113,712...58%
Craig McCune, O 5,673... 3%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; BLACKS (IN US) ; WOMEN; ELECTION RESULTS FILIBUSTER (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (79%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN (74%); CHRISTMAS (68%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (91%); BARBARA MIKULSKI (89%); PATTY MURRAY (89%); BARBARA BOXER (89%); MARK TAKANO (79%); MICHAEL N CASTLE (79%); PETER J VISCLOSKY (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); DAN BURTON (79%); HOWARD L BERMAN (79%); JOHN LEWIS (79%); TOM DASCHLE (79%); JOE GARCIA (79%); STEVE BUYER (79%); ED PASTOR (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); NATHAN DEAL (79%); TED KENNEDY (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (79%); JOHN T DOOLITTLE (79%); CHRISTOPHER COX (79%); TERRY EVERETT (79%); JOHN WARNER (79%); THAD COCHRAN (79%); JEFF BINGAMAN (79%); DONALD A MANZULLO (79%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (79%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (79%); ROBERT BYRD (79%); TERRY CONSIDINE (79%); TOM LANTOS (79%); HERB KOHL (79%); JACK KINGSTON (79%); MIKE CRAPO (79%); DANIEL INOUYE (79%); EDWARD R ROYCE (79%); JOHN SHIMKUS (79%); JOHN LINDER (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (79%); WAYNE ALLARD (79%); JERRY LEWIS (79%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (79%); JOE BIDEN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (79%); HARRY REID (79%); BUCK MCKEON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN L MICA (79%); LARRY CRAIG (79%); BOB FILNER (79%); JIM NUSSLE (79%); ROBERT E CRAMER JR (79%); NANCY PELOSI (79%); DANIEL AKAKA (79%); DAVID DREIER (79%); TED STEVENS (79%); LYNN C WOOLSEY (79%); PETE DOMENICI (74%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (74%); JERRY F COSTELLO (74%); KEN CALVERT (74%); DUNCAN HUNTER (73%); HENRY WAXMAN (73%); MAXINE WATERS (73%); ROBERT BENNETT (69%); PETE PETERSON (60%); TRENT LOTT (59%); MAX BAUCUS (59%); ORRIN HATCH (59%); DANIEL WEBSTER (59%); LUIS V GUTIERREZ (59%); LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (59%); BYRON DORGAN (59%); CONNIE MACK (59%); ARLEN SPECTER (59%); BOBBY L RUSH (59%); ALCEE L HASTINGS (59%); PATRICK LEAHY (59%); JON KYL (59%); ANNA G ESHOO (59%); JANE HARMAN (59%); RUSS FEINGOLD (59%); ELTON GALLEGLY (59%); SPENCER BACHUS (59%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); XAVIER BECERRA (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%); ROSA DELAURO (58%); DAN COATS (58%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



178 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: THE WORLD -- FOREIGN POLICY;
Clinton Warns U.S. Foes And Reassures Its Friends

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
President-elect Bill Clinton's declaration today that no foreign nation should "doubt America's resolve" during this transition period was intended to signal adversaries, particularly President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, that they should not try to test the young new American leader, Clinton aides said.
Mr. Clinton's statement also appeared, in part, to be an effort to address any lingering public doubts that his lack of experience in foreign affairs and his efforts to avoid military service during the Vietnam War would in some way diminish his abilities to be an effective Commander in Chief. 
 Mr. Clinton and his foreign policy aides concluded in the weeks leading up to the election that if he won, the leaders of Iraq, Iran or China -- whose elderly statesmen have grandchildren Mr. Clinton's age -- might be tempted to test him when he takes office in January.
Clinton aides were specifically concerned that a foreign leader might try to take advantage of the Arkansas Governor's foreign policy inexperience, recalling that Nikita S. Khrushchev thought he could take advantage of President John F. Kennedy after the botched effort to topple Fidel Castro of Cuba in 1961.
 
Facing Hussein's Glee
 When Mr. Clinton was receiving foreign policy briefings during the campaign, he often asked experts: "Where will I be tested first? What should I say to prevent that?" one adviser recalled.
Clinton aides said today's statement was carefully written with such questions in mind, and it got an extra jolt after the news that President Hussein fired his gun into the air in defiant celebration of President Bush's electoral defeat. As one Clinton adviser put it: "The only world leader who was unreservedly for Bill Clinton is Saddam Hussein, and we have to make sure he regrets that."
It may have seemed odd that Mr. Clinton, who ran a campaign focused on domestic economic concerns, would use his first statement the morning after his election to send a foreign policy message. But the choice reflected the sense among many Clinton foreign policy advisers, as well as senior Bush Administration officials, that while the nation has been focused inward on the campaign and domestic affairs, serious problems have begun brewing abroad and will be inherited by Mr. Clinton.
Hyperinflation and challenges from right-wing extremists are threatening to topple the democratically elected government of President Boris N. Yeltsin in Russia, which has already put on hold the withdrawal of troops from the Baltic republics and is backtracking on some of its agreements with the Bush Administration to destroy nuclear arms. Meanwhile, a series of ethnic wars are flaring up around its borders.
Iran's increasingly aggressive behavior and arms buildup has prompted the United States to augment its naval presence in the Persian Gulf as a counterweight. Other problems, like the prospect of further widespread starvation this winter in Bosnia and Somalia or a potential breakdown of the Arab-Israeli peace talks, could be enough to derail Mr. Clinton's plans to be first and foremost a domestic President.
As Defense Secretary Dick Cheney remarked on the eve of the election, "I would put forward the proposition that the next set of American policy makers will face tougher challenges, more difficult problems than anything we have had to deal with over the course of the last four or five years."
Mr. Clinton's statement today was also intended to be a note of reassurance to longtime allies. When Mr. Clinton said he wanted to "reaffirm the essential continuity of American foreign policy," he did so with the knowledge that certain important American allies, like Saudi Arabia, Japan and some European nations, are extremely uneasy about the passing of the Republican Bush Administration, with which they had worked closely.
King Fahd of Saudi Arabia had a strong personal relationship with Mr. Bush, with whom he planned the gulf war, and the Saudis were quietly rooting for his re-election. The Japanese are very wary of the protectionist instincts within the Democratic Party, as opposed to Mr. Bush's unabashed free-trade instincts, and the Europeans have always been more comfortable with Mr. Bush's unsentimental realpolitik view of the world than traditional liberal democratic instincts.
Mr. Clinton, aides said, wanted to get off on the right foot with all of them by signaling from the outset that there will be much more continuity in American foreign policy than might have been suggested by the heated campaign debates.
With an eye to the problems that he might inherit, and with an effort to put the best face possible on them, Mr. Clinton declared that he looked forward to "working closely with President Bush to insure continuity in global affairs of interest to all Americans, from continued progress in the Mideast peace talks, to completing negotiations on the details of the Start II arms control agreement, to making progress toward a good agreement on our world trade talks, to bolstering Russia's fledgling democracy, to working toward peaceful resolution of the conflict in the republics of the former Yugoslavia, to assisting the victims of famine in Somalia."
Mr. Clinton, aides said, specifically mentioned the Arab-Israeli peace talks because all the various parties are returning to Washington on Monday to resume negotiations, which have been stalled on all fronts save for Israel and Jordan.
The message Mr. Clinton wanted to send to both Arabs and Israelis, say aides, is that progress in their peace talks will be a foreign policy priority. The negotiators, they said, should therefore remain seriously engaged and not withhold concessions just to see what will happen after he takes office. With everything else he will have to worry about, Mr. Clinton does not want to have to worry about reviving these negotiations as well.
While Mr. Clinton indicated his intention to maintain the continuity of American foreign policy in the Persian Gulf, he may not have the resources in the region to do it. At the end of December Turkey is scheduled to decide whether it will continue to let its air bases be used as part of the gulf war military coalition, and in specific for maintaining the no-fly zone over northern Iraq and the relief effort for Iraqi Kurds.
At the moment, political sentiment in Turkey is running strongly against remaining in the coalition. The American military operations in the gulf have from the start been built on three pillars: Saudi Arabian bases, Turkish bases, and American naval power. If Turkey pulls out, it would seriously diminish that triad and the operational effectiveness of American forces in that part of the world.
"If you want to keep Saddam in a box, you need to be able to keep the lid on, and that is not going to be easy without Turkey," said one foreign policy adviser to President-elect Clinton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (64%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN BUSH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN BUSH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GULF STATES (58%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (64%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (62%); COUPS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (55%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



179 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: THE STATES -- THE BALLOT ISSUES;
Move to Limit Terms Gathers Steam After Winning in 14 States

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The national movement to impose term limits on members of Congress gathered momentum today following sweeping approval of such limits by voters in 14 states Tuesday.
Leaders of the movement said today that they hoped the vote would pressure Congress to draw up a constitutional amendment imposing uniform national limits on the service of Senators and Representatives. The state measures passed Tuesday all varied somewhat, generally setting limits of 12 years for senators and 6 to 12 years for representatives, depending on the state. 
 "We have a mammoth mandate," said James K. Coyne 3d, a former Congressman from Pennsylvania who founded Americans to Limit Congressional Terms, an advocacy group based in Washington that claims 300,000 members. "We now have a six-year window of opportunity to force, or persuade, Congress to do the right thing and pass it uniformly for the whole country by a Constitutional amendment."
The term-limit votes presented a stark paradox. Even as voters passed them by margins of nearly 2 to 1 or larger, they handily re-elected most veteran incumbents to Congress. Here in California, for example, the initiative passed with the support of 63 percent against 37 percent, but all except one or two of the 36 incumbent Representatives running won re-election. Of the 116 incumbents running in the 14 states voting on term limits, only 6 lost, and only 19 lost nationally.
 
Scores of Ballot Questions
 Proponents of term limits said this added evidence that incumbents were too entrenched and powerful, while opponents said it showed that people were satisfied with their representation and that terms should not be truncated.
The term-limit initiatives were among scores of measures on ballots in 23 states that permit law-making by direct vote. Except for the term-limits trend, few significant patterns emerged.
Here in California, voters soundly defeated a measure to permit doctors to assist terminal patients in ending their lives. Californians also dealt a blow to their Republican Governor, Pete Wilson, rejecting a measure he backed to enhance his power in budget making and cut welfare grants. They also spurned, by more than 2 to 1, a doctor-sponsored measure requiring businesses to provide health insurance to employees.
Colorado rejected a school choice plan to allow parents to take public education dollars to private schools. Arizona, after years of bitter conflict, finally created a paid state holiday for the birthday of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. And Massachusetts residents imposed a new excise tax of 25 cents a pack on cigarettes to subsidize smoking-related health programs, but rejected a measure to require recyclable packaging.
 
Rebellion in Capital
 Maryland voters approved an initiative writing into law the provisions of Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion. If a future Court should overturn Roe v. Wade, the new measure would prohibit the state from interfering with a woman's decision to abort a pregnancy before the fetus is viable. It also repealed requirements that women be given information about alternatives to abortion.
And in a vote that touched on local sensitivity over Congressional influence over local affairs in the nation's capital, voters in the District of Columbia overwhelmingly rejected a Congressional initiative establishing the death penalty for murder. The measure was a result of the murder of a Senate aide on Capitol Hill.
The term-limits measures could give members of Congress a predicament. Beginning in January, more than a quarter of the Senate and nearly a third of the House will be serving under a ticking clock, limited in tenure like the President. Colorado passed such limits in 1990.
According to Mr. Coyne, the new Congress will include about 225 members who are under state-imposed limits or who have pledged to support limits.
Speaker Thomas S. Foley, Democrat of Washington, considers the measures unconstitutional and expects them to lose on court challenge, according to a spokesman, Jeffrey R. Biggs.
Representative George E. Brown Jr., a 72-year-old California Democrat who has been in Congress since 1963 except for one two-year term and who won yet another term Tuesday, expressed a common view: "I don't like term limits enacted state by state. If adopted as a Constitutional amendment by all states, I wouldn't be enthusiastic, but I could live with it."
If Congress does not make the issue moot with an amendment, the state-passed limits face almost certain challenge from incumbents in the Federal courts on the ground that the Constitution controls eligibility for Federal offices and that it specifies only age, citizenship and residency for members of Congress.
It was unclear just when such a challenge could be brought since no one would be barred from running again before 1998. "My guess is if you were to bring one to court now, the court would not consider it ripe," said one leading Constitutional scholar, Gerald Gunther of Stanford University, adding that the most likely time for such a suit would be after an incumbent wins his last permissible election four years from now, though "it depends on the judge."
He said he considered the state measures unconstitutional. "I personally think it's an abomination to restrict the choice of voters to this extent," he said. "We should allow the public to select anybody they want, subject to the limitations of the Constitution."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "ISSUES: Ballot Initiatives Around the Country"
ABORTION
Maryland Initiative 6: Eases restrictions on abortion. Yes 62 %; No 38 %
Arizona Initiative 110: Eliminates public funding of abortion, except when mother's life is threatened. Yes 31 %; No 69 %
 
EDUCATION
Colorado Initiative 7: Allows parents to use state funds to send children to school of their choice. Yes 33%; No 67%
 
ENVIRONMENT
Massachusetts Initiative 3: Requires all packaging in state to be reduced in size and made of recyclable material. Yes 41%; No 59%
Oregon Initiative 6: Requires shareholders to clean up nuclear power plant and bans operation until permanent waste storage site is found. Yes 43%; No 57%
 
EQUAL RIGHTS
Iowa Initiative 1: Institutes state version of Equal Rights Amendment. Yes 48%; No 52%

EUTHANASIA
California Initiative 161: Allows doctors to assist in requested death by terminally ill patients. Yes 46%; No 54%
 
HEALTH CARE
California Initiative 166: Requires employers to provide basic health care for employees and dependents. Yes 32%; No 68%
 
HOMOSEXUAL RIGHTS
Colorado Initiative 2: Denies preferential treatment to homosexuals based on minority status. Yes 53%; No 47%
Oregon Initiative 9: Amends state constitution to require that government discourage homosexuality. Yes 43%; No 57%

TAXES
Colorado Initiative 1: Requires taxpayer approval for tax rate hikes, debt increases and spending increases above inflation. Yes 54%; No 46%
Oregon Initiative 7: Increases taxes on property other than owner-occupied homesand decreases taxes for renters. Yes 25%; No 75%

GAMBLING
South Dakota Initiative 2: Repeals the state's video lottery. Yes 37%; No 63%

TERM LIMITS
All 14 state initiatives apply limits to United States Senators and Congressman, and all but North Dakota also apply them to state senators and representatives. The number of terms permitted varies by state.
Arizona Yes 74%; No 26%
Arkansas Yes 60%; No 40%
California Yes 63%; No 37%
Florida Yes 77%; No 23%
Michigan Yes 59%; No 41%
Missouri Yes 74%; No 26%
Montana Yes 67%; No 33%
Nebraska Yes 68%; No 32%
North Dakota Yes 55%; No 45%
Ohio Yes 66%; No 34%
Oregon Yes 69%; No 31%
South Dakota Yes 63%; No 37%
Washington Yes 52%; No 48%
Wyoming Yes 77%; No 23%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; ELECTION RESULTS; TERM LIMITS (POLITICAL OFFICE); ELECTION ISSUES TERM LIMITS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); TRENDS (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); BUDGETS (66%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); SMOKING (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); ABORTION (61%); APPEALS (60%); SCHOOL CHOICE (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); EXCISE TAX (60%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (60%); EDUCATION FUNDING (60%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



180 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: VOTERS -- STATE LEGISLATURES;
Elections Change Face Of Lawmaking Bodies

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS

 BODY:
There will be an enormous transfer of power in state capitals next January as a result of Tuesday's elections, which gave one of every three or four seats in state legislatures to newcomers, many of them female, black or Hispanic, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
The turnover, the largest in at least a decade, may shift control of legislative chambers to a new party in as many as 14 states when the ballots are finally tallied. Republicans have already won six of these legislative battles and could well win four more. 
 "When you have so many green legislators, there is a great opportunity to shape new issues, but there is also the possibility of chaos, where nothing much gets done," said Steven D. Gold, director of the Center for the Study of the States at the Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany.
This year's high turnover may also foreshadow the future, given Tuesday's passage of term limits for legislators in 14 states, said Alan Rosenthal, director of the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University. "We can expect a higher and higher turnover in the membership and leadership of state legislatures, and that means a loss of continuity, institutional memory and, to some extent, expertise," Mr. Rosenthal said. "And that is likely to mean more confrontation and more conflict over the issues."
 
1 in 6 Decide to Retire
 "More than any other single reason, the decision by one in six legislators not to seek re-election created this year's high turnover, according to the conference's surveys. Some legislators sought other offices, and some retired because their districts were redrawn or eliminated after the 1990 census. But many quit out of frustration with the thankless task of balancing budgets during a recession, and others decided to leave before being forced out by term limits.
Bruce Bronzan, for example, announced his plan to resign from the California Assembly last week, just before running unopposed and winning his sixth two-year term on Tuesday. "If you know your legislative career is going to end in four years, you can't wait until the last minute to decide what to do with the rest of your life," Mr. Bronzan, who is 45 years old, said Tuesday.
The Democratic Assemblyman from Fresno said he had accepted an offer to become an associate dean at the University of California School of Medicine. Turnover in the California Assembly, where terms are limited to six years, is expected to exceed 40 percent.
Of the 7,461 legislative seats in state capitols, 6,255 were up for election on Tuesday, and voters filled over 2,000 of those positions with newcomers. Nearly 1,500 races were still undecided on Wednesday, but William T. Pound, executive director of the conference of state legislatures, estimated that the number of women would increase by about two percentage points, or twice the increase in any election during the 1980's. That would mean women's representation in the nation's legislatures will increase to 20 percent in January from 18 percent this year and 12 percent in 1981.
Mr. Pound also said black and Hispanic candidates seemed to have made gains, largely because many legislative districts were redrawn after the 1990 census, to comply with 1982 amendments to the Voting Rights Act, mandating the creation of districts favorable to minority candidates when possible.
Blacks hold 6 percent of the nation's state legislative seats this year, up from 5 percent in 1981. Hispanic legislators hold 2 percent of the seats this year. The conference did not calculate a Hispanic percentage in 1981 because there were so few.
This year's turnover varies greatly by state, ranging from less than 15 percent of the members of the New York Legislature, to 37 percent of the Connecticut Legislature, to 58 percent of the Alaska Legislature, which had the highest turnover this year. New Jersey had a 25 percent turnover in its State Legislature last year, and Republicans gained control of both houses.
There will be so many freshmen legislators in state capitals that they are expected to assume leadership roles quickly. Most committees in the Kansas Senate, for example, will be headed by new members, said Paul B. Burke, the Senate president.
Going into this election, Democrats held a majority in both houses in 29 states and controlled 70 of the nation's 99 chambers. (Nebraska has a unicameral legislature that is nominally nonpartisan.) The Republicans controlled both chambers in 6 states this year, and the parties share legislative leadership in 14 states.
Now, Democrats control both houses in 25 states and 64 chambers; Republicans control both chambers in 9 states, and a total of 30 chambers. Legislative control is shared in 15 states.
The Republicans did the best at the polls on Tuesday, according to the conference of state legislatures. They solidified control of three state legislatures by winning control of a second chamber in Kansas, Arizona and Idaho. Republicans also gained control of one chamber each in Alaska, Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, Montana and Vermont.
Preliminary counts also suggest that Republicans may win control of the Iowa House, the North Dakota Senate, the Oregon House and the Nevada Senate. Republicans gained one seat in the Democratic-led Florida Senate, creating a 20-to-20 split; similarly, Pennsylvania Democrats won enough seats to tie up, but not to control, the Republican-led Senate.
Democrats won control of the South Dakota Senate and the Washington Senate. In three states where Democrats control the legislatures, victories by Democratic candidates for governor will unify party leadership. They are Lieut. Gov. Mel Carnahan in Missouri, Mike Lowry in Washington and former Gov. Jim Hunt in North Carolina.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (58%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (58%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; STATES (US); WOMEN; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) LEGISLATIVE BODIES (96%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TERM LIMITS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WOMEN (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); BUDGETS (62%); CENSUS (51%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



181 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: DISAPPOINTMENT -- THE TURNOUT;
55% Voting Rate Reverses 30-Year Decline

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
Voter turnout rose substantially this year, reversing a three-decade decline, political scientists said yesterday.
Curtis Gans, director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, said it appeared that 104 million Americans, representing 55 percent of the voting-age population, cast ballots in this year's Presidential election. 
 The turnout rate is probably the highest since 1972, when 55.2 percent of the eligible people voted, he said. He said he was unable to calculate the turnout rate of registered voters because not all states were prompt in accounting for voters who had died or moved away.
Using different techniques, Voter Research & Surveys, the television polling consortium, estimated a turnout rate of 54 percent for the voting-age population.
Mr. Gans and other election experts said anger over the condition of the economy drew many people to the polls. "Recession always tends to focus the mind and increase turnout," he said.
Even more influential, he said, was Ross Perot's specific appeal to people who felt disenfranchised and had not voted in recent elections. He said preliminary data showed that the Democratic share of the eligible vote rose very slightly, while the Republican share declined, suggesting that Mr. Perot caused the overall increase in turnout.
The independent got more than 19 million votes on Tuesday.
Ruy A. Teixeira, a sociologist at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said the candidates' debates and television call-in programs like "Larry King Live" had also increased people's "psychological involvement in politics."
Nationwide, the Census Bureau says, there are 189 million people of voting age, 18 years old and over.
Comparing 1988 and 1992, the turnout rate rose about six percentage points in Connecticut, to 64 percent, according to Voters Research & Surveys. In New York, it stayed about the same, at 48 percent. In New Jersey, the turnout rate rose two percentage points, to 55 percent.
Mr. Gans said many New York residents were apparently put off by the bitter contest for the United States Senate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: About 104 million Americans, representing 55 percent of the voting-age population, turned out to vote yesterday, the highest rate since 1972. These voters lined up to cast their ballots in a garage in Austin, Tex. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "Voter Turnout" shows turnout of voters each year from '32 to '92 (Source: Census Bureau & Voter Research & Surveys)
 
Table: "STATE BY STATE: VOTER TURNOUT"
Percentage of the voting-age population that voted.
An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
* Incomplete results

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMITTEE FOR THE STUDY OF THE AMERICAN ELECTORATE; VOTER RESEARCH & SURVEYS VOTER RESEARCH&SURVEYS (71%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE FOR THE STUDY OF THE AMERICAN ELECTORATE; VOTER RESEARCH & SURVEYS US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; VOTING REQUIREMENTS AND VOTERS VOTERS & VOTING (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CENSUS (72%); 

PERSON: GANS, CURTIS; PEAR, ROBERT; PEROT, ROSS LARRY KING (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



182 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Transcript of Clinton's Remarks on White House Transition

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of remarks by President-elect Bill Clinton yesterday in Little Rock, Ark., as recorded by News Transcripts Inc., a private transcription service:
Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard a summary of President Bush's recently concluded remarks. I'd like to begin by expressing my appreciation for them. I'd like to read this statement.  
 Today I want to reaffirm the essential continuity of American foreign policy and my desire to seek bipartisan support for our role in the world.
During the transition that is now beginning, I urge America's friends and foes alike to recognize, as I do, that America has only one President at a time, that America's foreign policy remains solely in his hands, that even as America's Administrations change, America's fundamental interests do not, that the greatest gesture of good will any nation can make toward me is to continue their full cooperation during this period with our one President, George Bush, and that the greatest mistake any adversary could make would be to doubt America's resolve during this period of transition.
I look forward to working closely with President Bush to insure continuity in global affairs of interest to all Americans, from continued progress in the Mideast peace talks to completing negotiations on the details of the START II arms control agreement, to making progress toward a good agreement on our world trade talks, to bolstering Russia's fledgling democracy, to working toward peaceful resolution of the conflict in the republics of the former Yugoslavia, to assisting the victims of famine in Somalia.
I also look forward to getting to work on the hard and vital task of restoring our nation's economic strength. Today I say to our financial and business leaders that although change is on the horizon, we understand the need to pursue stability even as we pursue new growth.
The changes I seek will strengthen America's market systems not weaken them.
And to the people of our great nation, for whom we pledge to get up every morning and work hard to bring the economic opportunity that was at the core of the Clinton-Gore campaign, I say that the task has already begun. It will not be easy, but we will spare no effort to restore growth, jobs and incomes to the American people.
Let me also stress the stakes and the opportunities in the months and years that lie ahead. The cold war is won. Now we have a chance to build a new peace. We have entered a global economy. Now we have the opportunity to master its competitive challenges rather than let these changes undermine our strength. We have become a diverse people of many colors and languages and beliefs. Now we have the obligation to insure that our diversity is a source of strength and pride to all of us here at home and around the world.
We've become a nation of 250 million Americans. Now we have the opportunity, the duty and the imperative to see that we do not leave even one of those 250 million behind as we move toward the next century.
We have entered a period of great challenge and extraordinary opportunity for our nation. I am confident we can make it a proud time in our history, proud for the families who are raising this nation's next generation, proud for the workers and businesses who are America's lifeblood, proud for the men and women who wear America's uniforms and proud for the peoples of other nations living today in freedom, or in fear, who draw strength from American ideals, and share our vision of a peaceful and more prosperous world.
America has called upon me to be our next President. But our forebears call on all of us at this moment to honor their efforts, their sacrifices, their ideals and their lives by working hard and working together to improve this good and great nation as much for our children and our children's children as those who preceded us did for us.
They call on us to take our dreams and our hopes and make them real. Thank you, and God bless America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOMALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARK ASA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOMALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS TRANSCRIPTS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); COLD WAR (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); POLITICS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (65%); FAMINE (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



183 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: NEW YORK STATE -- U.S. HOUSE RACES;
Years of Seniority Are Gone in One Swoop

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
Every year when New York City wanted to make sure it would get its $9 million in Federal help to pay for police protection for the United Nations, Representative Bill Green of Manhattan, a seven-term Republican, was there on the Appropriations Committee to see it through.
And when New York State wanted the Federal Government to pay a greater share of job-training for welfare recipients, Thomas J. Downey of Long Island, a nine-term Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, shepherded the measure into the tax bill sitting on President Bush's desk. 
 But yesterday, city and state officials were grappling with the knowledge that they may soon be flying without radar in Washington: With the defeat of Mr. Downey and Mr. Green, and the loss, through retirement, defeat in the primary, or death, of 10 other senior Representatives, New York is relinquishing 214 years of combined seniority on Capitol Hill.
The loss, which experts call the worst for any state in decades, is the most extreme example of the down side of the anti-incumbent fervor that swept the nation in this year of scandals, redistricting and search for change.
"It will take us a generation to get back the delegation that vanished yesterday," Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan said, as he pored over the Congressional Directory, totaling the losses. "We will never have as little influence as we do now."
 
A Young Delegation
 He said that the loss of seniority and influence in New York was the worst thing to happen to the delegation since he began working for Gov. W. Averell Harriman's office in the 1950's, worse than the gradual loss of 10 seats through redistricting over the last three decades, including three in this year's election.
To be sure, among the nine new representatives are many with decades of government experience, like Peter King, the Nassau County Comptroller, a Republican, or Jerrold Nadler, a seasoned Democratic legislator from Manhattan, who hope to advance rapidly in a Congress that will have more than 100 freshmen next year.
But in the sometimes subtle ways power is wielded in Washington, many longtime Washington hands say it could take years before the huge class of 1993 develops the clout -- seniority, the sophistication, and the relationships with long-serving committee chairmen -- to bring home the goods for New York.
It is a sign of these troubled times that, in a delegation known more for conflict than cooperation, remaining members have begun working with city and state officials to find strategies to help incoming freshmen fill important vacancies -- including the loss of all three New Yorkers on the House Appropriations Committee and two of three on the influential Ways and Means Committee.
"I'm making a special plea to the Speaker to give special attention to the new members of the New York delegation as it relates to committee assignments," said Charles B. Rangel, who emerged as the senior Democrat and as a high-ranking member of the Ways and Means Committee, and one of the few well-placed representatives New York has left.
"It is a tremendous loss," he said. "Let's face it. New people on the block don't have that much influence."
The losses include two ranking minority slots on full committees, six ranking minority slots on subcommittees, four subcommittee chairmen, two acting subcommittee chairmen and one of two New Yorkers on the Armed Services Committee.
While the new Congress will have dropped about a quarter of all incumbents, New York lost 35 percent of its delegation, members with an average of 18 years in the House. "I don't think any state has anything comparable in recent memory," said Michael J. Malbin, a researcher at the Rockefeller Institute who studies Congress.
He said the loss of Mr. Downey and David Martin, an upstate Republican on the Armed Services Committee, could affect the state's ability to defend upstate military installations, like Fort Drum and the air base at Plattsburg, at a time of military retrenchment.
Brad Johnson, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's Washington lobbyist, said it would take years to rebuilt the seniority that was lost this year. He especially noted the loss of Mr. Downey, who only last week was meeting with the Governor on proposals to retool the state's defense industries.
He said there would be an effort by the state's delegation to work out conflicts over committee assignments in private, in order to bolster the state's efforts to regain lost committee seats, particularly on Ways and Means and Appropriations.
Judy Chesser, head of Mayor David N. Dinkins's Washington office, said: "Our hope and goal would be to try to encourage the new members to go on some of these important committees and secure those positions."
Both said that with the loss of influence in the House, they would have to rely more on the state's well-placed senators, and develop new channels in the Clinton Administration.
 
Placing the Blame
 Many incumbents, those who survived and those who did not, today blamed the state Legislature, and its disruptive battles on reapportionment, for the waves of retirements and defeats that routed the stalwarts of the delegation. The Legislature, unable to agree on a plan of its own, eventually passed a plan that was essentially drawn by the courts.
Asked to explain the losses, one legislator said, "Ask the people who screwed up the lines up there and had us twisting in the wind."
Whatever the cause, the effects are clear. Enter, stage left, nine new representatives, still more or less shell-shocked from often bitter elections. The new members will add two women to the delegation, for a total of five, and one new minority member for a total of six.
Carolyn B. Maloney, a Democrat on the New York City Council, defeated Mr. Green, a 14-year Republican veteran in the Silk Stocking district on the East Side of Manhattan.
 
'Better Off With Me'
 Saying she would be a more effective legislator because Mr. Green had supported President Reagan's 1981 tax package, Ms. Maloney said, "The delegation is going to be a lot better off with me because I am not going to vote against the city's interests."
Rick Lazio, a Suffolk County Legislator who defeated Mr. Downey, the acting chairman of the Human Services subcommittee, said his chief goal would be "more employment for Long Island."
Mr. King, another Republican newcomer to Washington, sat back for a moment to savor the change.
"Yesterday I was playing with the Democrats on the Nassau Board of Supervisors; today I get a call from Jack Kemp, to talk about national economic policy."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Who Won Where: New York's Congressional Races"
x - Winner
xx - Winner and change in party control
(i) - Incumbent
 
NEW YORK
District 1 - Reporting: 98%
 George J. Hochbrueckner, Dem (i) 111,418 - 51%
Edward Romaine, GOP 105,069 - 49%
District 2 -- 97%
 Thomas J. Downey, Dem (i) 91,465 - 47%
xx-Rick Lazio, GOP 104,264 - 53%
District 3 -- 98%
 Steve Orlins, Dem 112,063 - 47%
xx Peter King, GOP 118,345 - 49%
Louis Roccanova, Oth 6,889 - 3%
Ben-Zion Heyman, Oth 2,949 - 1%
District 4 -- 99%
 Philip Schiliro, Dem 97,583 - 46%
x-David Levy, GOP 107,285 - 50%
Vincent Garbitelli, Oth 9,168 - 4%
District 5 -- 95%
 x-Gary L. Ackerman, Dem (i) 97,425 - 52%
Allan Binder, GOP 86,316 - 46%
Andrew Duff, Oth 5,180 - 3%
District 6 -- 99%
 x-Floyd H. Flake, Dem (i) 92,654 - 81%
Dianand Bhagwandin, GOP 21,276 - 19%
District 7 -- 100%
 x-Thomas J. Manton, Dem (i) 67,843 - 56%
Dennis Shea, GOP 52,734 - 44%
District 8 -- 99% -Open
 x-Jerrold Nadler, Dem 126,832 - 81%
David Askren, GOP 24,227 - 16%
Margaret Byrnes, Oth 4,873 - 3%
District 9 -- 99%
 x-Charles E. Schumer, Dem (i) 111,399 - 89%
Alice Gaffney, Oth 14,273 - 11%
District 10 -- 100%
 x-Edolphus Towns, Dem (i) 93,271 - 96%
Owen Augustin, Oth 4,320 - 4%
District 11 -- 99%
 x-Major R. Owens, Dem (i) 75,574 - 95%
Michael Gaffney, Oth 4,122 - 5%
District 12 -- 99%
 x-Nydia Velazquez, Dem 51,608 - 77%
Angel Diaz, GOP 13,945 - 21%
Ruben Franco, Oth 1,420 - 2%
District 13 -- 100%
 Sal Albanese, Dem 70,447 - 38%
x-Susan Molinari, GOP (i) 102,715 - 56%
Kathleen Murphy, Oth 10,428 - 6%
District 14 -- 100% -Dem Gain
xx-Carolyn Maloney, Dem 94,613 - 51%
Bill Green, GOP (i) 89,423 - 49%
District 15 -- 100%
 x-Charles B. Rangel, Dem (i) 97,398 - 95%
Jose Suero, Oth 4,817 - 5%
District 16 -- 99%
 x-Jose Serrano, Dem (i) 81,632 - 91%
Michael Walters, GOP 7,868 - 9%
District 17 -- 98%
 x-Eliot L. Engel, Dem (i) 92,802 - 81%
Martin Richman, GOP 15,898 - 14%
Kevin Brawley, Oth 2,977 - 3%
Martin O'Grady, Oth 2,861 - 2%
District 18 -- 96%
 x-Nita M. Lowey, Dem (i) 102,269 - 55%
Joseph DioGuardi, GOP 83,282 - 45%
District 19 -- 98%
 Neil McCarthy, Dem 81,941 - 40%
x-Hamilton Fish Jr., GOP (i) 125,417 - 60%
District 20 -- 99%
 Jonathan Levine, Dem 61,630 - 29%
x-Benjamin A. Gilman, GOP (i) 139,712 - 67%
Robert Garrison, Oth 8,045 - 4%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; ELECTION RESULTS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); REDISTRICTING (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); US HOUSE ELECTIONS (72%); TAX LAW (70%); 

PERSON: BARBANEL, JOSH; GREEN, BILL (REPR); DOWNEY, THOMAS J (REPR) GEORGE W BUSH (76%); CHARLES SCHUMER (73%); CHARLES B RANGEL (72%); JOSE E SERRANO (72%); NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (58%); ED TOWNS (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); JERROLD NADLER (58%); GARY L ACKERMAN (57%); ELIOT L ENGEL (57%); NITA M LOWEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



184 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
A.T.& T. is negotiating to buy a third of McCaw, the nation's largest cellular phone operator, for $3.8 billion. The alliance would take advantage of the research prowess of A.T.& T.'s Bell Laboratories, accelerate the growth of the cellular industry as well as hasten the arrival of personal communications technology. [Page D1.]
Paramount named Sherry Lansing chairwoman of its motion picture group. Ms. Lansing, a former president of 20th Century Fox, replaces Brandon Tartikoff, who resigned last week. [D1.] 
 Union officials are hoping for improved labor relations at G.M. under Jack Smith, the new chief executive. [D1.]
Teledyne was accused in a lawsuit of falsifying test results on electronics equipment it sold to the military and of bribing overseas officials. Federal investigators are said to be investigating. [D4.]
Light truck sales surged, pushing overall sales of domestically built vehicles up 9.7 percent in late October. For all of October, sales of all types of vehicles rose 7.7 percent. [D4.]
Volvo will close two plants and lay off 4,500 workers. The plants to be closed include the Kalmar factory, where Volvo developed its team-assembly approach. [D4.]
The Church's and Popeye's chains emerged from bankruptcy under the ownership of lenders who provided some $400 million in financing for the fried-chicken restaurants. [D5.]
Rockwell International reported a 9 percent decline in its fourth-quarter earnings and a loss for the year. [D5.]
Woolworth had 59 percent increase in quarterly earnings as its store reorganization program continued to produce results. [D5.]
 
International
The United States plans to announce punitive taxes on European imports today because of the breakdown of trade talks on farm subsidies, United States officials said. [D1.]
Spain expects a further realignment of currency rates in the European monetary system to be necessary before the end of the year, according to Finance Minister Carlos Solchaga. [D2.]
 
The Economy
Business and finance leaders show restrained hope as they look to a future under Bill Clinton as President. Some say they approve of his open-mindedness about the economy, while others say they fear Goverment might grow too big. [D1.]
Three post-election reports find the economy lackluster. The reports were issued by the Federal Reserve, the Commerce Department and the United States Chamber of Commerce. [D3.]
President Bush vetoed a $27 billion tax bill that included enterprise zones designed to aid the cities.[A22.]
 
Markets
Blue-chip stocks fell sharply as investors became nervous about Bill Clinton's plans to stimulate the economy. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 29.44 points at 3,223.04. [D10.]
The Clinton election was good news for investors who own municipal bonds and the dealers who sell them, because higher taxes would effectively increase the securities' yield. [D17.]
Oil prices dropped after it was reported that OPEC nations pumped more oil last month than in a dozen years. [D18.] The dollar settled mostly higher on world currency markets. [D18.]
 
Today's Columns
Some economists say commercial banking is dying and they fear that no efficient system will exist for channeling the nation's savings to the creditworthy. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Biotechnology stocks may be inviting because they have dropped so far, and one analyst has devised methods for measuring the prospects of biotech companies. Market Place. [D10.]
Nissan moved the $165 million advertising account for Infiniti from Hill, Holliday to Chiat/Day/Mojo. Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (71%); BELL LABORATORIES (58%); A T&T 'S BELL LABORATORIES (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: A T&T 'S BELL LABORATORIES (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); RETAIL SALES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); PLANT CLOSINGS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (68%); BONDS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); RESTAURANTS (65%); TAX LAW (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); TRADE DISPUTES (63%); CURRENCIES (63%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



185 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: THE WORLD -- WORLD VIEW;
Foreigners Hope Clinton Keeps Policy

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 4

 BODY:
After sitting through an American election campaign that largely ignored international affairs, many world leaders expressed hope today that a Clinton Administration will not veer far from President Bush's foreign policies.
Much like the Americans who voted for President-elect Clinton, however, many foreign governments are looking to the new Administration to revive the stagnating domestic economy in the belief that only a United States recovery can lift the global economy out of recession. 
"The revitalization of the American economy is important not only for the United States alone, but also for Japan and for the whole world," Japan's Foreign Minister, Michio Watanabe, said, echoing a widely held view throughout the world.
In Western Europe and Japan, though, many people also fear that Mr. Clinton may favor greater protection of American markets, particularly after the breakdown of global trade liberalization talks on Tuesday raised the specter of a trade war between the United States and the European Community.
 
Anxiety in Mideast
 Elsewhere, there are other reasons for apprehension. In the Middle East, there is anxiety that Arab-Israeli peace talks may lose their momentum. From Moscow, appeals came for continued American support for Russia's economic reforms. China's nervousness over its relations with Mr. Clinton was apparent in the absence of an official reaction.
Yet the generally calm reaction of both financial markets and foreign governments today suggested that no drastic change in American foreign policy is expected after Jan. 20. During the campaign, Mr. Clinton sent emissaries to reassure allies that he offered continuity on important issues, and he repeated that assurance today in Little Rock.
"Even as America's administrations change, America's fundamental interests do not," Mr. Clinton said.
 
Not Well Know Abroad
 The President-elect is still little known abroad, and since he moved ahead in the polls last July, officials from Buenos Aires to Warsaw have been avidly studying his background and occasional pronouncements for indications as to his likely policies.
Significantly, reflecting their preference for continuity, several world leaders went out of their way to praise Mr. Bush for the way he handled the post-cold war transition in Europe, nuclear disarmament, the Persian Gulf War and efforts to bring permanent peace to the Middle East.
In a message to Mr. Clinton, for example, President Francois Mitterrand of France recalled the traditional friendship between his nation and the United States. In a message to Mr. Bush, the French leader spoke of "the excellent cooperation which never failed between us."
Other leaders stressed that, as the sole remaining superpower, the United States had a special role to play in the world and could not opt for isolationism. "I want to say that we are still counting on America's leadership in this period of global instability," Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa of Japan told Parliament.
NATO's Secretary-General, Manfred Worner, added that he was sure the Atlantic alliance could still count on strong leadership from Washington. Mr. Clinton has said he favors reducing the American troop strength in Europe from the 150,000 level proposed by Mr. Bush to between 75,000 and 100,000, but this has caused no alarm inside the alliance.
Germany's Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, who congratulated Mr. Clinton in a telephone call early today, stressed that close solidarity with the United States is "even more important as we face new challenges after the end of the East-West conflict.
Many governments, though, viewed the election result through the narrower prism of bilateral relations. Describing Mr. Bush as "an exemplary leader of the Western world," Britain's Prime Minister John Major said he was confident that the special relationship between London and Washington would continue.
But a senior British official said Whitehall was concerned about Mr. Clinton's campaign promise to send an envoy to investigate human-rights abuses in Northern Ireland. "We see the greatest threat to human rights in Ireland as being the I.R.A.," the official said.
 
Addressing Yugoslavia
 European leaders said they are hoping Mr. Clinton will abandon Washington's current hands-off policy towards the Yugoslav crisis and assume a more active role in trying to end the fighting there.
Their most immediate concern, however, is that frustration over the breakdown in global trade talks could lead to an exchange of sanctions between the United States and the European Community even before Mr. Clinton takes office.
Foreign Minister Roland Dumas of France said "it is necessary for the new Administration to take on the issue and to make new proposals to the Europeans."
In a message of congratulation today from Moscow, President Boris N. Yeltsin said he hoped "the new United States Administration will continue active support of Russia's reforms."
In Warsaw, where President Lech Walesa went as far as endorsing Mr. Bush's re-election this summer, there was evident concern that Poland may soon be of little interest to Washington. A spokesman for Mr. Walesa noted that Mr. Clinton's predecessors" had helped bring down the Berlin Wall.
In the Middle East, the responses were mixed. Syrian officials expressed fear that Mr. Clinton would adopt a more pro-Israeli stance. But President Saddam Hussein of Iraq fired a gun in the air to celebrate Mr. Bush's defeat. "Bush fell a long time ago when he decided to bomb Baghdad," Mr. Hussein said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Iraqi family gathered around the television last night in Baghdad to watgch updates on the news of the United States elections.; Democratic supporters in Hong Kong watching the early television projections in the election. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (70%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (75%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (70%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (75%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ELECTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); RECESSION (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); DESERT STORM (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); TRADE DISPUTES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



186 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Impose a Tax On European Imports

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The United States plans to announce punitive taxes on European imports on Thursday morning, taking another step toward a trans-Atlantic trade war after the breakdown of talks on farm subsidies, American officials said today.
Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, will announce taxes of 100 percent or more on up to $350 million worth of luxury European exports, mainly white wines from France, said two American officials who insisted on anonymity. Rufus Yerxa, a deputy United States trade representative, said the Customs Service would begin collecting the taxes 30 days after an announcement was made.
 
Retaliation Proceeds
 The delay is needed to instruct customs officials on the new taxes, to allow time for the arrival of goods already paid for by American importers and to permit further negotiations. Bureaucratic and legal details were worked out nearly two weeks ago, and the retaliation is now proceeding with relatively little high-level involvement in the wake of President Bush's loss in Tuesday's election. 
 After negotiations broke off Tuesday night, Ray MacSharry, the European Community's Agriculture Commissioner, and Agriculture Secretary Edward R. Madigan said that they were willing to talk further on the issue of agricultural supports but had not scheduled any more meetings. But American officials were not optimistic about the prospects for further talks, having tried for six years to persuade the European Community to reduce its production subsidies for soybeans, rapeseed and sunflower seed, which are used in cooking oil, animal feed and paint.
The European Community issued a thinly veiled threat today to respond with taxes on American exports. An American official said that while the Administration had not reached a final decision, it was very likely that European retaliation would provoke another round of punitive taxes by the United States, covering a broader range of goods.
"It's kind of like World War I," said Harold Malmgren, who was a deputy United States trade representative in the Nixon and Ford Administrations. "Everyone is digging in."
The United States has singled out white wine and possibly truffles for four reasons: They are luxury goods that Americans do not really need. They are high-prestige exports that are sources of national pride in France. They are consumer goods rather than intermediate products like ball bearings, whose loss might shut down an American factory. And wine importers tend not to be large donors to political campaigns, so they have few friends in Congress.
The wine varieties chosen by Mrs. Hills are produced mainly in France, but smaller quantities from Italy and elsewhere in the European Community will also be hit by the taxes.
American officials have become worried in recent weeks that punishing European farm exports may not be enough to secure a deal on soybean subsidies. So they are drafting a supplemental list of industrial products that can also be taxed if necessary.
The United States asked the governing council of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade today to endorse the first stage of the planned American retaliation: the wines and truffles. But Washington was rebuffed when the European Community refused to debate the issue. The council reaches decisions only by consensus, according to a legal tradition that has paralyzed GATT, a world trade body in Geneva that drafts and enforces international free-trade rules.
 
Pressure on GATT Talks
 The current dispute puts renewed pressure on the current round of GATT talks, which began six years ago and which are aimed at reducing world trade barriers. The election of Gov. Bill Clinton on Tuesday further jeopardizes the future of the talks, which have been ailing for some time, by undermining the authority of Bush Administration officials to negotiate for the next two months.
In Little Rock, Ark., Mr. Clinton was quoted by the Reuters news agency as saying today that he would work closely with President Bush on a variety of issues, including "progress toward a good agreement on our world trade talks."
Current American law requires that a deal be completed before March 2 if Congress is to take it up under the so-called fast track procedure, which does not allow amendments.
Gary C. Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics, said that a key signal of whether Mr. Clinton wanted a quick conclusion to the trade talks would be whether he retained Mr. Yerxa and his aides in charge of the negotiations.
Mr. Yerxa is a Democrat and a former aide to Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurdisdiction over trade issues and would review a new GATT accord. The Bush Administration chose Mr. Yerxa to head the American negotiating team to build Congressional support for an eventual deal.
If Mr. Clinton replaces Mr. Yerxa and his aides, the new officials probably will not be able to finish the talks before March 2, Mr. Hufbauer said. Mr. Clinton would then have to persuade Congress to extend the negotiations, Mr. Hufbauer said.
 
Taxes Often Become Permanent
 Once imposed, punitive taxes often become permanent. The United States imposed a 25 percent tax on truck imports in the 1960's to retaliate for European restrictions on American poultry shipments. The truck tax is still in effect, and American auto makers want it extended to cover Japanese mini-vans.
Punitive taxes usually come with short grace periods before they are actually collected, but Washington trade lawyers could recall only one case that had been settled during a grace period. The United States announced 200 percent duties on imports of European pork and cheeses on Jan. 26, 1987, in retaliation for higher Spanish taxes on American corn and sorghum, but the two sides settled the case within days, said Alan F. Holmer, who was the White House's chief trade lawyer then.
Usually the announcement of taxes so poisons the atmosphere that further talks show little results.
Higher taxes on French wine are unlikely to affect American consumers immediately, because wine importers have already brought in huge inventories. But if the duties become permanent, prices for affected wines could eventually double.
France shipped nearly 50 million bottles of wine to the United States last year. Americans drank about 2 billion bottles of wine last year, most of it produced domestically.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN IMPORTS LTD (92%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AGRICULTURE; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US) TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); WORLD WAR I (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ANIMAL FOODS (73%); POLITICS (72%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



187 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Shareholders Charge Teledyne With Fraud and Bribery

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 4

 BODY:
A shareholder lawsuit was filed today charging that Teledyne Inc., a prominent military contractor here, falsified test results on electronics equipment it sold to the military and that the company bribed officials in Egypt and Saudi Arabia to gain new aerospace business.
Congressional staff members and lawyers involved in the case said the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the House Energy and Commerce Committee and several Defense Department agencies were investigating the fraud and bribery charges, which were made public in an amended shareholder lawsuit filed today. 
 The suit is the latest in a growing tangle of disclosures about questionable practices in Teledyne's military businesses. It accuses Teledyne of falsifying test results on electronic identification systems used in military aircraft and weapon systems to determine whether an approaching target is a friend or enemy. Teledyne is also accused of hiring foreign military officials who are said to have bribed Government officials in Egypt and Saudi Arabia to get business for the company.
 
Fined in Previous Case
 The new charges against Teledyne come just four weeks after the company pleaded guilty to charges that it falsified testing on electronic relay devices and agreed to pay $17.5 million in fines, the largest penalty ever imposed on a military contractor for defrauding the Government.
Teledyne, a secretive contractor that makes aviation and electronics products, has been hit with a flood of lawsuits in recent years, most filed under the Federal False Claims Act, which allows whistle-blowers to share in any settlement or any financial recovery won by the Government.
Critics of Teledyne contend that the latest accusations raise questions about the company's ability to police itself and about Teledyne's financial future, which is being threatened by the deluge of lawsuits.
In addition to the court-imposed criminal fines, some industry analysts and lawyers representing the whistle-blowers have speculated that the company could face more than $1 billion in civil fines and penalties in the relay case alone.
The Pentagon has also suspended the division of the company responsible for doing the relay tests from doing business with the Government until criminal investigations are completed.
There are at least five other lawsuits pending against the company, including one filed by Stephen Reddy, a senior program manager for Teledyne's Middle East division. Mr. Reddy has said he saw a former Egyptian general, who was hired by Teledyne, make cash bribes to Egyptian officials on several occasions.
Mr. Reddy's suit remains under seal while the Justice Department investigates the claim and decides whether to take over prosecution of the case. The case was first reported in The Los Angeles Times last week. Much of the shareholder suit filed today is based on information contained in the Reddy case.
Berkley J. Baker, a Teledyne spokesman, said the company had not yet been served with the shareholder lawsuit and thus could not comment. Teledyne has a reputation of being uncommunicative, so much so that its strategy and operations remain a mystery even to investors.
Teledyne is a widely diversified conglomerate, with about 40 percent of its revenues coming from aircraft parts and electronics, which have been hurt by weakness in military and aerospace spending. The company's specialty metals, industrial and consumer products businesses -- which include shower massagers, water filters and heaters -- have suffered from the recession.
In the third quarter that ended Sept. 30, Teledyne reported a profit but said it could report a loss in a future quarter when Federal fraud charges were settled. Teledyne had net income of $16.3 million, or 29 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $79.8 million in the third quarter of 1991. Revenue dropped 6.5 percent, to $708 million.
 
Embarked On Restructuring
 The company has embarked on a restructuring to eliminate a number of low-profit operations, which some analysts have said should benefit margins in other segments. But that strategy has proved costly. Teledyne took after-tax charges of $68.9 million in 1991 to cover losses to dispose of 24 operations being restructured.
Sidney J. Heller, an analyst for Lehman Brothers, said that Teledyne's earnings had been disappointing and that the lawsuits would have a negative impact on the company's earnings. As a result, Mr. Heller said he had rated the stock neutral.
Howard A. Rubel, an analyst for C. J. Lawrence, said that the growing number of lawsuits against Teledyne was becoming a serious liability for the company. "All I can say at the moment is that it raises a lot of questions as to character, which is disheartening because I don't sense that the management of this company is trying to rip people off," Mr. Rubel said.
The company is taking the position that former employees are trying to take advantage of the Federal False Claims Act.
The shareholder lawsuit is a derivative suit filed on behalf of the company today by Marshall Wolf, an investor, against Teledyne's senior management in Delaware Chancery Court. Corporate officers are usually insured against such suits, and any awards from the suit are paid to the corporation.
 
False Testing Alleged
 According to the shareholder lawsuit, Teledyne's electronics division, in Newberry Park, Calif., engaged in wholesale false testing of "identification friend or foe" systems. Test equipment was said to have been programmed to print out passing results for equipment that had not been tested or failed to pass.
The suit also charges that Teledyne hired Qayed Nadim, a retired major general of the Egyptian Air Force and member of the Egyptian royal family, to funnel money to air force personnel to get new contracts and retain existing business for Teledyne. It similarly charges that Teledyne's Saudi Arabia division paid bribes to Abdullah Khayat, the husband of the sister of a colonel in the Saudi Air Force.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TDY (NYSE) (92%); ATI (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (92%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (92%); NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (91%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3325 STEEL FOUNDRIES, NEC (91%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TELEDYNE INC TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INC (92%); ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INC (91%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (61%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELEDYNE INC FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EGYPT; SAUDI ARABIA EGYPT (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; BRIBERY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS LITIGATION (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (92%); BRIBERY (92%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (91%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (72%); CRIMINAL FINES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN STEPHEN REDDY (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



188 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2196 words

HEADLINE: Executives' Outlook On Clinton Presidency

 BODY:
Although they traditionally favor Republican Presidents and policies, the nation's business, economic and finance leaders look to a future with the Democrat Bill Clinton as President by showing restrained hope if not hats-in-the-air enthusiasm.
In a series of interviews, some expressed the view that the nation's economy may well benefit from what they regard as the open-mindedness of President-elect Clinton in coping with the economy. Others voiced the fear that Government might grow too big again under a Democrat but were now nevertheless optimistic about the nation's chances for long-term economic growth. 
 Among the mildly optimist forecasts for dealing with a problem of concern to all, the growing national budget deficit, was that of the chairman of Chase Manhattan Corporation, Thomas G. Labrecque: "I think Clinton has as good a chance of doing something about the deficit as a Republican administration."
Following are comments from interviews yesterday:
 
M.R. Greenberg
Chairman of American International Group.
 Mr. Greenberg said that economic growth under Mr. Clinton would depend upon the new Administration's understanding that private enterprise creates jobs and that international protectionism can destroy them.
"Avoid protectionism," Mr. Greenberg said, when asked for his first thought for the President-elect. "That is a pox on everybody's house."
Mr. Greenberg, who is regarded as a leading voice of the insurance industry and who had close ties with the Bush Administration, said he would welcome an end to the deadlock between a Republican White House and a Democratic Congress. And Mr. Greenberg said he was optimistic about the prospects for the long-term growth of the American economy.
But as the builder of a company with half its business overseas and new enterprises under way in China and Russia, Mr. Greenberg said the new Administration must give a clear priority to free trade to insure the international economic growth upon which American jobs depend. In particular, he expressed hope that American criticism of human rights violations in China will not cut into trade and, in turn, lend support to hard-liners in Beijing.
"It is important that we not fall into shooting barbs into each other, that we avoid an international trade war," Mr. Greenberg said.
 
James D. Wolfensohn
Investment banker and close adviser to more than 30 chief executives.
 "Clinton appears to have a substantial mandate," Mr. Wolfensohn said. "The people behind him are anxious for economic leadership, and even more than that, the 19 percent who voted for Ross Perot are people who manifestly are saying we have serious economic problems and we're prepared to sacrifice to solve them."
He said he was heartened by the outpouring of support for a more forceful economic leader than Mr. Bush had been.
That consensus, he said, should help Mr. Clinton carry out the ambitious program of simultaneously pumping billions of dollars into the nation's infrastructure and social programs without raising taxes on the middle class.
In Mr. Wolfensohn's opinion, the President-elect is wise to put off taming the budget deficit until he shows some quick results of some symbolic value, like his infrastructure spending program.
Over all, Mr. Wolfensohn thinks Mr. Clinton's plan is reasonable, though he is skeptical that Mr. Clinton can raise $40 billion over four years by taxing foreign corporations. "The President-elect has great support domestically, but internationally we are in a negotiating environment where actions taken by us will be met by actions taken by other sovereign countries."
Asked to respond to rumors that Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman and inflation fighter who is Mr. Wolfensohn's partner, was being considered by the Clinton team as the next Treasury Secretary, Mr. Wolfensohn, said the departure would be a big loss for him but he would nonetheless applaud the appointment. "I have no knowledge" of Mr. Volcker's plans, Mr. Wolfensohn, said, "but he would be a marvelous choice."
 
Thomas T. Labrecque
Chairman of Chase Manhattan.
 Mr. Labrecque said Mr. Clinton's election was not the negative development that some in the financial markets had feared. In the past two months, the prospect of a Clinton victory, and the assumption that it would bring more inflation and more Government borrowing, helped lift the yield of long-term Treasury bonds to 7.68 percent from 7.21 percent.
"I think Clinton has as good a chance of doing something about the deficit as a Republican administration," Mr. Labrecque said. Because of Mr. Clinton's background in state government, where he was obliged to balance the budget, Mr. Labrecque said he was hopeful that as President, Governor Clinton will stand by his campaign promises to eventually reduce the Federal deficit from last year's $290 billion.
To gain support for his budget plans and assure nervous financial markets, Mr. Labrecque said a Clinton Administration might want to appoint a few Republicans to the Cabinet, much the way President Kennedy reached into the Republican ranks in 1960 to name C. Douglas Dillon as Treasury Secretary.
 
Graig O. McCaw
Chairman of McCaw Cellular Communications.
 Mr. McCaw looked favorably on the new Administration on the basis of his company's experience with those who have been associated with Mr. Clinton. "We view Clinton and the change in administration in a positive light because his people are very familiar with telecommunications and are open-minded about new ideas," he said. He noted that Vice President-elect Al Gore, as a Senator, had sponsored a bill, signed into law last year, that promoted research into fiber-optic telecommunications networks.
Mr. McCaw said his company provides cellular telephone service to Little Rock, Ark., and that President-elect Clinton "had in our experience been an advocate of telecommunications."
Mr. McCaw said he had greater enthusiasm for President Reagan than for President Bush. "Under Mr. Reagan, the Government was philosophically probusiness. But under Mr. Bush, it was philosophically pro status quo," tending to favor large, already established businesses.
But Mr. McCaw still has concerns about the President-elect. "A Democratic victory has the potential of making the country go back to the big-government approach and that is my greatest fear."
 
Henry Kaufman
Consultant and former chief economist at Salomon Brothers.
 For Mr. Kaufman, who speaks for the nation's bond markets as much as anyone, President-elect Clinton will be an acceptable chief executive if he adheres to a cautious economic policy. That means some deficit spending, but not enough to frighten bond traders and cause them to drive up interest rates.
"The great issue for Mr. Clinton is whether he can orchestrate a glide path for economic growth that will not disturb the financial markets," he said.
Given the weak economy, the correct glide path would include $20 billion to $30 billion in the next 12 months in public works spending, adding that much to the deficit in the process. That is more or less what Mr. Clinton has advocated but well below the $50 billion in job-creating public spending that some economists say is the minimum needed to bring economic growth to an acceptable level.
"There is some infrastructure spending that he should do modestly," Mr. Kaufman said, putting the emphasis on "modest." The markets would also approve of quick action on another item among Mr. Clinton's proposals: a tax credit that encourages companies to invest in new machinery and equipment -- creating jobs to make the machinery.
"I think there is some leeway to do the investment tax credit without breaking the budget agreement," Mr. Kaufman said, referring to the 1990 deficit reduction law that put limits on spending and tax cuts.
For Mr. Kaufman, the President-elect will have failed if bond traders get nervous that the new Administration is pumping too much new money into the economy. Fearful of inflation, they would drive up interest rates -- just when the weak economy requires lower rates, not higher ones.
"The Federal Reserve should bring down rates by another half percentage point," Mr. Kaufman said. "But the Fed will do this only if there is no danger of higher inflation."
 
Frank Levy
Labor economist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 On the crucial issue of jobs, a Clinton Administration should be helped by two forces: the timing of the economic cycle and demographics. But it must also prod the economy with a stimulus package, Mr. Levy said.
Mr. Clinton needs to bolster the economy quickly so that his longer-range plans to generate jobs through increased investment in education, training and local programs will be working in a buoyant economic environment, Mr. Levy said.
"Clinton's right to emphasize the benefits of education and training, but you need some running room before those programs really pay off," said Mr. Levy, who is the Daniel Rose Professor in Economics at M.I.T.
The new President, Mr. Levy says, should announce his deficit-reduction plans at the same time a stimulus package is rolled out. The deficit-curbing measures would likely take effect later, but they should be spelled out explicitly to ease the fears in financial markets that spending will proceed unchecked.
 
Gary C. Hufbauer
Senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics.
 Mr. Hufbauer said the election of Mr. Clinton heralded a broad philosophical change in American trade policy.
The Bush Administration had a strong ideological preference for free trade. Administration officials have tended to pay little attention to the short-term effects of trade in the belief that the world and the United States would be better off in the long term if each country produces and exports whatever it can make most efficiently and imports the rest. Mr. Hufbauer predicted that a Clinton Administration would probably look more closely at the immediate impact on jobs and economic growth in the United States.
The Bush Administration has also encouraged American companies to set up factories overseas, on the theory that the operations are necessary to winning foreign markets and that the factories will assemble American-made parts or pay royalties on American production processes. A Clinton Administration, in contrast, would encourage companies to produce at home, Mr. Hufbauer said.
The result would be "a somewhat less friendly environment for companies that are trying to expand overseas," he said.
Mr. Clinton's election makes it nearly certain that Congress will eventually approve legislation putting the provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement into American law, Mr. Hufbauer said.
Mr. Clinton, who has endorsed the need for a pact, said that the agreement negotiated by the Bush Administration fell short in several important areas, including protection of the environment and American workers. But Mr. Hufbauer said Mr. Clinton's concerns were narrow enough to be addressed quickly.
"I think we're talking about a month of negotiations at most," he said.
 
Michael H. Walsh
Chairman of Tenneco
 Mr. Walsh, an early supporter of Mr. Clinton though he predicts that his taxes, like those of many well-to-do executives, will rise, said, "I just decided early on that Clinton was reaching out to a broad constituency of people whose commitment was needed if you were going to get, not just the economy, but the country, moving again."
Mr. Walsh, who knows a thing or two about turnarounds -- having revitalized both the Union Pacific railroad and Tenneco Inc., said, "Whether you're running a company or a country in difficulty, hope is a big part of the program."
One suggestion: "Mr. Clinton's first and foremost job is to decide who's going to be Secretary of the Treasury. He's got to make an appointment at Treasury that unmistakably communicates that while his Administration stands for change, it stands equally strongly for fiscal responsibility."
Though Mr. Walsh refused to name names, he suggested that Mr. Clinton look beyond the Democratic Party for appointees. "You need a healthy dose of people who have wrestled these kinds of alligators to the ground before. This is not a job that can be done strictly by amateurs."
 
William H. Brandon Jr.
President of First National Bank of Phillips County, Helena, Ark.
 Mr. Brandon, who has known Governor Clinton since 1973, said from that vantage point, the Clinton Administration can be good news for bankers. "His policies here have been basically probusiness, and he recognizes that banks are a major vehicle for business growth."
The President-elect's advocacy of community development banks to inject more capital and stimulate the economy in poor parts of the country is not worrisome, Mr. Brandon said, even though bankers tend to groan at the idea of government intervention in lending.
"He wants to use the thousands of banks we already have rather than start something totally new with a lot of direct Federal control," Mr. Brandon said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "It is important that we not fall into shooting barbs into each other, that we avoid an international trade war." -- M. R. Greenberg (American International Group); "Clinton appears to have a substantial mandate. The people behind him are anxious for economic leadership." -- James D. Wolfensohn (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times); "I think Clinton has as good a chance of doing something about the deficit as a Republican administration." -- Thomas G. Labrecque (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); "We view Clinton and the change in administration in a positive light because his people are very familiar with telecommunications." -- Craig O. McCaw (McCaw Cellular Communications) (pg. D1); "The great issue for Mr. Clinton is whether he can orchestrate a glide path for economic growth that will not disturb the financial markets." -- Henry Kaufman (Henry Kaufman & Company); Because Clinton's concerns about the free trade agreement are narrow, "I think we're talking about a month of negotiations at most." -- Gary C. Hufbauer (Institute for International Economics) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT US PRESIDENTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); INSURANCE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); TRADE DISPUTES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GREENBERG, M R; WOLFENSOHN, JAMES D; LABRECQUE, THOMAS G; MCCAW, CRAIG O; KAUFMAN, HENRY; LEVY, FRANK; HUFBAUER, GARY C; WALSH, MICHAEL H; BRANDON, WILLIAM H JR BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



189 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: Union Pins Its Hopes on G.M.'s New Management

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 4

 BODY:
With the General Motors Corporation's newly appointed chief executive officer, John F. (Jack) Smith Jr., signaling that he needs labor's help in changing the company, industry analysts and union officials are hoping for a new era of improved labor relations at the nation's largest auto maker.
On Monday, Mr. Smith said he wanted to "find, cultivate and maintain common ground with union leaders" following weeks of rumors and worried speculation that the company's outside board of directors intended to get tough with the United Automobile Workers union. It is still too early, however, to predict what will happen next summer when the company and the union begin negotiating a new contract.
 
'It Looks Promising'
 "The rhetoric certainly goes in the direction of a more cooperative relationship," Harley Shaiken, an industry analyst at the University of California in San Diego, said. "The statement was designed to defuse rumors and to smooth the way for continued negotiations with the U.A.W. It looks promising in the short term. There is a perception that the U.A.W. is spoiling for a fight. The reality is quite different." 
 In recent weeks, Stephen P. Yokich, the U.A.W. vice president who heads the union's G.M. department, has been discussing a number of labor-related issues with Mr. Smith, including the possibility of more attractive early-retirement buyouts as a way of cutting back the work force. The average G.M. worker is about 45 years old and has been on the job some 20 years.
U.A.W. officials have declined to specify the other issues under discussion, though industry analysts say they include bringing back some of the thousands of component and assembly jobs General Motors has transferred to Mexico. Workers here are particularly bitter over their sense that they are competing with workers at General Motors plants across the border who are earning about $1.50 an hour, compared with $17 a hour in the United States plus nearly that same amount in health and other benefits.
In a joint statement Monday, after Mr. Smith's news conference in New York, Mr. Yokich and the U.A.W. president, Owen Bieber, reiterated their willingness to be a part of the solution at G.M. Their brief statement said in part, "We have indeed made some new beginnings with C.E.O. Jack Smith and his team, and look forward to building a constructive problem-solving relationship."
Union officials said they were also encouraged that Mr. Smith made a point of saying that in addition to better relations with the union, he also wants to reconsider whether G.M. needs to sell more than 100 different models and to find ways to consolidate engineering and other car-making activities to become more efficient. Mr. Shaiken and other industry analysts have said that those tasks, along with better-designed cars, will be pivotal to the company's future.
"If this is Smith's attitude, then I think the union will reciprocate," said Douglas Fraser, the retired U.A.W. president, who is a professor of labor relations at Wayne State University here. "This could be the turning point."
Now more than ever, industry analysts say, General Motors needs the support of the union to meet its goals for improved quality, efficiency and productivity while undergoing painful restructuring. They point out that both the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation were turned around in the early 80's with labor's help. Mr. Yokich, the former head of the U.A.W.'s Ford department, played a key role in Ford's turnaround in the 80's.
"It would be easy to stand back and say, 'Labor is in decline; nuke 'em,' " said an executive at one of the other auto companies, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "But that's not true for the auto industry. The U.A.W. is a powerful, well-organized union. G.M. needs the cooperation of labor for orderly downsizing."
The U.A.W. is already playing an important role in G.M.'s transition by helping arrange transfers of thousands of laid-off workers from one G.M. plant to another. But the transfers have created a new class of auto worker -- the so-called G.M. gypsies -- and generated considerable pain for those who are displaced and created political turmoil for union officials.
The company and the union have also been involved in a number of successful joint projects, with the Saturn plant in Spring Hill, Tenn., perhaps the best-known example of innovation on the assembly lines.
 
Dwindling Union Membership
 The U.A.W. may still be one of labor's better organized, more powerful unions. But it has lost nearly 40 per cent of its membership in the last 12 years, dropping to about 850,000 from 1.4 million, largely because of lost jobs in industries such as autos and farm equipment. The union has not organized any of the Japanese auto assembly plants in the United States, and it suffered a national defeat last spring at Caterpiller when striking workers went back to work after management threatened to hire replacements.
At G.M. since 1978, 210,000 hourly jobs have been lost, with thousands more expected over the next several years.
"You cannot get decent production and decent quality if you have everyone on the edge of fear," said Irving Bluestone, a retired U.A.W. vice president who is also a professor of labor relations at Wayne State. And it is not only hourly workers who are afraid of losing their jobs these days, Mr. Bluestone added, but salaried ones, too.
 
'A Very Uneasy Relationship'
 G.M. has alienated thousands of workers in the last several years by a mix of secrecy and overly generous bonuses to executives. The company has also pitted assembly plants against each other to determine which to close, as in the case of the Willow Run plant in Ypsilanti, Mich., which will shut down sometime next year after losing what analysts describe as a bidding war with a plant in Arlington, Tex.
G.M. has repeatedly declined to specify its reasons for choosing Arlington, beyond saying that it needed only one plant to make full-sized, rear-wheel-drive Chevrolets and Buicks. And since last February's announcement of the Willow Run closing, G.M. has refused all requests from news reporters to visit the plant, though they are invited to tour other plants.
"Throughout the 1980's, G.M. has had a very uneasy relationship with workers," Mr. Shaiken said. "They have a disastrous record of symbolic actions that inflamed tensions at just the wrong time. There is a lot of cynicism and distrust -- more than at Ford and Chrysler."
 
Perceived Inequality
 G.M. outraged workers in 1989, for example, by paying top executives bonuses averaging $44,800, while workers' profit-sharing benefits that year amounted to just $50 apiece. That same spring G.M. nearly doubled the pensions of top executives. When Roger B. Smith retired as chairman in 1990, he was awarded an annual pension of $1.1 million. It was later trimmed slightly.
At the same time, with General Motors still racking up record profits in the late 1980's, the U.A.W. negotiated lucrative contracts that keep its members among the highest paid industrial workers in America, with health benefits that are also near the top. Workers at Ford and Chrysler have the same agreement.
Health-care costs are estimated to add more than $600 to the cost of each Big Three vehicle. Still, union officials say that auto workers' current wages of about $17 an hour put them only slightly ahead of inflation, and behind their counterparts in Europe. Auto workers in Japan, who are also unionized, earn only slightly less than American auto workers.
The company announced sizable health-benefit cutbacks for its salaried employees in September and indicated that it might seek similar reductions from hourly workers during next summer's contract negotiations. Mr. Bieber and Mr. Yokich responded by saying they "have no intention of going backward on health-care benefits."
Also under contention may be the $4.1 billion income-security package that the union negotiated with G.M. in 1990. It guarantees that laid-off workers -- under a program labeled the Jobs Bank -- receive nearly their full incomes and benefits, at least until next September. Workers at the other two auto companies have similar income guarantees.
While some Wall Street analysts have suggested that the Jobs Bank is part of G.M.'s cost problems, others disagree. "The Jobs Bank has been painted as a boondoggle that G.M. got shackled with in a moment of excess," Mr. Shaiken said. "It was never designed for the kind of slide G.M. has taken. It bought G.M. labor peace."
Mr. Bieber has said that he won't give up income security next year.
"The Jobs Bank was designed to be a stabilizing force, and I think that it was," said a union spokesman, Frank Joyce. "Why do you carry an umbrella? Because you think it's going to rain. We negotiated an umbrella. Well, it rained. It rained torrentially. It hailed."
And it is going to keep raining on G.M. workers. The company is expected to name seven more of the 21 factories it intends to close by 1995, including more assembly plants. "If anything came out of what happened this week, it is that there is now an opportunity for the company to sit down with the union in a number of key areas," Mr. Shaiken said.
"There's an opening," he continued. "How large that opening is, and how far it will go, nobody knows. It's going to take more than rhetoric."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Dues-Paying Members of the U.A.W." tracks number of U.A.W. members since the 1930's; "Hourly Workers at the Big 3" tracks number of hourly workers at U.S. operations of G.M., Ford and Chrysler since 1979. Shown are yearly averages except for 1992, an estimate. Figures for hourly workers exclude three divisions of G.M. (EDS, Hughes and Saturn), smaller subsidiaries of Ford and finance subsidiaries of Chrysler. (Source: United Auto Workers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LABOR UNIONS; LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS; AUTOMOBILES LABOR UNIONS (92%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EARLY RETIREMENT (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA; SMITH, JOHN F (JACK) JR JOHN F (JACK) SMITH JR (81%); STEPHEN P YOKICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



190 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Data Show Economy Is Unimproved

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The first three post-election economic reports did little today to challenge the presumption that President-elect Bill Clinton would inherit a lackluster economy.
The Federal Reserve said today that economic activity was increasing at a slow and uneven rate around the nation. That less-than-stellar picture was reinforced by the Commerce Department's report that while factory orders had picked up in September, business backlogs fell. And the United States Chamber of Commerce said business confidence fell sharply in October. 
 In its most recent economic survey, which includes information collected as recently as last week, the Fed said that the manufacturing sector lost some momentum in October as several regions experienced declining demand or a slower pace of expansion. Manufacturers said they were concerned about the weakness in foreign markets and about anemic consumer confidence.
 
Brighter Retail Sales
 But the central bank's report, known as the Beige Book, painted a brighter picture for retail sales, noting that they grew in most regions although the extent of the gains varied. The Fed also reported an improvement in housing construction and sales in several regions. In California, however, the real estate market suffered from sluggish sales and declining prices.
And in an important index of expansion, the Fed said that several regions reported a slight increase in loan demand in recent weeks, but it noted that mortgage refinancing seemed to have peaked.
The Beige Book is published eight times a year and is based on surveys of regional economic activity made by the Fed's 12 district banks.
In a somewhat more optimistic report, the Commerce Department said that orders for new manufactured goods rose in September after falling the two previous months. The 1.1 percent increase in factory orders, to a seasonally adjusted $239.4 billion, was the largest increase since June, and came after a 2.2 percent decline in August.
But the report also noted that business backlogs had declined for their 13th straight month, dampening hopes that corporations would be adding many new workers.
 
Economists Not Optimistic
 One bright spot in the Commerce Department survey was that an important measure of business investment -- orders of nonmilitary capital goods -- climbed 7.8 percent, after falling by 3.9 percent in August.
In all, economists were not sanguine about today's news, which came a day after the Commerce Department reported that the index of leading economic indictors, a gauge that predicts the economy's future, fell by three-tenths of 1 percent in September, producing the first back-to-back monthly declines since 1991.
"In the fourth quarter, growth will definitely be weaker," said Bruce Steinberg, an economist with Merrill Lynch. "That is pretty much baked in." He predicted slack growth of 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter, down considerably from the Commerce Department's preliminary estimate of 2.7 percent in the third quarter.
Also pointing to more sluggishness, the United States Chamber of Commerce reported today that its business confidence index plunged in October to its lowest level since December. The index fell from 58 in August to 53.3 in October, with 50 or more indicating the prospect for an expanding economy.
 
Possible New Hope
 "Businesses are quite negative about the next six months," said William T. Archey, the chamber's senior vice president for policy.
He said Mr. Clinton's victory might help increase business confidence. "A new Administration always brings new hope, and confidence can't get much worse than it's been," he said.
The Federal Reserve's report said retail sales were up markedly in the Cleveland district, and improved slightly in New England and the Philadelphia region. It added that retail activity remained sluggish in California as defense-related employment cutbacks continued.
In the manufacturing sector, producers of aircraft, military goods, primary metals and rubber and plastic goods said demand had slowed. But producers of building supplies, carpeting and home furnishings reported that demand had picked up, partly because of the post-hurricane rebuilding in the South.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Factory Orders" tracks manufacturers' total new orders, monthly, since April, 1991. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (69%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



191 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Election Result Favors Municipals

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
For investors who own municipal bonds and the dealers who sell them, the election of Bill Clinton was good news yesterday. The President-elect has promised to raise taxes on higher-income individuals, and that is music to the ear of a trader or owner attuned to the tax-exempt market.
While those who may have their taxes raised will not be happy, the higher rates they pay will also make the tax-exempt municipal bond market a more attractive tax shelter for their money, analysts say. 
 With higher tax rates, several traders noted, the yield on a tax-exempt municipal bond becomes more valuable because the equivalent yield in the taxable market moves higher.
"The market over the last few days has come to realize that a Democratic President with a Democratic Congress could mean higher taxes," said Frank Scaraggi, director of institutional trading for municipal bonds at Lehman Brothers. "And municipals are the only tax shelter."
James J. Cooner, senior vice president at the Bank of New York, added, "Tax-free income received from municipal bonds is worth more in a rising tax environment."
Mr. Cooner said a municipal bond with a 6 percent yield equaled 8.7 percent from a bond that is subject to Federal income tax in the 31 percent tax bracket, currently the top tax rate. But at a rate of 36 percent, the 6 percent yield is equal to a 9.37 percent return on a taxable bond. Mr. Clinton has proposed raising the tax rate to 36 percent on families with incomes over $200,000 a year. The demand yesterday was enough to push the prices of actively traded municipal issues up by 1/8 to 1/4 point, traders said. Some of the more popular issues that are also insured rose as much as 1/2 point, driving yields lower.
The other effect of the election on the municipal market came from local voting. There were a host of issues on the ballots around the nation that would authorize new state or local bond issues or place some kinds of limits on government spending or taxing power. Some large bond issues were approved and when final results are in, voters may have approved more new spending that many analysts had expected.
In California, voters passed a $1.5 billion wastewater improvement bond issue in Los Angeles and a $900 million million state issue to repair public schools. But voters rejected a $1 billion bond authorization, the second-largest issue on the ballots around the country, for California railroads.
In New York, voters easily rejected the $800 million bond issue aimed at creating jobs through spending to improve roads, water and sewer projects and other important public projects. But in New Jersey, voters did approve a $345 million state bond issue for purchasing land for parks and other environmental purposes.
On the issue of limits on govenment spending and taxing, the ballot proposals were important because they could limit a state or local government's ability to issue bonds and could affect the credit rating of those that are issued.
In Michigan, voters defeated proposals that would have cut current property tax levels and limited future increases. Rating agencies had said that the proposals, if approved, could hurt the state's credit rating. In Colorado, voters did pass a plan to limit state spending increases to the rate of inflation. Because the proposal limits state and local government flexibility it could have an impact on credit ratings in the future.
 
Treasury Market
 In the Treasury market, prices moved around but ended little changed on the day, except for the 30-year bond, which was down 9/32 , to yield 7.67 percent, up from 7.65 percent Tuesday.
Several traders said there was no message about the election because prices had already fallen sharply in the last month, in part because of the anticipation of a Clinton victory and the probability of a spending program to stimulate the economy.
Mr. Clinton made a nod to concerns about his programs in his first news conference as President-elect yesterday. "I say to our financial and business leaders that although change is on the horizon, we understand the need to pursue stability even as we pursue new growth," he said.
William Pike, managing director at Chemical Securities Inc., said some of the market's attention would now turn to Mr. Clinton's appointments, especially that of Treasury Secretary. These decisions could move the market because they might indicate how cautious or aggressive the President-elect would be on economic policy and the Federal budget deficit.
One interesting development was that bond prices rose in early trading in Europe well above their closing levels on Tuesday. But most of this was given up by the end of trading in New York.
David Smart, a managing director at Fiduciary Trust International in London, said Europeans seemed to be buying for two reasons. One is that with the dollar rising against Europen currencies, owning American securities could be a good bet for Europeans. And he suggested that European investors might be a little less worried about the impact a Clinton Presidency would have on the bond market because the record American budget deficit would limit his options.
In the junk-bond market, a rumor about a new investment of $500 million by KLM Royal Dutch Airlines into Northwest Airlines, sent the prices of the company's bonds soaring. Traders said that the price of some bonds were up as much as five or six points during the day and finished up about two points, althogh KLM has denied the rumor.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. The graph runs from July to the present. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS MUNICIPAL BONDS (96%); BONDS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); APPROVALS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



192 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 17; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 ELECTIONS: CONNECTICUT -- U.S. SENATE RACE;
Victorious Dodd to Press for Campaign Limits

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The day after winning Connecticut's most expensive Senate race, Senator Christopher J. Dodd vowed today to work for legislation to limit the cost and length of campaigns.
"I can't think of anything that would do more to level the playing field and eliminate a lot of the concerns that are reflected by some of the peripheral issues like term limitations," Mr. Dodd said at a news conference at the Goodwin Hotel. "Campaign finance reform is something I am going to push for ardently and immediately." 
 Mr. Dodd, a Democrat from East Haddam, won re-election to a third Senate term on Tuesday with 59.2 percent of the vote, to 38.5 percent for his Republican opponent, Brook Johnson, a Greenwich textiles executive new to politics.
 
Dodd Raised $3.5 Million
 Mr. Johnson contributed almost $2 million to his own campaign, and spent an estimated $2.5 million, but Mr. Dodd raised $3.5 million for his. Mr. Johnson attacked the incumbent for accepting money from political-action committees, accused him of being beholden to special-interest groups and advocated term limits for Congress.
Mr. Dodd, who said during the campaign that he had to seek contributions because he was not wealthy, said today that he would like to see a new campaign-finance law take effect for the 1994 elections.
He said he was excited by the prospect of working with a President of his own party. The election results, he said, were a signal from voters that "they clearly want things done differently in this nation" to restart the economy.
"They want to see the country come together and start working as one," he said. "They're tired of the partisanship. They're tired of the finger-pointing. They want to see a government that takes their interests to heart and works on their problems."
 
Johnson's Plans
 Mr. Johnson spent today relaxing with his campaign staff, but Tuesday night, in his concession call to Mr. Dodd and in his speech to supporters, he vowed to stay involved in Connecticut politics.
"I am in it for one reason," Mr. Johnson said. "You can step forward and make a difference in this town and this country.
"I'm not going to wait four years," he said. "I am going to run again. I don't think I did a bad job. I need to polish a few rough edges."
He would not say what office he might seek next, but the terms of both Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., an independent, and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Democrat, expire in 1994.
Mr. Dodd said today that Mr. Johnson had accepted his invitation to meet in the coming weeks to discuss how to stay involved.
"Brook Johnson said last evening he wanted to stay involved, and I welcome that," Mr. Dodd said. "He plans on staying in the state and being involved in public policy and public life, and I welcome him."
Surveys of voters leaving the polls on Tuesday supported Mr. Dodd's assessment that the economy was the driving issue in the election.
On economic questions, the only voters among whom the Republican won majorities were those who said that their financial situation was better than in 1988, or who said that they earned over $75,000 a year, or that the condition of the national economy was good. Each of those groups was a small minority of the vote.
Connecticut's income tax did not appear to be a factor in the Senate race, although the surveys found that 55 percent of those questioned opposed the tax, compared with 42 percent who supported it. Mr. Dodd won a majority of both groups of voters.
Many voters split their tickets. Mr. Dodd won the ballots of 34 percent of President Bush's voters, as well as 82 percent of those who voted for Gov. Bill Clinton. Among voters who cast ballots for Ross Perot, the survey found that 48 percent voted for Mr. Dodd and 52 percent for Mr. Johnson.
As a Democrat, in fact, Mr. Dodd received fewer votes than Mr. Johnson, according to the unofficial figures available today: 552,821 for Mr. Dodd, to 553,655 for Mr. Johnson.
The Democrat's large margin of victory was provided by the 297,735 people who voted for him on the line of A Connecticut Party, Governor Weicker's independent party, which had endorsed him.
Asked today about the influence of A Connecticut Party, Mr. Dodd was at a loss. He had thanked the party for its endorsement, he said, and thanked Mr. Weicker, but he had never mentioned the party during his campaign.
"I'm a Democrat," he said, "and I ran as a Democrat."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The day after his election to a third term, Senator Christopher J. Dodd visited the Hartford Civic Center to thank voters for their support. Cheryl Johnson of Bloomfield was part of an informal receiving line. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)
 
Charts: "Who Won Where: Connecticut Congressional Races
x - Winner
xx - Winner and change in party control
* - Incumbent
 
U.S. SENATE - Reporting: 100%
x Christopher J. Dodd, D* 887,734 - 61%
Brook Johnson, R 568,269 - 39%
 
DISTRICT 1 - Reporting: 100%
x Barbara B. Kennelly, D* 164,381 - 69%
Philip Steele, R 74,367 - 31%
 
DISTRICT 2 - 100%
x Sam Gejdenson, D* 123,290 - 51%
Edward Munster, R 119,415 - 49%
 
DISTRICT 3 - 100%
x Rosa DeLauro, D* 162,075 - 66%
Tom Scott, R 84,950 - 34%
 
DISTRICT 4 - 100%
Dave Schropfer, D 58,543 - 27%
x Christopher Shays, R* 145,911 - 67%
Al Smith, Oth 11,814, 5%
 
DISTRICT 5 - 100%
James Lawlor, D 74,128 - 32%
x Gary Franks, R* 103,998 - 45%
Lynn Taborsak, Oth 53,747 - 23%
 
DISTRICT 6 - 100%
Eugene Siason, D 60,327 - 27%
x Nancy Johnson, R* - 165,002 - 73%
 
"District by District Results in Races for the Connecticut General Assembly"
 
R - Republican
D - Democratic
ACP - A Connecticut Party
NAL - New Alliance
O - Other
* - Incumbent
x - Winner
 
STATE SENATE
 
DISTRICT 1
Patrick L. Kennedy, R 6,383 28%
* William A. DiBella, D* 16,736...72%
DISTRICT 2
Frank Barrows, ACP 5,540...22%
Patricia E. Stryker, R 4,419...17%
* Thirman Milner, D 15,804...61%
DISTRICT 3
Peter J. Nevers, R 11,091...29%
* John B. Larson, D* 26,623...71%
DISTRICT 4
Chris Powell, R 18,469...40%
* Michael P. Meotti, D* 28,118...60%
DISTRICT 5
Bruce Boisture, R 17,220...33%
* Kevin Sullivan, D* 34,468...67%
DISTRICT 6
Mark Ferrante, R 10,247...35%
* Joseph H. Harper, D* 19,099...65%
DISTRICT 7
John Andrew Kissel, R 16,280...43%
* Con O'Leary, D* 21,613...57%
DISTRICT 8
James Lowell Jr., ACP 6,511...14%
* James T. Fleming, R* 27,277...59%
Bill Rocks, D 12,440...27%
DISTRICT 9
Christopher White, R 16,219...37%
* Richard J. Balducci, D 27,828...63%
DISTRICT 10
John Coppola, R 3,908...34%
Toni Harp, D 7,505...66%
DISTRICT 11
Liz Altham, R 4,761...30%
Martin M. Looney, D 10,546...68%
Patrick Steele, O 312... 2%
DISTRICT 12
* William Aniskovich, R* 23,655...53%
Shelley Marcus, D 21,321...47%
DISTRICT 13
Walter Shamock, R 15,568...45%
* Amelia P. Mustone, D* 19,326...55%
DISTRICT 14
* Win Smith Jr., R 21,053...52%
Richard Smith, D 19,163...48%
DISTRICT 15
* Thomas F. Upson, R* 20,948...62%
Lois Stone Dwyer, D 13,065...38%
DISTRICT 16
* Stephen Somma, R* 20,441...65%
Michael J. Papa Sr., D 11,086...35%
DISTRICT 17
Richard Bisi, R 17,572...43%
* Joe Crisco, D 23,614...57%
DISTRICT 18
* Cathy Cook, R 17,712...53%
T. G. Moukawsher, D 15,924...47%
DISTRICT 19
William M. Fishbone, R 12,189...35%
* Kenneth Przybysz, D* 22,716...65%
DISTRICT 20
Robert S. Tuneski, R 16,405...42%
* Melodie Peters, D 22,425...57%
Jim Kontoleon, O 664... 2%
DISTRICT 21
* George L. Gunther, R* 27,875...65%
James R. Miron, D 15,137...35%
DISTRICT 22
James Broadbin, ACP 1,687... 5%
* Lee Scarpetti, R* 21,986...59%
Domenic Paniccia, D 13,375...36%
DISTRICT 23
Willie Colon, ACP 2,278...13%
Rosa J. Correa, R 6,061...34%
* Alvin Penn, D 9,494...53%
DISTRICT 24
Wayne A. Baker, R 12,176...42%
* James H. Maloney, D* 15,699...54%
Catherine V. DiBuono, O 1,198... 4%
Richard M. Hunt, O 216... 1%
DISTRICT 25
* Robert L. Genuario, R* 20,474...57%
Michael J. McCabe, D 14,828...41%
Richard A. Bucciarelli, O 923... 3%
DISTRICT 26
* Judith Freedman, R* 26,208...54%
Ann E. Sheffer, D 22,320...46%
DISTRICT 27
Nick Pavia, R 12,448...46%
George C. Jepsen, D* 14,412...54%
DISTRICT 28
* Fred Lovegrove Jr., R* 24,822...58%
Gary A. Fetzer, D 17,803...41%
Edward W. Simon, O 487... 1%
DISTRICT 29
J. C. Martin, R 10,181...30%
* Kevin P. Johnston, D* 24,119...70%
DISTRICT 30
M. Adela Eads, R* 20,608...52%
Dan Dwyer, D 19,307...48%
DISTRICT 31
Michael L. Werner, R 16,789...45%
Tom Colapietro, D 19,901...53%
C. H. Calver-Lori, NAL 654... 2%
DISTRICT 32
* Louis C. DeLuca, R* 22,419...61%
Pete Scanlon, D 13,760...37%
Louis C. Klein, O 633... 2%
DISTRICT 33
J. Peter Fusscas, R 19,998...43%
* Eileen M. Daily, D 26,927...57%
DISTRICT 34
Philip S. Robertson, R* 20,960...51%
Brian McDermott, D 20,121...49%
DISTRICT 35
Tony Guglielmo, R 22,849...53%
Marie A. Herbst, D* 19,927...46%
Thomas J. Shubbuck, O 636... 1%
DISTRICT 36
* William Nickerson, R* 25,106...67%
Peter Gasparino, D 12,495...33%
 
STATE HOUSE
 
DISTRICT 1
x Eric D. Coleman,* D 4,973...100%
DISTRICT 2
Peter Kuck, R 541...12%
x Thomas D. Ritter,* D 3,863...88%
DISTRICT 3
x Juan A. Figueroa,* D 3,072...100%
DISTRICT 4
Catherine F. Scalora, R 589...16%
x Edwin E. Garcia, D 3,139...84%
DISTRICT 5
Barbara C. Fleeting, ACP687...20%
x M. L. Kirkley-Bey, D 2,731...80%
DISTRICT 6
Robert N. Coffey, R 1,154...19%
x John W. Fonfara,* D 4,812...81%
DISTRICT 7
x A. Wheeler Carter,* D 4,950...100%
DISTRICT 8
Robert J. Bogue,* R 4,574...42%
x Patrick J. Flaherty, D 6,208...58%
DISTRICT 9
x Paul R. Munns,* R 7,438...66%
Craig Popielarczyk, D 3,791...34%
DISTRICT 10
Gary Berner, R 4,004...45%
x Melody A. Currey, D 4,798...55%
DISTRICT 11
Wanda Z. Franek, R 2,778...36%
x Gary D. LeBeau,* D 5,042...64%
DISTRICT 12
Leopold F. Palliardi, R , 2,877...29%
x J. R. McCavanagh,* D 7,064...71%
DISTRICT 13
John M. Gibeault, R 3,344...36%
x John W. Thompson,* D 5,933...64%
DISTRICT 14
x Kevin F. Rennie,* R 7,451...61%
Jacqueline J. Smith, D 4,709...39%
DISTRICT 15
Franklin Johnson, ACP 1,079...10%
Joseph P. Merritt, R 4,241...40%
x Mary U. Eberle, D 5,187...49%
DISTRICT 16
Anita L. Mielert, ACP 2,852...22%
x Paul J. Knierim,* R 6,708...52%
Elaine C. Summers, D 3,281...26%
DISTRICT 17
Rosalie R. Renfrew, R 6,250...47%
x Jessie G. Stratton,* D 7,095...53%
DISTRICT 18
Mark Trencher, R 4,539...37%
x Miles S. Rapoport,* D 7,676...63%
DISTRICT 19
x Robert Farr,* R 6,641...52%
George W. Gould, D 6,189...48%
DISTRICT 20
Thomas J. Ives, R 3,811...33%
x Richard T. Mulready,* D 7,585...67%
DISTRICT 21
William Wollenberg,* R 5,942...49%
Evan R. Cowles, D 6,146...51%
DISTRICT 22
Helen B. Bergenty, R 4,621...48%
x Eugene J. Millerick,* D 5,001...52%
William I. Newton Jr., O87......1%
DISTRICT 23
Linda A. Blogoslawski, R 3,743...47%
x Theresa B. Gerratana, D 4,209...53%
DISTRICT 24
James E. Sanders Sr., R 1,374...30%
x Dave Pudlin,* D 3,239...70%
DISTRICT 25
Joe Willis Sr., R 2,995...41%
x Raymond Joyce,* D 4,327...59%
DISTRICT 26
Rodney E. MacRae, R 1,763...28%
x Stan Krawiec,* D 4,271...67%
Stephen Mendelsohn, O 295......5%
DISTRICT 27
Marvin Gates, ACP 1,165...11%
x Dom Mazzoccoli, R 6,000...55%
Joseph P. Doyle, D 3,825...35%
DISTRICT 28
John O'Leary, R 5,394...43%
x Robert G. Gilligan,* D 7,068...57%
DISTRICT 29
Joseph A. Dinunzio, R 4,847...43%
x Richard D. Tulisano,* D 6,361...57%
DISTRICT 30
x Ann P. Dandrow,* R 6,274...56%
Constance Marshall, D 4,864...44%
DISTRICT 31
x Robert D. Bowden,* R 5,637...48%
Mark D. Rubinfeld, D 4,618...39%
Richard J. Kocher, O 1,496...13%
DISTRICT 32
John B. Sterry, R 5,004...42%
x Jim O'Rourke,* D 6,853...58%
DISTRICT 33
John J. Guerin,* R 3,009...39%
x Joseph C. Serra, D 4,733...61%
DISTRICT 34
Robert J. Cramer, R 4,750...42%
x Terry Concannon, D 6,447...58%
DISTRICT 35
x Sidney J. Holbrook,* R 6,859...65%
Betty Ann Botham, D 3,619...35%
DISTRICT 36
Alan Kyle, R 4,279...50%
John P. Harris, D 4,281...50%
DISTRICT 37
Fredrick Lundfelt,* R 4,842...44%
x Gary Orefice, D 6,259...56%
DISTRICT 38
Calvin K. Brouwer, R 3,606...33%
x Andrea Stillman, D 7,251...67%
DISTRICT 39
William T. Lawrence, R 1,566...33%
x Wade A. Hyslop Jr.,* D 3,136...67%
DISTRICT 40
Philip H. Tuthill, R 2,368...39%
x Nancy A. DeMarinis, D 3,705...61%
DISTRICT 41
x Lenny T. Winkler,* R 5,428...100%
DISTRICT 42
Michael Seder, R 3,276...45%
x Mary K. McGrattan, D 4,004...55%
DISTRICT 43
x Robert R. Simmons,* R 5,849...58%
Edward R. Haberek Jr., D 4,187...42%
DISTRICT 44
x Michael A. Caron,* R 4,397...54%
Robert E. Duffney, D 3,736...46%
DISTRICT 45
Donald F. Howard, R 2,658...33%
x Steven Mikutel, D 5,402...67%
DISTRICT 46
Erwin M. Cohen, ACP 514......6%
x Peter Nystrom,* R 4,381...54%
Nancy A. DePietro, D 3,144...39%
DISTRICT 47
Barry Kolar, R 4,580...51%
Jack Malone, D 4,412...49%
DISTRICT 48
x Andrew Norton,* R 6,414...57%
Betty Possidento, D 4,907...43%
DISTRICT 49
David L. Simon, R 2,796...33%
x John J. Lescoe,* D 5,270...63%
Robert D. Gorgoglione, O 91......1%
Brett S. Ellison, O 208......2%
DISTRICT 50
Barry Shead, R 3,985...41%
x Jefferson B. Davis,* D 5,725...59%
DISTRICT 51
Douglas Cutler Jr., R 4,787...54%
Geri W. Langlois,* D 4,003...46%
DISTRICT 52
Tony Morianos, R 4,806...44%
x John D. Mordasky,* D 6,131...56%
DISTRICT 53
Kathleen W. Bach, R 5,610...49%
Nancy Wyman,* D 5,649...49%
Thomas J. Supina Jr., O 163......1%
DISTRICT 54
Richard Pellegrine, R 2,103...30%
x Jonathan Pelto,* D 4,883...70%
DISTRICT 55
Pamela Z. Sawyer, R 5,574...54%
John R. Quinn, D 4,483...44%
George T. Burgess, O 223......2%
DISTRICT 56
James M. Hoover, R 3,462...40%
x Joseph D. Courtney,* D 5,275...60%
DISTRICT 57
Donald Weekes, R 3,999...43%
x Edward C. Graziani,* D 4,737...51%
Nancy O. Way, O 472......5%
DISTRICT 58
William Zimmerman,* R 3,534...44%
x Frederick A. Gelsi,* D 4,468...56%
DISTRICT 59
Hal A. Vita Sr., R 3,333...40%
x Stephen Jarmoc, D 4,984...60%
DISTRICT 60
J. Marconi-Javorski, ACP1,565...16%
Gary M. LaVoye, R 2,885...29%
x Carl Schiessl,* D 5,226...53%
Richard W. Loomis, L 174......2%
DISTRICT 61
Karen L. Gidman, ACP 1,896...22%
x Ruth C. Fahrbach,* R 6,804...78%
DISTRICT 62
Louise Hull, ACP 2,680...24%
x Richard F. Ferrari,* R 4,784...43%
Francis Peter Lynch, D 3,549...32%
DISTRICT 63
x F. Philip Prelli,* R 5,158...58%
Brian W. Sullivan, D 2,918...33%
Walter D. Miller, O 814......9%
DISTRICT 64
Andrew W. Roraback, R 5,265...48%
Mary Ann O'Sullivan, D 5,758...52%
DISTRICT 65
J. Hutchinson, ACP 2,259...25%
x Brian E. Mattiello, R 4,529...49%
Robert J. Ingoldsby, D 2,417...26%
DISTRICT 66
Sandra Carpenter, ACP 2,717...24%
x Robert Maddox Jr.,* R 6,060...53%
Audrey B. Blondin, D 2,643...23%
DISTRICT 67
x Jeanne W. Garvey, R 5,218...57%
Lisl Standen, D 3,961...43%
DISTRICT 68
x Brian J. Flaherty,* R 7,551...72%
Robert LeBlanc, D 2,982...28%
DISTRICT 69
x Arthur J. O'Neill,* R 7,622...67%
Roderick Wyant 3d, D 3,676...33%
DISTRICT 70
Timothy D. Barth, R 4,895...55%
Kevin G. Knowles,* D 4,086...45%
DISTRICT 71
D. DelBianco,* ACP 1,526...17%
Daniel J. Coleman, R 2,807...31%
x Donald J. Davino, D 4,335...48%
Ricky M. Walters, O 300......3%
DISTRICT 72
Patricia A. Taylor, R 2,129...42%
Reginald Beamon,* D 2,987...58%
DISTRICT 73
John L. Marino, R 3,244...35%
Joan V. Hartley,* D 5,836...63%
Richard J. Cam, O 114......1%
DISTRICT 74
Philip A. Mongelluzzo, R 4,294...50%
Michael J. Jarjura, D 4,358...50%
DISTRICT 75
Ivette Olavarria, R 1,273...26%
x Thomas F. Conway,* D 3,559...74%
DISTRICT 76
x John E. Piscopo,* R 6,767...64%
Alan D. Basney, D 3,732...36%
DISTRICT 77
James E. White, R 4,828...51%
Stephen J. Duffy,* D 4,183...44%
Carlo M. Faienza, O 462......5%
DISTRICT 78
Edward Krawiecki,* R 3,195...42%
x Ellen Zoppo, D 4,383...58%
DISTRICT 79
Craig P. Taylor,* R 3,851...46%
Kosta Diamantis, D 4,541...54%
DISTRICT 80
Dennis H. Cleary, R 5,223...48%
John C. Vastola, D 4,004...37%
William O'Brien Jr., O 656......6%
Al Stewart, O 889......8%
DISTRICT 81
David Wlodkowski, ACP 2,013...19%
Angelo M. Fusco,* R 5,026...48%
Zaya A. Oshana, D 3,384...32%
DISTRICT 82
Gary Mesick, R 2,729...31%
x Thomas S. Luby,* D 6,061...69%
DISTRICT 83
James W. Abrams, ACP 2,039...22%
x James A. Tavegia, R 3,678...40%
John J. Maier Jr., D 3,591...39%
DISTRICT 84
Douglas M. Bushman, R 2,316...37%
x Christopher Donovan, D 3,410...55%
Peter Ayala, O 457......7%
DISTRICT 85
Michael Lombardi, R 4,519...45%
x Mary M. Mushinsky,* D 5,474...55%
DISTRICT 86
x Robert M. Ward,* R 5,620...63%
Colin D. Johnson, D 3,323...37%
DISTRICT 87
x Curtis Andrews Jr.,* R P 5,803...53%
Faye K. Clarke, D 5,246...47%
DISTRICT 88
Nicholas M. Troiano, R 4,269...44%
Nancy Beals, D 5,435...56%
DISTRICT 89
x David Oliver Thorp,* R 5,797...55%
Vickie Nardello, D 4,818...45%
DISTRICT 90
Janice Borowy, R 3,260...33%
x Mary Fritz,* D 6,486...67%
DISTRICT 91
Edith Mogridge, R 4,516...47%
x Peter F. Villano, D 5,029...53%
DISTRICT 92
Jeffrey Doolan, R 472...26%
Patricia A. Dillon,* D 1,348...74%
DISTRICT 93
James Knight, R 334...14%
Howard C. Scipio, D 1,750...72%
Seth J. Godfrey, O 338...14%
DISTRICT 94
Monique Lewis, R 211...10%
William R. Dyson,* D 1,958...90%
DISTRICT 95
Jan Parker,* ACP
James Solomon, R 91...13%
A. Jackson-Brooks, D 618...87%
DISTRICT 96
Jeffrey Rochler, R 633...19%
Cameron Staples, D 2,428...74%
Dalzenia Henry, O 209......6%
DISTRICT 97
Chris DePino,* R 0......0%
Lucille Caliendo, D 0......0%
DISTRICT 98
Francis X. O'Neill Jr., R 5,037...44%
x Janet C. Poss,* D 6,160...54%
Robert E. Baird, O 208......2%
DISTRICT 99
Joseph Maturo Jr., R 5,625...48%
x Michael P. Lawlor,* D 6,035...51%
Charles J. Cottle, O 99......1%
DISTRICT 100
Joseph E. Milardo Jr., R 4,032...39%
x Susan Bysiewicz, D 6,279...61%
DISTRICT 101
x Peter Metz, R 6,234...59%
David LaFemina, D 3,851...36%
James N. Mitchell, O 555......5%
DISTRICT 102
Dominic Buonocore, R 5,469...51%
Joseph Giordano Jr.,* D 5,335...49%
DISTRICT 103
Lucien A. DiMeo, R 3,947...51%
Matthew E. Fitch, D 3,725...49%
DISTRICT 104
Toni Tillquist, R 2,736...32%
x Vincent J. Tonucci,* D 5,734...68%
DISTRICT 105
Vincent Capece Jr., R 3,853...38%
x John W. Betkoski III,* D 5,311...53%
Prank F. Stuban, O 847......8%
DISTRICT 106
x Julia B. Wasserman,* R 6,662...89%
Robert Fand, O 824...11%
DISTRICT 107
x M. Jodi Rell,* R 4,544...74%
L. Trojanowski-Marconi, D 1,590...26%
DISTRICT 108
x Norma Gyle,* R 6,160...60%
Steven D. Kramer, D 3,722...36%
William D. Boehm, O 403......4%
DISTRICT 109
Donald W. Boughton, R 2,791...51%
Michael M. Falzone, D 2,665...49%
Richard M. Hunt, O 38......1%
DISTRICT 110
Mounir A. Farah, R Fa 1,227...43%
Bob Godfrey,* D 1,610...57%
DISTRICT 111
Herbert V. Camp Jr., R 4,617...42%
x Barbara M. Ireland,* D 6,272...58%
DISTRICT 112
x William Varese,* R 6,630...62%
Bob Pondillo, D 4,005...38%
DISTRICT 113
x Richard O. Belden,* R 6,818...69%
Shawn Splan, D 3,056...31%
DISTRICT 114
Patricia Logioco, R 5,276...47%
x Ellen Scalettar, D 5,973...53%
DISTRICT 115
Robert Guthrie, R 2,892...36%
x Stephen D. Dargan,* D 5,234...64%
DISTRICT 116
John A. Samperi, R 3,335...46%
Louis P. Esposito Jr., D 3,857...54%
DISTRICT 117
x Ray Collins,* R 5,952...55%
Robert C. Sousa, D 4,832...45%
DISTRICT 118
Tim Hyatt, R 3,685...43%
x James A. Amann,* D 4,856...57%
DISTRICT 119
Allan E. Cegan, R 4,679...50%
Richard Roy, D 4,708...50%
DISTRICT 120
x J. Vincent Chase,* R 7,685...70%
Patrick J. Carolan, D 3,234...30%
DISTRICT 121
Kevin C. Kelly, R 3,981...47%
x Terrance E. Backer, D 4,470...53%
DISTRICT 122
x Lawrence G. Miller,* R 6,643...61%
Gary P. Cahill, D 4,311...39%
DISTRICT 123
x Dale W. Radcliffe,* R 7,762...68%
Earl R. Altieri, D 3,736...32%
DISTRICT 124
Dorias C. Robinson, R 1,199...30%
x Ernest E. Newton 2d,* D 2,752...70%
DISTRICT 125
Brenda J. Hodge, ACP 400......7%
John M. Hosier, R 2,004...36%
x Robert T. Keeley Jr., D 3,185...57%
DISTRICT 126
Robert B. Moragne, ACP 539......9%
Daniel Williams, R 1,360...23%
x C. L. Caruso,* D 4,095...68%
DISTRICT 127
Roger V. Autuori, R 2,966...31%
x Jacqueline Cocco,* D 6,568...69%
DISTRICT 128
Philip E. Tischbein Jr., R 772...30%
x Edna I. Garcia, D 1,752...69%
Ralph J. Cennamo, O 22......1%
DISTRICT 129
Charles Feroleto, R 2,411...40%
x Lee A. Samowitz,* D 3,646...60%
DISTRICT 130
James P. Callahan, R 734...24%
x Americo L. Santiago,* D 2,297...76%
DISTRICT 131
x Ronald San Angelo, R 5,270...51%
Kathleen Krevetski, D 4,475...44%
Delores P. Morrell, O 491......5%
DISTRICT 132
x John Metsopoulos,* R 7,213...64%
Steve Szost, D 4,070...36%
DISTRICT 133
x Gene Gavin, R 7,253...57%
Ronald F. Malone, D 5,053...40%
Louis Weinstein, O 312......2%
DISTRICT 134
x Daniel F. Caruso,* R 7,038...62%
Eileen K. Wilcox, D 4,279...38%
DISTRICT 135
x John E. Stripp, R 6,667...58%
Tom Baptist, D 4,806...42%
DISTRICT 136
x Jo Fuchs,* R 7,339...65%
Wally Meyer, D 3,992...35%
DISTRICT 137
John E. Solder, R 3,722...46%
x Alex Knopp, D 4,335...54%
DISTRICT 138
x Mark Nielsen, R 4,234...61%
John C. Cogliettino, D 2,688...39%
DISTRICT 139
Carlo DiPace, ACP 693......7%
Mary E. Clark-Wilson, R 3,820...37%
x Kevin Ryan, D 4,967...49%
Boris S. Avdevich, O 723......7%
DISTRICT 140
Richard Stenhouse, R 2,057...35%
x Douglas C. Mintz,* D 3,891...65%
DISTRICT 141
x Reginald L. Jones,* R 6,611...58%
Sally McC. Bolster,* D 4,853...42%
DISTRICT 142
x Lawrence Cafero Jr., R 6,732...60%
Lisa Swenson, D 4,492...40%
DISTRICT 143
x Leslie T. Young,* R 7,563...80%
Kathleen McCarty, O 1,881...20%
DISTRICT 144
Alan Colabella, ACP 666......8%
Stephen J. Vitka, R 3,186...36%
x John Wayne Fox,* D 5,001...56%
DISTRICT 145
Constantine A. Brandi, R 877...23%
x Christel H. Truglia,* D 2,861...77%
DISTRICT 146
William M. Ivler, ACP
John W. Smart, R 1,959...37%
Moira K. Lyons,* D 3,311...63%
DISTRICT 147
x Michael Fedele,* R 5,469...100%
DISTRICT 148
Betty Conti, R 2,475...44%
Anne B. McDonald,* D 3,167...56%
DISTRICT 149
x Janet K. Lockton,* R 5,459...63%
John C. Loeser, D 3,183...37%
DISTRICT 150
x Marilyn Hess, R 6,373...65%
Leonard LaLuna, D 3,507...35%
DISTRICT 151
x Claudia M. Powers, R 6,918...65%
Elaine M. Suchman, D 3,727...35%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); IRELAND (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; ELECTION RESULTS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTION LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, BROOK; DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN) CHRISTOPHER DODD (94%); PETER L LYNCH (79%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (79%); JOHN LARSON (79%); M JODI RELL (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (79%); ROSA DELAURO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



193 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Infiniti Account Is Switched To Chiat From Hill, Holliday

BYLINE: By Kenneth N. Gilpin

 BODY:
CONTINUING the turmoil that has rocked the automotive marketing world for nearly two years, the Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A. said yesterday that it had pulled its Infiniti division advertising account from Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos Inc. and placed it with Chiat/Day/Mojo Inc.
Chiat has handled the $165 million advertising account for the auto maker's Nissan division since 1987. 
 Nissan, which on Monday reported its first net loss in four decades, said in a statement that the decision was part of an effort to "better focus all communications and image enhancement" in the United States.
As a result of the loss of the $75 million account, Hill, Holliday will shut its office in Marina del Rey, Calif., and dismiss many of its 118 staff members there, Paula Polito, a spokeswoman, said.
At the same time, the account is a coup for the Venice, Calif., office of Chiat, which in the last few months lost the estimated $20 million account of Shearson Lehman Brothers and the $60 million creative portion of the account for the American Express Company's flagship charge card.
Hill, Holliday won both kudos and raspberries for its initial "rocks and trees" ads when the Infiniti campaign began in November 1989. Characterized by some agency executives and analysts as "Zen advertising," the initial spots were criticized because they were seen as not emphasizing the car quickly enough.
"Those ads created an immediate brand awareness for Infiniti, but they became a joke," said George Peterson, president of Auto Pacific Group, an automotive marketing research company in Santa Ana, Calif. "And once Hill, Holliday had determined that rocks and trees had gotten Infiniti into the vocabulary of luxury-car buyers, they didn't have the next step that showed the car."
Hill, Holliday's spokeswoman defended the agency's record with Infiniti, noting that the car's sales grew 30 percent in 1991 and that so far this year sales are up another 18 percent, to 33,654.
"I think we fell victim to the economy," she said. "They told us they wanted to consolidate and give it to Chiat, Day, and that's the end of it."
Don Spetner, a spokesman for Nissan North America, said, "Hill, Holliday helped us launch the division and got us up very quickly to a high level of awareness. But we also have a positive feeling about Chiat, Day and what they have done for Nissan's business."
After criticizing Hill, Holliday, Mr. Peterson noted that Infiniti's managers could have done a better job defining its market niche.
"Infiniti never really told the press what their volume objectives were," he said. "Because of that, they were always destined to be measured against Lexus," Toyota's luxury sedan, which was introduced two months before Infiniti and has been considered a bigger success as it has outsold Infiniti.
"Their objectives were only to sell about half what Lexus sold," he added. "If they had just told folks that, they would be perceived as much more successful than they are today."
Nissan's dismissal of its agency is the latest in a string of similar moves made by nearly a dozen auto makers since February 1991. Just last week, BMW said it had placed its $65 million account under review. Ammirati & Puris, the agency that had held the BMW account for 18 years, decided not to participate in the review.
"A general panic and an intense fight for market share has been going on since 1987" among auto makers, said Martin Puris, president and chief executive of Ammirati & Puris. "And advertising is always at the whip end of the craziness that goes on in business. If computers are having a tough time, the agencies get hit. It's the same for the car business."
Bob Kuperman, president and chief executive of Chiat, said the agency had no immediate plans to alter Infiniti's campaign. "In making the transition, we have to determine what our strategy is from here," he said. He added that it "would be premature to say" if Michael Douglas, the announcer in Infiniti's current ads, would continue in his role.
In addition to the advertising shift, Nissan said it had placed public relations accounts for the Nissan and Infiniti divisions with Bob Thomas & Associates, the public relations subsidiary of Chiat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (82%); 7201 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (82%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTORS CO; HILL HOLLIDAY CONNORS COSMOPULOS INC; CHIAT/DAY/MOJO INC HILL HOLLIDAY (94%); CHIAT/DAY/MOJO INC ADVERTISING (84%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (82%); NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN HAWAII LTD (58%); NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN GUAM (58%); NISSAN NORTH AMERICA INC (57%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MOTORS CO; HILL HOLLIDAY CONNORS COSMOPULOS INC; CHIAT/DAY/MOJO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNT CHANGES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AWARENESS MARKETING (78%); SEDANS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); BRANDING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



194 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Domestic Vehicle Sales Up 9.7% in Late October

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 4

 BODY:
A surge in the sales of light trucks pushed overall sales of domestically built vehicles up 9.7 percent in late October, the nation's auto makers reported yesterday.
Analysts were not able to pinpoint any reasons for the surge, except that the popularity of mini-vans, sport-utility vehicles and light trucks as personal transportation continued to grow unabated. 
 Sales of domestically built cars during the period of Oct. 21-31 fell 1.2 percent, to 225,946; sales of domestically built light trucks, however, rose 28.5 percent, to 170,098.
For all of October, sales of all types of vehicles, domestic and imported, rose 7.7 percent.
 
New Monthly Record
 Joel Pitcoff, sales analyst for the Ford Motor Company, said Ford's light-truck sales for the month established a new record for October.
"The new Mercury Villager mini-van is very hot, and the Ford Explorer sold more than 29,000 for the month, a new monthly record," he said.
Harvey Heinbach, automotive analyst for Merrill Lynch & Company in New York, said: "It's easy to tell you what happened; it's tough to tell you why. We don't have any economic data that provides a rationale."
Whatever the reason, auto executives were delighted that some products were selling amid overall sluggish conditions and the distractions of Presidential politics.
"With the elections over, consumers can go about their purchase decisions and the country can get on with the economic recovery," said Yale Gieszl, executive vice president of the Toyota Motor Corporation's United States sales subsidiary. Toyota's light-truck sales rose 1.3 percent, to 23,613.
Car dealers echoed the sentiments of executives. "Now that the mud-slinging is over, we can get back down to business again," said James Flanigan, operator of Flanigan Chevrolet in North Tonawanda, N.Y. Mr. Flanigan said car and light-truck sales had been slow at his dealership.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate for sales of cars built in the United States, Canada and Mexico was 6.6 million during late October and 6.3 million for the entire month, the same as September.
For the month, domestic and imported vehicle sales totaled 1,112,789. Car sales fell 1 percent, to 699,263, but light-truck sales soared 26.6 percent, to 413,526.
 
General Motors Data
 The General Motors Corporation sold 236,919 cars in October, a decrease of eight-tenths of 1 percent from last year, and 136,842 light trucks, an increase of 26.9 percent. For the month, G.M. sold 226,827 domestically built cars, a decrease of 1.5 percent, and 134,799 domestically built light trucks, an increase of 27.5 percent.
Ford sold 161,805 cars for the month, an increase of 12.3 percent, and 124,561 light trucks, up 34.2 percent. Sales of Ford's domestically built cars were 157,985, an increase of 15.3 percent, and the company's domestic light-truck sales in the month were 124,561, up 34.2 percent
The Chrysler Corporation sold 63,127 cars in the month, a decrease of 9 percent, but light-truck sales rose 30.2 percent, to 92,430. Sales of Chrysler's domestically built cars were 57,529, down 9.5 percent, but domestically built light-truck sales were up 30.3 percent, to 91,848.
The Honda Motor Company sold 62,484 cars in October, a drop of 14.9 percent. Sales of Hondas built in the United States were 37,192, down 14.6 percent.
The Nissan Motor Company sold 35,900 cars for the month, an increase of 12.6 percent, and light-truck sales rose 28.5 percent, to 19,430.
Toyota's car sales fell 15.7 percent, to 56,940. Sales of Toyota's domestically built cars fell 19.8 percent, to 23,243.
The Mazda Motor Corporation and the Mitsubishi Motor Corporation posted car-sales increases of 13 percent and 18.5 percent, respectively, while Subaru, the American brand for Fuji Heavy Industries' cars, posted a 25.1 percent decrease in monthly sales, at 9,090.

GRAPHIC: Graph/Table: "U.S. Vehicle Sales" tracks seasonally adjusted annual selling rates for cars assembled in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Figures are tracked monthly since May 1991. Also shown are October unit sales and percent change in unit sales from 1991 for cars and light-trucks for several major auto makers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); TYT (LSE) (84%); TM (NYSE) (84%); 7203 (TSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (82%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (80%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MINIVANS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); STATISTICS (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); POLITICS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P JAMES FLANIGAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



195 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Money Market Fund Yields Are Higher in Latest Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields on money market funds moved higher in the week that ended yesterday, according to the latest IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report survey of more than 864 tax-exempt and taxable market funds.
Tax-exempt yields are up for the second consecutive week. But they are still below the levels of early October, when investors seeking tax-exempt paper drove yields lower by pouring money into the money market funds, normally the largest buyers of short-term tax-exempt paper. In the last few weeks, however, there has been a slight runoff of cash from the funds and an increase in supply of tax-exempt paper that is outpacing demand and putting some upward pressure on yields. 
 "In this market, the flow of cash into the tax-exempt money funds is important in determining the direction of yields," said Walter S. Frank, IBC/Donoghue's chief economist.
Assets of tax-exempt money funds fell by $137 million for the week, dropping the total to $96.7 billion, with the average number of days left to maturity of securities held in fund portfolios unchanged at 65, Donoghue's analysts said.
The seven-day average compounded yield rose smartly to 2.35 percent, from 2.18 percent last week, with the simple yield at 2.32 percent, up from 2.16 percent a week ago.
The 30-day average, which still reflects previous yield declines, has the compounded return at 2.27 percent, down from 2.36 percent last week and the simple return at 2.25 percent, down from 2.33 percent.
Not assuming state taxes, the taxable equivalent of the seven-day compounded yield this week for investors in the 28 percent tax bracket is about 3.26 percent, and 3.40 percent for investors in the 31 percent bracket.
Of the surveyed tax-exempt funds with assets greater than $100 million, IBC/Donoghue's said the Dreyfus Basic Municipal Money Market fund was again the best performer with a yield of 3.11 percent, up from 2.90 percent last week.
 
Taxable Yield: 2.79%
 In taxable money market funds, yields bounced slightly higher, as total assets dropped by $8.2 billion, to $483.2 billion. Of that total, institutional money fund assets fell by $5.2 billion, to $165.7 billion, with public funds off $3.1 billion, to a total of about $317.3 billion.
"At this end of the market, yields are expected to move up and down slightly in the near term," Mr. Frank said. "And the only big number that could change that is coming tomorrow in the October employment report."
The average seven-day compounded yield for a taxable money market fund was 2.79 percent, up from 2.78 percent last week, and the simple yield was 2.75 percent, compared with 2.74 percent. For the 30-day period the average compounded yield is 2.81 percent and the simple yield is 2.77 percent, both down 2 basis points from a week ago.
Analysts said the average days left to maturity of securities in portfolios rose by one, to 66, as managers displayed little fear of rates rising dramatically.
Standby Reserve Fund, distributed by Cowen & Company in New York, the top yield producer last week, had the best return this week with a yield of 3.87 percent, up from 3.78 percent. For government-only funds with assets under $100 million, the United Services Government Securities Savings fund, distributed by United Services in San Antonio, was the best as it cracked through 4 percent, to 4.03 percent.
Elsewhere, the average yield on bank money market accounts held at 2.79 percent this week.


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on Nov. 4, 1992 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

 	 	 		Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	 	 	 	New York	2.73	2.87	Los Angeles	2.81	2.96	Chicago	2.78	3.09	San Francisco	2.77	2.88	Philadelphia	2.94	2.98	Detroit	2.87	3.04	Boston	2.81	3.01	Houston	2.69	3.08	Dallas	2.65	3.04	Washington	2.85	3.14	Bank Rate Monitor Index* 2.79	3.01	 	
 
*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408)
 
Graphs: "Consumer Money Rates" tracks Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average taxable yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts since July. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, Fla., and IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report, Holliston, Mass); "Maturities" tracks average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios over the past year. (Source: IBC/Donoghue's)
Table: "Regional Bank Rates"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED SERVICES GOVERNMENT SECURITIES SAVINGS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BONDS (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT CLARE SHORT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



196 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Blue Chips Slide, With Dow Falling 29.44

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks fell sharply yesterday in a post-election response to Bill Clinton's White House victory, with investors nervous about the Democrat's plans to stimulate the economy.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 29.44 points at 3,223.04. Volume totaled 194.4 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, compared with 208.1 million on Tuesday. Declining issues led advances, 1,011 to 734. 
 The Nasdaq's composite index ended up 0.94 at 605.52, with advancing issues narrowly edging out decliners.
Arnie Owen at Soundview Financial Group said that although the expected post-election rally did not take place, he saw "pockets of strength" in the over-the-counter market.
Analysts said that uncertainties about the outcome of the election have shifted to Mr. Clinton's Cabinet choices and economic growth plans.
Medical and drug stocks were among the weaker issues as investors continued to shun the industries amid expectations that health-care costs would be cut by the incoming Administration.
"A lot of people will want to wait and see who the key players are in the Administration," said Mark Tincher, manager of United States equity investments at the Chase Private Bank. Speaking of the stock market's expected gains under the new Administration, he said: "I think people got a bit ahead of themselves. The reality is that it's not going to happen overnight."
 
Clinton's Late Afternoon Speech
Robert Stovall, president of Stovall/21st Advisers, noted that the market's fall accelerated during Mr. Clinton's televised speech in late afternoon. Mr. Clinton said he would insure that his program to stimulate economic growth would not disrupt financial markets.
"Maybe the market expected him to say something more," Mr. Stovall said. "We're not getting off to a very upbeat start with him."
David Shulman, United States equity strategist at Salomon Brothers, said in a report released yesterday that the sluggish economy and high debt burden "will make it difficult for Bill Clinton to stimulate the economy."
But several analysts said they still saw a positive environment for stocks. "the alternatives are not that attractive," said Tony Kreisel, co-manager of the Putnam Fund for Growth and Income.
Historically, stock gains for the first year after a new Democratic Party administration have been about 4 percent.
Among individual stocks, shares of Compaq Computer slipped 7/8, to 39 1/2. The company said that while a continuing computer component shortage may dampen its fourth-quarter revenues, it still expects results in the period to be its strongest in 1992.
News that A.T.&T. plans to buy a 33 percent stake in McCaw Cellular helped shares of telecomunications stocks. McCaw was up 2 1/8, to 26 3/4, but A.T.&T.'s lost 5/8, to 42 3/4.
Archer Daniels Midland lost 1 1/2, to 25, as investors reacted to the threat of a United States-European Community trade war over an oilseeds dispute.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks fell 2.81, to 417.11. The American Stock Exchange index lost 0.89, to 381.94.
The New York Stock Exchange Composite index of all listed common stocks was off 1.45, to 229.79. The average share lost 21 cents.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



197 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Mostly Higher On Muted Response to Vote

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar settled mostly higher on world currency markets yesterday in moderate, post-election trading.
Gold prices fell slightly worldwide. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $337.10 a troy ounce, down 40 cents from Tuesday. The Republic National Bank quoted a late bid for gold of $337.30, off 45 cents an ounce. 
 Currency dealers said there was only a muted response to Gov. Bill Clinton's victory in the Presidential race since it had been widely expected and was factored into the price of the dollar.
The dollar's rise was attributed in part to "the perception that a Democratic President and Congress approach will be more toward fiscal stimulus, and therefore there will be higher interest rates," said Kevin Lawrie, a vice president at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. Higher interest rates make dollar-denominated securities more attractive to investors. In Tokyo, where financial markets were closed Tuesday for a national holiday, the dollar settled at 122.90 yen, down 0.79 yen from Monday. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 122.85 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 123.05 yen, up from 122.40 yen on Tuesday.
In London, the British pound was unchanged at $1.5510. In New York, it cost $1.5435 to buy one pound, less expensive than Tuesday's $1.5505.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.5730 German marks, up from 1.5675; 1.4055 Swiss francs, up from 1.3985; 5.3220 French francs, up from 5.3085; 1,335.50 Italian lire, down from 1,337.00, and 1.2467 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2428.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.5690 German marks, up from 1.5625; 1.4015 Swiss francs, up from 1.3920; 5.3065 French francs, up from 5.2930; 1.7649 Dutch guilders, up from 1.7575; 1,335.00 Italian lire, up from 1,333.38, and 1.2461 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2418.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); GERMANY (67%); JAPAN (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); GERMANY (67%); JAPAN (55%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (94%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



198 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: Wells Fargo Prices Floating-Rate Notes

 BODY:
Wells Fargo & Company yesterday priced $150 million of floating-rate notes due 1994 through underwriters led by Lehman Brothers.
The two-year floating-rate notes were priced at 100 to float quarterly at a full percentage point above the three-month London interbank offered rate, the basic short-term interest rate in the Eurodollar market and the rate to which many Eurodollar loans and deposits are tied. The rate, known as Libor, is similar in concept to the United States prime rate except that it is less subject to individual bank adjustment. 
 Noncallable by the San Francisco bank holding company before they reach maturity, the notes are rated Ba-1 by Moody's Investors Service and A- by Standard & Poor's.
Underwriters said the notes would pay interest quarterly. By late in the day yesterday, the three-month Libor rate was about 3.56 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WELLS FARGO & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEBT NOTES (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIME RATES (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); INTERBANK LENDING (68%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); 

PERSON: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



199 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Still Banking On Trouble

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
WILL taxpayers, insurers of last resort for bank deposits, once again be left holding the bag? Warnings of humongous bank losses ahead, offered in a new book and splashed around the airwaves by Ross Perot, have been dismissed by Federal regulators in a rare public display of wrath. And the regulators' scorn was only reinforced last week with reports of surging bank earnings.
But there is much more to the new book, "Banking on the Brink" by Roger J. Vaughn and Edward W. Hill (Washington Post Company Briefing Books), than estimates of which banks may be buried under a rubble of bad loans or how much it might cost Uncle Sugar to dig them out. The two economists argue that commercial banking is dying -- at least commercial banking-as-usual. And they see little evidence that the road to a more diverse system for transforming private savings into productive capital has been mapped by Washington. 
 Will there be a Federal takeover of undercapitalized lenders that empties the deposit insurance fund? The experts disagree, as experts are wont to do. And Mr. Vaughn and Mr. Hill are numbered among the pessimists. Surprisingly, though, in light of the bitter responses to the Vaughn-Hill findings, the range of disagreement among independent analysts is not all that great.
If insolvent banks were promptly shuttered, the two authors estimate that the net cost of paying off the insured depositors would run between $45 billion and $60 billion. The Congressional Budget Office puts the number at $43 billion, while Robert Litan, a bank watcher at the Brookings Institution, says $30 billion to $50 billion.
In the less bearish forecasts, deposit insurance premiums, plus funds borrowed under the insurers' established lines of credit, would probably let Washington squeak through the 1990's without tapping taxpayers for more cash. That might not be the case with the Vaughn-Hill scenario; hence Ross Perot's plea to "just tell me now."
The core problem, though, is not the $10 billion to $20 billion in liabilities that might or might not spill over to the United States Treasury. What really upsets Messrs. Vaughn and Hill and many other banking specialists is that delays in downsizing commercial banking could multiply these expected losses many times over, while leaving in place an inefficient system for channeling the nation's savings to the creditworthy.
The wretched performance of many commercial banks, including many of the biggest, in the last decade has been casually attributed to stupidity or venality. But the truth is more complicated.
Deregulation has forced banks to compete with nonbanks at ever-decreasing margins. Fidelity and Vanguard mutual funds have become as attractive places to store cash as, say, Chase or Citibank, while GE Credit and Sears have become highly competitive lenders. Meanwhile blue-chip corporations, long the meal tickets of the big banks, have learned they can borrow direct from the securities markets.
Many banks panicked, responding to harsh realities by rushing into lending businesses where brighter lights feared to tread: third world debt, oil and gas, commercial real estate.
That suicidal urge to make up for lost lending volume is presumably spent. And thanks to the plunge in interest rates on short-term deposits, average bank margins have risen sharply in recent months. But the profit reprieve is surely temporary: Mr. Litan reckons that commercial banking's lending capacity is still a third larger than can be justified by its core business. And in any case, Mr. Vaughn notes, "the sick banks aren't the ones making money." Unless the mortally wounded are put out of their misery promptly, he worries the taxpayers will end up with the hospital bill.
As of Dec. 19, regulators will be, in fact, under Congressional orders to perform this triage, raising minimum capital standards for all banks and closing the ones that cannot make the hurdle. Washington is also taking a cautious stab at discouraging the banks' tendency to plunge by linking deposit insurance premiums to their lending risks.
But Mr. Vaughn notes that measures to sweep away the weak could also drive out the strong. Squeeze much harder and a successful "wholesale" bank like Morgan Guaranty, with little need to raise money through insured deposits, might decide a bank charter is a luxury it need not afford.
Lawrence White of New York University adds, moreover, that it is by no means clear that the bank-busting regulators will chose their targets accurately. Accounting rules still permit banks to value assets at cost rather than market price -- a time bomb when the asset is an office building worth perhaps 40 cents on the dollar.
Almost everyone, it seems, agrees where commercial banks are and where regulators should be pointing them. What is less well understood, though, is that the likeliest path to an efficient, profitable commercial banking industry runs through a mine field.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (71%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER ROGER J VAUGHN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992



200 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Review/Architecture;
6 Visions of a New Ferry Terminal

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:
The world's most famous cheap date will soon be puttin' on the Ritz. If things proceed according to plan, voyagers on the Staten Island Ferry, that cut-rate, late-night ship of love, will no longer await departure in hateful surroundings. Instead, urban romantics, and mere 9-to-5 commuters, will grandly embark from a crystal palace. Or a classical pavilion. Or a soaring, barrel-vaulted terminal crowned with a gigantic illuminated clock. Or whichever of six remarkable designs, by a roster of prominent architects, is chosen today in an architectural competition to find a plan for a new Whitehall Ferry Terminal down at the tip of Manhattan.
As Edna St. Vincent Millay didn't put it, it is all very merry to go back and forth between these six lovely visions of the ferry. These designs, taken together, demonstrate the range of solutions serious architects can bring to the same problem. And the manner in which the design is being chosen proves there is still plenty of life in that venerable device for selecting architects, the competition. 
 
As the competition entries illustrate, architecture can be anything now. It can celebrate history or look afresh at the present. It can be a designer label or a low-profile intervention; an engineering tour de force or an urban shopping mall. The six finalists' designs are an impressive group. Any one of them would raise the art of municipal building by several notches. What the competition has not produced -- yet -- is a focus: the coherent urban vision the sponsoring agency, the City Economic Development Corporation, must have if its desire for good architecture is to be more than a bid for prestige.
The existing terminal building, a banal box, was badly damaged by fire in September of last year. Plans to rebuild the terminal were already under way when the Economic Development Corporation stepped in and decided that the site demanded something more than another utilitarian shed. A commuter portal to Manhattan and a hub for bus and subway lines, the terminal is also a pivotal link in a revitalized Manhattan waterfront. In addition to its spectacular harbor views, the site fronts on Peter Minuit Plaza, a traffic snarl with the potential to become a major public space. Architecture, in the Economic Development Corporation's view, offered a better means than civil engineering to capitalize on these assets.
Two of the proposals are signature designs, bearing the hallmarks of their internationally renowned designers. The Aldo Rossi Studio di Architeturra has produced the most gravely historical of the designs; it employs Mr. Rossi's familiar vocabulary of spare classicism alleviated by bright colors. Columns, cornices and square Roman windows trim a green temple to water transport. No iconic Rossi lighthouses flash this time, which may be why the ship-shaped waiting room bisects the terminal like a boat run aground. Cone-roofed gatehouses flank the entrance to a piazza framed by arcades. The piazza looks exquisitely forlorn: a place to listen for the ghostly blasts of long departed liners.
Venturi, Scott Brown & Associates, in association with Anderson/ Schwartz Architects, have fashioned a trademark "decorated shed." The green exterior of this brash design owes nothing to weathered patina; in a nod to Wall Street, the walls are the color of freshly printed dollar bills. They are engraved with a full-scale rendering of the adjacent Battery Maritime Building. But this cartoon contextualism is but a setting for the design's main feature: a giant clock that faces out to the harbor. Of the six designs, this is the most conspicuous landmark, an architectural billboard impossible to ignore. There's nothing romantic about the message it spells out: Time Is Money.
Where Mr. Rossi and Mr. Venturi and Ms. Scott Brown remain within their customary esthetic bounds, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill has made a bold attempt to break out of its recent Art Deco mold. Alas, the stretch has pulled the firm's scheme to pieces. An industrial shed, a hat-shaped rotunda, and a floating hairpin ramp, slung from what appears to be the superstructure of a Navy destroyer, cover the ground like urban fragments. The separation of elements has one advantage: the scheme makes better use than most of Peter Minuit Plaza. And there are wonderful spaces within. But a project that is supposed to connect people to the water would instead take us miles away.
James Stewart Polshek & Partners claims the opposite extreme on the scale of ambition. Its design is disarmingly modest. A simple canopy opens into a spare pavilion, its walls of glass, its roof molded into a wave-like contour. The design's simplicity grows on you: Whitehall Terminal is for commuter ferries, not the Queen Mary. And Mr. Polshek has surpassed Mr. Rossi and Mr. Venturi and Ms. Scott Brown in distilling an earlier era of public works. His terminal's clean, mid-century modern lines recall a time when Kennedy was called Idlewild and New York looked with faith to its horizons.
Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates sits somewhere in the middle of these divergent roads. Fronted by gabled glass entrance canopies, the design takes its scale and lines from the Battery Maritime Building next door. But the terminal's spiritual cousins are the pseudo-industrial sheds of South Street Seaport. This is a ferry building half wishing it were a festival marketplace: not an unreasonable wish, considering all the train stations lately retrofitted as urban malls. Crystalline interiors sparkle within Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer's market halls. And the firm's desire to create a "people place" needs no defense. But why make people feel that they must buy something to belong there?
If the purpose of the competition was to transfer the terminal's design to architecture from engineering, then Rafael Vinoly deserves a slap on the wrist. His design shows how expressive engineering can be. With a spectacular roof of cantilevered trusses springing from slender supports, the terminal stretches out toward the harbor like a sinewy hand. The design balances more than a roof. It also strikes an equilibrium between shelter and circulation; it is partly a place to gather, partly a conduit to move people through space. A spiral observation tower counterpoints the roof's strong horizontal lines, but redundantly so. On a site surrounded by tall spires, who needs a vertical accent?
The ferry competition is not a beauty contest. It's a disservice to assess these six designs solely on the basis of their visual images. Each has tackled complex requirements for circulation, urban design, public space, transit links, retail concessions, not to mention the mechanics of ferry operations.
Yet it is through visual imagery that each design projects a civic statement: an idea about the city and the terminal's place in it. If Mr. Vinoly's design stands out, that is not because it is physically more striking but because its dynamic form projects a stronger connection to an urban vision. Renewing the city's transportation system is a top priority. Mr. Vinoly's scheme is visually alert to the urgency of the enterprise. Like a taut muscle of urban will, this design looks poised to drive the city forward. It gives symbolic form to forces that could knock the rust off bridges, subways and minds.

GRAPHIC: Drawing/Photo: Designs entered in the architectural competition for the Whitehall Ferry Terminal by Venturi, Scott Brown & Associates, in association with Anderson/Schwartz Architects, inset, and Rafael Vinoly. (Photographs by David Corio for The New York Times)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; FERRIES; REVIEWS FERRIES (93%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (77%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (77%); CLASSICS (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT ALDO ROSSI STUDIO (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1992

 
