

401 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2544 words

HEADLINE: FRUGAL TRAVELER;
Counting Pesetas in Madrid

BYLINE: By SUSAN SPANO 

 BODY:
LIKE clockwork, when winter sets in, the airlines start advertising economical off-season packages (including accommodations, transfers and air fare) to all the European capitals on my wish list. I just can't resist these European deals -- which explains what I was doing, polishing off a split of Bandita Rioja 1991 on an Iberia Airlines flight from New York to Madrid last month.
 The ad for the "Discover Spain" package offered air fare, arrival transfer, breakfasts and accommodations for three nights at a tourist-class hotel in Madrid for $529 a person, double occupancy; but with taxes, a single supplement of $90, a $20 surcharge for flying on a Saturday, and an extra day at the Hotel Tryp Washington for $73, the total came to $735. I could have spent four nights in Barcelona for about the same price, but I chose Madrid because it is six and a half hours flying time from New York; to reach Barcelona, I'd have had to make a connection in Madrid. 
 Then, too, there has been an exciting buzz about Madrid, which enjoyed an economic and cultural blossoming (called the "Movida") after the death of Gen. Francisco Franco in 1975. The city's night life got wilder, with the Spanish director Pedro Almodovar documenting the scene in 8-millimeter film; two new major art museums, the contemporary Reina Sofia and the elegant Thyssen-Bornemisza, moved in; and, like a beaming beauty queen, Madrid won a yearlong stint as the Cultural Capital of Europe in 1992. Recession and spiraling unemployment put the brakes on the Movida, so I was a little late for the party. But I didn't care, because the Prado Museum, which opened in 1819, was still there.
 After I cleared customs at Barajas Airport at about 7:30 on a brisk, clear Tuesday morning, I spotted a woman holding a sign with my name written on it. She showed me to a van, along with three other Discover Spain package takers from the United States, and we were whisked to the center of Madrid in less than 30 minutes.
 When we stopped in traffic at the Plaza de la Cibeles on the Paseo del Prado, where a grandiose 18th-century statue of the goddess of fertility poised on a chariot seemed to be waiting for the light to change, a little frisson of pleasure jolted through me, because this part of Madrid reminded me of Paris.
 But my hotel was about 15 minutes away, at the northwestern end of the Grand Via, which looks more like Broadway around Times Square than the Champs-Elysees. The 144-room Tryp Washington (where the rack rate for my single room with a private bath was listed as $107) shares a busy lobby with the 120-room Hotel Tryp Menfis. Tacky decals of leggy female bellhops were plastered on the front doors, threadbare patches of carpeting in the halls bore witness to the fact that countless tourists had passed this way, and my darkish, interior room with a double bed, coin-operated safe and television set was exceedingly small.
 But a Discover Spain agent was on hand when I arrived to help me check in. She also marked the city's top attractions on my map, warned me about a rash of tourist-targeted thievery along the Gran Via, and took over the task of reconfirming my return flight 72 hours before departure. The staff of the hotel was helpful and the breakfast buffet more than adequate, including sliced ham and cheese, pastries, cereal, yogurt, and coffee from a machine. Actually, for a better morning cup of cafe con leche ($1), I made a habit of visiting a zany chain restaurant next door called the Museo del Jamon, decorated from wall to wall with legs of ham encased in fat.
NONE of the six hotels offered at the low end of the package were mentioned in any of the guidebooks I browsed through before I purchased the deal, though my Madrid map told me that they were all on or near the Gran Via. I chose the Tryp Washington because the Discover Spain agent who handled my booking said it had been renovated recently.
 But while I was in Madrid I stopped at the other hotels, finding the distinctions between them marginal -- though I preferred the decor of the rooms in the Tryp Rex and Tryp Capitol, and the fact that they occupied parts of buildings on the Gran Via that also held huge-screen movie theaters with old-fashioned, hand-painted billboards for international hits like Jane Austen's "Sentido y Sensibilidad."
 I also toured rooms at several hotels offered in the higher price categories of the Discover Spain deal. For instance, for a package price of $549, double occupancy, you could spend three nights at the luxurious Tryp Ambassador, near the Plaza de Oriente and the Palacio Real on the west side of the old city, where the rooms are tastefully decorated and gigantic (with a rack rate of $204 for a double).
 For $689, double occupancy, you could unpack in a handsome double at the landmark Palace Hotel, across from the Prado Museum (where the rack rate is $336). Or you could just sip a goblet of Tio Pepe sherry (for $5.40) beneath the marvelous stained-glass dome in the lobby of the Palace, and eschew the package altogether by staying at one of the simple but well-maintained hostels (with private-bath doubles for about $46) in the neighborhood around the Plaza Santa Ana, Madrid's theater district during the 16th-century Golden Age. The hostels aren't fancy, but for ambiance and location, I preferred them to the Tryp Washington.
 Compelled by the little accountant who lives somewhere in my soul, I calculated the real cost of my Discover Spain package by adding together the lowest round-trip fare offered by Iberia from New York to Madrid in March ($558, with a 21-day advance purchase), the price of a taxi from the airport to the city ($17), and the cost of a single at the Hotel Tryp Washington for four nights, including breakfast ($424), and arrived at $999 -- $264 more than the $735 I paid. Not bad, but if I'd traveled independently (taking the $3 bus from the airport to the city, breakfasting in cafes for about $1.70 and staying in hostels), I'd have spent $687.
 Still, I had few regrets about booking the package, because it gave me the chance to get to know Madrid. I even got to like the hustle of the hilly Gran Via, cut in a sweeping diagonal across the city in 1910 and known as Howitzer Avenue during the Spanish Civil War, when Franco's artillery used it as a target. Virtually outside the door of my hotel lay the imposing Franco-era Plaza de Espana, with fountains, plane trees and a monolith dominated by statues of Don Quixote and his hapless sidekick, Sancho Panza.
 From there it was about a 10-minute walk to three other Madrid hubs -- the commercial Puerta del Sol, a diamond-shaped plaza in the very center of town, where the action comes to a lull only during siesta time (from 2 to 4 in the afternoon); the quieter, arcaded Plaza Mayor, built in 1620 by the Hapsburg monarch Felipe III; and the snug Plaza de la Villa, where Miss Spain 1995 gave a short speech from a balcony to launch Madrid's Carnival on the night before I left.
NOR was my hotel far from most of the historical sights I took in, like the 16th-century Monasterio de las Descalzas Real (admission $5.50), hermetic and austere from the outside, but inside a treasure chest of trompe-l'oeil frescoes, 17th century-tapestries and tiny, closetlike chapels encrusted with gold from Spain's vast holdings in the New World; the timber-ceilinged house on Calle de Cervantes where the Golden Age playwright Lope de Vega spent the last 25 years of his life (admission $1.70); the Teatro Espanol, on a site at the east end of the Plaza Santa Ana that has been occupied by theaters since 1583 (a ticket to a production of Jose Zorrilla's "Don Juan Tenorio" there cost me $9.25); and the bombastically baroque Palacio Real (admission $7), which lines five blocks of the Calle de Bailen on the west side of town.
 Actually, I'd have done well enough touring central Madrid on foot, but with temperatures in the 40's, I often resorted to the Metro, finding stops all along the Gran Via. Before the sun set on my first day in Madrid I had bought an "abono" for $5.40, entitling me to 10 rides underground (a true bargain, since single trips cost $1 each). In three days I almost exhausted it, because the Madrid Metro is just as efficient and user-friendly as the one in Paris.
 Indeed, it was by Metro that I reached all three museums in Madrid's vaunted Golden Triangle, which line the Paseo del Prado from the Atocha train station to the Plaza de la Cibeles -- beginning with the Reina Sofia (admission $3.35), Madrid's new national museum of modern art. It occupies a smashingly renovated hospital built in 1781, fronted by two window-lined elevator shafts (offering rides worth the price of admission). But I stopped first in the Luis Bunuel Archives on the ground floor to watch a video of the Surrealist classic "Un Chien Andalou" but couldn't stick it beyond the early scene in which a man draws a straight razor across a woman's eyeball. In the permanent collection on the second floor, devoted to 20th-century Spanish art, I wondered what Salvador Dali was thinking when he painted "The Great Masturbator" and stopped to see Pablo Picasso's "Guernica" (which hung in New York's Museum of Modern Art until 1981 because the artist did not want it to be displayed in his homeland as long as Franco remained in power).
 There is a fine collection of modern art on the first floor of the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, too. But this exquisitely arranged gallery (admission $5), housed in the 19th-century Palacio de Villahermosa, takes a more catholic approach to painting, including canvases by Edward Hopper, Natalia Goncharova and Wassily Kandinsky, and on the second floor everything from Luca della Robbia terra cottas to a Gilbert Stuart portrait of George Washington's cook. Indeed, the collection, sold to Madrid by the Baron Hans-Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza three years ago, is so comprehensive that any medium-sized American city would be blessed to have it.
 But for me, touring the Reina Sofia and the Thyssen was like mounting a flight of steps leading to a shrine -- which is the Prado, of course. Despite continuing renovations, the museum (which owns some 8,600 paintings and costs just $3.35 to enter) still wears the musty air of an Old World exhibition hall, with marvels to discover at every turning. Facing the fact that I'd have to come back sometime to view the museum's Flemish and Italian masterpieces, I concentrated on the Spanish galleries, acquainting myself with Baroque painters like Zurbaran and Jose de Ribera before moving on to the show-stopping rooms devoted to Velazquez and Goya. The breadth of Goya's work seemed astonishing -- from gay, sensuous tapestry cartoons to the horrors of war with the French to his last, tortured "black paintings." But it was Velazquez's great painting "Las Meninas" that brought me up short -- a portrait of the poised little Spanish Princess Margarita and her ladies-in-waiting that suggests the artist's understanding of human nature.
AFTER spending long afternoons in all three of these museums (which stay open on weekdays until 7 P.M. or later), I generally felt like a zombie. But the means to revival was ever at hand -- were it a cup of strong Spanish coffee sipped while standing at a bar like the Cerveceria Santa Ana on the Plaza Santa Ana, an airy pastry from the friendly, old-fashioned Antigua Pasteleria del Pozo on Calle del Pozo, or a glass of Rioja accompanied by tapas in the form of delectable little open-faced sandwiches of mussels or Roquefort cheese and anchovies (for $1.70 to $2.50 each) at the tile-fronted Taberna de Dolores on the Plaza de Jesus. I also found reasonably priced menus of the day (including house wine) at modest storefront restaurants like El Corgo on the Calle del Rollo, where I chose a first course of paella, a second of veal in lemon sauce, and ice cream for dessert (for $7.60).
 I was just mastering the art of deciphering Madrid's menus and wondering if there were any way I could work in a day trip to Cordoba on the high-speed AVE train (for $46) when it was time to go home. In fact, the Discover Spain package really let me down in only one way: It was too short.
 
The bottom line
 
While in Madrid, I spent about $55 a day above and beyond the package price.
 Discover Spain Vacations, (800) 227-5858, is offering three-night packages to Madrid, Barcelona and the Costa del Sol beginning at $499 a person, double occupancy, through March 27.
 The lowest rate is for the Costa del Sol. Madrid rates start at $529 a person, double occupancy (including round-trip air fare from New York on weekdays, accommodations in a tourist-class hotel with tax and service charges, breakfasts and an arrival transfer); the per-person, double-occupancy rate for a three-night stay at the Ritz is $839.
 Iberia Airlines of Spain, (800) 772-4642, offers its lowest round-trip fares between New York and Madrid to those able to fly on weekdays, buy their tickets at least 21 days before departure, and stay at least seven days. Iberia's lowest New York-
Madrid fare in April costs $729.
 Cheap Tickets, a ticket consolidator, at (212) 570-1179 or (800) 377-1000, has fares of $644 to $688 in April, with many restrictions. Council Charter, (212) 661-0311, has round trips for $550 on Air France via Paris if you fly before April 1.
 
Information
 The Tourist Office of Spain, (212) 265-8822, fax (212) 265-8864, is on the 35th floor at 666 Fifth Avenue in New York.
 In Madrid the Municipal Tourist Office, 588-1636, is at 3 Plaza Mayor. You can pick up maps and English-language event listings there, but the best source for information about events is the weekly Guia del Ocio (in Spanish), available from news agents for $1.
 I took several guidebooks with me, but the best by far proved to be the "Time Out Guide to Madrid."
 The dialing code for Madrid is 34-1. Prices have been calculated at 120 pesetas to the dollar.
 
Getting Around
 Taxis from Barajas Airport, 10 miles east of the city, cost about $17; there is also a bus that runs between the airport and the Plaza de Colon every 10 to 20 minutes between 4:45 A.M. and 2 A.M. daily; the price for a one-way ticket is $3, and there is a Metro stop at Colon. I made my return trip to the airport on an Aero City shuttle, which I booked at my hotel for $7.
 The Madrid Metro has 11 color-coded lines, with maps available at ticket booths; single rides cost $1 and a 10-trip ticket $5.40.
 
Places to Stay
 The Hotel Tryp Washington, 521-8391, fax 521-7729, has 140 rooms with private baths that range from $107 to $184, including breakfast and 7 percent tax.
 I also looked at rooms in two homey, well-maintained hostels on the upper floors of buildings near the Plaza Santa Ana -- the Hostal Vetusta, 429-6404, 3 Huertas, and the Hostal Santa Ana, 521-3058, 1 Plaza Santa Ana, where singles and doubles with private baths range from $25 to $45.
 
Places to Eat
 El Corgo is at 8 Calle del Rollo, 547-1005; the Taberna de Dolores, 429-2243, is at 4 Plaza de Jesus; the Cerveceria Santa Ana, 429-4356, is at 10 Plaza Santa Ana; and the Antigua Pasteleria del Pozo is at 8 Calle del Pozo; 522-3894. S. S.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hotel Tryp Washington, which shares a lobby with the Tryp Menfis. (Sofia Moro/Cover, for The New York Times); The Murillo gallery in the Prado Museum. (Susan Spano); Detail of the Palacio Real, which runs for five blocks. (Sofia Moro/Cover, for The New York Times) (pg. 6); Movie theaters on the Gran Via, in the heart of Madrid. (Sofia Moro/Cover, for The New York Times) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBLA (MCE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: SPAIN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (95%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: IBERIA LINEAS AEREAS DE ESPANA SA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID (SPAIN); SPAIN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (95%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL AIRLINES (90%); AIR FARES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (70%); HOTEL STAFF (70%); LOBBYING (58%); 

PERSON: SPANO, SUSAN PEDRO ALMODOVAR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



402 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 4; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1909 words

HEADLINE: A Taste of English Village Life

BYLINE: By J. RUSSELL KING; J. RUSSELL KING is a deputy news editor of The New York Times.

 BODY:
WHEN my mother and I pulled up to the home of Theo Dobbe and Ben Kok for dinner, a bright-blue Oklahoma flag was flying atop their cliffside house in the fishing village of East Looe, Cornwall.
 That acknowledgment of our native state may have been the cleverest and most surprising, but hardly the only, concrete symbol of the extraordinary welcome we received as part of a weeklong Parish Holiday in the nearby inland village of St. Cleer. 
 A program begun by the Church of England, Parish Holidays provides a chance for small, rural parishes in England to raise money for the upkeep of ancient buildings by playing host to foreign visitors. (Parts of St. Cleer's church date to the 13th century, and it needs a new boiler.)
 More important from our selfish perspective, the program provides an unusual opportunity for Americans and others to see a corner of England in an up-close way that eludes the casual tourist.
 "Overseas visitors would come to share the life of a local community for a week, living in people's homes, as members of the family," said the brochure I stumbled across last year at the British Tourist Authority in New York. "Every day, in the company of their new-found friends they would visit places of interest, sample foods and customs, go to the theater or on picnics -- in short, do all the kinds of things that folks would do when they had a close friend or relative come to visit."
 It certainly sounded different. Too different? Instant intimacy with total strangers in a foreign country -- sleeping in someone else's home, sharing someone else's dinner table, being shepherded around with a pack of other, unknown tourists -- isn't exactly second nature, for me at least.
 Still, I've traveled to London and other parts of England several times, yet never felt as though I knew any people who lived there. And Mom (an Anglophile who had always wanted to visit Cornwall) was due for a vacation. And the price was right -- $975 a person would cover eight days of accommodation, meals, local transportation, sightseeing.
 So the next thing I knew, one day last May I was grabbing Mother off a Dallas flight at Gatwick Airport and rushing to the Plymouth-bound train.
 It didn't take long for the people of St. Cleer (a scattered parish of a couple of thousand souls, about 20 miles northwest of Plymouth) to put to rest any reservations we had about the trip. Our hosts for the week were Frances and Bob Foulkes, both lawyers in nearby towns, whose modernized farmhouse has empty bedrooms left behind by offspring in college. "New-found friends" they certainly were, in a matter of hours.
 Starting the next morning, when, along with nine other North American visitors taking part in the program, we all gathered at the parish church, we developed a whole village of friends.
 Over coffee at the vicarage, we tried to learn the names and faces of the other visitors -- largely retired couples from various points in the United States and Canada -- and their hosts. Then there were the volunteers who drove us on our daily sightseeing excursions or gave teas or dinners for subsets of the group. And the Rev. Maurice Friggens and his funny, Levi-clad wife, Carol, who was the chief organizer for the project and who fitted no one's stereotypical expectations of "the vicar's wife." (Probably not even the vicar's.)
 This get-together began a busy week.
 St. Cleer itself is of only modest touristic interest -- "It's not a picture-postcard village," Frances said when she picked us up at the station in nearby Liskeard -- but that was part of the charm: seeing something a little closer to real life than the prettied-up hamlets of the Cotswolds or the Lake District, or "quaint" seaside resorts with shop after shop of fast food and souvenirs.
 There is, however, the beautiful local church, which provides what little center the hilly village has, and the ancient Holy Well down the street, and the megalithic burial mound and stone circle up on the moor, and the relics of tin mining that powered the local economy for a century.
 Our daily excursions (in Cornwall and neighboring Devon) found much to explore within half an hour's drive: the market town of Tavistock, the cathedral city of Truro, the cliffs of the northern Cornish coast, the windy wilds of Dartmoor. The historic environs of Plymouth, with a museum stop detailing the history of the port, the voyages of Captain Cook and Sir Francis Drake, the devastation of World War II bombing. The beautiful house and gardens of Cotehele ("home of the Edgcumbe family from 1353 until 1947"). A boat trip between the fishing villages of Polperro and Polruan.
 The lasting memories, though, will be not the tourist sights but the evening we spent at the local pub with Bob and Frances, playing along with the weekly trivia quiz.
 Or the elaborate seven-course meal with Theo and Ben, preceded and followed by unfamiliar aperitifs and liqueurs from their native Netherlands, and accompanied by wide-ranging conversation about the summer traffic, the English character, the price of vestments, the keeping of bees.
 And a similar culinary night out at the home of Len and Sally Booth-Clibborn, an evening of Old World elegance combined with the informality of instantaneous friendship, and hilarious tales of work and play. (If you ever run into Sal, who restores fine china, ask her about the giant ceramic frog.)
 Or the awesome skill of our volunteer drivers, who seemed able to shift into reverse without braking when a car approached in the opposite direction on the single-lane hedgerow-sided roads.
 Or the evenings in the Foulkeses' sitting room, watching the BBC news, handicapping the coming elections in our country and theirs, asking about the fading faces in tabletop photographs, discussing the plight of well-educated 24-year-old children of the middle class who have trouble finding a purpose in life and trouble finding jobs in the big city.
 For Mom, a warm long-distance friendship began with tea in the immaculate garden of John and Nora Spence, just across the street from the village church. On our first day in St. Cleer, John sought Mother out; his Royal Air Force training five-and-a-half decades ago took place in Oklahoma, and he was almost giddy at the prospect of meeting a "fellow" Oklahoman. (It was John, needless to say, who managed to procure a state flag for Theo and Ben.)
 The Spences' 16th-century house is the oldest in the village; there's speculation that the roof beams were cut from timbers washed ashore after the defeat of the Spanish Armada. The Spences' son, a naval officer, bought the house several years ago and was killed in a car crash before completing its restoration; John and Nora moved to Cornwall to finish the job.
 For me, a couple of decades younger than the other visitors, the anniversaries of the Normandy invasion and V-E Day took on new meaning as I listened to the reminiscences of Mother and her new friends, for whom World War II happened only yesterday.
 These sorts of special memories are available at a dozen or so English villages that sign up for the annual program, each village picking one week out of the late spring or summer to welcome guests. The local church committees organize their own schedules of hospitality and sightseeing.
 Maria Borneo, the part-time coordinator of Parish Holidays, says that the parish committees donate most of the money paid by visitors to their church, with a small amount returned to the participating households to cover basic expenses.
 Sometimes as few as two couples sign up for a particular holiday, while another may attract 18 people or more, though everybody agreed that our group of 11 seemed an ideal number.
 SOME villages take part in the program year after year, though our group's visit was a first for St. Cleer. It wasn't difficult to understand why small English towns get a lot of repeat business -- both formal and informal. Tom and Mary Ellen Daggett of Basking Ridge, N.J., were taking part in their fourth Parish Holiday when we met them in St. Cleer, and they had just come from a visit with a couple who had been their hosts on a previous trip.
 Another St. Cleer visitor, Nancy Agar of Seattle, was going on to North Wales to visit her host from an earlier Parish Holiday. (Nancy pointed out that the program has particular appeal for solo travelers, providing companions and "guides" without the rigidity of commercial tours and with no extra charge for single accommodation.)
Are there drawbacks? Well, some travelers would obviously prefer to lie on a beach or tangle with a golf course than spend quiet evenings with people they don't know. The accommodations are homey and comfortable rather than luxurious; and visitors are likely to share a family bathroom. Even if the visitor has a positive attitude, the schedule can be tiring, and those who crave a bit of solitude may have to work at carving out down time. But organizers, drivers and hosts in St. Cleer all bent over backward to make the visit as comfortable and flexible as possible.
 Indeed, there seemed to be something for everybody.
 I'm the shy type; I could travel from now till the middle of the 21st century and never strike up more than half a dozen conversations with strangers, much less get any real window on how they think and how they live. But the arrangement at St. Cleer forced me out of my shell in a comfortable way, at the same time offering the opportunity of seeing magnificent old buildings and learning the history and geography of a new corner of the world. My mother is even more interested in history, particularly of the British variety, but she's also more of a "people person," and more willing to stop and look at the little things: while I'm asking who built the manor house, she wants to know what the purple flowers are by the front walk.
 Spending a full week in one spot, with people determined to extend a warm welcome, seemed to offer both of us the sort of trip we had hoped for.
 On our last night in St. Cleer, a farewell party was held at the village school, a chance to meet still more members of the parish, a chance to exchange addresses. There were toasts and thanks and picture-taking, and souvenirs for all (paperweights of local granite for the men, framed needlepoint monograms for the women).
 And promises that the friendships would continue.
 Mr. Friggens asked me to be sure to let them know if I was anywhere near their corner of England again. "You're always welcome at the vicarage," he said. "And that's not just English politeness."
 
Signing up for a Parish Holiday
 
 Information about the program is available from Parish Holidays, 4 Brook Cottages, Corston, Bath BA2 9BA, England; telephone (44) 1225-873-679; ask for Maria Borneo, the coordinator. Or fax (44) 1288-352-786.
 A dozen English villages are taking part this year, and places are still available with all of them. The number of participants taken by a parish depends on its size, and ranges from 2 to a maximum of 25.
 Each parish picks a week between May 8 and the end of September for its program. The cost for eight days, including accommodation, meals, local transportation and sightseeing (but not air fare), is $975 a person.
A free brochure is available from the British Information Center at 551 Fifth Avenue, Seventh Floor, New York, N.Y. 10176; (212) 986-2200. J. R. K.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Maurice Friggens and his wife, Carol, at the vicarage. Frances and Bob Foulkes in their kitchen. John and Nora Spence in their garden. The Parish Church at St. Cleer. (pg. 8); The waterfront at Plymouth, where the visiting Americans were driven by volunteers for a day's sightseeing. (Photographs by Jonathan Player for The New York Times) (pg. 9)
 
Map of England showing the location of St. Cleer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CORNWALL (ENGLAND); GREAT BRITAIN; ST CLEER (ENGLAND); ENGLAND (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; ANGLICAN CHURCHES TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); FAMILY (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (69%); 

PERSON: KING, J RUSSELL BOB FOULKES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



403 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: The View From: Hartford;
Forget Hannibal, Twain Wrote Here

BYLINE: By BILL SLOCUM 

 BODY:
THE three-story house on Farmington Avenue in Hartford sits on open ground, in pointed contrast to the pinched urban sprawl of the Capitol area just a few blocks away. If you gaze at it with narrowed eyes, and block out the sound of ambulance sirens and other passing traffic, you might sense the serenity of a century ago, when the house was part of a neighborhood called Nook Farm.
The mansion's spectacular appearance, a hodgepodge of jutting balconies, fringed gables and polychrome brick, is exceeded only by the renown of its most famous resident. In the surrounding commercial district, names like Twain Package Store and Hannibal Pizza are common. But the words "Mark Twain of Connecticut" just doesn't roll off the tongue the same way "Mark Twain of the Mississippi" does. 
 And so the Mark Twain House (its letterhead not only capitalizes the "The" but italicizes it, too) attracts only about 50,000 visitors a year, a fraction of the number who stop at the various Twain sights in Hannibal, Mo., where Samuel Clemens spend much of his boyhood.
It is the sort of thing Clemens, who took his pseudonym from a riverboat expression meaning "two fathoms deep," would have probably appreciated. Hannibal may have been the inspiration for "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer" and its sequel, "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn," but the house on Farmington Avenue was where Twain wrote those and other notable works, including "A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court." The private, locally based Mark Twain Memorial Commission, which owns and operates the Mark Twain House, would like everyone to be aware of that.
"Hannibal gets about seven times the visitors we get," said Jenifer Huget, a Twain House spokeswoman. "We aren't disappointed with the attendance figures, but we know they could be better. Hannibal was his boyhood home, but this is the only place Mark Twain chose to live, in Hartford."
In an effort to boost the museum's public appeal, the state Bonding Commission last December allocated $1.5 million toward restoring it and adding a separate building to accommodate visitors and exhibitions. A second installment of $1.5 million is to be earmarked later this year.
A spokesman for Gov. John G. Rowland, Dean Pagani, said it was all part of the Governor's urban agenda. "There is a growing belief that economic revitalization is not going to depend on one major project or corporation coming in," Mr. Pagani explained. "The Governor is trying to find smaller projects that when put together as a whole, add up to the same thing."
Slated for completion in 1999, the project is expected to cost a total of $7.8 million, according to the Twain House executive director, John Vincent Boyer.
The public funds must be matched by private contributions before they are released. Although a fund drive has not formally begun, the United Technologies Corporation, has already donated $250,000.
One key goal, Mr. Boyer said, is "a little catch-up ball" in awakening Hartford to this landmark in their midst. Why the need for catching up? "Hartford has an identity problem in that everyone came to Connecticut at one time or another," said John W. Shannahan, director of the state Historical Commission. "When I think of Hartford, I think of Harriet Beecher Stowe, or Noah Webster. Twain is not someone you think of as being a Connecticut figure."
In recent years Twain House has been busy trying to lift its public profile, inviting the likes of Dan Rather and "Doonesbury" creator Garry Trudeau to lecture on Twain's lasting influence on public discourse. It plans to hold "Twain Days" in August with, perhaps, a jumping frog contest and a raft-building competition.
The house, commissioned by Twain after the success of his first book, "The Innocents Abroad," was occupied by the Clemens family from 1874 to 1891, his most productive years and a time he looked back upon as the happiest of his life. Long after financial troubles forced him to move, he wrote his friend and Nook Farm neighbor Joseph Twitchell: "Our house was not unsentient matter -- it had a heart, and a soul."
In his biography "Mr. Clemens and Mark Twain," Justin Kaplan summed up the building's exterior as "gingerbread Gothic" and called it "part steamboat, part medieval stronghold, and part cuckoo clock."
It took time for Hartford to take note of the Twain House. Sold by Clemens in 1903, the building was alternately a residence for another family, a boys' school and an apartment building. Some of those apartments were retained for income when the Memorial Commission bought the structure and an acre and a half of adjacent land in 1929. It wasn't until the 1960's, according to Marianne Curling, the curator, that the Twain House was cleared of residents.
Declared a national landmark in 1963, the Twain House became more widely known in 1974, when the Memorial Commission celebrated the building's centennial. By contrast, the Twain Boyhood Home and Museum in Hannibal was open for business in 1912, only two years after Clemens' death.
While the house's exterior suggests its former owner's potent imaginative powers, the interior is a resplendent reminder of what Twain himself dubbed "the Gilded Age." The entry hall, for example, is dominated by an elaborate Renaissance Revival staircase and high ceilings sectioned off into walnut squares. A rounded settee of tufted velvet stands near the center of the room, near a golden tray used for calling cards. The walls and staircase railings are colorfully and elaborately stenciled, part of a grand interior design Clemens commissioned from Louis Comfort Tiffany.
Dozens of the antique pieces on display were owned by the Clemens family, including the bed where Clemens and his wife, Olivia, slept, and a billiards table in the third-floor room where Twain did much of his writing.
In the basement, which now doubles as a visitors' center, one can see the only surviving model of a Paige Compositor, a type-setting machine in which Twain invested and lost a substantial fortune, ultimately forcing the Clemenses to move. "The irony of the compositor being here would not have been lost on him," Ms. Curling said.
Five and a half acres of adjacent city property was deeded over to the Twain House last year, and is to be occupied by the visitors center and a new parking lot. Also on the drawing board are separate administration offices. Presently the staff occupies the servants' quarters, which Mr. Boyer should be on public view. "People are fascinated by things like how the servants lived," he said.
Last summer, a team of researchers working under the aegis of the National Park Service began a close examination of the Twain House, compiling architectural drawings, taking photographs and boring holes into the layers of paint that cover the walls, to get a better idea of how the interior appeared in Twain's day. Outside, a carriage house where Clemens first worked on "Tom Sawyer" will be restored to its original state.
Mr. Shannahan said that, in terms of appearance, the Twain House is unique in the state, and worthy of comparison to Gillette Castle in Hadlyme, the former riverside dwelling of turn-of-the-century stage actor (and former Nook Farm neighbor of Twain's) William Gillette. So far, however, visitors are relatively scarce.
"If you're trying to get the casual visitor, my view is so many people have tunnel vision, on the highway they see Connecticut as a place you pass through," Mr. Shannahan said. The farther you get from the state's main travel artery, Interstate 95, the tougher the sell to tourists.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Part steamboat, part medieval stronghold, and part cuckoo clock," the Mark Twain House exudes comfort in the piano-equipped children's room and the library. Renovations are being planned. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: MARK TWAIN HOUSE (93%); MARK TWAIN MEMORIAL COMMISSION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARK TWAIN HOUSE (93%); MARK TWAIN MEMORIAL COMMISSION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: MARK TWAIN HOUSE (HARTFORD, CONN); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION GOVERNORS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); 

PERSON: SLOCUM, BILL SAMUEL CLEMENS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



404 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Q&A: Garrell S. Mullaney;
Consolidated Care for the Mentally Ill

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
GARRELL S. MULLANEY is the chief executive of Connecticut Valley Hospital in Middletown, which will by the end of this year become the state's sole remaining hospital for the mentally ill.
Patients from Fairfield Hills Hospital in Newtown have moved in and Norwich Hospital is being closed as the state consolidates into a single operation. 
 But the move has generated considerable opposition from the community, because of concern that all the most serious cases of mental illness will end up in one area. The city of Middletown has taken the state to court over whether the consolidation plan requires a review of its environmental, social and economic impact.
Mr. Mullaney was superintendent of Norwich Hospital for 10 years, including one year when he was also in charge of Fairfield Hills, before he was appointed to his new job last year. He discussed the consolidation recently at his office in Dutcher Hall on the campus of Connecticut Valley. Following are some excerpts from that conversation.
Q. A lot of the opposition to the hospital stems from the 1989 stabbing of a girl by a mentally ill man. Are mentally ill people more violent?
A. Unfortunately, what happened in 1989 was a cruel and heinous crime by a person who was obviously mentally ill, so the argument that the mentally ill don't commit violent crime is not going to wash.
But the bottom line is the mentally ill are no more dangerous, on average, than the rest of the population.
The recent attack on nuns up in Maine was committed by someone who was mentally ill, manic-depressive, who also drinks. The combination of not taking his medications and his drinking caused this lethal result.
But two weeks ago, there were several people found in an apartment in New York who had been bludgeoned to death, and it was drug related. It doesn't always have to be the mentally ill.
Q. Then why do people have the perception that the mentally ill are more dangerous?
A. Because of our prejudices. We have this image, and when someone fits that image it reinforces it.
I'm a former Marine. Let a guy who used to be in the Army do something, and his background isn't in the paper. Let a Marine do it, and it's "Ex-Marine Shoots People From the Top of a Texas Tower."
But studies have shown there is no more violence, no greater level of violent crime, among the mentally ill than in the general public.
Q. Do you find it ironic that while Middletown opposes the consolidation, the communities where the hospitals are closing opposed their move?
A. It's very ironic. And not only that, Connecticut Valley was founded in Middletown because the city wanted it here. More than 140 years ago the city donated 130 acres of land to the state so the first state hospital could be built here.
Q. How large is the consolidation project?
A. When all the renovations are done, it's going to be between $15 million and $20 million. That will give us close to a million square feet of usable space, 615 beds, and employment will increase from about 850 to 1,350. We had 203 patients before consolidation; that will increase to about 530, including about 50 from Fairfield, and 70 from Norwich.
In addition to the hospitals, we're bringing together the three substance abuse treatment centers, and the Whiting Forensic Institute. That's seven different cultures that have to be integrated here.
Q. Has the state calculated the savings from consolidation?
A. We'll save, combined, about $14 million in operating costs just from closing the two hospitals. Then there's an economy of scale in terms of hospital staffing and overhead.
Our budget will be $75 million to $80 million. But we're expending $120 million a year now on the three hospitals, so you can see the savings are going to be significant.
Q. How many employees at the other two campuses are being transferred to Connecticut Valley?
A. That depends on them. We had 70 jobs go begging after we transferred Fairfield Hills here, and at Fairfield some of them were living a half an hour east of the campus, so many of them converted a half-hour east-to-west commute into a half-hour west-to-east commute.
In Norwich, I don't believe you're going to find a lot of people who are going to want to transfer. A lot of the people live north of Norwich, and there's no easy way here from there.
Q. What about the impact on the families of patients?
A. That's one of the reasons why Connecticut Valley was chosen, because it is in the middle of the state and nobody should have more than about an hour's drive.
But it is a concern that we're moving patients farther from the communities where they live, and we're going to address that. We will maintain communication with families through what we call local mental health authorities, and as addiction services begins to incorporate managed care into their routine they will develop managed care networks. Also, there will be free bus service from Fairfield Hills and Norwich for families who need a ride to Middletown.
Q. Why has the hospital opposed the city's suggestions that it thoroughly assess the impact of consolidation?
A. We're getting permits where it's appropriate. We're doing an impact statement for the Battell building, where we're renovating for 146 beds in six wards. The top two floors will be a program for acute forensic patients who are being restored to competency, so they can participate in their own defense in court. It's going to be a very secure operation, completely camera monitored.
The city says that consolidation and campus planning are one and the same. We say that they're different. We could consolidate without having to do any campus planning. But campus planning enhances our project.
Q. Does the hospital use a lot of city services?
A. Connecticut Valley owns 1,000 acres of land in the southeast part of town. We have our own reservoir system, so our water is our own. Our fire department, police department, power plant, sewage treatment plant are all our own. We rely on the city of Middletown for very little.
Q. Is the hospital going to use all the buildings that are slated for renovation in its campus plan?
A. No. Where possible, we're trying to promote joint ventures. We might have an architectural firm come in, or light industry, or biomedical research. Basically the state would lease the buildings on the basis of doing renovations in lieu of rent for a period of time.
The state wins by getting the buildings renovated, saving us about $4 million. The company will have great space. And we can sell them our excess power.
We also have a theater here, and there was no use for it proposed in the master plan. So it will be leased to Manderlee Productions, which is going to set up a program for the arts. It has letters of intent from some banks for financing.
We're trying to interest a commercial laundry in leasing a building on campus where they could provide laundry services here and to hospitals throughout New England.
Q. Why are you trying to bring the community onto the campus?
A. So that there will be interactions. People are afraid of the mentally ill because we've been brought up in a society that has kept them apart, out of the mainstream. They've never had the advocates that, say, the mentally retarded have had.
The mentally retarded are very well accepted now in the community, but when I was a kid they were all in institutions.
To try to get people to understand the mentally ill, we think we have to draw them onto campus. There are plenty of mentally ill people out in the community, but the ones who need the most understanding are the ones who are still here. So we want to use the campus and its assets to try to enhance the image of the mentally ill, by simple co-existence.
Q. Is it going to take a long time to overcome the local opposition?
A. I don't think so. We have to overcome some serious concerns. But I think the business community will be an ally to us, because they realize what we're trying to do could be good for the community. And I think the medical community will support us.
And I think we have to make people realize something else. Simple math tells you that these places used to have between 9,000 and 12,000 people total, and now we're talking 500 or 600. Where are the other people? They're living in communities around the state.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Garrell S. Mullaney, head of Connecticut Valley Hospital in Middletown, discusses state plans. (Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT VALLEY HOSPITAL (MIDDLETOWN, CONN); FAIRFIELD HILLS HOSPITAL (NEWTOWN, CONN); NORWICH HOSPITAL (CONN) NORWICH HOSPITAL (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT VALLEY HOSPITAL (MIDDLETOWN, CONN); FAIRFIELD HILLS HOSPITAL (NEWTOWN, CONN); NORWICH HOSPITAL (CONN) NORWICH HOSPITAL (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); HOSPITALS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MENTAL ILLNESS (95%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A; MULLANEY, GARRELL S

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



405 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 42; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE;
Rediscovering the Legacy of Brazil's Coffee Barons

BYLINE: By MARINA ISOLA 

 BODY:
BRAZIL'S ARCHITECTURAL identity has been defined by its Portuguese-influenced Baroque churches, Oscar Niemeyer's modernism and the high-rises that rim the beaches of Rio de Janeiro. But now the fazenda de cafe, or coffee plantation, once the seat of a powerful, slave-holding rural aristocracy and the source of Brazil's biggest export, is being rediscovered and newly appreciated as a significant part of the country's architectural legacy.
Built in the 19th century as vast, self-sufficient agricultural complexes, the fazendas are now status symbols for a new generation of wealthy gentleman farmers who have replaced coffee with thoroughbred Arabian horses and prize cattle. But more than just a beautiful country house, the fazenda has come to symbolize a new interest in Brazil's culture and history. 
 Not unlike the antebellum South, the Brazilian plantation era transformed small-time farming into a big agrarian business, rapidly creating a wealthy and sophisticated new social class.
"I compare 'Gone With the Wind' with our coffee society," says Fernando Tasso Fragoso Pires, who has written several books on the subject, including "Fazendas: The Great Houses and Plantations of Brazil," published in the United States last fall (Abbeville Press). "The architecture is different, but both believed that the economic splendor, as well as the slave system, would last forever."
The plantations are concentrated in Vale do Paraiba, a lush valley in southeastern Brazil covering an area slightly larger than Long Island. The landscape has not changed much since the coffee trade exploded in the 1830's. Approximately 100 fazendas are dotted along the Paraiba do Sul River, which winds through the states of Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
Tropical vegetation, some of the densest in the world, smothers tree trunks and branches and encroaches on unpaved roads. Royal palms, five stories high, poke through the undulating foliage like periscopes. Here and there, set against the green tapestry, are imposing two-story French neo-classical mansions, each with the typically flat, symmetrical facade and stone double staircase leading to the front door. But unlike the most traditional maisons, these may have ocher walls contrasting with bright blue window frames and a garden planted with coconut trees and hot pink hibiscus.
An easy, tropical chic combined with Old World sophistication typifies these country estates, attracting residents like Roberto Marinho, owner of the Brazilian media conglomerate Globo, or the art collector Sergio Fadel. But buying a fazenda is not the occasion to begin relaxing; it is the start of an arduous restoration odyssey.
"What is happening with the fazendas is exceptional for Brazil," says Isabel Rocha, an architect and professor at the architecture school of Barra do Pirai in the state of Rio de Janeiro. "Preservation is not a part of the culture, nor is it incorporated in the economy or in tourism. It's a luxury."
Until recently, only the renowned Baroque landmarks have been maintained, but now dozens of plantations are being faithfully repaired and refurbished, transforming the region's architectural landscape.
The dominant neo-classical style of the fazenda arrived in Rio de Janeiro directly from France with the architect Grandjean de Montigny in 1816, but not much is known about local architects. Though the fazenda's lines and proportions conformed to neo-classicism, the function and indigenous building materials were new, so invention and a certain eclecticism were common.
The need for a large area to wash and dry coffee beans led to the development of a quadrilateral plan, with a terreiro (dirt courtyard) flanked on three sides by warehouses, granaries and slave quarters. The fourth was occupied by the plantation master's residence and its chapel, slightly elevated to afford a sweeping view of the slaves and the fields.
Many great houses had two stories, with rows of windows arranged symmetrically. Ornamentation was minimal, mostly reserved for door and molding joinery, and thus reflecting a colonial influence rather than the purer neo-classicism found in France. Bonsucesso, a fazenda in the state of Rio de Janeiro, for example, combines a formal symmetry with an austerity of details rooted in a simpler architecture.
Compared with the plantations of the American South, with their wide porches, ponderous columns and Greek revival pediments, Brazilian houses look lighter and more delicate, mixing elements like rustic doors with imported china and tapestries.
"The interiors were wallpapered with strong colors -- lots of reds, gold, maroons," explains Rogerio Vianna, the owner of Santo Antonio do Paiol, a fazenda in Valenca in Rio de Janeiro. "Green was very popular abroad, but here, with all this green everywhere, we got sick of it."
SANTO ANTONIO DO PAIOL was built in 1852 and has undergone a painstaking three-year restoration. The one-story house has a typical full-story basement, so that it appears to be two floors. Exterior colors are influenced by Portuguese architecture: white walls, blue window frames, green shutters and yellow quoins.
The house is sparsely furnished with 19th-century pieces, which were discovered in the cellar and meticulously refinished. Among them are cane dining chairs in jacaranda, a rare hardwood; an Empire-style bed with lion's paws, and paintings of the original owners, the Estevez family.
Other plantations, too, overflowed with important antiques. The Sao Martinho da Esperanca plantation, dating from 1842, includes a rare Brazilian plate collection and a painted wood altarpiece by Antonio Lisboa, known as Aleijadinho, Brazil's foremost Baroque architect and sculptor.
Conversely, at Vargem Grande, a contemporary garden was designed in 1970 by the landscape architect Roberto Burle Marx, whose commissions included the gardens of Brasilia, the capital, and the plan for Biscayne Boulevard in Miami. At Vargem Grande, exuberant native plants are tamed into a pattern of squares and rectangles.
Rediscovering the architecture of the fazenda has uncovered much about the plantation society's attitude toward style, luxury and nature. The coffee barons were eager to distance themselves from the surrounding wilderness; the less "natural" their furnishings and accouterments the better.
"For instance, the interesting thing at the time was not just to refinish wood but to transform it into a work of art," Ms. Rocha explains. "Imagine, in one house someone painted a pinho de riga wood grain pattern over real pinho de riga wood because the point was esthetic appreciation."
With the demise of the coffee aristocracy, brought on by land depletion and the emancipation of slaves in 1888, the plantations were abandoned. Over the last 40 years, people have begun to buy and restore the great houses, but it was not until last year that these new owners banded together. Preservale, a nonprofit group founded to encourage preservation of the fazendas, now claims 60 members. Mr. Vianna, who heads the group, says Preservale plans guided tours of some of the plantations and a fund-raising campaign.
"In France or in Germany, the castles are open to visitors and are a part of the local culture," adds Mr. Pires. "Similarly, the fazendas are a great part of our national heritage. Paraiba is our Loire Valley."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The symmetry of Bonsucesso, above, exemplifies French neo-classicism. In an 1881 painting of the fazenda Retiro, right, a drying yard is flanked by outbuildings; the great house is on the fourth side. Columns added to Sao Martinho da Esperanca in the 1940's make it look like a plantation house of the American South. (Oil painting by Johann Georg Grimm/Abbeville Press; Photographs by Nicolas Sapieha/Abbeville Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GBO (LSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: GLOBO PLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; COFFEE; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION COFFEE (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (77%); COFFEE FARMING (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); HORSES (75%); MAMMALS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (66%); 

PERSON: ISOLA, MARINA

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



406 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2606 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION;
TV Turns to an Era of Self-Control

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
IT IS SEPTEMBER 1998, and in flickering family rooms around the country, viewers are tuning in for their first glimpse of the new television season. Situation comedies dominate the prime-time schedules of the six networks, but there is bold drama as well. "N.Y.P.D. Blue," in its sixth season on ABC, is more provocative than ever.
Parents can rest easy because their television sets have the V-chip, which makes it possible to prevent children from seeing shows that carry a rating denoting violence or sexual content. 
 And despite the cries of Hollywood's Cassandras, the rating system has not destroyed television but has burnished its new golden age, which some critics say started a few years back. As the American film industry did after adopting a ratings system in 1968, television has responded with its most inventive work; creative producers like Steven Bochco ("Hill Street Blues," "N.Y.P.D. Blue," "Murder One") feel free to push the envelope without worrying that young children will sneak a peek.
This, at any rate, is how some network executives and media scholars view the near-future of television. The only trouble is, practically no one in Hollywood agrees.
As the television industry begins the daunting task of creating the ratings system it promised to President Clinton at a White House meeting late last month, most producers and writers are predicting disaster. They say that ratings will be ruinous for a host of reasons, not the least of which is that few parents agree on what is or isn't suitable fare for children.
Dick Wolf, who produces the NBC crime drama "Law and Order," does not allow his 2-year-old son to watch "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers," the hugely popular children's show on Fox, because he believes that its cartoonlike violence is more dangerous than the real-world mayhem depicted on his series. "After my son watched 'Power Rangers' one day," Mr. Wolf recalled, "he came out and started giving me pretend karate kicks."
Haim Saban, who produces "Power Rangers" and eight other children's shows, including the often criticized cartoon "X-Men," says he encourages his 5-year-old daughter to watch "Power Rangers" but draws the line at "60 Minutes." "If V stands for violent, they better slap a V on '60 Minutes,' " Mr. Saban said.
These men have their own agendas, of course. One is a leading creator of true-to-life adult dramas. The other is the television industry's most prolific producer of children's shows. But the fact that they disagree so profoundly on what's suitable for children suggests just how difficult it will be to develop a television ratings system.

How Do You Rate 1,640 Hours a Day?
In pledging to adopt such a system for everything from "Power Rangers" to "Picket Fences" -- and in promising to do it by 1997 -- television has taken on a task that producers, network executives and advertisers liken to catching lightning in a bottle. The stakes are breathtaking because the Government has mandated that in two years all new television sets must be equipped with the V-chip, a microchip that's encoded to block selected broadcast signals (the V stands for violence).
"No matter what we do, we're going to be virulently criticized," said Jack Valenti, the president of the Motion Picture Association of America, who last month brokered an agreement between the four broadcast networks and the cable industry to adopt ratings for sex and violence. At the meeting between President Clinton and a delegation of media barons on Feb. 29, Mr. Valenti announced that he would lead the effort to devise the ratings for television.
Much has been made of how the television industry has capitulated to political pressure in agreeing to rate its programs. Most network executives acknowledge that with the passage in early February of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and its V-chip provision, the broadcast and cable networks recognized they faced a stark choice: they could either rate their own shows or let the Government do it for them.
What is less understood, though, is that it may be well-nigh impossible for television to create a viable ratings system. Mr. Valenti notes that the average 70-channel cable system shows 600,000 hours of programming a year, or 1,640 hours a day. For the purposes of rating, that is the equivalent of 821 feature films per day; the M.P.A.A. rates only 600 films per year.
Moreover, many shows are delivered to the networks only hours before they are broadcast. And unlike theatrical releases, network television shows are underwritten by advertising. Already, some major advertisers say they may feel compelled to pull commercials from series or specials that have ratings indicating sex or violence.
Mr. Valenti must also persuade the networks and the cable industry to agree on a common ratings system. That would be hard enough given the subjective judgments that people bring to issues like sexual content, harsh language and violence. But also, the broadcast and cable industries approach the question of ratings from very different perspectives. CBS, NBC, ABC and Fox are loath to scare off advertisers; the USA Network, HBO and other cable services, less dependent on ad revenue, are less worried about the impact of ratings.
Whatever scheme he ends up devising, Mr. Valenti must proceed with the knowledge that he will probably never satisfy producers like Mr. Saban, who thinks ratings are simply unworkable, or Mr. Wolf, who contends they will drive sophisticated dramas off network TV and onto cable.
To Barry Diller, the former chairman of Fox who now runs Silver King Communications, the whole issue seems as unreal as a Saturday morning cartoon. "It is a terrible thing for this industry to promise the public something that we cannot, even minimally, deliver," he said.
Still, Mr. Valenti is assembling a task force of 19 to 25 people from all corners of the television industry, and it will meet weekly over the next eight months to research, debate and fashion a ratings system. He said the group would use the movie association's ratings as a template. Those familiar codes range from G (General audiences), PG (Parental guidance suggested) and its tougher cousin PG-13, up to R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent) and NC-17 (No one under 17 admitted). Network executives said the television ratings would probably be more specific about age suitability -- PG-8 or PG-10, for example -- but would be fuzzy about actual content.
As Hollywood's emissary to Washington, the 74-year-old Mr. Valenti is no stranger to the spotlight. He led the effort to rate movies 28 years ago under intense public scrutiny and pressure from theater owners. He has honed his pitch in years of after-dinner speeches and testimony before Congressional committees. "Is it a flawed system? You bet," Mr. Valenti said by telephone from Los Angeles, "But like Churchill said about democracy, 'It is the worst of all forms of governments, except for every other form of government.' "
Mr. Valenti has been drawing on his skills as a lobbyist to sell the idea of ratings to some of Hollywood's leading producers. Recently he had dinner with Mr. Bochco to plead his case. Mr. Bochco's "N.Y.P.D. Blue," the highly rated Tuesday night show on ABC, has become a bellwether in the debate over ratings. The network has placed a parental advisory on the series throughout its three seasons because of its steamy sexual content. "I don't approve of ratings," Mr. Bochco said last week. "But given that we have to live with them, I don't want to bury my head in the sand."

The Economic Costs, And the Political
For all his talents as persuader, Mr. Valenti will have a hard time bringing around much of Hollywood. Mr. Wolf, for example, noted that advertisers routinely cancel commercials on "Law and Order" when it plumbs sensitive topics like abortion or assisted suicide. In that show's first season, he said, NBC lost $800,000 in advertising on a single episode that explored the bombing of abortion clinics.
ABC was forced to discount commercial time on "N.Y.P.D. Blue" deeply for its first two seasons. In fact, while the series has consistently placed in the top 10 in the Nielsen ratings, several advertising executives said ABC was still selling commercials on "N.Y.P.D. Blue" at a slight discount.
Mr. Wolf and others said that placing ratings on these series would only aggravate the situation. With a PG-13 rating, he said, "Law and Order" and "Murder One" would become easy marks for special-interest groups that already go after companies that buy commercials on these shows. "I've yet to meet the CEO of a major corporation who has the intestinal fortitude to face down that kind of attack," Mr. Wolf said.
Pressure on advertisers has often generated more publicity than results. But the Rev. Donald E. Wildmon, president of the American Family Association, a conservative political organization in Tupelo, Miss., that has put pressure on advertisers, said a ratings system could make it easier to scare sponsors. "Advertisers are becoming a little more leery about the programming they support," Mr. Wildmon said, "It could play out that if a program has an R rating, they won't want to be on it."
For at least one big advertiser, the prospect of ratings is unsettling. Philip Guarascio, the president of marketing and advertising at General Motors Corporation, said G.M. would have to give extra scrutiny to a show that carried a rating denoting violence or sex. G.M. already submits television series to episode-by-episode scrutiny before it advertises on them, but Mr. Guarascio said that an R rating would be a "red flag," which could make sponsors a target for pressure groups. "We want to sell our cars and trucks to a broad audience," Mr. Guarascio said, "but you cannot ignore external forces. We're a highly visible company, so we're under a magnifying glass."
Top network executives say they are unruffled. ABC loses roughly $20 million in advertising revenue every year because of sponsors' rejecting controversial programs, said Robert A. Iger, the president and chief executive of Capital Cities/ABC. But he believes that adding ratings to shows will barely affect the network's prime-time schedule. It won't lead ABC to ask for less provocative programming, he said.
As an example, Mr. Iger recalled that when Mr. Bochco proposed "N.Y.P.D. Blue" to ABC four years ago, he referred to it as an "R-rated" series. Mr. Iger told Mr. Bochco that if he created a high-quality adult-oriented series, ABC would schedule it -- and stick by it. "Let's say that it's a year from now, and we have a ratings system," Mr. Iger said. "If Steven came to me with the same request, I would give him exactly the same charge."
Indeed, some observers argue that a ratings system will create more ambitious programs and weed out the dross. "Ratings will probably be salutary from an esthetic point of view," said Mark Crispin Miller, a professor of media studies at Johns Hopkins University. "A mild inducement to clean up your act can actually work to the betterment of the product."

Where the Networks And Cable Diverge
Whatever new products come along, few children between the ages of 2 and 11 tend to watch the shows that will receive adult ratings. In the case of "N.Y.P.D. Blue," only 4 percent of its audience is between 2 and 11, according to the A. C. Nielsen Company. For "Law and Order," the number is 3 percent. When young children watch prime-time television, they gravitate toward situation comedies, which dominate the 8 P.M. to 10 P.M. period. For ABC and its rivals, the question is, Does losing 4 percent of a program's audience make it unprofitable?
Common sense would say no, but network television is an odd beast. It makes its money by delivering the largest possible audiences to advertisers. Advertising executives said that even losing a small percentage of viewers could force some shows off network television and onto cable.
Cable networks are less vulnerable to swings in viewership and ad revenue because they get half their revenue from subscriber fees. That difference has stoked a protracted feud between the networks and cable. The networks contend that they have been unjustly tarred as purveyors of sex and violence when cable services like USA, TNT, Showtime and HBO show far more lurid material.
Even more galling to the networks, the cable industry has taken the lead in publicizing the depth of public anger about television violence. Most recently, the National Cable Television Association released a major study of television violence that found that the amount of mayhem on television -- both network and cable -- had escalated in recent years. "They get to posture on the side of truth, virtue and ratings when by far the most violent programming is on their channels," said one senior network executive, who would speak only anonymously.

Remembering The Children
Squabbles between broadcasters and cable executives obscure the central underlying issue: How can the industry improve television for children?
Given that so few young children watch television from 10 P.M. to 11 P.M., some people argue that Mr. Valenti should start by focusing his energies on daytime television, including talk shows and Saturday morning fare like "X-Men" and "Power Rangers." Animated series are particularly controversial because they are loaded with violence, though it is often of a stylized or fantastical nature. "As a parent, I am much more irritated by the violence in 'X-Men' than I am by the violence in an adult movie," said Peggy Charren, a longtime advocate of better children's programming.
Mr. Saban, not surprising, argues that his "Power Rangers" should receive a G rating because its violence is so clearly a fantasy. "We fight turtles with traffic lights on their heads," he said.
For all their spirited defense of prime time, network executives are oddly silent on children's programming. In part, this is because they acknowledge that they have no idea how sponsors would react if animated shows carried violence warnings.
Of all the issues that face Mr. Valenti, perhaps the most bedeviling is whether ratings can actually make television better for children. Several executives contend that "graduated" ratings will not work for television because viewing is a passive act, not a deliberate one like going to the movies. Others note the obvious: that ratings have done little to stem the flood of violence in movies. "Ratings will in no way influence the kind of programs that get made," said Michael J. Fuchs, the former chairman of HBO, "They'll put electronic barriers around certain kinds of shows."
For that matter, some experts point out that the M.P.A.A. ratings have flaws that would be magnified if they were adopted by to television. Barbara Wilson, a professor of communication at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and a researcher on the cable-sponsored violence study, said movie ratings tended to be restrictive on sexual content but lenient on violence. "The ratings focus more on what might be offensive to parents, as opposed to what poses risks to kids," she said.
Mr. Valenti has been listening to these arguments for nearly three decades. "I've stepped on many of these land mines in the past," he said.
Even people skeptical about the whole enterprise said that Mr. Valenti's experience would be a benefit as he leads the television industry through the ratings thicket. But given the complexity of the issues, the scope of the challenge and the shortness of time, it still may not be enough.

GRAPHIC: Photos: What's Violent? Haim Saban, producer of nine children's shows, including "X-Men," above, sees more of a threat in "60 Minutes" than in his shows. (Saban International); What's to Be Done? At his White House meeting with media executives on Feb. 29, President Clinton was promised a ratings system for television. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. 38)
 
Drawings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (93%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (89%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); MURDER (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MARTIAL ARTS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LANDLER, MARK BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



407 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 45; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: ART VIEW;
Islands of Peace in a Life Awash in Sadness

BYLINE: By Roberta Smith 

DATELINE: HUNTINGTON, L.I.

 BODY:
The American visionary Ralph Albert Blakelock is known for softly Romantic paintings, made mostly in the 1880's and 90's, that depict moonlight glimmering through screens of leafy trees or hazy Indian encampments dwarfed by their natural settings. Blakelock, who was born in New York City in 1847 and died in 1919, is also known for a life of such suffering that it reads more like a soap-opera version of artistic sacrifice than the real thing, as a small exhibition at the Heckscher Museum here makes abundantly clear. Recognition had once seemed likely. A self-taught artist with exceptional gifts as a draftsman, Blakelock had seen his work exhibited at the National Academy of Design when he was only 20.
Nonetheless, however grounded his work may have been in the increasingly familiar styles of the Barbizon and the Hudson River Schools, it seems to have been deemed overly personal and idiosyncratic. He never found a gallery to represent him, exhibited rarely and usually to critical condemnation, struggled without relief to support a family that included his wife, Cora, and eventually eight children and, in desperation, frequently sold his paintings for ludicrously low amounts. In the catalogue to an exhibition at the Whitney Museum on the centenary of the artist's birth, Lloyd Goodrich, who was then associate curator at the museum, wrote that Blakelock once sold 100 paintings to a Third Avenue junk dealer for $33. 
 The strain of this existence soon brought intermittent nervous breakdowns, beginning in 1891: Blakelock became distraught when a collector would pay only $500 for one of his best and largest paintings, "Brook by Moonlight," instead of the $1,000 the artist was asking. He was found in the street burning the money from the sale and was briefly hospitalized. In 1899, at the age of 52, he received a diagnosis of dementia praecox, as schizophrenia was called then, and spent most of his remaining two decades in a hospital for the insane in Middletown, N.Y.
The final bitter irony, of course, is that success finally did arrive, if too late to help Blakelock or his family. The critics eventually softened toward his work, and public interest was further piqued by news reports of his sad predicament that began to appear as early as 1903. (The attention spurred a flood of forgeries that multiplied his output many times over and that still make it difficult to define and judge his achievement.)
Owners of his paintings profited in reselling them. In 1913, "Moonlight" sold at auction for $13,900, a record price for the work of a living American artist. (It is now in the Corcoran Gallery in Washington.) Three years later, "Brook by Moonlight," the painting that had brought only $500 in 1891, sold for $20,000, breaking the first record.
Blakelock is less well known for the works he made during his hospitalization, and more than 40 of these are featured in the Heckscher's touching exhibition on view through April 7. Works from this phase are not entirely obscure; in fact, one of the best tiny paintings in a New York City museum is the National Academy of Design's "Sunset," a postcard-size oil on cardboard shot through with red and yellow, that Blakelock painted in Middletown in 1916. But this exhibition, which contains many newly discovered works, is the first to concentrate so exclusively on these sad years.
Needless to say, there is much about the show that pulls at the heartstrings, including, initially, the cramped scale. Denied all but the most basic materials, and nothing as fancy as canvas, Blakelock usually worked on small bits of paper, sometimes not much larger than playing cards, often with brushes fashioned from bits of tree bark or hairs pulled from his own head.
Yet smallness can grow on you, in the visual sense. These works expand inward in feeling, achieving a power that far exceeds their size. A few images evince Blakelock's famous romantic melancholia, most notably the watercolor of the small, lost-looking figure flanked by towering trees in "Trees, Figure and Building," which may be a self-portrait. But otherwise, they reflect nothing at all of the artist's heart-rending tale, nor any discernible mental instability. Among other things, their control, economy and level of observation are quite amazing. Blakelock seems to get the most out of each grain of material and square inch of drawing or painting surface at his disposal. One never senses a wasted mark or gesture or an unsettled, delusional mind.
BEING BOTH SELF-TAUGHT and diagnosed with schizophrenia, Blakelock loosely fits the profile of an outsider artist, an idea considered but sidestepped by Abraham Davidson, the art historian who selected the exhibition and wrote its accompanying brochure. But these tiny landscapes don't fit easily into the outsider category, no matter how loosely you define it. They show an artist simply getting on with his work, and, in fact, continue the development of a more realistic, less visionary style that was evident in Blakelock's work before he was hospitalized.
Most of these paintings have a clarity of vision and a truthfulness to nature as well as a kind of physical precision that his earlier works often lack, at least judging from the handful of canvases from the 1880's and 90's that are included in this show.
Some, of buildings and bare trees, express a delicate yet commanding use of line that astutely converts bare paper into expanses of sky and ground, causing the whole image to vacillate between solidity and translucency. Others are relatively robust and developed landscapes, with rich colors and strangely physical surfaces that resulted from a buildup of paint as well as gouging, blotting or scraping. In between these two categories is a third, in which paint has been applied and then wiped away, leaving pale traces of color, as in the combination of faint bluish white that connotes both clouds and snow in "Trees and Buildings."
The degree of physical experimentation condensed into these surfaces sometimes creates a surprising degree of abstraction. They bring to mind John Marin's nearly abstract "Weehawken" studies from the same period, as well as the Abstract Expressionists, especially Jackson Pollock and Lee Krasner. But in the end, these works attest above all to Blakelock's quiet, almost joyous attention to nature, his ability to convey the effects of light hitting tree trunks, leaves and undergrowth, bare patches of ground and rocks, as well as the pools of water and streams so frequently found at the center of his images. They evoke the places and vistas that sustained the artist, enabling him to pursue and even develop his vision, despite the odds.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Tree, Figure and Building," by Ralph Albert Blakelock--Works of a nearly forgotten visionary on view on Long Island. (San Diego Museum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HECKSCHER MUSEUM (HUNTINGTON, LI) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF DESIGN (56%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF DESIGN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HECKSCHER MUSEUM (HUNTINGTON, LI) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF DESIGN (56%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF DESIGN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); CHILDREN (73%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (67%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (62%); COUNTERFEITING (50%); DEMENTIA (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA; BLAKELOCK, RALPH ALBERT (1847-1919) RALPH ALBERT BLAKELOCK (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



408 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 8; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Descent Into SoHo

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Benedict; Elizabeth Benedict is a novelist whose latest book, "The Joy of Writing Sex: A Guide for Fiction Writers," will be published this summer. She teaches creative writing at Princeton University.

 BODY:

BRAIN FEVER
By Valerie Sayers.
308 pp. New York:
Doubleday. $23.95.
THE kingdom of madness is a destination we never visit voluntarily, and such are its shifting borders and evanescent landmarks that those who make the journey are often not sure where they are headed or when they have arrived. 
 For Gogol's madman, the St. Petersburg insane asylum to which he is committed is Spain, he is its king and the earth is about to land on the moon. For Tim Rooney, the unwitting trip he takes while narrating Valerie Sayers's immensely rich, readable fifth novel is a reprise of an earlier descent that led to his sister's suicide, a failed search for a monastery that would welcome "a recovering madman" and a prescription for Thorazine.
At 16, with an acceptance letter from Columbia University, Tim thought himself "a young Wittgenstein." At 45, he is a failed academic with a 27-year-old fiance, a history of breakdowns and a highly charged, deeply ambivalent relationship with the Roman Catholic Church. He lives, like most of Ms. Sayers's characters to date, in novels that include "How I Got Him Back," "Who Do You Love" and "Due East," in the once sleepy seaside South Carolina town of Due East (modeled on the author's hometown of Beaufort), a town "where even the poverty is picturesque."
In this novel Ms. Sayers plays with so many notions of sanity and insanity, and of tenderness and mercy, that this 40-day-long diary of a madman, with echoes of Christ's 40 days in the desert, is as much a case study as a lesson in faith through the eyes of an on-again, off-again Catholic and those of his jilted fiance (an atheist, former Baptist and unwed mother). Both have appeared before in Ms. Sayers's work, as have these themes of fidelity, apostasy and salvation. Tim is attracted to Mary Faith Rapple in part because she is "the daughter of dour fundamentalists, unwavering in her disbelief," while she admits to admiring the "fierceness of his religion. . . . If he were a Presbyterian or a Methodist, I don't believe I would have troubled myself."
Having been described at different times as schizophrenic, neurotic, manic-depressive and alcoholic, Tim is off his latest medication at the start of "Brain Fever" and begins losing touch with his fragile sanity on Holy Thursday. He's ignited by Mary Faith's declaration that she will join him in church on Easter Sunday. Suddenly, she wants them to marry in the church whose strictures she knows have caused him torment akin to madness: "She didn't say sexual torments, but she didn't need to."
Before long, carried off by tiny waves of paranoia and manic delusion, he decides to become a man of action instead of an unemployable philosophy professor. He abandons Mary Faith, her 11-year-old son, whom he is about to adopt, and Due East, and drives to New York City. He's got $15,000 stuffed into his socks and the cockeyed intention of settling a score with the wife who left him after six days of marriage in the early 1970's, when they were both practicing Catholics "and no one was in the church anymore, no one but us." Those few days were also part of an "hour of mass insanity," a time when "we all went crazy together" and "my hallucinations were exclusively chemical and always intended." Are you crazy if you are just keeping up with the Zeitgeist, Ms. Sayers wants us to wonder, or might madness have immutable properties, so many parts oxygen, hydrogen and carbon?
Outside Charleston, Tim picks up Angela Bliss, a young female hitchhiker -- another fugitive from her own upcoming wedding -- who is also bound for New York, where some rich South Carolina friends have a SoHo loft; conveniently there is an extra room for Tim, who tells them he is an actor about to audition with Sidney Lumet. From Spring Street he sets off every morning to Washington Square Park to look for his former wife, now an esteemed professor at N.Y.U., and to discover that some of his paranoia has nothing to do with brain fever; a former student, an African-American called G. B. Brights, spotted him in South Carolina on his own drive north and takes a sycophant's interest in him, inviting him to meet his aunt in Brooklyn. These two households become the antipodes of Tim's increasingly unstable universe, as he bounces from one to the other in search of solace, safety and sometimes sex.
In the meantime, aging Father Berkeley in Due East, another fixture in Ms. Sayers's earlier books, tries to corral Mary Faith into setting off to find Tim, whereabouts unknown, though she is smarting mightily from having been left, very nearly, at the altar. "He hasn't left you," he implores her. "He's left his senses."
This chapter, one of eight narrated by Mary Faith, is the most moving in the novel. It is Ms. Sayers at her very best: Mary Faith, the wounded lover, atheist and Hester Prynne of Due East, being pressed into service and self-sacrifice by a fragile old priest who smells of "mothballs and nicotine" and from whom she expects religious platitudes -- "But God will give you strength or Let us call on Him for courage" -- but who offers instead his almost steady hand on her head as she weeps.
"I was weeping," she tells us, "over priests sitting there on your father's old lounger and asking you to believe that this really is a woman's lot: to nurse men and to wait on them, to send them off to their crazy adventures and then, when they've made it too dangerous for themselves, to go fetch them and forgive them and be steady and faithful."
Mary Faith's occasional and very sane "Reports" are a wonderful counterpoint to Tim's often manic narratives. But what also makes hers so compelling is that they are tightly focused on the mission she undertakes with Father Berkeley. By contrast, Tim's entries, especially once he gets to New York, tend to be busy and hyperactive, as he is, full of destinations, new characters, paranoid fantasies and what were not long ago delusions of grandeur about bringing peace to Bosnia. In a way she could not have intended when she wrote the novel, Ms. Sayers has managed to suggest that madness can be a chemical imbalance and perhaps a species of prophecy too.
The principal weakness of "Brain Fever" is that the assortment of characters Tim moves among for most of it -- the hitchhiker, her SoHo friends and G. B. Brights -- are an aimless lot, not clearly motivated by much of anything except a tendency to commiserate about their heartache and troubled histories. They are there, it seems, to give Tim a setting and a support group in which to lose his mind. But this is a small quarrel about a novel of such large ambition, compassion and psychological depth, not to mention the pleasures of Valerie Sayers's graceful prose.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BRAIN FEVER (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIA (56%); SAINT PETERSBURG, FL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIA (56%); SAINT PETERSBURG, FL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (87%); WRITERS (75%); LITERATURE (75%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (74%); EASTER SEASON (72%); FUNDAMENTALISM (72%); SUICIDE (69%); 

PERSON: BENEDICT, ELIZABETH; SAYERS, VALERIE VALERIE SAYERS (95%); TIM ROONEY (93%); MARY FAITH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



409 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 6; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: The Literature of Resistance

BYLINE: By Thomas Flanagan; Thomas Flanagan holds an appointment this spring as Regents' Lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:

INVENTING IRELAND
By Declan Kiberd.
719 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press. $35.
The program note at the opening night of Sean O'Casey's play "The Shadow of a Gunman" in 1923 informed the audience: "Any gunshots heard during the performance are part of the script." It was a sensible precaution. As Declan Kiberd reminds us in "Inventing Ireland," a critical study laced with wit, energy and an unrelenting adroitness of discourse, on that April night the civil war between the Free State and the Republic -- between the "moderates" who had signed a treaty with the British and the "die-hards" who rejected the compromise -- had another week to run, and sporadic rifle fire peppered the streets outside the Abbey Theater. 
 The second play in O'Casey's Dublin trilogy, "Juno and the Paycock" (1924), is concerned with the civil war itself, as though his art fed on history as it was being enacted in the streets. But with the third play, "The Plough and the Stars," in 1926, history moved into the aisles and onto the stage. It dramatized the Easter Rebellion of 1916, which had ignited a decade of revolutionary violence, bloodshed and, in the end, fratricide. Now it earned for itself an outburst that far surpassed the celebrated "riots" caused by J. M. Synge's "Playboy of the Western World" in 1907. In the audience were veterans of that rebellion, mothers and widows of others, and a new generation of rebels. They came prepared to battle O'Casey's brutal yet hilarious demythologizing of what had become sacred -- the blood sacrifice by Patrick Pearse and the other martyrs of Easter Week.
The only wonder is that the reaction was so slow in coming. Seamas Shields, the disillusioned and far from heroic former patriot in "The Shadow of a Gunman," had clearly been speaking for O'Casey himself: "I believe in the freedom of Ireland and that England has no right to be here, but I draw the line when I hear the gunmen blowin' about dyin' for the people, when it's the people that are dyin' for the gunmen! With all due respects for the gunmen, I don't want them to die for me!" "With all due respects" is authentic O'Casey, at once droll and deadly.
To O'Casey, a militant socialist, the Rising was suicidal and befuddled, and a betrayal of the working class. But in Ireland, as the matter is put by Mr. Kiberd, who has a weakness for aphorism, " 'socialism' never stood for much more than a fundamental goodness of heart," and O'Casey was a cardinal case in point. He thought with his heart rather than his head, and thinking with the more conventional organ, Mr. Kiberd suggests with delicacy, was not his forte. The powers of his art were of a different order.
Mr. Kiberd, a lecturer in English at University College, Dublin, and a distinguished critic, possesses a special gift for patient exploration of works of art in relationship to their surroundings. For example, he locates with precision the source of a powerful feeling we experience when we watch O'Casey plays. They are set in the Dublin slums, where in the early 20th century the death rate was higher than in Calcutta, and where the poor were crowded to overbursting in rotting slum houses that had once been the mansions of a vanished aristocracy. "Such a setting dictated the controlling mood of the Dublin plays, each of which is a study in claustrophobia, in the helpless availability of persons, denied any right to privacy and doomed to live in one another's pockets," Mr. Kiberd writes. "Many of O'Casey's poetic speeches are attempts by characters to create a more spacious world in the imagination than the drab, constricted place in which they are expected to live. In that respect, O'Casey is an heir to Synge, who had found in the rich idiom of the peasantry an implicit critique of a monochromatic world."
A joining of O'Casey's boisterously vulgar imagination with that of the oblique, private and often enigmatic Synge is made possible by one of Mr. Kiberd's unifying themes -- the variousness with which Irish writers have used language, including the particularities of dialect, to explore cultural identities. Through language, every Irish writer has conducted a dialogue between the often warring parts of his own being, and other dialogues with other Irishmen separated from him by class or religion, and above all else he has maintained a dialogue with that enormous colonizing empire that hovers, as fact or memory, over every Irishman's shoulder.
For Mr. Kiberd, the generating energy in Irish culture in recent centuries has been British imperialism (at first military, political and economic, but ultimately cultural) and the protean native resistance to that process. He is concerned with Ireland's literature as that of a post-colonial culture, but he gives that term a most elastic definition. A literature does not become post-colonial only after the occupier has withdrawn: "Rather it is initiated at that very moment when a native writer formulates a text committed to cultural resistance."
Thus Edmund Burke, writing in the 18th century, is a post-colonial, a defender of Ireland's necessary connection with England who was at the same time a mordant critic of Ireland's Protestant rulers as little better than "a junto of robbers," brutal and craven. This works well enough with Burke, but in its more universal application by Mr. Kiberd, it may best be described as highly convenient. He delights in paradox, and to speak of the Gaelic historian Seathrun Ceitinn (in English, Geoffrey Keating) as post-colonial, although he wrote at the very height of England's military triumph, must surely appeal to that delight, setting at defiance as it does the common meanings of words.
At times he stretches too thin his all-embracing formula, as with overly ingenious discussions of Wilde and Shaw. Wilde was very conscious of his Irishness, which afforded him occasions for wit. As when he declared that he had no religion: he was an Irish Protestant. Nevertheless the adroit attempt to make of him a kind of stylistic freedom fighter is one that not even the broad shoulders of his genius can support.
But the mention of Wilde and Shaw reminds us that wit, paradox and an almost indecent delight in verbal jugglery place Mr. Kiberd himself in a central Irish literary tradition, a tradition that also includes Swift, Joyce and Beckett. He resembles that stereotype of the Irish writer "invented" by Ireland's imperial masters -- impudent, eloquent, full of jokes and irreverence, by turns sardonic and conciliatory, blithely subversive but, without warning, turning to display wide and serious reading, generosity of spirit, a fierce and authentic concern for social and political justice. Rather like Wilde and Shaw.
In so headlong and many-branched a discourse, there are the inevitable slips, some of which the solemn and pedantic reviewer sets forth as his revenge upon wit. Of the two Government officials murdered by extremists in Dublin's Phoenix Park in 1882, Lord Frederick Cavendish was the Chief Secretary and Thomas Burke the Under Secretary -- not, as Mr. Kiberd has it, the other way round. And no allegations of homosexuality were made at the trial for treason of Sir Roger Casement in 1916. The British Government circulated such stories, supported by entries from his diaries, outside the courtroom and surreptitiously, with the intention of blackening his reputation.
In both instances, the facts could have served Mr. Kiberd's elaborate anti-imperial design. Lord Frederick Cavendish, an amiable and mild-mannered Englishman, was recently arrived with a mission of conciliation. But the actual tough work of evictions and political repression had been entrusted years before to Burke, his subordinate, who of course was a native Irishman serving the empire. And the whispering campaign against Casement, conducted with Cabinet knowledge, seemed almost to imply that transgression of the Victorian moral code was an offense more grievous than high treason.
Mr. Kiberd's remarkable achievement may seem to fall within the modish academic enterprise "cultural studies," which too often seems a kind of safe house where theorists with tin ears can give solace to one another. But his own ear is splendid, and he is careful to place a distance between himself and fashionable cultural theorists in words that a few years ago would have been unnecessary, but in the present climate are almost flamboyant: "It is wise to recognize -- despite current critical fashions -- that certain masterpieces do float free of their enabling conditions to make their home in the world. Ireland, precisely because its writers have been fiercely loyal to their own localities, has produced a large number of these masterpieces, and in an extraordinarily concentrated phase of expression."
It is heartening to find an academic critic talking about masterpieces and writing in celebration of them.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: INVENTING IRELAND (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRELAND (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); EASTER SEASON (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); THEATER (78%); LITERATURE (74%); RIOTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); 

PERSON: KIBERD, DECLAN; FLANAGAN, THOMAS SEAN O'CASEY (93%); DECLAN KIBERD (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



410 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 33; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Mass. Appeal

BYLINE: By John Kenneth Galbraith; John Kenneth Galbraith is professor emeritus of economics at Harvard University. His latest book, "The Good Society," will be published next month.

 BODY:

While the Music Lasts
My Life in Politics.
By William M. Bulger.
Illustrated. 328 pp. Boston:
A Richard Todd Book/
Houghton Mifflin Company. $22.95.
Quite a few years ago, while representing the great Republic in India, I had a call one day from Jawaharlal Nehru. He was going on a short holiday and wanted to know if I had a good book to take with him. Indian resources could be limited even for a prime minister. After some thought I sent him "The Last Hurrah," by Edwin O'Connor, a book, at very slight remove, on James Michael Curley of Boston and Massachusetts. Nehru was delighted, called me to say so and on later holidays or journeys never failed to ask if I had something as good. This I rarely did. 
 Now, were I asked, I would offer him William M. Bulger. Mr. Bulger, known to all as Billy, is an accomplished writer, with a phenomenal memory that one suspects is refreshed on occasion in a moderate way by invention. He draws on a rich store of classical and general literary recollection. And he has an engaging subject with which to deal. It is the Great and General Court, as our legislature on Beacon Hill in Boston is denoted. For the last 17, repeat 17, years he was president of the Massachusetts Senate; before the Senate he was in the House, to which he was elected while still a law student. Over nearly all of these years he also practiced law in a marginal but not, evidently, a wholly unremunerative way. He somehow found the money to provide for his supportive wife, Mary, and to educate their nine children. He contends at some length that his public and private income were separated in an entirely wholesome way, which is something fairly rare in Massachusetts politics.
Once, when his law practice got extended to a politically unhealthy, if distant, association with a highly questionable real estate operator, Mr. Bulger made a point (here related in detail) of remitting roughly a quarter-million-dollar advance on his fee. That money he greatly needed, and he concludes his account by saying, "Money is not happiness, yet for at least a brief time it can offer a delightfully close imitation." On the evidence of this book and in a view not shared by his enemies, including his relentless critic, The Boston Globe, Billy Bulger was, at a minimum, a very careful man.
But Mr. Bulger himself is not the major attraction of this book -- or, more precisely, he would not be except for the political context. That is Boston, the Boston Irish and Boston politics. Elsewhere in the United States politics is a stolid affair of public service, public persuasion and, of course, basic honesty and the lapses therefrom. In Boston, politics is an art form. It is something to be watched, appraised and enjoyed; there are good players and bad, those admired and those rejected. It is a matter of local theater, and of nothing are the participants -- and the audience -- so aware as good or bad performance. Mr. Bulger performed wonderfully well over the years; he would not have received equal attention or written as engaging a book had he emerged in New York or Chicago or, needless to say, Los Angeles.
There was, to be sure, serious business. A good part of this book is devoted to Mr. Bulger's war on busing -- the taking of children from his beloved South Boston to other schools, especially in the neighboring black Roxbury, and bringing youngsters from there to his personal territory. It was his strongly held view that to each community belonged its own life and services and, particularly, its own schools. This was not racism, Mr. Bulger contends; it was the right of every community to its own. Here, as elsewhere, he is relentless in his condemnation of those who lacked this view, and especially of Judge W. Arthur Garrity, who supervised the busing. Judge Garrity, he observes, had been "appointed up the ladder until he arrived at his level of incompetence," adding that "it seemed to me our Neighborhood had become Judge Garrity's white whale, and that only its destruction would bring him peace."
The anger here lingers on. At the time, some 30 years ago, I would note, I favored the busing; now, with most others, I am not so sure. To the extent that race was not the controlling force, the case for community-based schools had undoubted merit.
"While the Music Lasts" is in sprightly English, with the allusions of an exceedingly well-read author. As this is written, Mr. Bulger has just become president of the large, sprawling, needful and sometimes troubled University of Massachusetts. As were many others, I was asked about his appointment when it was pending. I approved: education, and its guidance in the university, is the divine right of the faculty. No president can have much effect on that. The president's job is to get the money -- in this case from the legislature. For this Billy Bulger has the highest qualifications, a lifetime of experience.
But also, as this book shows, he could well teach a course on writing nonfiction, with perhaps an occasional touch of fiction. It would, with all else, show his superior talent for literary allusion and personal insult.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William M. Bulger presiding over a joint session of the Massachusetts legislature. (FROM "WHILE THE MUSIC LASTS")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: WHILE THE MUSIC LASTS: MY LIFE IN POLITICS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WRITERS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); 

PERSON: GALBRAITH, JOHN KENNETH; BULGER, WILLIAM M (SEN) WILLIAM M BULGER (97%); BILLY BULGER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



411 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Southern Discomfort

BYLINE: By Josephine Humphreys; Josephine Humphreys's novels include "Dreams of Sleep," "Rich in Love" and "The Fireman's Fair."

 BODY:

MOTHERS OF INVENTION
Women of the Slaveholding South in the American Civil War.
By Drew Gilpin Faust.
Illustrated. 326 pp. Chapel Hill:
The University of North Carolina Press. $29.95.
"I long to be a writer of merit to be classed among those who can compose and write sentences which will startle and electrify the reader," wrote a Georgia schoolteacher, Abbie Brooks, in October 1865, confiding to her diary this rather surprising ambition. Brooks is one of the more than 500 Confederate women whose journals, letters and memoirs form the basis of Drew Gilpin Faust's "Mothers of Invention: Women of the Slaveholding South in the American Civil War," a dramatically revealing study of how the war altered these women's identities. Because so many of them did write, Ms. Faust has been able to draw from an extraordinary record of self-scrutiny in a changing social order, and the result is a book that will itself be sure to "startle and electrify." 
 A distinguished historian who teaches at the University of Pennsylvania and whose extensive studies have focused on the South, Ms. Faust wrote "Mothers of Invention" not for an academic audience but for a more general readership, her motives rooted in personal family history. "I have tried to write this book as if my mother and grandmothers were going to read it," she explains -- no simple task, as any Southern daughter will understand if her ideas of Southernness and womanhood differ from those of the family she loves.
During her childhood in Virginia during the 1950's and 60's, Ms. Faust says, "My mother taught me that the term 'woman' was disrespectful, if not insulting. Adult females -- at least white ones -- should be considered and addressed as 'ladies.' " Years later she would return to the topic of those early family arguments, aware that "the origins of this book lie somewhere in that youthful experience."
I came to "Mothers of Invention" with a natural interest -- as a novelist, drawn immediately to what Ms. Faust calls the "human drama of this war story," and as a Southern woman drawn by plain curiosity. But I read with unanticipated fascination, spellbound by the gathered voices, their passion and stamina, their gifts of introspection and observation. Each chapter leads further into the world of writing women, and their struggle to make sense of a nightmare. I also read with frequent surprise and occasional horror.
Before the war, Abbie Brooks might not even have thought of becoming a teacher or a publishing writer. Women of her class, the lady class -- white, well-bred, well-read and numbering about half a million across the South -- willingly embraced the idea of a female sphere, the circumscribed domesticity deemed to be the proper realm of women. To venture beyond a private, home-centered life was to risk one's status as lady and even one's femininity, to become mannish and "unsexed."
But the simultaneously privileged and limited position of the lady was possible only as long as white men provided wealth and guardianship, and black slaves provided labor. When the Civil War destroyed the hierarchy of the plantation economy, the rationale underlying ladyhood no longer held, and white women had to reinvent themselves.
This is a thesis voiced not only by the author but by the very subjects of the study. They have written their own history, with particular attention to the ideas Ms. Faust wants to investigate. "Will I ever have my dear husband at home any more or am I doomed to fight & buffet my way through this friendless world alone," wrote Julia Davidson in 1863. "God forbid indeed I do not think I could unless necessity were to make a different woman of me."
Writing to soldier husbands, women expressed loneliness, fear and frustration, finding themselves cast in new roles of authority and decision making that challenged their resources. Equally daunting were the most minor chores. Ms. Faust suggests that although antebellum plantation mistresses may have worked hard, they must have concentrated on "organizational or managerial tasks -- ordering food and clothing or planning and assigning work within the house -- for war and emancipation revealed that many white women felt themselves entirely ignorant about how to perform basic functions of everyday life."
One had, in her own words, never "so much as washed out a pocket handkerchief"; various others could not sew, knit or cook, or were shocked to discover "the trouble of children" when there was no nurse around. A particularly revealing remark is that of one South Carolinian whose family had gone without a cook for 10 days before finally finding a replacement: "Newport has taken the cooking," she wrote, "and we are all ladies again."
But others did not feel so confident. "I will never," Lila Chunn wrote to her husband, "feel like myself again," and Lucy Buck believed "we shall never any of us be the same as we have been." Many Confederate women did go to work, did teach and nurse; they entered into public discourse on political topics; they began for the first time to see themselves in groups rather than as isolated plantation mistresses; and they came to question many of the old ideals, particularly those of romance and marriage, because of the scarcity of men. Political and religious worries arose as well. Some even began to question the war itself. There can be no doubt that the various changes wrought by war combined "to impel Confederate women toward a new independence in the postwar world."
"Mothers of Invention" reveals, however, that it is possible "both to change and not change" -- to perceive the necessity for reinventing the self and to rise to the occasion but, in the end, to retreat from thorough transformation. Ms. Faust focuses on the successful changes, but steadily points out the tenacious hold of tradition over Confederate women in all aspects of life. Many did learn to sew and knit and weave, but their efforts had little effect on home textile production as a whole. The participation of Confederate women in nursing was not what its advocates had hoped for. An examination of the staffing records of hospitals shows that "for all their undeniable and important contributions, it was not the Confederacy's ladies but its African-Americans who cared for the South's fallen heroes."
Shortly after the war began, when white Southerners fully expected victory and, as we sometimes forget, considered the Confederacy a nation, the Southern journal De Bow's Review explained why writing was appropriate for the Confederate lady. "The circumstances are peculiarly favorable," De Bow's said. "The form of our society relieves her from that manual labor which falls to the lot of women in other nations, and thus ample time is left for literary employments." I had to read those sentences twice. It was a stunning, chilling thought, that the literary traditions of the South had origins in the leisure made possible by slavery, and that white Southerners themselves said so.
"Mothers of Invention" is full of such moments of revelation, many of them troubling. Most disturbing of all is the chapter dealing with slavery. By war's end, a number of plantation women who had initially supported the system were disillusioned, mainly because, in the absence of masters and with the promise of emancipation, slaves increasingly resisted the authority of mistresses. But what is of particular interest, beyond what white women thought of slavery as an institution, is what many of them had to say about the individual people who were their slaves. Some of these comments are impossible to read without flinching, so startling that even though they occupy a small space in the book they threaten to overshadow the rest.
But it is important to know these things. One of the peculiar difficulties of being a Southerner is that sometimes those we may believe to be wrong are often coincidentally those we love, and we sometimes seek a solution to that problem by ignoring or even hiding evidence. There are better solutions. Because Drew Gilpin Faust doesn't shrink from difficult truths, she is able also to see other, more hopeful aspects of Confederate women's inner lives. And perhaps this is what she wished her mother and grandmothers to know: that she can see the error and the hope, confronting what she calls "the paradox of being both a Southerner and an American" by looking directly at the past, with a daughter's hard, steady gaze, and with a daughter's generous heart.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MOTHERS OF INVENTION (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WRITERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); LITERATURE (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); HISTORY (73%); 

PERSON: HUMPHREYS, JOSEPHINE; FAUST, DREW GILPIN DREW GILPIN FAUST (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



412 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: New Immigrants Transforming The Population

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
AS immigrants continued to arrive in Nassau and Suffolk Counties in moderate numbers, an even larger number of residents departed, Census estimates for the first half of the 1990's show.
The estimates confirm that expanding ethnicity, led by increases among Asian and Hispanic people, continues to transform a region that was once predominantly native-born white, with native-born blacks as the largest minority segment. 
 The estimates depict an overall rate of change that lags far behind the upheavals after World War II, but they underscore profound challenges in employment, housing and education.
Planners and experts said net migration from the two counties involved departures by retirees and out-of-work or underemployed former military workers.
In a countertrend, the figures and anecdotal information suggest, some outmigration from Nassau involves retirees and families who are moving to Suffolk.
According to the regional planning board, eastern Suffolk has a higher percentage of retirees than Florida. One eastern Suffolk school district, Eastport, more than doubled in size from 1990 to 1995, in part because of the arrival of young families from western Suffolk and Nassau, according to Superintendent Robert R. Dillon.
"These are people trying to recapture the American Dream," Dr. Dillon said. "Our windows are still glass, and there's no graffiti."
Experts said another bloc of the departing included young adults and working people who could not afford or were repelled by housing and living costs in one of the most expensive, highly taxed regions in the country.
According to the estimates, which were released this month, the net international immigration to Nassau was 28,993. In the five years the net domestic migration was more than 47,000.
The disparity was even greater in Suffolk, notwithstanding retirees and young families who moved from Nassau. The figures showed that the net immigration of 18,229 was less than half the net migration of nearly 40,000.
Despite the deficits, the estimate showed that the population increased in both counties. The increases resulted from births at a record level in Suffolk and at the highest level since 1967 in Nassau, according to the Long Island Regional Planning Board.
The Nassau population increased, from 1,287,444 in 1990 to 1,305,722. That contrasts with the 2.6 percent decline from 1980 to 1990.
In Suffolk, where the 1990 Census showed an increase of 2.9 percent over 1980, the new figures show an additional increase, from 1,321,768 in 1990 to 1,353,704 last year.
The estimates show that the proportion of Nassau residents over 65 increased, to 15 percent in 1995, up 1 percent since 1990. In Suffolk, that group increased, from 10.6 to nearly 11.3 percent.
The executive director of the regional planning board, Lee E. Koppelman, said the figures for Hispanic immigration were too low, because they did not fully include illegal aliens. "The unofficial growth is even higher," he said.
He said the Hispanic population included people with Indian and black ethnicity, Latin Americans of predominantly European ancestry, Portuguese and Spanish Europeans and migrant laborers, including Mexicans.
The 1990 Census showed that Hispanic people had surpassed blacks in Suffolk, 87,852 to 77,303. In Nassau blacks outnumbered Hispanic people, 105,315 to 77,386. The planning board projects that the Hispanic total will eventually be higher in both counties.
Newer residents from Central and South America continue to cluster in communities where earlier waves of Hispanic immigrants had settled. Those communities include areas in Babylon, Glen Cove, Hempstead, Huntington, Islip, Long Beach and Patchogue, said Larry Meneses, executive director of La Union Hispanica in Islip.
Mr. Meneses, a member of the Nassau County Charter Revision Commission, said that Hispanic people were increasingly dispersing and that the number of Hispanic businesses on the Island was expanding. "There has been a real explosion of Hispanic-owned businesses," he said.
For lower-income Hispanic immigrants, housing continued to be an acute problem, the Census reports say. Several experts say many newly arrived Hispanic workers and families crowd into illegal rental units. Though smaller in numbers, the Asian population had the highest rate of growth for any group. From 1980 to 1990 it increased 33.8 percent, to 38,434 in Nassau, and 111.5 percent, to 22,415 in Suffolk.
Mr. Koppelman said Asian immigrants tended to be more affluent and widely dispersed, with most coming from China, Japan, Korea and Vietnam. Long Island has also had smaller contingents of Indians, Pakistanis and other groups, he added.
The Island is attracting business people from an array of immigrant groups, Mr. Koppelman said, adding, "What we are attracting are entrepreneurs who can afford to come here, and a good deal of that is migration from New York City."
Planners, elected officials and business groups have long supported so-called affordable housing in part because it might provide homes for a workforce that would include immigrants.
"The amount of affordable housing being built is minuscule, but at least it's beginning to happen," Mr. Koppelman said. "It's happening because a lot of communities are beginning to discover that they can no longer find people to do service work. When you can't find someone to cut the grass or fix your car, there is more acceptance."
The president of the Long Island Housing Partnership, Jim Morgo, said his group was reaching out to the Hispanic population.
"We do have a considerable number of Hispanic immigrants who inquire about our homes," Mr. Morgo said, "and they have an increased sophistication about qualifying for mortgages. The whole genesis of the housing partnership was economic, not philanthropic. What xenophobes often overlook is that immigrants are good for an economy."
But experts say large numbers of immigrants in rental units pressure some school districts that have had a rapid growth in students who speak English as a second language, if at all.
The legislative chairman of the Nassau and Suffolk School Boards Association, Dr. Bruce Brodsky, said 15 of the 25 districts in the state with the highest levels of students with limited English were on Long Island.
Some Long Island districts report that students speak 30 or more languages and dialects. Most of those districts are on the South Shore, but North Shore areas like Port Washington are also affected, he said, adding:
"We are faced with 12-, 13- and 14-year-olds who are coming in not only illiterate in English. but in their own language. These kids are, of course, very high-cost kids to educate. We have been saying this for the past five years, but nobody has been listening to us."
The strain is greatest, Dr. Brodsky said, in districts that are not wealthy and where school taxes are already high and facing further increases in part because of extensive remedial and bilingual education.
Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed budget would eliminate state aid for bilingual education, he noted. Mr. Pataki has also proposed capping state aid for building classrooms as the State Education Department estimates that enrollment on Long Island is approaching an historic peak.
The new Census estimates do not include ethnic breakdowns of net immigration. Long Island's first immigrants, English Protestants, supplanted Indians and predominated from the colonial period to World War I.
After World War II, Levittown, other suburban housing and the development of aircraft industries led to a population explosion and rapid transformation as people of German, Irish, Italian, Polish, Russian and other ancestries moved in. Many Jews also settled on the Island, and Roman Catholics grew to outnumber Protestants.
"It was bedrock Protestant for all those years, and then after World War II the whole thing just turned around," said Dr. Roger Wunderlich, an adjunct associate professor of history at the State University at Stony Brook.
Dr. Wunderlich, also editor of The Long Island Historical Journal, said the region had recently been depleted by "an alarming migration of young college graduates."
He said he regularly asked students in his course on Long Island history whether they planned to remain on Long Island after graduation. The students' answers, he said, were always the same. "They say they don't see how they can live on Long Island because it's too expensive," he said. "They say it doesn't look good for staying here."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Shifting Population on Long Island" shows the migration pattern for Nassau and Suffolk counties and the elderly population in N.Y. and U.S. (Source: U.S. Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); ASIAN-AMERICANS; POPULATION SHIFTS; POPULATION IMMIGRATION (91%); ETHNICITY (90%); CENSUS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN SIR GEORGE YOUNG (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



413 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Home Seekers Buying More, Especially in Fairfield

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
WEAKENING consumer confidence held back home sales and new construction in 1995, Connecticut real-estate professionals say, except in lower Fairfield County, which continued to attract a steady stream of affluent buyers. But the first two months of 1996 have produced a spurt of contracts that has raised industry expectations for a better, if not a banner, year.
Emerging trends in new construction include clustered homes in country settings, urban rental apartments with on-site recreational amenities and a variety of dwellings for residents over 55 who may no longer flee Connecticut now that its inheritance taxes are to be phased out between 1997 and 2005. 
 Building permits fell 11.5 percent in 1995 compared with 1994 and sales declined 7.6 percent, according to the state's Department of Housing. But Vincent M. Valvo, editor and publisher of The Commercial Record, a business weekly, said that 1995 "wasn't really a bad year, just worse than '94, which was very good." His figures show, for example, that sales of homes priced at more than $1 million rose to 470 in Fairfield County last year from 422 in 1994 and 355 in 1993.
Robert M. Becker, president and chief executive of Coldwell Banker Schlott Realtors, said "our sales were off by 4 percent last year across the board, but '96 has started out incredibly well, up 20 percent from the same period last year in Connecticut, 9 percent in New Jersey and 2 percent in Westchester." He attributed the Connecticut gain to "the corporate environment having a rebirth" due in part to the construction of the Swiss Bank's new headquarters under way in downtown Stamford.
William Raveis, head of William Raveis Real Estate, characterized 1995 as "a mixed bag," adding: "Fairfield County is still stoking the fires of real-estate companies. We had several sales of $5 million to $7 million in Greenwich and New Canaan because of Wall Street. People whose companies went public made lots of money."
While sales dropped in 1995, prices rose, especially in Fairfield County. The median cost of a home in New Canaan, for example, rose almost $26,000, to $768,267. Raveis's New Canaan office is marketing homes of 4,000 and 6,000 square feet on one acre for $800,000 to $1.5 million.
Stamford is experiencing demand for rentals from families and individuals who do not want to buy a house right now or perhaps ever. The Fairfield on Morgan Street, developed by Clay Fowler, charges $1,100 to $1,700 for one- and two- bedroom units with terraces, a free health club and a heated pool. Garage space is $60 a month extra. A third of 263 apartments are occupied and another section will be ready in April.
Avalon Properties will open a 400-unit complex on Grove Street in June. One- to three-bedroom units will rent from $1,200 to $2,150, including use of the pool, a computer-fax room, game room, racquetball and club room. A second Avalon complex will also open in June in Wilton, where 102 apartments will rent for $1,800 to $2,500 and include similar amenities. The first 40 units of Avalon's third venture, 340 one- to three-bedroom apartments in Trumbull, are leased. Priced from $950 to $1,500, they also offer many recreational amenities.
Strong interest in clustered subdivisions reflects "a wish to be closer to the neighbors, a desire for lots of mature trees, greens, and a secure play area for children," said Joanne Carroll, president of JMC Resources, her real-estate marketing and consulting concern in Guilford.
GREAT OAK FARM in Monroe, the winner of the 1995 Homebuilders Association Design Award, is just such an enclave. Seventy three- and four-bedroom homes have been sold and 68 more are to be built. Colonial exteriors and open-plan interiors with two-story entries, extensive landscaping and a single road in and out of the 207-acre site are among the features. Prices range from $230,000 to $280,000.
Similar subdivisions include Mr. Fowler's 48 clustered homes on 11 acres at Grumman Hill Road in Wilton, where 2- and 3- bedroom homes start around $300,000. William Pitt Real Estate is marketing 26 detached condominium homes at Somerset in Fairfield for $329,500 to $425,000; 36 homes with communal paddle tennis and a pool at Greystone in Shelton, where sales in mid-April will start at $219,900, and 22 clustered homes at Getner Farms in Norwalk opening next month in the mid-$300,000's.
Sales increases in Danbury were second only to Greenwich in the state last year. Buoyed by extraordinary retail activity spreading out from the Danbury Fair Mall, new businesses, a refurbished railroad station-cum-railway museum, new paving, lighting and restaurants, 1996 looks promising, said Richard Mancuso, a broker at Goodfellow-Ashmore Real Estate.
"Homes from $200,000 to $350,000 are moving well," he said, "but first-time buyers in the lower ranges have difficulty coming up with the 20 percent down payments that lenders are beginning to require again."
Farther north in Litchfield County, New Milford is growing so fast that last month it imposed new regulations limiting gas stations, fast-food restaurants and convenience stores on Route 7 to no less than one mile from each other. Halfway between I.B.M.'s installations in Somers, N.Y., and Southbury, Conn., it is attracting many corporate employees, according to Lydia Adams of the local Prudential Real Estate office.
"Sales were down by about 8 percent in '95, but prices rose by about $2,000 a unit," she said, "to an average of $146,500." So far this year, business has been brisk, and "the No. 1 choice is new construction," she said. Several subdivisions of 30 or more 4-bedroom homes are going up, for sale at $200,000 to $250,000.
AT the eastern end of the state, New London County is having a housing boomlet, sparked partly by the Foxwoods Casino in Ledyard. Kenneth Boyer, a principal at Re-Max Shoreline Real Estate, said "an influx of buyers has been developing for the past 12 to 18 months," and he expects increased activity when the Mohegan Sun Casino opens in October in Montville.
"Existing homes start around $80,000 to $90,000 in New London and Groton," he said. A subdivision of 218 new homes called Deerfield at Mystic will open for sales in April, priced around $100,000 for three bedrooms, one and a half baths. Garages are extra.
New Haven and Bridgeport are up in sales so far this year, and even in Hartford, where the weight of layoffs and population declines has been especially heavy, Steven Bailey, president of Dollar Dry Dock Heritage Real Estate, said, "the market is more active." He added: "There are multiple offers on houses -- something we haven't seen in the past nine years. Corporate downsizing seems about completed."
Accommodating the older population in a country setting are homes at Chapman Farms in East Lyme, where one member of the household must be at least 62. Sixty-five detached, clustered homes on 20 acres will be be available this summer. Two- or three- bedroom residences will cost $129,500 to $149,500.
City living for older people in Stamford will include various degrees of personal and medical assistance at two complexes that Marriott's Senior Living Services will open in 1998. Edgehill apartments will cost $245,000 to $545,000 with monthly fees of $1,950 to $3,100, and Brighton Gardens units will rent for $2,700 to $3,500 a month, including all meals.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Great Oak Farm in Monroe won Homebuilders Association Design Award in 1995. Rendering of 102-apartment Avalon Properties rental project in Wilton opening in June. (Susan Brown for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AVN (NYSE) (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SWISS BANK & TRUST CORP LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ESTATE TAX (58%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



414 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 7; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Rebound Reported In Office Occupancy

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
THE view to the east from Oxford Health Plan's new offices here show Westchester's rolling hills blanketed in snow. The west side affords a panorama of downtown White Plains. "You've got the bucolic on one side, and you've got the urban on the other," said Steve Daniels, regional director of operations for Oxford. "Of all of our offices, this is the nicest in terms of work environment."
Such words fall sweetly on the ears of beleaguered real estate agents in the county, who say that Westchester's office market is bouncing back as major corporations commit to the area, and vacancy rates continue to decrease. The improvement is particularly strong in downtown White Plains, which is considered pivotal to the county's overall economic health. 
 The county's office vacancy rate at the end of last year was 18.7 percent, down from 22.3 percent the previous December, according to Rostenberg-Doern, a real estate concern in Purchase. This is the third year in a row that vacancy rates have dropped, after reaching a high of 26.9 percent in 1993.
The arrival of Oxford, one of the country's fastest-growing managed-health-care plans, has played a significant part in resuscitating Westchester's ailing office market. The company signed a lease for 267,000 square feet in Westchester One, a gleaming office tower, which was once largely occupied by I.B.M. That transaction alone lowered the vacancy rate between 3 and 4 points, realtors said.
"A deal like Oxford's is a signal -- especially since it was downtown White Plains -- that it's a very viable marketplace.," said Michael H. Siegel, executive director of Edward S. Gordon's Westchester/Fairfield office. "It means that there are companies looking at Westchester because they have convinced themselves that economically it's a good decision. The labor is there, and the real estate to meet their needs is there."
Downtown White Plains is not the only market in Westchester that is rebounding. Vacancy rates in offices have declined in the Harrison, Rye and Purchase area along 1-287 as well as in the western part of the county along Route 119 in Elmsford and Tarrytown. Improvement is also visible in the northern part of the county, where in a recent transaction, the Mount Kisco Medical Group leased 68,254 square feet of space in an office complex in Mount Kisco, which formally housed the headquarters of Trans World Airlines.
Westchester's recovery has lagged behind other markets in the New York City area, particularly Fairfield County. Westchester came back more slowly because the office market was less diversified than that in Connecticut, realtors said. When International Business Machines and American Telephone and Telegraph and began downsizing, the county had very little economic base left.
"It's only in the last two years now that Westchester is trying to play catch up," said John Rostenberg, principal of Rostenberg-Doern. "Stamford has got a very diverse and broad range of types of companies located there, like Champion International, Xerox and G.E. Credit Corporation. It has rebounded earlier than Westchester has, but it is where Westchester will be in maybe two or three years."
Mr. Rostenberg said several other significant recent transactions have further strengthened and diversified Westchester's market. Mastercard and I.T.T. Industries moved to the county from Manhattan this year, and I.B.M. and Ciba both decided to stay in the area.
Also enhancing the market resurgence is the fact that many commercial properties had reverted to the lenders in the early 1990's. The banks invested more money in the properties and are now marketing them at competitive prices. "We're almost back to where we were in 1990," Mr. Rostenberg said. "We've gotten back to an equilibrium market."
The gains in office real estate have positive implications for the housing market, not only in Westchester but also in Putnam and Dutchess. It is also changing the face of rush hour -- Metro-North has seen a major upswing both in reverse commuters traveling from Manhattan to outlying suburbs and in commuters traveling from northern New York into Westchester. Currently, the railroad's fastest-growing route is between White Plains and Dover Plains on the Harlem Line.
At Oxford recently, workers were busy installing cubicles for the customer-service staff. Mr. Daniels said the company will be occupying six floors and expects to employ 1,500 people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (57%); IBMC (BRU) (54%); IBM (NYSE) (54%); IBM (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (57%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (54%); WESTCHESTER ONE (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER ONE (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); WHITE PLAINS (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); AIRLINES (60%); 

PERSON: LOMBARDI, KATE STONE JOHN ROSTENBERG (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



415 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 9; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: State Has Big Role In Medical Research

BYLINE: The Associated Press 

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT has become one of the leading biomedical research centers in the country, according to a study by Connecticut United for Research Excellence, a consortium of state-based companies and researchers.
The study, issued last week by the Wallingford-based consortium, said that the state has not capitalized fully on a huge increase in pharmaceutical company spending and the presence of major educational research centers, including Yale University and the University of Connecticut, to create new products and jobs. 
 Most of the research is centered within Connecticut-based research centers operated by global pharmaceutical companies -- Pfizer Inc. in Groton, the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in Wallingford, the Bayer Corporation in West Haven and Boehringer Ingleheim Inc. in Ridgefield and Danbury.
"For years, we have been saying that biomedical research was important to the Connecticut economy, but we never had real numbers," said Debra K. Pasquale, president of the consortium. "Now we can document the importance of this enterprise in the state."
The state now receives more than $1 billion annually, or 10 percent of all money spent by pharmaceutical companies in the United States for research and development, according to the consortium.
In addition, Connecticut ranks fourth among the states in research spending per capita by the National Institutes of Health, the major Federal source of medical research funds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (91%); PFZ (LSE) (84%); PFE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (84%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT UNITED FOR RESEARCH EXCELLENCE (ORGN) BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (91%); PFIZER INC (84%); BAYER CORP (70%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT UNITED FOR RESEARCH EXCELLENCE (ORGN) UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; RESEARCH MEDICAL RESEARCH (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (92%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (91%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



416 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Pothole Patching, Budget Woes Follow the Snow

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE 

 BODY:
SPRING arrives this week, and it's none too soon for municipal officials across Connecticut, who have measured this winter's snowfall totals in record levels of red ink.
But the spending on plowing is likely to the followed by a torturous spate of potholes and pothole mending, roadway managers say. It's bound to further test the patience of people already frazzled by snow shoveling and fender denting. 
 Cities and towns headed into March having overspent snowplowing budgets by several times the amounts allocated, forcing their finance and public works officials to use money set aside for other purposes to pay for overtime, hiring plowing crews from private contractors and extra heaps of salted sand.
And March promptly added to the problem by delivering another one-two punch of snow.
The winter of 1995-96 will leave an aftermath of reduced or delayed public services, and tax increases in a few communities. These effects, however, will vary substantially between municipalities, some of which were lucky or well-prepared, others unlucky or improvident.
For the record, this has been the snowiest winter in the Hartford area, 107.7 inches recorded at Bradley Airport through February, and the second snowiest for Bridgeport, 61.7 inches at Sikorsky Airport, less than 10 inches from that location's record of 71.6 inches, set in 1933-34.
The average snowfall totals through February for the two locations are 36.3 inches and 20.3 inches, respectively, although meteorologists and public works officials agree that there is no such thing as an average winter.
"Climatologically, it's quite normal," said Paul Wethington, weather observer at Sikorsky Airport, who noted that in the last five years Connecticut has had two of its coldest, snowiest winters and two of its warmest, driest winters on record.
In municipal government, politicians who are alarmed by heavy snows and budget deficits one year are lulled when the following year's snows are light, so snow budgets swing up and down, year to year. Not surprisingly, interviews showed that cities coping best financially with their snowplowing costs were those that resisted pressure to reduce budget accounts after the warm, dry 1994-95 winter left surpluses. Those in the worst shape tended to be those that succumbed to that pressure.
The plague of potholes began to appear in late February and will not abate until April when asphalt plants begin selling hot patch, which forms durable roadway hole patches. Until then, repair crews must rely on cold patch, a mixture that adheres in cold weather but erodes easily.
State residents welcomed two midwinter thaws, in late January and late February, but now they must pay for them. The thaws caused frost heaves that cracked road surfaces, also worn by plow blades and tire chains. Water leaked into the cracks, froze and opened the potholes. "It's like having two springs," said Ronald Manning, Superintendent of Public Works Operations in Fairfield.
Thomas Johnson, Public Works Director in Hartford, said he had already notified the city manager that potholes will add to the city's winter woes. Waterbury's Superintendent of Streets, Robert Carroll, said this year might set a record for the cost of pothole repair in his city.
Both cities have substantially overspent their snowplowing budgets. Hartford had planned on$400,000, but spent more than $900,000, Mr. Johnson said. So far his department has been able to absorb the extra expense by postponing purchases, leaving employee vacancies unfilled and transferring funds from other accounts.
Hilly Waterbury, on the other hand, spent more than four times the $500,000 it had budgeted for snowplowing. Already troubled by a large budget deficit, revealed in a recent audit, the city government is hard-pressed to find the money for the snowplowing bills.
"There was a lot of weeping and gnashing of teeth" when budgets for other city departments were combed for money to transfer to public works, Mr. Carroll said. "Nobody in the other city departments will talk to me. I've been avoiding the park superintendent for weeks." He added that last year he returned $347,000 unspent from snowplowing accounts.
Stamford overspent its budget by more than seven times. "We were underbudgeted to start," said Mickey Docimo, the administrative officer. To meet the cost, supplies will not be purchased, vacancies will not be filled, some services will be reduced, and there may need to be a tax increase next year, he said.
Many other cities and towns set similarly optimistic allocations for snowplowing, hoping to keep taxes down, and are facing similarly grim consequences.
Mr. Docimo said the city set aside $490,000 for 1993-94, a snowy winter when it actually spent $1.54 million. After dealing with that deficit, and acknowledging that it spends $680,000 in an average year, the budget was raised to $545,000 for 1994-95. But last year was warm and dry, and spending was low -- only $280,000. So for 1995-96, the budget was cut to $311,890. By the end of February, Stamford had spent more than $2.2 million.
John Marsilio, Bridgeport's Director of Public Facilities, said Bridgeport used to have similar problems before its financial crisis forced reform. A state-mandated Financial Review Board required higher funding for snowplowing accounts and rigorous internal accounting practices. Although the city spent almost twice what had been set aside for snow, the reformed budget accountability will allow him to absorb the extra costs, Mr. Marsilio said.
Bridgeport also benefited by procedural reforms spurred by past embarrassments. Its response in a massive storm on March 13, 1993, and in the snowy 1993-94 season that followed was both fumbling and excessively expensive. Mr. Marsilio, who took charge of the department in 1992 and admits to his early mistakes, joined with his department managers to establish a new system and for the first time in memory, Bridgeport streets were well-plowed this winter. And in a study done by Stamford in January comparing plowing costs per roadway mile, Bridgeport had spent $2,214, far less than other cities (New Haven $2,416; Norwalk $3,958; Stamford $3,445).
Mayor Richard Borer of West Haven was criticized by opponents in his 1995 election campaign for allocating too much for snowplowing this year because the city spent $40,000 in 1994-95 of a $50,000 budget. Nevertheless, Mr. Borer the plowing budget to $65,000. Even that wasn't nearly enough; West Haven has spent close to $400,000. Nevertheless, with a combination of economizing, transfers from the city's fund balance (a standing reserve that is not part of the operating budget) and aid from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Mr. Borer said West Haven will make do.
Federal funds will be distributed to many cities and towns to help pay for the blizzard in early January. Other cities will tap into their fund balance accounts, but that money must be restored or their bond ratings may be lowered costing taxpayers even more in the long run.
The experience has made Mr. Borer consider snow insurance for West Haven, something that other communities have tried. Cheshire expects to claim $12,000 from its insurance, a modest, but helpful amount. That is less than $2,000 profit over the two years Cheshire has purchased the policy, and Finance Director Michael Milone is thinking of revising the coverage.
Derby did better, purchasing a more expensive, seasonal policy, rather than the month-by-month policies that Cheshire chose. Mayor Alan Schlesinger said Derby will claim $50,000 from insurance through February. The $9,300 policy pays $25,000 per snow storm beginning with the fifth storm of the season.
It could have been $125,000 had the city's tax board followed his recommendation last spring to buy the policy, but when the insurance paid nothing last year, the board balked at renewing it. That decision was reconsidered in time to start coverage as of Jan. 1, but by that time three storms had occurred not applied toward the deductible.
Mr. Schlesinger said after the insurance claim and Derby's Federal aid, his city will have overspent its $60,000 snow plowing budget by about $75,000. "Of course, the winter's not over with," he observed.
March, in fact, roared in like a lion with two snowstorms in the first week and colder than normal temperatures. Mel Goldstein, a meteorologist for WTNH-TV, called March "a belligerent month" that commonly hosts notably bad nor'easters and blizzards.
"It's not named after the Roman god of war for nothing," Dr. Goldstein said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Once again, a winter of records. A pedestrian and car shared a Hartford street on March 8. (The Associated Press) (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; POTHOLES; WEATHER; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; FINANCES ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WEATHER (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); METEOROLOGY (73%); OVERTIME (70%); ASPHALT PRODUCTS MFG (50%); 

PERSON: MUSANTE, FRED MICKEY DOCIMO (57%); ROBERT CARROLL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



417 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: When 'Made in Connecticut' Counted

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN 

 BODY:
IF any one piece of real estate in Connecticut best represents the history of the Industrial Revolution it would have to be a couple of acres on Capitol Avenue in Hartford near the state capitol. Starting in the mid-19th century, the factory buildings on the site were passed along from company to company. As one industry faded, or moved elsewhere, another came to take its place.
On the site have been, in turn, a rifle manufacturing company (Sharps), a sewing machine company (Weed), a pioneer precision tool maker (Pratt & Whitney), the biggest high-wheel bicycle company in the world (Columbia), an early automobile plant (Pope-Hartford), an aircraft engine plant (Pratt & Whitney again) and, finally, as the 20th century was drawing to a close, a high-tech, computerized adjunct for an insurance company (Aetna). 
 "It's the Industrial Revolution in a nutshell," said Dave Corrigan. "It's a unique story." Mr. Corrigan comes by his opinions with some authority. He is curator of the Museum of Connecticut History, in the State Library Building a few blocks east of the historical cluster of factory buildings, which in part celebrates Connecticut's illustrious past as a world leader in manufacturing.
Now one more chapter is being added to the story of the buildings on Capitol Avenue. The State of Connecticut, pressed for adequate space for workers, bought the huge (431,000 square feet of space) old factory complex from the Aetna Life and Casualty Company early last year.
For the past several weeks, some 1,100 state employees have moved in: The Department of Mental Health to 410 Capitol, the Office of Policy and Management to 450 Capitol, the Department of Mental Retardation to 460 Capitol. A fourth major building, at 470 Capitol, contains meeting rooms and a large restaurant.
What the state employees are discovering is that behind the grim brick facades are well-lighted work areas with huge exposed beams overhead, wide corridors, wainscoting, decorative and architectural touches that have led to such accolades as "neat," "a fun place to work" and that ultimate accolade, "cool." Said Reginald L. Jones Jr., secretary of the Office of Policy and Management and generally known as the Governor's budget director: "The architecture and the beauty of the building are impressive to us as new tenants."
The real miracle of the factory buildings is less that they are so dramatic inside but that they managed to survive at all. Two decades ago, they almost went. They were shabby, grim reminders of another age, in a time when Hartford was in the midst of an economic boom, razing old buildings in a near frenzy of redevelopment.
What saved the buildings was their location: Relatively close to Aetna's home office on Farmington Avenue, which runs parallel to Capitol Avenue. In the 1970's the insurance giant, needing more space for its then-growing number of employees, bought the buildings and turned them into a workplace quite unlike any other insurance company, anywhere.
The guiding spirit behind the transformation was Jack Dollard, a Hartford architect with a sense of time, and also with a sense of humor.
Basically, Mr. Dollard left the exterior of the buildings intact -- they still look grim and foreboding -- but he opened up the interiors, letting sunlight come in through huge windows, exposing century-old beams, adding decorative touches that made the buildings, now connected by huge underground corridors, an adventure to walk through.
He put a huge teacup on the wall, for instance, to alert workers that they are approaching the company restaurant at 470 Capitol, a place where he hung a dozen tapestries to tell about the industrial giants that once occupied Capitol Avenue. Also overhead, swinging from the 61-foot-long beams, went three papier-mache trapeze artists that Mr. Ballard obtained when the Danbury Fair shut down.
Before the renovations were complete, people at Aetna were skeptical of the industrial setting. "They were calling it 'Factory Mutual,' " Mr. Ballard said. After they saw what had been accomplished, he added, they changed their minds. "Then they all wanted to work there."
The overhaul was not inexpensive. Mr. Dollard, on a recent first visit to the place, said the costs to the insurance company were $26 million in the go-go 60's and 70's. When Aetna, which has been downsizing in the 90's, sold the complex on Feb. 16, 1995, the price was $10,259,520, according to State Department of Public Works records.
One question that has arisen since the state took over the new-old buildings is what will happen to "the museum."
Under Aetna, the centerpiece of the Capitol Avenue project was a little museum Mr. Dollard designed inside the entrance of 450 Capital Ave. to demonstrate the products that had been produced on the site. They included a car made by Pope-Hartford, two 19th-century high-wheel Columbia bicycles and one turn-of-the-century Columbia safety bike, two machines used to make the first Pratt & Whitney Wasp engines in the mid-20's and one of those engines.
In December 1994, just before Aetna sold the building, it donated many of the museum artifacts to the Connecticut Historical Society. "We called them Santa," said Betsy Fox of the Historical Society. She said the articles would go into a new permanent gallery the Historical Society plans to open at the Old State House.
In addition, Aetna gave the Pratt & Whitney Wasp engine to the air museum at Bradley International Airport and retained for itself a huge canvas painting by the Pulitzer Prize-winning artist Rudolph Zallinger. The painting details the history of the Capitol Avenue buildings and the nearby Frog Hollow neighborhood. It now hangs in Aetna's main building.
What basically remained after the state purchased the buildings were a few items that had been lent to Aetna by the state's Museum of Connecticut History. The most important of these, the Pope-Hartford vehicle, is a story unto itself.
Albert A. Pope, a Colonel in the Civil War, became one of Hartford's leading entrepreneurs in the latter decades of the last century.
Colonel Pope, as he was commonly known, put America on wheels by establishing the country's, and the world's, biggest bicycle factory on Capitol Avenue. By the early 1880's, it had 3,000 workers turning out 60,000 Columbia high-wheel bicycles a year.
Colonel Pope later went into production of the safety bike with two equal-sized wheels but, as the century waned, developed a new interest: the automobile.
He moved the bicycle business to Massachusetts and started in on Pope-Hartford cars, both gasoline and electric. For a time, it appeared that Hartford might become the automobile capital of the world, but that dream was crushed by another industrial pioneer, Henry Ford.
In a legal fight over what was known as the Selden Patent, a plan for a wheeled vehicle with a gasoline engine, Ford sued Pope-Hartford and an organization of licensed automobile manufacturers of the time that charged royalties on the patent. Ford did not want to pay royalties for building cars. He lost the suit, but won on appeal and went on to mass produce little inexpensive cars and make a fortune. Colonel Pope made big splendid cars and went bankrupt.
In connection with the Ford suit, Pope-Hartford created one vehicle known as the Selden, a strange affair that looked like a horse-drawn vehicle with a small engine substituting for the horse. Today that vehicle stands in almost solitary splendor in the little museum at 450 Capitol. But fear not, neither the bizarre old contraption nor the museum itself are in jeopardy, according to T. R. Anson, the state's Commissioner of Public Works. Mr. Anson said that "absolutely and without question," the museum will be continued under state ownership. The Selden vehicle will remain and the present empty spaces near it will be filled with other manufactured items culled from storage at the Museum of Connecticut History at the nearby state library.
In addition, Mr. Anson said, he has been so impressed by the quality and quantity of material available backstage at the library that he is entering into "partnering arrangements" with other state agencies to show off more of the artifacts in other state buildings. The history of Connecticut's former claim to fame might finally be getting its due.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the old factory building at 450 Capitol Avenue, far left, now home to government workers, a lobby display, left, explains how Pratt & Whitney turned out everything from precision machine tools to aircraft engines.; Col. Albert A. Pope produced bicycles and motorcycles there before losing a car-marketing war with Henry Ford and going bankrupt. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AETNA LIFE AND CASUALTY CO AETNA INC (84%); PRATT & WHITNEY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AETNA LIFE AND CASUALTY CO

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; HISTORY US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (75%); HISTORY (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); SMALL ARMS MFG (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); MENTAL HEALTH (63%); MENTAL RETARDATION (63%); RESTAURANTS (62%); BUDGETS (60%); 

PERSON: RYAN, BILL JACK DOLLARD (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



418 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 36; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Help for Social Security

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Can Retirees' Safety Net Be Saved?" (Feb. 18) does not mention one solution to Social Security's peril -- rapidly raising the retirement age to 70. 
 Social Security went into effect in 1935. Today, 61 years later, people are entering the work force later and living much longer. We're in an entirely different economic and social era. In 1983, Congress acted timidly in gradually raising the retirement age to 67 by 2027.
The solution is clear -- rapidly raise the retirement and Medicare age to 70 and continue to raise it as life expectancy increases.
 
MELVIN L. GOLD
West Orange, N.J., Feb. 19
 
The writer is a consulting actuary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) RETIREMENT & RETIREES (92%); RETIREMENT AGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (88%); WRITERS (86%); LABOR FORCE (84%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



419 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Housing Industry Sees a Repeat of Listless '95 Sales

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
Last fall Joseph Morrison, a computer programer for AT&T, and his wife, Elizabeth, a teacher, decided to move from their town house in Hillsborough to a $250,000, four-bedroom house at a subdivision being built in Montgomery Township.
Then came the announcement that his company would lay off 7,000 employees in New Jersey. 
 "We asked ourselves if buying a new house was the smartest thing to do," said Mr. Morrison, noting that when AT&T downsized two years ago he and his wife had put off buying a home and instead purchased the town house to minimize their risk. "I was not affected then and I feel confident I won't be again. With interest rates low and home prices good we forged ahead."
The couple sold their town house in December for $112,000 and will move into their new home the end of this month.
Like the Morrisons, many purchasers today are weighing the odds of favorable mortgage interest rates and stable home prices against the health of the economy and job growth. Those issues chilled last year's home-buying market, which saw a solid start spiral into a near comatose stretch last fall and end up flat. New home construction also was down.
But many industry professionals are betting that in 1996 more buyers, nudged off the fence by attractive rates and the belief that the worst of the downsizing is over, will respond as the Morrisons did and buy. They feel that this will boost sales, which began on a weak note, through the spring and summer. But the consensus is that this year will wind up a repeat of last year.
The wild card, many said, is jobs. The state is expected to gain a net of 40,000 jobs in 1996 -- still less than the 50,000 jobs a year it has averaged. "As long as rates remain low home sales will match those of 1995," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University in New Brunswick.
"The '95 market wasn't dead or robust, it was a steady, meat-and-potato year" said Michael Ford, president-elect of the New Jersey Association of Realtors in Edison. Patrick O'Keefe, executive vice president of the New Jersey Builders Association in Plainsboro, called it "listless."
The anxiety sparked by the restructurings and the state's slower economy and job growth did not devastate home prices. But buyers were cautious, owners trimmed expectations of price appreciation, and builders worked harder for sales.
The active markets were, and will be, communities that offer good schools and hold their appreciation and those in high growth corridors, like those in Middlesex, Ocean and Monmouth Counties, said David Schoner, a housing consultant in Sparta.
While sales of existing homes fell to 138,000 from 145,000 in 1994, said the realtors' group, the median price stayed relatively steady at $148,000. But there were regional differences: In central New Jersey the median price remained stable at $140,200, but in the northern counties it fell to $187,900 from $190,100. It also dropped in south Jersey to $106,700 from $107,800.
ABOUT 43 percent of the sales were for $100,000 to $180,000, showing that mortgage rates worked magic for first-time buyers, Mr. Ford said. Also, 17 percent of the sales were for $200,000 to $300,000 homes -- those geared to move-up buyers, mostly baby boomers with children who, in terms of demographics, will again be a market focus this year.
The market for houses priced over $300,000, was thinner and is not expected to improve this year. Despite this general pattern, some builders of upscale homes, among them Toll Brothers of Huntington Valley, Pa., which in 1995 started 10 projects with a total of 702 houses priced from $300,000 to $700,000, report good sales.
Yet the state ended 1995 issuing 7 percent fewer permits than the previous year's total of 26,986. A recent Rutgers report showed that the number of permits was unlikely to top 30,000 for each of the next four years since the state's "slow recovery and the aging baby boom and the advancing baby bust generations have led to a drop-off in household formations." And in the second half of '96 production will slow "because there are not enough approved projects," said Mr. O'Keefe of the builders' association.
The market began the year with an six- to nine-month supply of resale homes, which may grow as people who received pink slips decide to sell. Some analysts, for example, say the AT&T layoffs will have an impact on Morris, Somerset, Middlesex and Union Counties, where many of its employees work. But brokers say the cuts will not flood their markets with homes and depress prices.
Peter Mosca, spokesman for the state's realtors' group, said the active spring and summer market that his association foresees "should cut into the supply," and keep prices stable. He said his group expected 137,000 to 140,000 homes to be sold in 1996.
Many brokers say sales have begun to improve. Weichert Realtors, the state's largest broker, said 30 percent more contracts for new and resale homes had been signed by its clients through the first week of this month than the 8,174 signed in the same period last year. Phyllis K. Bixon, a Weichert regional vice president, added that people would buy if they perceived value and that houses realistically priced would sell. Yet some sellers remain frustrated. "People come, but not in droves," said Jeanne Oates, who with her husband, Alvaro, has been trying to sell their three-bedroom colonial in Fair Lawn since November.
"I have to believe there is just too much inventory," Mrs. Oates said. She said the couple had dropped the sales price three weeks ago to $207,000 from $214,000, "But if we don't get a price that will let us put some equity into a new house," she added, "we will have to wait."
Developers say new homes sales are picking up and that they are moving ahead with projects. From Feb. 1 through the second week of March, sales at Toll's projects averaged 32 percent per community over last year, said Wayne Patterson, senior vice president at the developer.
HE said his company planned to start eight projects this year with a total of 934 dwellings, mostly $300,000-plus houses. Most will be in the north central part of the state and one -- Laurel Creek Country Club, with 470 town houses and detached single-family homes -- is in Moorestown in Burlington County. Since Feb. 1, 55 Laurel Creek single-family homes were sold for an average of $400,000, he said.
Merle Huseth, president of the northeast region for K. Hovnanian Enterprises of Red Bank, the state's largest developer, said: "There's been a lot more traffic lately, indicating pent-up demand." Hovnanian, which dropped its production estimates for 1996 by 10 percent, is now revising it upward, he said, adding that "we are cautiously optimistic."
Mr. Huseth said that for Hovnanian -- which continues to focus on town house and detached single-family home projects for entry-level and move-up buyers -- north central counties, including Monmouth and Morris, remain good markets. He said his company was also putting an emphasis on Burlington County, where it will open two projects in Burlington Township, totaling 262 homes priced from $110,000 to $190,000.
Mr. Schoner, the consultant, said 537 single-family home developments were under way in the state's 14 north and central counties; the most, 89, are in Morris County. There are also 106 town-house projects under construction.
Ms. Bixon of Weichert said more move-up buyers were entering the market. But for many such buyers, given today's economy, there will be "less up in move-up," said Dean Hughes.
Though Mr. O'Keefe, of the builders' association said homes priced at $200,000 to $250,000 are most in demand, the state's long approval process and limited land for small lots makes building them difficult.
Developers like Hovnanian who are able to respond do well. At Woodland Estates, a 75-home project it opened last month in South Brunswick, 39 of the $225,000 to $275,000 homes, with 3,200 square feet, have been sold, said Mr. Huseth.
Among the buyers are Ben and Jennifer Shapiro. He is a commercial real estate broker, she is a physical therapist. "We have concerns," said Mr. Shapiro, referring to the economy and job market. "But we feel we are taking an educated risk and that we're getting value for our money."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph and Elizabeth Morrison, moving from Hillsborough, examine new Montgomery house. Woodland Estates in South Brunswick offers houses like this one. (Sam D'Amico for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); ATTB (BRU) (93%); ATRP (PAR) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518111 INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; SALES; INTEREST RATES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (76%); HOUSING STARTS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE ANN LIVERMORE (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



420 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
Low Rates Are Turning Lookers Into Home Buyers

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

 BODY:
WITH six months to go before their new house in a development called Dix Hills Farms is completed, Donald and Ginny Casadonte are not overly worried that they still have to sell their existing home, a three-bedroom ranch in Huntington.
"My house is in a very nice neighborhood, it's totally redone and professionally landscaped, and houses here are not staying on the market that long," said Mr. Casadonte, a stock trader in Manhattan. 
 The couple intend to put the Huntington ranch up for sale for $210,000 once the foundation for the Dix Hills house is poured later this month. The new house, a four-bedroom colonial, will cost close to $500,000 with extras.
The days when homeowners were fearful of buying another house before selling an existing one appear to be over, with most sellers confident that there now is a market for their houses.
"The majority of my buyers are move-up buyers, but none of my transactions is subject to people selling their houses," said Marylin Larsen, owner of Lane Realty in Great Neck, a brokerage that represents only builders, through whom the Casadontes are purchasing their house. "People feel the market is now strong enough so they are not risking losing their deposit."
Brokers say buyers are still cautious because of concerns over the economy and job security, but generally stable house prices, lower interest rates, the strength of the stock market and changing family needs all contributed to higher house sales last year, especially in the later months. This has continued into 1996.
"Last year, sales got off to a very slow start, but they picked up so much in the last quarter after interest rates came down that it made up for the whole year," said Kathy Kreicas, owner of the ERA Gatewood agency in Syosset.
Wende and Randy Savitch recently signed a contract to buy one of Mrs. Kreicas's listings, a three-bedroom ranch in Syosset, in large part because of the lower interest rates. They are now renting a one-bedroom apartment in Forest Hills, Queens.
"We've been saving up to buy a house for two and a half years, and now that interest rates are so low, we felt it was a good time to buy," said Mrs. Savitch, a manager for a brewing company. Her husband is an electrician for a television studio.
The house is costing them $207,000. Their monthly payments will be about $2,000, compared with a current $900-a-month rent, but they will have tax-deduction benefits, Mrs. Savitch said. "A lot of our money goes for taxes so we might as well own and invest in our future," she said.
"The buyers that are out," said Joseph E. Mottola, chief executive of the Long Island Board of Realtors and the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island, "are serious buyers, inventory levels are coming down and there is a shortage of good houses."
NEVERTHELESS, prices have remained flat in Nassau County and they are down in Suffolk County.
"Our sales were strong in 1995, but unfortunately the average sales price dropped," said Ralph Bove, a senior manager for Prudential Long Island Realty. The company, which has 24 Long Island offices, sold 5,314 houses last year, up from 4,984 in 1994, he said,adding that the average price dropped to $201,000 from $210,000
January figures provided by the Multiple Listing Service, which has 1,300 broker members, show that houses on the market in Nassau and Suffolk fell to 17,915 from 19,242 in January 1995 and houses under contract rose to 4,659 from 4,286. However, the average contract price of a house in Suffolk was $145,944, down from $150,331 in January 1995. In Nassau, the average was up slightly to $201,973 from $197,086.
Stagnant house prices are a reflection of Long Island's changing economy said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, the business group.
Since 1993 the region has added 44,000 jobs, thus regaining almost half the 88,500 jobs lost between 1990 and 1992. Despite government cutbacks and corporate mergers, job growth is expected to continue this year with the creation of 10,000 to 15,000 new jobs, Dr. Kamer said. However, highly paid military jobs with an average annual salary of $40,300 are being replaced by retail and service-industry jobs paying much less, she said.
"One reason that house prices have not appreciated even though we have had considerable job growth is because net salaries have been declining because of the type of jobs we are getting," she said. "It's very difficult to pass on potential increases in housing prices if buyers don't have the incomes to buy at those prices."
Christopher Tighe, an insurance broker who recently sold his six-bedroom high ranch in Woodbury for $466,000, was forced to reduce his asking price by more than $100,000 to find a buyer. The house was originally listed at $590,000 and had been on the market five months when he switched brokers and lowered the price, Mr. Tighe said. His new broker, ERA Gatewood, recommended an asking price of $485,000 and found him a buyer within a month.
Across the marketplace, demand is strongest for recently updated houses. "At one time, people were willing to fix a house, but now they have to work so hard to meet today's cost of living that they don't have the time," said Katy Anastasio, a broker in Huntington.
For a well-located house in good condition that is properly priced, "I have 20 buyers," said Evelyn Atanas, the owner of Atanas Realty in Williston Park. In some cases, such houses are being snapped up overnight, she said.
ONE recent seller, who asked that her name not be used, listed her three-bedroom Tudor in Mineola with Atanas Realty on Feb. 29 for $225,000. The next day she had an offer for $210,000, and three backup offers. She later accepted the $210,000.
"I was totally surprised that I could sell this quickly," the homeowner said.
Sales of houses in affluent areas of the North Shore, which were particularly sluggish, have also started to pick up.
"We haven't seen activity like this since 1989," said Louise Brooks, manager of the Douglas Elliman-Jane Hayes agency in Locust Valley, who attributed some of the renewed interest to "last year's windfalls in the stock market." A 15-room brick manor house on 5 acres in Matinecock on the market four and a half months recently sold for $1.9 million.
Demand in the Hamptons is for houses selling at $350,000 to $750,000, while there is a large inventory of lower-priced houses, said Melanie Ross, president of the Cook/ Pony Farm real estate agency, which has five East End offices. "People are selling their $250,000 house because they want to trade up," she said.
Builders are finding a mixed market. "Prices have come down, but you need an income of $50,000 to buy a $130,000 house, so affordability is still the problem," said Peter D. Klein, a partner of Klein & Eversoll, developers in Commack. He characterized the new-house market as "very modest," with most of the demand coming from buyers trading up from an existing home.
Although building activity in Nassau and Suffolk showed only a moderate 5 percent increase last year, it was strong compared with New York State overall, which had a 7 percent decline. In Nassau and Suffolk, 3,500 building permits were issued in 1995, down from 3,720 in 1994, according to Census Bureau figures. In New York State, permits issued dropped to 19,010 from 22,170.
Michael Dubb, a partner of the Beechwood Organization of Williston Park, who is president of the Long Island Builder's Institute, called sales "fairly brisk," fueled by buyers moving out from Brooklyn and Queens. "The American dream is still to buy that house in the suburbs," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fifteen-room brick manor in Matinecock sold recently for $1.9 million. Donald and Ginny Casadonte with children on their Dix Hills Farm plot. Model house at right is the colonial that they will be building. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); HOME PRICES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA RANDY SAVITCH (62%); KATHY KREICAS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



421 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester;
Brokers See a Continued Crest in Housing Sales

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

 BODY:
LAST WEEK, before 500 realtors at Houlihan/Lawrence's annual meeting, Donald Trump announced his intention to acquire the 144-acre Briar Hall Country Club in Briarcliff Manor where he wants to refurbish the golf course and build 144 town houses in clusters and a new clubhouse.
He also discussed plans to develop Seven Springs, a 200-acre property he purchased last year in the Towns of North Castle, Bedford and New Castle. There he plans to build a "world-class golf course with about 24 mansions," he said. 
 Mr. Trump was also committed to developing David's Island, in New Rochelle. But that project was abruptly abandoned on March 9, he said, when it was discovered that there was a hazardous-waste problem and Consolidated Edison had ownership rights to 10 percent of the island.
The entrance of Mr. Trump into Westchester's real estate market follows two record-breaking years for home sales and sales so far this year show the trend is continuing.
"Early indications show that sales are running a bit ahead of last year's performance countywide," said P. Gilbert Mercurio, executive vice president of the Westchester County Board of Realtors. He added that the interest shown by such high-profile developers as Mr. Trump "can only enhance our image."
Among those developers is Toll Brothers, of Huntingdon Valley, Pa., a well-known builder in the Northeast, which began building in Westchester in June 1993. It now has a total of eight projects in the county, and is at the proposal stage for two more, according to Rob Parahus, vice president for the company's New York division.
"We saw a lot of opportunity in Westchester, especially in already approved projects that we could move in and complete," Mr. Parahus said. He also noted that land prices had become more favorable than they were in the 80's.
In 1994, the county had the best sales year ever, with a total of 7,076 transactions. Last year was the second-best year, with 6,466 sales -- a drop of 9 percent, but 13 percent above 1993. "People should remember that 1994 was out-of-sight," said Antoinette Emerson, last year's president of the Westchester County Board of Realtors. "It shouldn't be held out as the norm."
Some brokers, however, did better than they expected last year. Nicholas Wolff, president of Century 21 Wolff, with offices in White Plains and Thornwood, said that in 1995 "we surpassed what we ever did in the 1980's and we did 20 percent better than in 1994."
Savo Fries, manager of the Somers office of Coldwell Banker Schlott, also surpassed her expectations last year. "They say sales were off, but not for us," she said. "We did better than in 1994."
Single-family homes represented 70.5 percent of all county sales in 1995. A total of 4,561 houses were sold, down 12 percent from 1994, but up 7 percent from 1993.
Prices have been "relatively flat," for the last five years, said Joseph Monaco, branch manager of Coldwell Banker Schlott's White Plains office. "The median price in 1990 was $283,000," he pointed out, "and it was $280,000 in 1995."
Co-ops constituted the only housing category that posted an increase in number of sales last year compared to 1994. Sales volume went up 6 percent, but the median sale price plummeted to $61,000 from $71,000.
"The increase in numbers sold was mainly due to the drop in value," Mr. Monaco said. "But that market is trying to stabilize."
Condominium sales dropped 9 percent from 1994, but rose 13 percent from 1993. The median price dropped to $158,000 from $163,000 in 1994.
Ms. Fries, who is also president of the Wetchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service, said that the spring selling season has already begun in the lower part of the county, "where sales have already translated into dollars," she said. "In the northern part of the county, it takes longer. I don't know why." She added that trends usually start in the south and move north.
REALTORS say that in some respects the Westchester market seems immune to economic downturns such as the extensive layoffs by companies like International Business Machines. "When I.B.M. came to Somers 10 years ago, we thought there would be a lot of new business," said Ms. Fries. "But the customers never materialized. Then when they closed a division last year we didn't feel that either."
Mr. Wolff predicted that a shortage of houses on the market in 1996 could help drive up prices. "The steady demand is a very good indication," Mr. Wolff said. "Even in the severe weather, we were oversaturated with customers. And there's a limited supply of product."
Ebie Woods, a regional manager for central Westchester for Houlihan/Lawrence, said that the most active price category was "in the range of $300,000 to $399,000," she said. "But the high-end market has also done well, especially in new construction."
Houlihan/Lawrence's Chappaqua office sold six houses in January at Hardscrabble Lake, a 93-detached home development in Mount Pleasant. In 18 months, 24 houses have sold, said Barbara S. Brown, sales agent for the project.
The 4- and 5-bedroom, custom-built colonials on one- to two-acre lots are priced from $759,900 to $875,000.
Jeffrey A. Lempert, and his wife, Aiko, were among the first families to move in last summer. "I always wanted a custom-built house," said Dr. Lempert, a physician. "This house has all the amenities. We could entertain 20 people in our bathroom. It has a cathedral ceiling and a steam shower."
Toll Brothers specializes in a more "middle of the market," product, said Mr. Parahus, which in Westchester translates to the $400,000 to $600,000 range.
"We've been successful with the move-down buyer," Mr. Parahus said. "This buyer has sold the family home and is looking for a more maintenance-free life style."
Hillair Estates, a 36-unit single-family development in White Plains, is nearly sold out. "There's only one lot left," Mr. Parahus said. "The appeal of that community is the diverse housing styles. There are Federal-style homes, Provincials, colonials, and people bought all of them."
He is now starting two new projects -- the Greens at North Street, in White Plains, a development of 32 single-family homes that are expected to sell for $539,900 to $591,900 and Mount Kisco Chase, an 86-lot development of single-family homes, selling for between $524,900 to 608,900.
Aliza and Harrison Wills have been shopping for a house in Westchester and have looked at several Toll Brothers projects, both in White Plains and in Ardsley. "We decided on new construction after looking at resales and realizing we could get a better deal with a brand new house," said Ms. Wills.
"Since the first of January, sales have been up 25 percent from this time last year," Mr. Parahus said. "I think it can be attributed to interest rates and the greater visibility of our product. We're further along in the county now and have more models to show."
"We're definitely still looking for additional ground," he continued.. "We believe demand is still high."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey and Aiko Lempert at Hardscrabble Lake home in Chappaqua; There is just one lot left in Hillair Estates development in White Plains. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (56%); WESTCHESTER COUNTY BOARD (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNTY BOARD (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES REAL ESTATE (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOLF (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (55%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (54%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD J; VIZARD, MARY MCALEER DONALD TRUMP (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



422 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 4; Society Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Richard Kahan, Katherine Lobell

 BODY:
Katherine Swenson Lobell, a civic volunteer, was married yesterday to Richard Alan Kahan, the urban developer and a former president of the New York State Urban Development Corporation. Justice Ernst H. Rosenberger of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court in Manhattan officiated at the couple's home in New York.
Mrs. Kahan is a board member and a former president of the Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, the social service agency. She is also a member of the board of the New York Women's Foundation, which aids low-income women in New York City. The bride graduated from Smith College and received a master's degree in English literature from Columbia University. She is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. Swenson Jr. of Coral Gables, Fla. Her father owns Edward F. Swenson & Company, investment counselors in Coconut Grove, Fla. 
 Mr. Kahan, a former real estate developer who was also the chairman of the Battery Park City Authority, is now the chairman of the Riverside South Planning Corporation, the nonprofit organization that oversees the design and planning of Donald Trump's Riverside South building complex on the Upper West Side. He is also the president of the Urban Assembly, a nonprofit urban redevelopment organization.
The bridegroom received a joint bachelor's degree from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., and the London School of Economics, and a law degree from Columbia University. He is the son of Mrs. Myron Gordon of Irvine, Calif., and the late Milton Kahan, who was a publisher of trade magazines in New York.
The bride's previous marriage ended in divorce, as did the bridegroom's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (90%); NEW YORK (90%); RIVERSIDE SOUTH PLANNING CORP (76%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); LITERATURE (69%); 

PERSON: LOBELL, KATHERINE SWENSON (KATHERINE SWENSON KAHAN); KAHAN, RICHARD ALAN DONALD TRUMP (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



423 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 8; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: IN SCHOOL;
Language Proposals Confound Officials

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
School officials are still slogging through the thick book of curriculum standards that the New Jersey Department of Education released last month. But at least one recommendation -- to teach foreign languages to every child starting in kindergarten -- has already created a ruckus.
The proposal fits into a new set of curriculum standards that the State Department of Education is hoping to adopt this spring. New Jersey is under a State Supreme Court order to equalize spending in its 600 school districts by September, and the standards are part of the state's strategy. Leo F. Klagholz, the Commissioner of Education, plans to use the standards to determine exactly how much education should cost each district. 
 Besides foreign languages, the standards cover the arts, health and physical education, literacy, mathematics, science and social studies. But the language category has stirred the most controversy, mostly because educators around the state are worried that they will never have enough money to provide language instruction in every classroom.
Although most high schools and many middle schools in New Jersey teach foreign languages, only a handful of elementary schools do so.
"There is no question that every student would benefit from learning a foreign language," said David Nash, a spokesman for the New Jersey Principals and Supervisors Association in Trenton. "But if we are really serious about this, there are implications for the length of the school day and especially for staffing."
None of the 56 curriculum standards specify how schools must teach various subjects, but they broadly outline what students are expected to know to pass standardized tests in the fourth, eighth and twelfth grades.
For example, fourth graders should be able to express emotions and describe people using short phrases and sentences in a foreign language, while eighth graders should be able to give directions and describe places in detail. By high school graduation, students will be expected to converse "with increasing linguistic accuracy," among other things.
Some Education Department officials say the standards will not require every elementary school to hire new language teachers, because they will be able to use technology and provide existing teachers with basic training. But Lynn Maher, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Education Association, the largest teachers' union, says new teachers will be essential if the program is to succeed.
"There's no research that says you can learn a language with CD-ROM, and in-service training is an inappropriate way of teaching a language," she said. "Teachers who are certified in a certain language are the ones who should be teaching that language."
In an interview last week, Mr. Klagholz said the language standards might be refined or even overhauled before the state Board of Education votes on them in May. But he stressed that before education officials fret over the details, they must decide whether foreign languages really belong in the state's core curriculum.
"The right sequence is deciding first whether this is an essential part of a kid's education," he said. "Then we can get to the practical issues, including how to reorganize to include world languages in every grade."
(After that, there is the problem of making sure wealthy districts do not offer many more language classes than poor ones, in keeping with the court order to equalize spending. "We don't want some districts to have eight languages and others to have just one," Mr. Klagholz said.)
Like a number of states, New Jersey has seized on foreign language instruction as a way to increase children's understanding of other cultures and their chances of finding a job in an increasingly global economy.
But other states that have introduced foreign language standards have struggled to find enough teachers for every elementary school.
North Carolina, which has required language instruction starting in kindergarten since 1987, has started intensive teacher-training programs and recruited a number of foreign-language teachers from abroad, said Fran Hoch, who oversees language programs in the North Carolina Department of Education. The need for Spanish teachers is especially acute, she said, since that language is by far the most popular.
North Carolina has struggled to keep its foreign language program afloat, Ms. Hoch said, because the state has not been able to provide sufficient funds.
At its peak, 60 percent of public school students were studying a foreign language, she said, but the number has dropped to 50 percent and probably will not increase.
"Standards mean the schools will do a much better job because they're being held accountable," said David Edwards, executive director of the Joint National Committee for Languages, a lobbying group in Washington. "But because of money problems and teacher shortages, the standards are not always enforced."
In New Jersey, a few districts offer language instruction at the elementary level, but classes are generally offered once a week.
Mr. Edwards says he doubts that elementary schools will be able to offer anything more substantial in the next few years.
"If you had asked me two years ago, I would have said the chances were great," he said. "But all of a sudden, the political pendulum has swung back to tax cuts and deficit reductions, and language instruction will inevitably suffer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Curriculum standards are essential to Leo F. Klagholz's budget proposals. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Almost 8 Million People and Counting" shows net domestic migration in each county and lists immigration and over-65 population by county. (Source: U.S. Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES; EDUCATION (PRIMARY); CENSUS; POPULATION ; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (92%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (92%); CURRICULA (91%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (79%); ACADEMIC TESTING (79%); HIGH SCHOOLS (79%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (79%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (79%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (79%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (79%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); LINGUISTICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (74%); CENSUS (74%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (74%); REFUGEES (74%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); TRENDS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (56%); APPEALS (56%); 

PERSON: KLAGHOLZ, LEO F (COMR); GOODNOUGH, ABBY LEO F KLAGHOLZ (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



424 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 11; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Brothers' Mission Is to Aid the Poor

BYLINE: By JAMES V. O'CONNOR 

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE

 BODY:
WHEN Edmund Rice founded the Irish Christian Brothers in Waterford, Ireland, in 1802, his mission was simple: to raise the Irish from abject poverty through education. Although the economic conditions of the Irish people have changed since then, the Christian Brothers still put their stamp of Irish practicality and sense of community on students at places like Iona College.
More than 50 brothers live in New Rochelle in three different religious communities, whose main occupation is providing elementary and high school educations in working-class communities. Iona is the only college outside of Ireland run by the Brothers. The Irish Christian Brothers changed their name to Christian Brothers in 1964 to reflect the diverse communities that they serve. 
 "It started out working with poor Irish boys in Ireland, but then Brothers were sent around the world to follow the Irish migration," said Brother Jim Moffett, the provincial leader of the Eastern American Province who lives in New Rochelle. "As the Irish became part of the mainstream culture, the emphasis switched from poor Irish boys to poor children of all ethnic backgrounds."
The Brothers in New Rochelle teach at many elementary schools, including Iona Grammar School, Prep School and College and Blessed Sacrament and St. Gabriel's High Schools. A convalescent center for senior brothers is next to the Iona College campus.
Edmund Rice was a wealthy merchant whose wife died young. After her death he decided to dedicate his life to spirituality and work with the poor. His followers were volunteers, most of them also wealthy. Pope Pius VII named him the superior general of the congregation in 1820.
The congregation started teaching boys in homes and warehouses even though it was in violation of English law to educate Catholics. This law was largely overlooked, and the number of schools and brothers grew. As the Irish emigrated throughout the English-speaking world, the congregation went with them and established Iona College.
To become a Christian Brother, one must be in college or have a bachelor's degree. Brothers spend two to three years living in the community for religious training. After six years they take their vows to become a brother; many were educated in Christian Brothers schools, either in Ireland or the United States.
The Irish influence remains strong at Iona College even though many of the Brothers today are American born. The school has a bagpipe band. which offers partial scholarships, an Irish step-dancing club and a course in Irish history.
Originally, the mission was to teach boys but now girls are welcome. "We didn't necessarily change for philosophical reasons," Brother Moffett said. "We were in areas where two single-sex institutions would be closed if we didn't combine them as in the case of Blessed Sacrament and St. Gabriel's."
By following the Irish migration, the Christian Brothers found themselves in inner cities where they still teach a predominantly black and Hispanic population. They operate Rice High School in Manhattan, named after Edmund Rice, and in the South Bronx, All Hallows, Monsignor Farrell and Cardinal Hayes high schools as well as Archbishop Curley in Miami.
The congregation has also maintained strong ties to Ireland, and teach in schools in North Ireland. Iona College has a semester abroad in Ireland, which combines classes at the Marino Institute at St. Mary's College in Dublin, which is a Christian Brothers institution.
They send about 30 students a year to Ireland to study and travel throughout the country. Part of the semester is spent in Belfast living with families that have children in Christian Brothers Schools.
Brother Harry Dunkak, who runs the Irish Semester Abroad program, said: "We are not in a position to buy a villa in Italy and put up students there. So the natural thing was to take advantage of our Irish background. It is amazing the appeal Ireland has. These are not just Irish kids who want to go there."
The Christian Brothers concentrate on strong liberal arts skills like mathematics, writing and business. When the oganization was founded, the brothers taught courses that were appropriate for the time, like shorthand, navigation and surveying. They have established a strong computing and technology base in their curriculum and global studies.
"Right from the beginning, the Christian Brothers would take kids and help them raise themselves an economic notch or two," Brother Dunkak said.
Helping students get a job is not the only mission. "If we have been successful, people come out of our schools with a wider sense of community," Brother Moffett said.
Edmund Rice will be beatified in Rome in October, the first step in attaining sainthood. This event has created a sense of reflection and renewal within the Christian Brothers community.
The Brothers are struggling to deal with the problems of working in communities with fragmented family structures, Brother Moffett said. "We need to be faithful to traditional values in new areas and new ways in the future," he said. "Our future is to make the changes to serve the poor people in the way we did when we started out."
The Christian Brothers will have a 150 Brothers, students and bagpipers marching in the St. Patrick's Day Parade in Manhattan. "Most Brothers march or watch because it is not just an Irish celebration, it is the patronal feast day of the Christian Brothers," Brother Moffett said. "We also enjoy a good party."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christian Brothers at Iona College attending an evening service of prayers and readings. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (93%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN BROTHERS IRISH CHRISTIAN BROTHERS (96%); IONA COLLEGE (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN BROTHERS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ROCHELLE (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (93%); ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HISTORY (71%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (60%); DANCE (60%); 

PERSON: O'CONNOR, JAMES V EDMUND RICE (74%); JIM MOFFETT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



425 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: FUNDS WATCH;
Crunching Numbers Beyond the Border

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
Fund managers who rely on quantitative analysis -- meaning that they use computers to analyze reams of data and come up with good stock prospects -- have had a mediocre record abroad.
Citing poor performance, the Vanguard Group recently dismissed Batterymarch Financial Management as the adviser to its Trustees Equity International fund. When it came to foreign stock markets, Batterymarch's quantitative approach proved disappointing. Over the last five years, the fund's 8.6 average annualized return trailed the 9.7 percent of its benchmark, the Europe Australia Far East index. The fund is now managed by UBS International Investment London, a unit of Union Bank of Switzerland. UBS looks for large and midsize stocks using a traditional value approach. 
 With the Vanguard fund out of the ring, only a few international funds still use a quantitative approach, according to analysts from Morningstar Inc., the fund researchers in Chicago. Among them are Japan Alpha, which focuses on only that country; Quantitative Foreign Frontier, which covers only the emerging markets, and Zweig Managed Assets, which buys bonds as well as stocks around the world.
The only two diversified funds comparable to the Vanguard fund are Quantitative International Equity and Fidelity Diversified International. Fidelity's fund beat the foreign fund average by nearly three percentage points for the three years ended in February and by more than seven percentage points for the year, according to Morningstar. Quantative International trailed the average in both those periods, and by a striking 10 percentage points last year.
Can a conclusion be drawn from such a small sample? Probably not. But the fact that the number of funds is so small suggests that fund companies are not convinced of the usefulness of the quantitative approach outside the United States.
Quantitative models depend on solid company and market information that may be harder to come by abroad than in the United States, said John Rekenthaler, publisher of Morningstar. Moreover, he said, people haven't figured out how to adjust their computer models to compensate "for accounting differences between markets or for currency and political risks."
 
Tobacco Holdings
A consumer group is urging nonsmokers to take note of just how much money they have in tobacco companies through mutual funds. But if funds reduce those holdings, it may well be because of liability, not shareholder, concerns.
Last week, the Liggett Group moved to settle a smoking liability lawsuit, the first such settlement attempted by a tobacco company. The market immediately pushed down the prices of other tobacco stocks, except for RJR Nabisco, considered a takeover candidate.
Many tobacco stocks pop up in the biggest funds. Nine of the 15 biggest funds recently listed tobacco stocks among their 10 largest holdings, according to a study by Co-op America, a consumer group based in Washington, which provides information on the social and economic consequences of investing. The data were based on the most recent complete shareholder reports from each fund at the time, and in some cases are now many months old.
Together, the nine funds owned 70 million shares worth about $3 billion. The heaviest concentrations were at the Fidelity Growth and Income fund and the Investment Company of America, each of which listed Philip Morris as its biggest holding.
Six of the 15 biggest funds held no tobacco stocks at the time of the study, including the Fidelity Magellan fund, the nation's largest.
A search for the funds with the biggest stakes in Philip Morris and RJR, using Morningstar's data, turned up many of the same funds. Because the funds hold such large positions, if they start to sour on these stocks, their selling could depress the shares' prices significantly.
 
A Tax Question
After paying 1995 taxes, fund investors should add the reinvested distributions reported by the fund company to the "cost basis" of their shares.
But exactly what type of distributions should be included, asks a reader in Connecticut who is confused by the reference to "undistributed capital gains" in Internal Revenue Service Publication 550, which covers taxation of mutual funds and other investments.
Mutual funds have two ways to handle realized capital gains. Generally, they pay out the gains to shareholders, who then pay the appropriate taxes.
But funds may keep the gains and pay the taxes themselves, a tack that might be appealing if a fund doesn't want to liquidate securities in a bad market to pay out cash distributions to shareholders, said Frederick W. Haas, a tax partner with Coopers & Lybrand in Baltimore.
In this second case, the amount is reported to shareholders on I.R.S. Form 2439, and shareholders can take a credit on their Form 1040's for taxes paid on their behalf by the fund. Because the fund pays tax at the 35 percent corporate rate, shareholders can add 65 percent of the undistributed gains to their basis in their shares.
With funds that distribute all their gains, the paperwork is simpler. Investors who reinvest these gains add all the distributed income and capital gains reported on their Form 1099-DIV's to their cost basis. The higher the cost basis, the less tax that will be owed when the shares are sold.
 
New Funds
Federated Investors has started five foreign funds that aim for long-term capital growth. They are Federated Asia Pacific Growth, Emerging Markets, European Growth, International Small Company and Latin American Growth. The funds levy sales charges of 5.5 percent of the amount invested.
The Vanguard Selected Value Portfolio seeks to provide long-term growth of capital and income by investing in companies whose stocks are undervalued or out of favor and which have a market capitalization of $750 million to $5 billion. The adviser is Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, which also advises Vanguard Windsor II.
 
New Managers
Richard Cryan, manager of Keystone Strategic Income, picks up Keystone High Income from Donald Keller, who retired.
Mary-Kay Bourbulas, who manages Strong Municipal Bond and Insured Municipal Bond, took over Strong High-Yield Municipal Bond from Tom Conlin, who left the firm.
 
In Brief
Strong Funds has a home page on the Internet (http://www.strong-funds.com). It offers investing and retirement information, fund performance data and more.
The 100 Percent No-Load Mutual Fund Council has an updated version of its directory of 200 funds. Copies are available for $5 from the council at 1501 Broadway, Suite 1809, New York, N.Y. 10036.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Heavy Smokers" lists funds holding the most shares of the two largest tobacco companies-- RJR Nabisco, and Philip Morris. (Source: Morningstar, Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (84%); UBS (NYSE) (84%); MORN (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (51%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: UBS AG (84%); MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); BATTERYMARCH FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INC (58%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (58%); UNION BANK OF SWITZERLAND (57%); KRAFT NABISCO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); STATISTICS (90%); BONDS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SMOKING (85%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); LITIGATION (60%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



426 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
The Last Picture Show

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
FOR many aficionados of Hong Kong action films, the last week of February was a time to exult. The most popular movie in America was a dubbed version of "Rumble in the Bronx," starring Jackie Chan, the comic daredevil who reigns as Asia's box office king. "Broken Arrow," a Hollywood movie made by John Woo, Hong Kong's gangster film auteur, was second. And a running weekend film festival called "Hong Kong Action at Midnight" continued to sell out at the artsy Angelika Film Center on Houston Street.
But in Chinatown, once the city's only venue for Hong Kong thrillers, the mood was grim. On Feb. 29, the Rosemary Theater showed its last picture, joining darkened movie houses like the Sun Sing and the Essex. 
 Some say their demise was caused by the proliferation of videotapes, both pirated and legal; others point to an economy that leaves potential audiences with less leisure time and money, gang members whose presence in theaters intimidated other patrons, and fewer blockbusters as the Hong Kong film industry looks forward uneasily to the British colony's reversion to Chinese rule in 1997.
Walking through the Rosemary's desolate aisles, past its 469 empty seats, bare glass candy cases and barren lobby whose only sign of life glistened in a goldfish tank, the former manager, Zhao Zheng Shi, shook his head. "The biggest problem was videos," Mr. Zhao said. "A ticket is $6, so for a whole family that's $24. Add car fare and lunch, that's $80. So everyone watches videos."
The only remaining movie theater in Chinatown is the Music Palace, a slightly ramshackle auditorium on the Bowery where double features cost $6 and the concession stand sells shredded squid, prawn crackers and drink boxes of soy milk alongside candy bars and Cokes. "There should be more Chinese theaters," said Hao Hoang, a 27-year-old medical resident who checked its marquee for upcoming martial arts films. "This is Chinatown, right?"
It is a different story uptown, where Hong Kong movies have made their way into art houses. Under the safe cover of subtitles and themes of honor, chivalry and national identity, the flying shadow kicks of kung fu films and bloody fusillades of gangster movies appeal to a broad audience. "There is rarely a shortage of mind-blowing action, emotionally wrenching plots, pulse-quickening tempo and wildly extravagant fantasia in Hong Kong films," said Peter Chow, a producer and distributor whose annual Hong Kong film festivals and star retrospectives draw lines around the block at Cinema Village on East 12th Street.
But theaters like the Music Palace must rely on a few hit movies a year to make up for weeks of B movies. Last week the bill was a gangster movie and "Infatuation," a remake of "Fatal Attraction" in which the scorned mistress douses the wife's face with acid, gives her an infection leading to a double amputation and tries to immolate her family.
The audience was mostly single men, with a few couples and groups of teens. A stocky security guard, wearing a nightstick, patrolled the aisles. Schedulers are not wedded to round numbers; an evening feature was slated for 8:29. Weekends are the most crowded, followed by Mondays, when many restaurant workers get the day off.
In his office off the theater's balcony, the manager, Oscar H. Watt, said that his theater was able to survive because it is part of a chain of Chinese theaters with branches in San Francisco, Vancouver and Toronto. But he worries that as big companies like New Line Cinema distribute Jackie Chan films, small theaters will be priced out of the market. And then there is the vicious cycle: a lack of money for advertising the films means smaller audiences and less money for future ads. "Ten years ago we had a full house every day," he said. "There were eight movie theaters then. I miss the competition."
The grandest theater in Chinatown was once Sun Sing, a 900-seat auditorium underneath the Manhattan Bridge whose stage was rented to Chinese opera companies when the screen was not showing big action movies. It closed in 1993.
Now it has passed into history. Sushan Chin, an archivist at the Museum of Chinese in the Americas, led an expedition by flashlight there two weeks ago to collect documents and artifacts. She found plastic placards from a more prosperous era, with "Full House," "Standing Room Only" and "Front Row Seats Only" printed in Chinese and English. But there was also a memo from the management to projectionists apologizing for renting out their parking spaces. "This had to be done in order to keep the theater going," it read.
The Sun Sing went out of its way to attract English-speaking fans, even handing out English synopses of its films to help those who had trouble following subtitles. One synopsis, for Jackie Chan's "Police Story 3 -- Super Cop," did justice to the genre's quick transitions. "The group moves to Thailand where they are joined by the pirate Chaibat," it says in the middle. "A series of gangland fights ensues. They soon find themselves in Kuala Lumpur trying to rescue Chaibat's kidnapped wife."
These days, pirated videos of Jackie Chan's upcoming film, "Thunderbolt," are already for sale on Canal Street and around Times Square. But in the cavernous Rosemary, Mr. Zhao said that they just cannot match the thrill of the big screen. "You enjoy it more in the theater, where the screen is bright and the color is sharp," he said. "You share the happiness and the sorrows."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The only movie left in Chinatown, the music Palace, sells shredded squid and prawn crackers at its concession stand.
 
Chart: "Four of Hong Kong's Biggest Stars" lists the names of Chow Yun-Fat, Jackie Chan, Jet Li, and Michelle Khan. (Sources: "Hong Kong Action Cinema" (Titan Books, 1995); Peter Chow International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ANGELIKA FILM CENTER LLC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CHINATOWN (NYC); HONG KONG (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS) FILM (91%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); FILM GENRES (89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (77%); MARTIAL ARTS (66%); 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL JOHN WOO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



427 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 4163 words

HEADLINE: A Surge in Second Second-Chance Finance

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE

 BODY:
THE neon signs promising "fast cash" flicker from dusty brick storefronts as they have for 50 years on this narrow stretch of Church Street known as Loan Alley.
It's lunch hour on a brisk but sunny winter day as a handful of people line up at World Finance to borrow a few hundred dollars or to drop off a few $20 bills as payment on their old loans. 
 World Finance's customers are too financially strapped to be welcomed by Nashville's big banks just up the hill. But Angela Myers, the loan officer behind the counter, greets each one by name with a warm smile -- and offers to lend cash on the spot to the most creditworthy among them. Never mind that the company charges an effective interest rate of close to 90 percent.
On Loan Alley, as all across America, the business of making loans to poor credit risks at high interest rates is growing rapidly. And as more companies discover the huge profits that can be made from the economically downtrodden, national lenders are invading a field that was once the province of mom-and-pop operations. In just the last few years, growing national chains have snapped up half of the independent loan offices here on Loan Alley.
They are discovering a virtual army of the walking credit-wounded, as the casualties of the last decade's corporate downsizings join the millions of low-income Americans who have always lived on the edge. Thirty percent of American adults fail to qualify for traditional credit cards, according to Equifax, the credit-reporting agency. And the ranks are growing as personal bankruptcy filings surge to near-records and continuing corporate layoffs turn more people with previously pristine credit into unwilling deadbeats.
As business picks up for these high-cost loans, dozens of new finance companies have issued stock to the public, and many banks and other top-tier lenders have started wooing borrowers they would have snubbed a few years ago.
The profit margins can be two or three times those on ordinary bank loans. But default rates are generally much higher, too, and if lenders miscalculate, they can quickly find themselves as financially vulnerable as their customers.
"This is a business that is not for the faint-hearted," said Edward A. O'Neal, executive vice president of the Bank of Boston, which owns several finance companies that aim at lower-quality borrowers.
The fastest-growing sector of high-risk lending these days is the used-car business. Dealers have been searching for ways to unload swollen inventories, and a raft of new finance companies, led by Mercury Finance in Northbrook, Ill., are providing the capital. Meanwhile, established financial-services giants, including Keycorp in Cleveland, Bank of Boston and Nationsbank in Charlotte, N.C., have bought their way into the business, while the Ford Motor Company and General Electric are starting up their own operations to cater to high-risk borrowers.
Another growing area is home loans to troubled borrowers. Contifinancial of New York City and the Money Store of Union, N.J., two specialists in this business, have grown briskly over the last five years by lending to people whom most banks wouldn't touch. But mainstream banks are taking a mixed approach to what can be a tough business. Barnett Banks of Jacksonville, Fla., for example, recently bought a finance company that caters to high-risk customers, while Fleet Financial of Providence, R.I., is selling out after taking heat for evicting low-income home-loan customers.
And credit-card issuers from First Union Bank in Charlotte to the Fingerhut catalogue empire in Minnetonka, Minn., are mailing cards to people who declared bankruptcy and to others they had previously snubbed.
For the borrowers, this trend is a decidedly mixed blessing. There are people who can now own homes and drive cars who just a few years ago would have had to rent apartments and take the bus. Moreover, those with blemished records have the opportunity to re-establish a good credit rating and thus qualify for lower rates in the future.
But the interest rates on these loans are shockingly high.
For mortgages, they generally run around 12 percent, compared with 8 percent for standard borrowers. Car loans often exceed 20 percent and can go as high as 30 percent. Credit cards and personal loans carry rates well in excess of 20 percent. What's more, fees, insurance charges and other hidden costs can pile up, making the effective interest rates truly exorbitant.
For example, car dealers often pay a fee of 5 to 10 percent to finance companies, and pass the cost on to the buyer in the form of a higher price.
Take Diane and Kevin Cunard of Brentwood, Calif. They say they unwittingly failed to pay $3,500 in medical bills on time for their daughter's broken arm. Though their tardiness didn't hinder them from getting a mortgage on a home last December, it disqualified them from bank credit for a new car and forced them to take out a finance company loan at 21 percent.
"I figured once you pay your credit bills they would give me a second chance," said Mrs. Cunard, 33, a cafeteria worker in Oakland. "They do give you a second chance -- at 21 percent. We're paying $5,000 interest on a $10,000 truck."
Of course, the higher losses generated by such loans justify some of the higher rates. Just as inner-city residents pay more than suburbanites for everything from groceries to appliances, so are the the most economically distressed Americans least able to shop around for the best financing deals.
And not only do they pay more for loans, they get harsher treatment if they fall behind on payments. Collection calls start the day after the due date and are more frequent, and more insistent, than for bank borrowers. And the finance companies play hardball, repossessing from one to three of every 10 cars they finance, often in the dead of night.
Many of the people who work in these companies become inured to the stream of human tragedy they encounter. Some justify the rates they charge by convincing themselves that they are giving people down on their luck a second chance.
"Few customers blink over the rate," said Diane Hunter, who approves car loans for the Nashville office of First Merchants Acceptance Corporation. "They need a car to get to work to pay bills, so they do whatever they have to do."
Does that bother her? Not at all. "The higher the interest we charge, the more money the company makes and the faster we grow," Ms. Hunter said matter-of-factly.
J. Dan Walters, the regional manager of the Loan Alley office of World Finance, takes a populist line, saying his company is lending a helping hand to the forgotten man and woman. "People say charging 24 percent is outrageous, but we're providing a necessary service," Mr. Walters said. "Remember, our average loan is only $500 for 10 months. Most banks won't talk to you if you don't want at least $1,500."
Mr. Walters sits in a small office with green walls and orange shag carpeting on the second floor of an aging Loan Alley building. Behind his desk is a map of Tennessee with 18 pins marking the locations of the offices that his holding company, the World Acceptance Corporation of Greenville, S.C., has bought or opened since coming to the state in 1993. The company serves clients who typically earn $12,000 to $17,000 a year, he said. Two-thirds previously had credit problems.
World Acceptance is bringing big-business techniques to a once-sleepy business. For example, it has expanded beyond straight loans into consumer goods, and offers customers a mail-order catalogue of TV's and stereos and the like that they can buy on the installment plan.
YES, Mr. Walters acknowledges, the goods are marked up by 50 percent over the retail price in most stores.But, he said, that is still a better deal than going to rent-to-own shops, located mostly in poor areas, which charge high monthly "rental fees" for televisions, stereos and other appliances. These payments typically mount up to two or three times the products' retail value by the time a customer earns the right to take possession -- assuming the items haven't been repossessed and rented out for a second or third time.
While loans and payments at World Finance are still recorded on tall manila file cards, they are now entered into a computer as well, enabling company employees to tell clients how much more they can borrow when they come to the office to reduce their debt by a few dollars. The secret of a finance company's success is repeat business.
Down in the storefront, a man in late middle age wearing a plaid shirt and a blue baseball cap approaches the desk and plunks down a handful of bills.
Ms. Myers, the loan officer, calls his name up on the computer screen and makes a quick calculation. Then she announces his new credit limit, enough to pay for a night on the town if he watches his pennies. "Robert, are you ready for some money today?" she asks brightly."You can have $61."
This time, at least, Robert passes. "It's not enough," he says.
Enough of World Finance's customers have taken the bait, though, to make it a remarkably profitable business. In Tennessee, the company charges the state's maximum interest rate: 24 percent. But various application and monthly fees often triple the effective annual percentage rate -- or A.P.R. -- as calculated by the Federal government. And the company tries to add on high-margin insurance policies as well.
"Robert is on disability and Social Security," Mr. Walters said after the customer had left. "He's never going to get a loan from a bank, but he can get one from us. We're the poor man's credit card."
The poor man and woman today, however, can get a credit card much more easily than in the past. Fingerhut became the fastest-growing credit card company last year by offering Mastercards to the generally working-class shoppers who buy from its catalogues. Many of them would not have qualified for bank credit in the past, but Fingerhut and others like it protect themselves by requiring some of the poorest customers to secure the cards with a savings account.
First Union even offers credit cards to people who have declared bankruptcy, if they are willing to pay rates approaching 20 percent.
"There are ways to identify people who had a bankruptcy that was not within their control, as opposed to someone who is a born spendthrift," explains Fred M. Winkler, the head of the bank's credit card unit. First Union programs its computers to search for hints of good people caught up in bad circumstances. "If you see someone in California who made $100,000, paid their bills on time, then went bankrupt in the last few years, it's a good bet they worked in aerospace when the defense industry went away," he said.
That willingness to take a chance with such people pays off handsomely on the bottom line. "These tend to get excited that someone is offering them a credit card again and they work hard to restore their credit history," Mr. Winkler said. As a result, their default rate is well below the average for all card holders.
Some companies specialize in saving down-and-out homeowners from bankruptcy court by making first and second mortgages at above-market rates. Such lending increased 54 percent to $5.8 billion last year at the Money Store, the fast-expanding finance company that focuses on people graded "B" -- their credit is only slightly blemished -- on the scale used by bankers. Also booming are the "hard money lenders" like the United Companies of Baton Rouge, La., which goes for people closer to the edge -- "C" and "D" borrowers.
Nowhere has the boom in high-cost, high-risk financing made a greater impact than on car lots. Ten years ago, potential buyers with black marks in their credit history couldn't even shop at the dozen sprawling dealerships on Gallatin Road north of Nashville.
These potential deadbeats were forced to turn to smaller used-car dealers that made their own loans, like Arrow Motors a few miles south on Gallatin. Arrow still caters to the down-and-out -- and makes no bones about it. A 20-foot statue of an Indian out front proclaims "We Tote the Note." Some dealerships are known as tote-the-note lots or buy-here-pay-here lots because customers drop off their car payments in person. The lots also have a reputation for selling old, cheap cars at high markups.
Bill Hall, Arrow's flinty founder, will not comment on his markups, but nonetheless he says he is providing a service by customizing terms for his clients. Arrow often requires weekly or biweekly payments.
"Most of these people can't budget," he said. "So if you know you get paid on Friday, you know you come here after work or Saturday morning to make your car payment."
Arrow charges interest of 24 percent interest, which is also, coincidentally, the percentage of the cars it repossesses from its customers.
OVER the last decade, a lot of companies have found a profitable niche going after car buyers whose credit rating is too iffy for bankers but not so awful that they must pay the interest that places like Arrow Motors charge. One of the first of these was Mercury Finance, which pioneered the practice of buying loans from dealers and assuming all risk of default -- in return for a fee of 5 to 10 percent of the purchase price. That fee, and interest rates of more than 20 percent, cover the company's inevitable bad loans.
Mercury, which has grown to $2 billion in loans outstanding, specializes in loans for the least expensive used cars, averaging $6,000. Mercury has built its auto-lending empire like a finance company, with sales, credit decisions and collections all handled by local managers -- a far cry from the computerized credit-approval process used by most banks. And Mason Croft, manager of the company's Nashville office, said that was a big plus for borrowers with honest hearts and empty wallets.
A credit bureau will not tell you a person stopped paying his credit card bills after his daughter got leukemia," Mr. Croft said. "And it won't say that she died after a year and a half of medical bills and now he's fine. A bank simply won't lend to that sort of person." In contrast, he says, Mercury calls every applicant to ferret out the story behind their troubles.
The same sort of sleuthing has the extra advantage of spotting deadbeats that banks might miss, Mr. Croft said. "I just got an application from a guy whose car was repossessed yesterday," he said. "The application looked fine, except no current car was listed, so I got suspicious." So he called around until he found the dealer who had just taken back the car.
Skepticism is a survival tool for companies like Mercury. Loan applications, after all, come from used-car dealers, whose interest is only in making a sale. Lenders say they frequently catch dealers inflating the collateral value of their cars and even coaching applicants to overstate their income. In a particularly pernicious practice, called "pick pays," the dealer secretly lends customers money, also at a high interest rate, to use as down payments. Because the borrowers haven't used their own money, they are less likely to keep up with their payments.
Dozens of companies have sought to replicate the success of Mercury, a company whose stock has returned 40 percent annually since the start of 1990, compared with 13 percent for the overall market. Many have emerged to serve buyers of the more expensive late-model used cars that are flooding the market because of the leasing boom. For relatively creditworthy customers, companies like the Money Store will charge 17 percent interest and no fee. For more questionable borrowers, lenders like First Merchants and Americredit charge from 18 to 23 percent and tack on a fee of 5 to 10 percent for the dealer. The dealer, in turn, steers the client toward cars that can be sold with higher markups.
For the least creditworthy, firms like Credit Acceptance Corporation of Detroit concoct complicated formulas that force the dealer to share some of the risk.
BUT no matter how high the risk -- and 30 percent of these highest-risk loans are delinquent at any given time -- somebody always seems ready to step in and take it. In a windowless, wood-paneled office above the Crencor used-car dealership just north of Nashville, Tim Artist, the general manager, yanks open a heavy file-cabinet drawer and starts tossing notebooks, file folders and faxes on the floor.
All, he says, were sent by companies that want to lend to Crencor's less creditworthy customers.
"There are hundreds of lenders," Mr. Artist declares. "Some of them say that if the customer can fog a mirror and has zero dollars down, they'll do business. Most of them won't be around in a year."
When Crencor was started a decade ago, no more than 5 percent of its customers were in the low category known as "sub prime." Today, the figure is 25 percent.
After a customer agrees to buy a car and fills out a generic loan application, it is Mr. Artist's job to choose potential lenders. This afternoon, the fax has bad news: two applications he sent out earlier in the day have been turned down by all three companies he sent them to. Mr. Artist picks up the phone to call Alan Esstman, the Nashville manager of one of the three, Americredit.
"Alan will do this one," Mr. Artist said. "He doesn't know it yet, but I'll wear him out. I know how to work lenders."
The client wants to buy a 1994 Toyota pickup for $14,247 (including tax, title and a warranty), and had agreed to a loan at 21 percent interest with payments of $369 a month, after allowing for his trade-in.
The lenders concluded that this payment was too high, given his $1,600 monthly income as a waiter and his other living expenses. Making the deal more risky, the client had declared personal bankruptcy several years earlier.
"Alan, I'm calling to beg," Mr. Artist said. "I know he only works at Red Lobster, but he's been there for 10 years. Just think of when you are 60 years old and have been working at Red Lobster for 10 years."
Mr. Esstman says he won't approve a loan with payments of more than $287 a month. But as a compromise, he lowers the interest rate to 19 percent, from 21 percent, allowing that payment to cover a higher loan amount. Tapping away at a computer, Mr. Artist figures that if he increases the trade-in allowance by $500 and eliminates the $750 additional warranty the customer had agreed to buy, the deal would work, although Crencor's profit on the truck would be cut to $500, from $1,500.
There is a reason why the red-hot center of this business is in Nashville. Tennessee has the highest rate of bankruptcy filings in the country, one for every 50 households, more than twice the national average of one for 104.
IN the bright offices of First Merchants Acceptance Corporation, in a low-slung Nashville office tower near the airport, the air is filled with nagging, cajoling and downright threatening conversations as a dozen collectors call tardy clients. A white magic-marker board is scrawled with slogans: "Take Control." "Make it Count." "$ is up to you." "Push."
"They will not let you keep this Mustang unless I get payment," said Sandy Cummings, in a sweet Southern drawl that barely hides a razor's edge. "You were supposed to see me today. If you come in today you will save yourself the late charge."
"You have to find everybody's weak spot," she explained after the Mustang owner promises to send in a payment. "You stroke them, if that's what they need. I had a guy who just got divorced literally crying on the phone. The younger people need some authority and discipline, so you make a threat."
The goal of First Merchants Acceptance is to make sure that no more than 6 percent of loan payments are more than a month overdue.
For those two months late, it's time to consider the "repo man."
"If someone missed one payment, they are going to have a hard time catching up with two extra payments," said Dane Weems, the company's collections manager. "At three payments, their car is pretty much toast."
LEANING on the chronically broke requires equal measures of charm, incredulity and a strong stomach for human tragedy. "Some of these people have more problems than a soap opera," said Mr. Weems, who started collecting and repossessing two decades ago after he got tired of dock work. Referring to the pain he sometimes feels in dunning economic basket cases, he added, "You can't take it home with you."
Sometimes that's difficult, he concedes. He recalls the time at a previous job that he evicted a woman and her children from a mobile home after her husband was killed by a drunk driver. "The kids sat on the couch and asked, 'Why do you want to take our home?' That was hard," Mr. Weems said.
Mostly, however, he sees a challenge. "The fulfillment I get out of it is to get someone to do something they didn't want to do and still have a good feeling," he says.
Some people don't have the stomach for such work. The Beneficial Corporation, no stranger to those with credit problems, looked hard at entering the low end of the auto-loan business and then backed off. Others in the business predict that the same squeamishness will drive new contenders like Ford Credit and Keycorp from the scene.
"We may not be J. P. Morgan, but we have a reputation for fairness, so people turn to us time and time again," said Finn M. W. Caspersen, chairman of Beneficial. "If you are out there yanking cars and foreclosing on houses, that changes the attitude of your core customer base."
The dark heart of "sub prime" auto lending is the long diesel tow truck rumbling slowly through a neat development of town houses in the Nashville suburb of Hendersonville on a moonlit night just before midnight.
"There's a Honda. It's gray. That's it," says Matthew, the repo man. He doesn't give his last name. This is a business that doesn't make any friends, after all, and he has a 9-year-old daughter. Indeed just the week before, someone whose car he "pulled" chased him in a friend's vehicle and ran his truck off the road. He's been shot at a few times, but never at close range, he says.
Through a big picture window no more than 20 feet from the Honda, two men can be seen watching television. Matthew quickly checks the vehicle identification number visible through the windshield. Then he backs the truck up to the car and straps its front tires into two steel cradles that lift the front end up. No one emerges from the house, and Matthew quickly pulls the car away. The procedure takes five minutes.
"I could see him in there, but he never looked at me," Matthew says. "People get so wrapped up watching television." Even so, he says, "It's hard to sneak up on someone with this truck." He drives a "rollback" -- a huge flatbed Ford -- so he can pick up two cars before dropping them off at the repo lot. His record is 10 cars in a night, although four -- for payments of $100 or more each -- is more common. If he continues to do well, Matthew says, he dreams of buying a new truck especially designed for repo work. "It's got hydraulic arms, so you can back up and pick up the car without ever getting out of the car," he said with enthusiasm. "It's much safer that way."
The truck, Honda in tow, pulls up to the lot of the Auto Recovery Bureau, a small brick building with an A-frame garage, all surrounded by a barbed-wire fence. There are cars and trucks everywhere, including a lot of mini-vans and four-wheel drive vehicles.
"Anything that's real nice, I keep inside," explains Roy Williams, the repo lot's owner. This night, that includes a Porsche and a Nissan Sentra. "We had a couple of Mercedes recently, including one from a linebacker who played pro ball," Mr. Williams boasts.
Mr. Williams sees a deterioration of standards among both borrowers and lenders. "As more people get into the lending business, the looser the standards become," he says from his office after returning from his rounds a bit past midnight. "Look at the people who have credit cards today that couldn't get one 10 years ago."
Still, he says, "People just don't care about their credit anymore. When I first got into collections, when we sent people the very first notice that their bills had gone to a collection agency, one-third of the people would pay. Now it's maybe 5 percent."
At just about that moment, Michael Shores turned from his television and noticed that his gray Honda was no longer in the driveway.
"I was both angry and happy the car was gone," Mr. Shores said in a telephone interview a few days later. Wal-Mart had laid him off after Christmas, he said, and his new job as a waiter at a steakhouse does not pay enough that he can make the payments. For now, his girlfriend drives him to work.
"I will have to save some money up to make a down payment on a new car," he said. When the time comes, does Loan Alley ever have a deal for him.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As this recent ad shows, almost nothing is a turn-off when it comes to car loans; For 50 years, the hard-pressed have sought relief in downtown Nashville on Loan Alley, a stretch of Church Street that is lined with lenders. Angela Myers, a loan officer for World Finance, offers cash on the spot to applicants who are deemed creditworthy, even if they have been rejected by banks. (Christopher Berkey for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Roy Williams of Auto Recovery Bureau shows a repossessed car complete with bullet hole. (Christopher Berkey for The New York Times) (pg. 10); An increasing number of car dealerships, like this one in Nashville, hope to entice credit-wounded customers. (Christopher Berkey for The New York Times) (pg. 11)
 
Graphs: "In Car Lending, the Cream Puffs Are Scarcer"
 The average credit quality of auto loans has deteriorated steadily in recent years. For lenders, that means a future with more charge-offs, especially for those whose portfolios are growing quickly. Graph tracks loans on new and used cars broken down by dollar volume of loans to " 'A' and 'B' borrowers" and " 'C' and 'D' borrowers. Graph runs annually, from 1990 through 1995. Graph also provides the following information on selected publicly traded auto lending companies: portfolio, lending growth, niche, and charge-offs. (Sources: CNW Marketing/Research [borrowers]; Montgomery Securities [lenders]) (pg. 10)
 
"Bellies Up"
 After declining somewhat from a recession-fueled peak, personal bankruptcies jumped sharply at the end of last year. Graph tracks total personal bankruptcy filings of all kinds, annually, from 1985 through 1995. (Source: Administrative Office of the United States Courts) (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (73%); BAC (LSE) (73%); 8648 (TSE) (73%); KEY (NYSE) (57%); EFX (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (73%); KEYCORP (57%); EQUIFAX INC (56%); ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (89%); RETAILERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



428 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 36; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Help for Social Security

 BODY:
To the Editor:
What Social Security and Medicare need most are: 
 * Replacement of the payroll portion of F.I.C.A. taxes by a value-added tax, or V.A.T. Because employers pay almost 8 percent of wages when they hire someone, but don't when they hire a machine or labor-saving process, the payroll tax has become a substantial barrier to true full employment. It discourages the very hiring that is the key to saving the system and, arguably, America.
When supported by a V.A.T., the future of Social Security and Medicare would be tied to overall economic health, rather than to the number of people employed. Current Social Security taxes contribute to the foreign trade deficits dragging down our economy because they add to the cost of our exports but not to the cost of imports.
Improved education and employment for the poor. The future of our economy (and Social Security and Medicare) depends on the poor leading productive and responsible lives; this is the rising tide that will raise all boats.
 
JAMES A. BUSH
Detroit, Feb. 19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) VALUE ADDED TAX (93%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); IMPORT PRICES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); 

PERSON: JAMES A BUSH DETROIT (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



429 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Trickle Down;
It's a Slow-Growth Economy, Stupid

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
SO much goes unsaid when Bob Dole calls for a balanced budget and less regulation to get the economy booming again. Or when Bill Clinton offers his formula of more public spending on job training and education to bring back the old prosperity. As the chief rivals for the Presidency, they are engaging in a rather traditional campaign debate -- one that assumes the American economy can go back to the high growth of another era.
That is what goes unsaid. The candidates challenge each other with conflicting nostrums for generating growth. Push the right policy buttons, they say, and presto, the economy will boom. What they don't debate is whether strong growth -- the sort that would raise living standards and make layoffs less frequent -- is in fact possible. 
 Such growth is not possible, according to the great majority of American economists. No campaign formula, whether from Republicans or Democrats, Steve Forbes or Patrick J. Buchanan, will change that stark reality in the rest of this century. "The candidates are promising what no President can deliver," said Robert M. Solow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a Nobel laureate in economics.
History and circumstances, in sum, have locked the United States into a level of economic growth that, measured against expectations raised by the 1996 Presidential campaign, is politically unacceptable. "It might be good for our politics if some candidate acknowledged this," said William Kristol, editor of the Weekly Standard and a Republican strategist, addressing an issue that most politicians don't, in public.
 
 
 
Living Modestly
 If the candidates did, and the public accepted the verdict (Mr. Kristol says Americans, being hard-headed and practical, probably would), then a new set of policies and campaign promises would almost certainly have to arise. They would focus not on how to make the economy swell, lifting all boats, but how to live with the modest growth that is possible. What is possible, the economists say, is much less than what the Presidential candidates seem to promise.
That discrepancy has not surfaced yet in the election campaign. But it is implicit in some of the Administration's proposals. While Mr. Clinton's economists don't broadcast the view that economic growth has its ceiling, they push for policies that in effect recognize that belief. For example, they advocate a proposal that is gaining bipartisan support: if layoffs are to be endemic, then workers should be equipped, by law, with "portable" benefits, meaning they would keep pensions and health insurance whatever their job status.
"It is another version of unemployment compensation," said Laura D'Andrea Tyson, head of the President's National Economic Council.
Portable benefits was hardly a front-and-center theme in the primary elections just ending. Instead, the economics reflected in the political rhetoric has been this: pull the right policy levers and the economy will grow, as it did in the 1960's, a hugely generous decade that Mr. Dole, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Buchanan suggest can be resurrected.
 
 
 
Happy Faces
 "In a Dole Administration," the candidate said recently, "we're going to liberate the great engine of free enterprise." Neither Mr. Dole nor President Clinton quantifies his ideal growth rate. The President, spotlighting the present, says instead, "Our economy is the healthiest it has been in three decades" -- ignoring the fact that three decades ago, in the 1960's, the economy expanded at more than twice today's growth rate. Still, the President paints rainbows for the future.
Pushing to spend more on education, for example, the President suggests that corporate America would spew out high-paying jobs for growing hordes of the college-educated. Mr. Buchanan would generate more jobs through policies that kept out imports and immigrants and penalized companies for relocating operations abroad.
In the booming economy that would result from their solutions, the wage stagnation that has lasted more than 20 years would disappear. And the layoffs, so widespread today and so troubling, would become far less noticeable as employers hurry to recruit workers to expand and join in the flourishing times.
That's a roughly accurate description of the way life was in the 1950's and 1960's. Then, economic growth, as measured by the gross domestic product -- the GDP adds up what the nation's citizenry produces in a given year -- grew by more than 4 percent a year, on average. That is nearly twice as much growth as the economy is capable of generating in this decade, even operating full-tilt.
 
 
 
Point of Agreement
 What is striking is how widely this view is held among economists. The reasoning varies, depending on political or philosophical outlook, but the conclusion is surprisingly unified: the upper limit of healthy growth is between 2.2 percent and 2.5 percent a year, which has been the actual level of average growth since the early 1970's.
Not since the Civil War has economic growth been so weak for so long. Generations of Americans had got used to better performance, and changing that expectation, even after 20 years, is not easy, especially for Presidential candidates.
Economists think differently. Only marginal improvement is possible, they say. If the Federal Reserve would tolerate lower interest rates, for example, then perhaps the upper limit of economic growth might rise a bit for a while. Senator Dole's balanced budget and Mr. Clinton's education and job training proposals might each add two-tenths of a percentage point to the growth rate -- five or ten years from now.
And why can't we get more growth? Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, has argued that the nation lacks the capacity, in manpower, machinery and efficiency, to produce much more without causing bottlenecks and shortages that drive the inflation rate to unacceptable levels.
Productivity is the key to expanding capacity. When workers are equipped with the right machinery and know-how, their productivity rises. The same workers can produce 104 widgets this year, up from 100 last year, and 108 widgets next year, all at essentially the same cost. Replicate this rise across the nation, and the phenomenon known as the booming 1960's occurs.
But investment in machinery has been concentrated in recent years in computers. And so far computers have not yielded the rapid growth in production that came from investments in railroads, autos, highways, electric power and aircraft -- all huge outlays, involving government as well as the private sector, that changed the way Americans lived and worked.
That raises the question of what might someday allow greater productivity and, as a consequence, a return to 1960's-style economic growth. The two favorite answers are more public investment, despite the deficit, and a huge swing away from consumer spending. What now pays for jeans and Caribbean vacations would be saved instead, and used for machinery and the other tools of a busy economy.
 
 
 
Bad Investment?
 There are flies in these answers, duly noted by economists. Why, for example, invest in machinery here when the same equipment, placed in China or Spain, might earn a better return now that these nations' workforces are becoming as proficient as Americans? And why try to raise the potential growth rate of the U.S. economy if all the extra production can't be sold?
Whatever the answers, the conclusion is the same: much less economic growth well into the 21st century than the candidates are suggesting in this election year. "That is a sobering outlook," Mr. Kristol said, "and maybe some of that sobriety should be introduced into the political debate."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 1)
 
Graph: "A Century of U.S. Economic Growth" shows the change in the gross domestic product of the United States each year after inflation had been factored out from 1890 through 1994. (David Wyss, DRI/McGraw-Hill) (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (68%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



430 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
In This Race, It's the Center Against the Middle

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AS the curtain falls on act one of the 1996 Presidential election, a question naturally arises: How did an angry, change-hungry electorate, whipsawed by broad economic forces and mistrustful of the very idea of a political establishment, end up with two utterly conventional career politicians as their parties' nominees?
Maybe, as Patrick J. Buchanan argues, it is because the shadowy insiders and special interests in Washington have thwarted the voters' hunger for fundamental change. Maybe the party establishments have won a short-term, tactical victory but only by tamping down those volatile political forces that will come back to haunt them this fall. 
 Senator Bob Dole swept seven more states last Tuesday, and moved toward locking up the nomination with the withdrawal of Steve Forbes. But a recent CBS News poll showed that almost half of the Republican primary voters wished another candidate would enter the race. And 36 percent of the Republicans voted Tuesday for Steve Forbes and Patrick J. Buchanan, "neither of whom is qualified in any conventional sense to be President," as William Kristol, the conservative strategist, puts it. In other words, the people Mr. Buchanan calls "peasants" may still be out there, just lying in wait until the general election, when they might have the option of Ross Perot or some other third-party candidate.
But there is another, admittedly less dramatic explanation for the disconnection between what was supposed to happen and what actually did. Maybe the American political system is reflecting, with rough, broad-brush accuracy, what a majority of voters really want. Maybe the Saga of the Angry Voter is only part of the story. As Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts puts it, President Clinton and Majority Leader Bob Dole were not "imposed on the American people by Martians."
 
 
 
Volatility v. Stability
 For all the attention focused on the volatility of the voters who elevated Mr. Buchanan in New Hampshire and Mr. Forbes in Arizona, there are also some important sources of stability that push them toward an incumbent President or toward a Senate Majority Leader. One of them is the voters' sense of party identity: while roughly a third of the voters describe themselves as independents (a proportion that has grown little in the last 10 years), two-thirds still describe themselves as Democrats or Republicans.
Presumably, all other things being equal, those voters would like their party to win. Exit polls showed that this sentiment was one of the most important sources of Mr. Dole's appeal in this year's primaries: that he, more than any other Republican in the field, had the best chance to beat Mr. Clinton.
A similar dynamic set in even earlier on the Democratic side. The chastening effect of the Republican Congressional sweep in 1994, many party operatives believed, created a "circle the wagons" mentality among Democrats that made an internal challenge to Mr. Clinton unthinkable.
Parties, in short, may not be as dead or discredited as they sometimes look. "Ask yourself how many candidates have gotten themselves elected to Congress in the last 50 years without a D or an R next to their names," said Walter Dean Burnham, professor of government at the University of Texas at Austin.
 
 
 
Quick to Forget
 Mr. Kristol said, "The truth of American politics today is John Engler and Tommy Thompson and Bill Weld. If things were as crazy and fractured as some people say, there should be a lot of little Buchanans and Forbeses at the state level, and there aren't."
In contrast to the parties' durable showings, the Perot vote looks downright ephemeral. A poll for the Pew Center on People and the Press, a research group, found something of a vanishing act among Perot voters; 19 percent voted for him in 1992, only 11 percent recall doing so today. Andrew Kohut, the pollster, blames "denial or failing memories."
Another boring political reality that often gets lost in the hyperbole of the pundits is the innate, small-c conservatism of the American electorate. "America's always been very risk-averse when it comes to political change," said Martin Wattenberg, a political scientist at the University of California at Irvine. "Sure, they embrace the idea of change, but they're not willing to risk much."
 
 
 
15 Minutes of Fame
 This meant that Mr. Clinton rode a great wave of enthusiasm about universal health insurance, until the opposition pointed out the risks of reinventing one-seventh of the American economy. It meant that Speaker Newt Gingrich commanded the field with the great cause of a balanced budget, a shrunken government and a huge tax cut, until the opposition pointed out the possible impact on Medicare and other popular programs.
And it also meant that Mr. Forbes and Mr. Buchanan would have their moments, but only that. The techniques of modern politics -- 30-second spots, sound bites, poll-driven messages -- are very effective in appealing to people's hunger for change, but just as effective in making them fear it. And the Framers, of course, created a system that gives both sides ample time to argue and thwart and slow things down.
None of this, of course, means that there are not big changes under way in American politics. The New Deal Democratic coalition has been breaking up for 30 years, Republicans have made substantial gains during that time period and Mr. Perot got a greater percentage of the vote in 1992 than any third-party Presidential candidate since 1912. But change comes in fits and starts, muted and checked by voters drawn back to the center, and by politicians, like Mr. Dole and Mr. Clinton, maneuvering to adapt to the prevailing winds.
This is a hard reality for many pundits and political writers to accept. "There's a tendency by the media to overwrite the story," said Mr. Frank, a Democrat. "The Democratic Party died irretrievably in 1994. The Republican Party died many times before. That's the error the press makes: 'Dole's having trouble, Dole must be dead.' "
It is also hard for many politicians, who sometimes yearn to ride great tides of anger or passion into office and a governing agenda.
So far, at least, the voters' psyche is far more subtle.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A President and a Senate Majority Leader, meeting here in the Cabinet Room, still enjoy advantages. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (79%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



431 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Gunboat Diplomacy, '96 Model

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ONLY hours after the orders went out from the White House last weekend, 81,000 tons of hardened gray steel began to shake to life in the Persian Gulf. The aircraft carrier Nimitz picked up speed, slicing through the briny waters of the gulf, its course set due east. President Clinton had ordered the Nimitz to join another carrier, the Independence, off Taiwan as a reminder to China that the United States intended to protect its Taiwanese friends.
In fighting for its slice of the Pentagon budget, the Navy could not have asked for better symbolism -- a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, that most powerful symbol of seaborne might, rushing to protect a threatened ally, projecting American military supremacy in a corner of the world central to the American economy. 
 For many in Asia outside of China, the reaction was gratitude -- and relief. The Taiwan Government said the American warships would be "helpful, stabilizing and, hopefully, also persuasive" in moderating Beijing's behavior in the runup to Taiwan's national elections next Saturday. Said a Southeast Asian diplomat: "We cannot antagonize the Chinese by saying it publicly, but everybody will be more comfortable with American ships in place."
A quarter century after the humiliations of the Vietnam War, the cries of "Yankee, Go Home" once heard across Asia have been largely replaced with equally anguished pleas of "Yankee, Stay Here."
In most of Asia, the American military long ago shed whatever image it had as the war machine of an ogreish superpower. Today, the image -- accurate or not -- is one of the honest broker that can help keep the peace, and as the only counterweight to China's growing military power.
The Navy was deploying off Taiwan "in a precautionary measure," said Vice Adm. Archie Ray Clemins, the commander of the United States Seventh Fleet, in a telephone interview from his command ship, the Blue Ridge, as it sailed from Indonesia to the South China Sea to keep watch on Chinese missile tests near Taiwan. "We do not want to see escalation," he said. "China has said that they are not going to attack Taiwan, and that's exactly what we want to see happen." The ships will be in place for the elections.
Across much of Asia, , the role of regional policeman falls largely to the United States Navy. Unlike the Army and the Air Force, which require land bases and airstrips, the Navy can establish a long-term presence without infringing on anyone's borders. It can be dispatched at a pace that allows diplomacy to cool a crisis even as the ships proceed; it can show resolve without risking what American generals have learned to dread: a land war in Asia.
The Navy has been patrolling Asian waters since the early part of the 19th century, and its sailors have been balancing diplomacy and warfare since the 1850's, when Commodore Matthew C. Perry used his big guns to force Japan to end 250 years of isolation.
Some Asian government officials accuse the American military of habitually overstating its role as an Asian peacekeeper. And the United States often seems under threat of overstaying its welcome. Having shut down its bases in the Philippines under nationalist pressure four years ago, it now finds that the recent rape of a 12-year-old Okinawan girl by three American servicemen has galvanized opposition to American military bases in Okinawa and the rest of Japan.
But something has obviously gone right in Asia in the years since the Vietnam War, and the American military claims at least part of the credit.
After spending much of the previous 50 years at each others' throats, Asian nations -- with a few notable exceptions like North Korea, Cambodia and Vietnam -- have spent the last quarter-century making peace, and making money.
Without expensive armies to build and wars to fight, most Asian nations channeled their resources into building factories and creating jobs. As a result, the continent is home to the world's fastest-growing economies, with none growing faster than China's.
 
 
 
China's Private Feelings
 Joseph S. Nye Jr., a former Assistant Secretary of Defense who is dean of Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, said that even the Chinese privately concede that the American military presence has helped keep the peace by restraining the military ambitions of China's old foe, Japan.
"In public," he said, "the Chinese will say that no country should have the right to put its troops outside its own borders."
But behind closed doors, he said, the Chinese will "give you a lecture about the dangers of Japanese militarism" and then express their reluctant willingness to allow the American military to remain in Asia.
As a military threat, China is seen by its neighbors as more a problem for the future than the present. It has the world's largest military force, but its weaponry is mostly antiquated, its nearly 3 million troops mostly untrained in modern tactics.
The Pentagon has said that whatever its vast numerical advantage over its tiny island neighbor, China would have difficulty invading Taiwan because of its meager amphibious forces. By that logic, what was happening last week seemed an effort to do no more than right the balance of psychological power in the region, by sending a symbol of American might to parry the sense of vulnerability sowed by China's live-fire exercises off Taiwan.
But the balance of real power is shifting rapidly, and within several years, China may prove far more menacing as it tries to fulfill its aspirations as Asia's economic and military powerhouse. Its military budget has grown at a double-digit pace in recent years, with a new emphasis on advanced weapons.
The Chinese have also demonstrated a new willingness to flex their muscle. There was alarm throughout Southeast Asia last year when the Chinese Navy overran a group of tiny, potentially oil-rich atolls in the South China Sea and raised the Chinese flag. The atolls, part of a larger island chain known as the Spratlys, are hundreds of miles from the Chinese mainland.
And as China's military strength grows, a budget-conscious United States has cut back its military forces deployed in the Pacific, alarming those of China's neighbors who had come to depend on an American defensive shield. Since 1991, the Navy's Pacific Fleet has been cut from 250 ships to 195, the number of sailors and marines from 250,000 to 215,000. The Navy is fighting to avoid any more cuts. But in that battle, the Navy confronts American taxpayers, who in one opinion poll after another have expressed the view that the United States should no longer serve as the policeman of Asia -- or any other part of the world.
Navy admirals in the Pacific are now trained to recite the economic facts: The nations of Asia and the Pacific are responsible for more than one-third of all American trade, and Asian trade is directly linked to an estimated three million jobs in the United States. The loss of major Asian sealanes could stem the flow of foreign oil to American ports.
"Americans have to understand what Asia means to their paychecks, what it means to their jobs," said Stanley R. Arthur, a retired admiral who commanded the Seventh Fleet from 1990 to 1992. "They have to understand who America's economic partners are."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The nuclear-powered aircraft carrier Nimitz. (Reuters)
 
Map: "Muscle at Sea: U.S. Naval Forces in Asia" shows the locations of various ship groups headed to or already in the waters near Taiwan. (United States Navy; Jane's Fighting Ships) (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (97%); ASIA (97%); CHINA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; TAIWAN; CHINA; UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (97%); ASIA (97%); CHINA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FAR EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TAIWAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NAVIES MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NAVIES (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ARMIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



432 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: China's Military Power

 BODY:
As China flexes its military power in the Taiwan Strait, the immediate concern is that Beijing has rashly concluded the threat of force is a legitimate way to pursue its political objectives with Taiwan. The longer-term and more serious worry is that these exercises may be the first sign that China intends to use its rapidly growing military power to intimidate its neighbors throughout Asia.
A new Chinese assertiveness would not necessarily directly threaten the United States. But Washington must adjust its own policies to protect American allies in the region and to make sure that China does not weaken the peace that has made possible the long Asian economic boom. 
 Beijing's leaders want their country to be a military as well as economic power. They see China as an increasingly dominant force in East Asian affairs by the end of this decade.
China's current military buildup began in the late 1980's. The loyal army commanders who helped Deng Xiaoping crush the Tiananmen Square democracy movement claimed their reward in the form of increased military budgets. Now, as the next generation of political leaders maneuvers to succeed Mr. Deng, they continue to court army leaders with generous budgets and policies favored by the military, like the exercises off Taiwan.
Since 1989, while most countries have been reducing their defense budgets, China has increased its military spending by more than 50 percent, most of it devoted to military modernization. Beijing wants to improve the fighting capacity of Chinese ground units, extend the range of its jet fighters and develop an oceangoing navy.
China's military forces are the world's largest, but not the best equipped. There are 2.9 million active-duty troops. They can call on about 9,000 tanks, 5,000 fighter aircraft, 500 bombers, 50 surface warships and 50 submarines. China also has more than 400 nuclear warheads, 70 of them mounted on intermediate-range missiles and 17 on intercontinental missiles capable of reaching the Western United States.
But China's ground forces fared poorly against Vietnam in 1979 and have not been much improved since. Most of its fighter aircraft are old. Its navy has no aircraft carriers.
Yet current spending and acquisition patterns could change that picture by the end of the decade. China has begun repositioning its ground troops to coastal regions and modernizing their organization and equipment. It has just signed a deal with Moscow to let China produce advanced Russian jet fighters and is working to develop a nuclear-missile-carrying submarine force.
What matters most is how Beijing uses its new strength. One troubling possibility would be an extension of the bullying tactics now being used against Taiwan to such disputed areas as the oil-rich South China Sea or places like Vietnam, Mongolia, Korea and eastern Siberia that were ruled or coveted by Chinese emperors in the distant past.
Washington's goal should be to incorporate China more fully into the international system of nuclear arms control and encourage it to satisfy its ambitions primarily in economic terms. That means seeking friendly relations but being prepared to anger Beijing and interrupt trade if American interests are threatened.
America's China policy, premised on economic development and common foreign interests, cannot survive a long-term Chinese turn toward belligerence. That turn may have started this month in the Taiwan Strait.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (97%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; TAIWAN (97%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); WEST USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TAIWAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); COASTAL AREAS (60%); 

PERSON: DENG XIAOPING (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



433 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Bending The Mountains

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan

 BODY:
As cities go, Taipei and Beijing have little in common. But having just traveled between the two, I found the mood in each eerily similar. In both capitals there is a dangerous hot-house political atmosphere, in which Taiwanese and Chinese politicians and generals, talking to themselves, have pumped themselves up with illusions and paranoia about the intentions of the other side, so much so that it's scary. Both of these nations need a dose of reality -- a two-by-four right across the side of the head to be exact -- that probably only the U.S. can provide at this time.
In Beijing, it seemed as if every Chinese official I spoke to talked about Senegal, the African state that recently opened diplomatic relations with Taiwan, severing ties with China. "Senegal? Senegal?" I would ask incredulously. "How can China, a great nation of 1.2 billion people, be worried about Taiwan's relations with Senegal?" It symbolized for me the depth of China's obsession with Taiwan and the creeping independence moves of Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui. 
 In Taiwan, by contrast, I found a troubling calm. Despite the Chinese war games, Taiwanese seemed generally relaxed now that the U.S. Seventh Fleet is parked off shore. Indeed, the presence of the U.S. flotilla appears to have bred a certain cockiness here -- an attitude toward China of "Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?" President Lee even taunted Beijing, saying: "We are not wimps with weak feet." Not smart.
America cannot negotiate an end to this crisis. This is a civil war and only the people of China and Taiwan can sort out a solution. But what the U.S. can do, and must do, is be the reality principle, setting the boundaries of what is permissible and showing both sides the pathway back to dialogue.
To Taiwan the U.S. message has to be: "Your economics has changed in remarkable ways. Your politics has changed in remarkable ways. But your geography hasn't changed at all, and it's not going to. You are still 21 million Chinese living next to 1.2 billion and you have to reach an accommodation with them, because we're not going to park the U.S. Navy on your doorstep forever. Time is not on Taiwan's side in an atmosphere of confrontation with China. China can keep up a level of tension against you that will sap your economic strength.
"But time is on Taiwan's side in an atmosphere of reconciliation. Because over the decades, if China stays on this free-market economic track, China will only become more like Taiwan, and Taiwan can play a major, and profitable, role in that transformation. When your election concludes next week, China will be listening carefully to what you say. Make a gesture that will calm Beijing's fears that Taiwan is seeking a diplomatic identity that would be fully independent from China, forever. Say that President Lee has 'no plans' to visit the U.S. and that Taiwan has 'no immediate intention' to pursue membership in the U.N., and then offer to resume the dialogue."
To China, the U.S. message has to be: "We understand you have legitimate concerns about Taiwan's future, but get a grip on yourself. You can't just start shooting up the neighborhood. If you go to war over Taiwan, your hopes for developing into a global economic power will be set back for a generation. You say you want unity with Taiwan, but you can't force it. The people of Taiwan will only want to voluntarily unite with China if they see that you treat your own people and the people of Hong Kong in a way they find inviting. After Taiwan's election, you should declare that China has 'no plans' for more war games around Taiwan, and offer to resume the dialogue."
But while we can set the boundaries, they have to negotiate the core. There is still reason to hope that their common culture can triumph over their divided politics. As one of Taiwan's leading writers, Antonio Chiang, remarked to me, "all of these people are Chinese," and while they have their differences, their common culture has a deep strain of pragmatism -- of finding ways to bend for the sake of stability and commerce. That's how Taiwan and China coexisted up to now. They don't recognize each other, yet Taiwanese businessmen have invested $24 billion in China. That didn't happen without a lot of subtle bends, winks and nods. That's the sort of diplomacy we need now.
"The Chinese have a proverb," said Mr. Chiang: "'If the mountain won't bend, then you bend the road, and if the road won't bend, then you bend yourself -- somehow, we can always find a way."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SENEGAL (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SENEGAL (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TAIWAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); NAVIES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; LEE TENG-HUI (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



434 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: In Taiwan, Few Admit To Worries About China

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, March 16

 BODY:
With less than 48 hours remaining before China was set to begin a new round of live-fire war games barely a dozen miles from Taiwan-controlled islets, Ho Chi-hung bent over his slender single-stringed erhu to find a first, single note.
Then, eerily, whispers of a classical melody, "Spirit of the Sword," floated from the delicate instrument, spilling into an atrium where it jostled with strains from violins, a flute and a brass sextet struggling with Gustav Holst's "Second Suite in F." 
 In the yawning hall of National Taiwan University's student center, the melange of musical cultures swirled in a cacophonous clutter, Chinese blending with Western, a jazz riff edging past dance music from a studio at the end of a corridor. And here, at Taiwan's most prestigious university, there were few worries, or thoughts, of China's military might and intimidation. Indeed, there were few thoughts of China.
"I'm not really interested in politics," admitted Mr. Ho, a 20-year-old medical student. "I've been to China, to Beijing and Shanghai. I think Taiwan should be a nation. There's no way to unify at the moment. Anyway, a system like China's with a single party controlling everything can't last too long."
With the approach of new Chinese war games on Monday, exercises that will straddle Taiwan's first direct presidential election next Saturday and which Beijing has said are designed to banish thoughts of independence from Taiwan's mind, many students here had to be reminded that the might of China's three million-strong army was virtually at the doorstep.
"Oh, at first I was a little nervous," said Li Hsing-ying, a first-year student of literature, sitting in a school cafeteria. "We would be facing big changes if we lost our country. I think Taiwan is independent of China. We are an independent country. There's no reason to unify with China."
Since March 8, China has staged a series of missile tests and war games near Taiwan's coast intended, according to Chinese officials, to cow Taiwan voters in the weeks leading to the island's first presidential election. Since last June, when Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, visited the United States, Beijing has steadily increased its bellicose statements toward this island, with China's Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen, warning of a "real disaster" if Taiwan moves toward independence.
Since the first missile landed just north of the Taiwanese port of Keelung, China has vilified Mr. Lee, accusing him of harboring desires for independence and urging Taiwan's voters to reject him in the voting booth. Instead, Mr. Lee's fortunes have surged, according to polls here. Stock prices, which initially retreated in response to Chinese tests, have roared back, closing higher on Friday.
Publicly, Taiwan officials have sought to play down China's military exercises. At a meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Kyoto, Japan, today, Taiwan's Finance Minister, Lin Chen-kuo, said China's economic self-interest would temper its aggressive behavior. Taiwan's elections, he said, voicing the Government's official line, "don't mean the Government doesn't want reunification with China, and don't mean there's been any policy change in the Government's opposition to Taiwan independence."
And today in Taipei, 20,000 people marched for Taiwan independence, in a rally sponsored by the opposition Democratic Progressive Party.
Some students here at Taiwan University question the very premise of Taiwan's people being Chinese. Only about 12 percent of the island's 21 million people can trace roots to the escape of the Nationalist Chinese from the mainland in 1949 as Mao Zedong's Communist armies swept to power. The rest of Taiwan's people have roots that are distantly Chinese, but so distant that most call themselves Taiwanese and most speak Taiwanese, not Chinese.
"Just because we look Chinese doesn't mean we have to be identified as Chinese," Ms. Li, the literature student, said. "We are different races. They want us to believe that we are all the same country. We live in Taiwan. We have our own government. We have our own system. We have our own language. We have our own customs."
Ms. Li, a native of Taipei, said that her family had been in Taiwan for at least six generations. At home, she said, her parents speak Taiwanese. "How you express yourself is how you think," she said. "We do not think as Chinese."
Many people in Taiwan would take exception to Ms. Li's passionate separatism. Here on Taiwan University's campus, the written language on buildings, signboards and student newspapers is Chinese. And so is the language drifting down the halls.
Still, as many people point out, when President Lee heads out on the campaign trail, the language he addresses his audiences is more often than not Taiwanese, not Chinese.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL TAIWAN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TAIWAN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); ARMIES (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); MUSIC (76%); MUSIC GENRES (69%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: GARGAN, EDWARD A LEE TENG-HUI (64%); LI HSING-YING (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



435 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 8; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
The Great Debate Over Revenue Sharing

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

DATELINE: KISSIMMEE, Fla., March 16

 BODY:
Amid accusations, suspicion and potential television chaos, baseball club owners will debate the critical issue of revenue sharing at their quarterly meetings in Phoenix starting Monday. With the start of the season only two weeks away, if the owners don't approve a proposed interim revenue-sharing plan, the most immediate ramification could be the inability of teams to televise their games locally.
The dispute among the owners, which also centers on superstations and their payments to Major League Baseball, is interesting, considering that a year ago they were immersed in a labor dispute with the players that delayed the start of the season. The two sides still have made no major progress toward getting a new collective bargaining agreement, but this time the players are on the sidelines. If anyone is to go on strike this time, it could be the low-revenue clubs that are holding the league television agreements hostage to a new revenue-sharing agreement. 
 Bud Selig, the acting commissioner, denies that a major rift exists among owners over any issue; two to four clubs, at most, he said recently, might be unhappy with the revenue-sharing plan under discussion. But club executives and lawyers, speaking in interviews on the condition they not be identified (lest they incur Selig's wrath and possible disciplinary action for violating a standing gag order), told a different story.
This one involves elements of disagreement on various issues:
*The superstation issue isn't on the agenda for the meeting, but it is one of the most inflammatory issues confronting the clubs. Based on an independent study, an owners' committee has recommended that WTBS, like the Atlanta Braves a Ted Turner property, pay Major League Baseball $24.3 million each for 1994 and '95 for showing Braves' games nationally via cable, but Selig has decided to assess the superstation that amount as a total for both years. In 1993, the last season payments were made, the sum was $15 million.
"It's an effort to get the Braves' vote," a high-ranking official of one club said. If Turner pays a smaller than valuated amount, the Tribune Company, owner of the Chicago Cubs and the superstation WGN, also would pay less.
*Several weeks ago owners from eight or nine high-revenue clubs held a telephone conference call to discuss the revenue-sharing plan. They designated Fred Wilpon of the Mets and Peter Angelos of the Baltimore Orioles to speak to Selig about resolving the superstation matter, saying they would block revenue sharing until that was done. The group planned to have additional conference calls, but Selig prevailed upon the owners to discontinue the calls on the grounds that information from them might leak to the union and to reporters.
*Selig, several officials said, has made other deals for clubs' revenue-sharing votes by granting them major concessions. For example, the Colorado Rockies, a recent expansion team, have been exempted from contributing money for low-revenue clubs even though they exceeded a payroll level set to determine whether or not they would have to pay.
*Suspicion -- or paranoia -- is running so high that, on one hand, a lawyer said that George Steinbrenner is outraged that the Yankees would have to pay $7.25 million for revenue sharing, the highest amount, but, on the other, an official of another club said Selig was trying to secure Steinbrenner's vote by discounting the Yankees' cable revenue by about $15 million.
*Executives of some clubs proposed a different revenue-sharing plan, but it was rejected because it would have had a greater economic impact on middle-revenue clubs and they would have been less likely to vote for it. The plan on the table is economically more kind to those clubs, and they would have no trouble voting for it.
What happens with revenue sharing in Phoenix also will go a long way toward determining what happens with the league television agreements. Under the 40-year-old agreements, which had been terminated but then rolled over for last season, clubs give each other the right to televise their games locally. Without league-wide agreements, clubs would have to try to make individual deals, but the low-revenue clubs that terminated the agreements very likely would refuse to enter into those deals.
The Mets and the Los Angeles Dodgers, for example, most likely would agree to allow each other to televise the games they play. Before the National League agreement was rolled over for last season, the Dodgers had drafted a letter to send to the other clubs granting them the reciprocal right to televise their games at no charge. But teams like the Pittsburgh Pirates, one of the five teams that terminated the N.L. agreement, could withhold permission, leaving teams like the Mets and Dodgers with dark-screen games. A five-member committee has been appointed to study the situation if it becomes a problem.
"The worst-case scenario is that local television could be disrupted, but frankly I don't think it's going to happen," said Claude Brochu of the Montreal Expos, another of the teams that terminated the agreement as a way of inducing the high-revenue clubs to agree to greater sharing of their local revenue.
Brochu was optimistic that the owners would adopt the plan presented to them by Selig, and indeed Selig may have the 21 votes needed for adoption. But despite his optimism and downplaying of continuing differences among the owners, it's uncertain that Selig will even call for a vote.
A lawyer familiar with the deliberations said no vote would be taken without a superstation agreement and none might be taken even if there is an agreement.
"A vote is certainly possible," Selig said recently, "but it depends on a number of things."
Most important is whether or not he has the three-fourths majority needed. Selig, whose watchword is consensus, will not call for a vote if he doesn't have the clubs he needs for passage, people on both sides of the issue said.
One lawyer familiar with the debate said if Selig could not get the necessary votes, "He'll probably try to get a rollover of the TV agreements so you don't have potential chaos. Someone says, 'You can't bring TV cameras into my stadium.' We'd have a disaster. Without an agreement, you have the potential for that."
Selig, who is pained by public discussion of internal ownership matters, said he had not discussed the television agreements "with anyone for a long time." Revenue sharing, he added, has commanded far greater attention.
"Nobody debates revenue sharing," he said. "It's in what form and when."
Any revenue-sharing plan the owners adopt also must gain union approval. Negotiators have not discussed the interim plan because they have focused on trying to get an overall labor agreement. Furthermore, if the owners can't agree on a plan, how are they and the players supposed to agree?
As an indication of the difficulty of getting an agreement, Selig said after the last owners' meeting two months ago that he probably would call a special meeting in February to vote on revenue sharing, but no such meeting took place.
Under the plan, clubs would put 22 percent of their local revenue -- attendance, concessions, advertising, local broadcasting -- minus stadium operating costs into a pool, and the money would be divided among the 28 clubs. The clubs above the average would wind up giving money to the clubs below the average.
Based on projections for the 1996 season, the leading contributors would be the Yankees, who would pay $7.25 million, about $4 million more than they would pay under the existing sharing formula, and the Orioles, who would pay $6.85 million instead of $3.6 million.
Receiving the most money would be the Kansas City Royals, $4.51 million; the Pirates, $4.12 million, and the Minnesota Twins, $4.11 million. Approximately $39 million would be transferred from high-revenue clubs to low-revenue clubs.
Owners have been slow to take a hardline position on superstations and their impact on local telecasts. John McMullen, when he owned the Houston Astros, began a campaign to rein in the superstations nearly 10 years ago, but he had little following. Now other owners are heating up their stand. Wayne Huizenga of the Florida Marlins, for one, recently wrote to the other owners that the Marlins would do whatever necessary to protect their telecasts. An official of another club said Huizenga may go as far as court to curb the superstations.
In a study commissioned by Major League Baseball, Paul Kagan and Associates valued TBS rights to Braves' games at $42 million less certain costs, including payments to the Copyright Royalty Tribunal. An owners' committee, headed by Brochu of Montreal, compiled a report and recommended a payment of $24.3 million for each of the two years TBS owes money. Selig apparently has rejected that recommendation, further angering some clubs.
Commenting on the superstation matter, though not addressing the Kagan study or his report, Brochu said: "It's an issue in the sense that people see superstations as infringements in their home TV territory. It's been an irritant."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (70%); FLORIDA, USA (64%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TRIBUNE CO (52%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); GEORGIA, USA (70%); FLORIDA, USA (64%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS REVENUES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CONFERENCE CALLS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); STRIKES (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (54%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY BUD SELIG (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



436 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: 21st-Century Scribes: Monks Designing Web Pages

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH COHEN 

DATELINE: ABIQUIU, N.M.

 BODY:
At Christ in the Desert, a Benedictine monastery tucked between stark mesas, 24 monks follow the routine of prayer and labor that has sustained their order for 1,500 years. They clean, chop wood, weave, carve icons, bake bread and design sites on the Internet's World Wide Web.
"I can't think of better work for us to be doing," said Brother Mary-Aquinas, 30, a bespectacled monk in a brown hooded habit and hiking boots, who was once a systems analyst in Denver. 
 "This work goes back to the ancient tradition of the scribes, taking information and making it beautiful, into art," he said. "In a certain sense, the Web and what will happen in the next decade is a return to that tradition."
Making art out of words is nothing unusual for the order: as long ago as the sixth century, Benedictine monks worked in the scriptoria, or writing rooms, of Italian monasteries creating illuminated manuscripts from the Bible and classical texts.
But for a community that has dwelt in isolation amid the angular and haunting vistas that inspired the artist Georgia O'Keeffe, going on line was not simple.
Before they could embark on their mission to bring the tradition of illuminated manuscripts to the Internet, the monks, who range in age from their 20's to their 70's, had to bring a few worldly necessities to their remote home, along the Chama River in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, 75 miles north of Santa Fe. They added to their array of solar panels to generate extra power for 12 personal computers, some of them donated, found an Internet service provider and bought a telephone.
These upgrades were matters of economic necessity. "Twelve new brothers joined our monastery in 1994 and 1995, and we needed to find a new source of income," said Brother Aquinas, who is the director of the scriptorium at Christ in the Desert. In fact, the monastery, which was founded in 1964, now has 24 monks, enough to reach abbey status, a step they hope to take this year.
"For years it was small -- three to four monks -- and we could get by on revenues from our guest house and our gift shop," Brother Aquinas said.
"Then we got on the Internet -- it seemed a good opportunity to supplement our library so the monks could do scholarly work -- and we found out about the Web. It seemed like a good way to supplement our income since it is difficult to find creative work that adapts to the monastic schedule."
Their home page (http:// www.technet.nm.org/pax.html) beckons with bright colors and a style that borrows as much from modern religious art as it does from the medieval tradition of illumination. "Welcome to Christ in the Desert," it reads, providing a link to a virtual monk, Brother URL, who serves as the on-line guide to the monastery. (The virtual monk's name is derived from the initials for "universal resource locator," the form addresses take on the World Wide Web.)
In real life, the guide to the monastery is Brother Andre, the monastery's guest master, who gives a walking tour of the stunning chapel, guest quarters, library and the scriptorium, which is adorned with colorful acrylic paintings (as is their Web site). Thus far, however, the Web site does not include the smell of the monks' homemade bread.
On line, Brother URL gives directions to various places: for general information about the monastery, the gift shop, the reservation area for the guest house and an information center for people interested in joining the monastery. It also indulges in a discreet advertisement, letting readers know how to hire the monks to design a hand-printed and illuminated Web site.
Since the monks' site went up last May, a windfall of requests for their beautiful hand-lettered Web sites and home pages -- at $65 an hour for programming and $110 an hour for art work -- has been pouring in. The hand lettering is done on canvas, and the illuminations are scanned into the computers before being incorporated on Web pages.
Before the monastery's Web site began, the monks took in about $48,000 a year. The revenues from their new occupation will probably increase that to $200,000 this year, Brother Aquinas said. Their prospective clients include the Georgia O'Keeffe Foundation, artists and galleries from around the United States, a conference of Jungian analysts in Switzerland and the Bethlehem Corporation, an equipment manufacturer based in Easton, Pa.
The monks also hope to be chosen to design Web pages for the Vatican. These would include all the Pope's speeches and encyclicals, and material from the Vatican's museums and libraries. They hope that the pages will be added to the Vatican's currently modest Web offering.
"The Vatican wants to maintain a sense of the sacred in their site," said Brother Aquinas, who has been speaking unofficially with designers at the Vatican and will go there in a few weeks for more talks. "The ancient scribes proved this power of illumination on parchment. As modern scribes, we are simply trying to restore that art of illumination by using clean interface design and the multimedia tools of the Web."
Aside from the Web sites they are constructing, the monks are also building a new kitchen and cells for the recently arrived monks, several of whom have engineering and computer experience. With their new source of revenue, they hope to build an infirmary where they can care for the older monks.
In the adobe scriptorium at Christ in the Desert, the rough-hewn tables stand on a hard-packed dirt floor and a wooden crucifix hangs on one wall. Hand-painted illuminations by the monks share shelf space with Windows 95, Adobe Illustrator and Partition Magic in the scriptorium.
Silence is common in the monastery, but Latin chants or the rush of the river sometimes break the quiet. The scriptorium, though, is different; 12 computers (the most powerful with 32 megabytes of RAM) provide a modern hum, and the Microtek scanner whirs.
"We have a lot of very talented brothers -- painters, musicians and programmers," Brother Aquinas said. "Everyone is chipping in."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brother Mary-Aquinas, who supervises Internet design at the Christ in the Desert monastery in New Mexico, says the monks' art goes back hundreds of years. Above, the monks' site on the World Wide Web. Above, the monks' site on the World Wide Web. (Natasha Lane for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (69%); NEW MEXICO, USA (69%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: BENEDICTINE ORDER; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH BROTHER MARY-AQUINAS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: BENEDICTINE ORDER; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ABIQUIQU (NM); UNITED STATES (69%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (69%); NEW MEXICO, USA (69%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET (COMPUTER NETWORK) RELIGION (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); WEB SITES (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); MOUNTAINS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (72%); LITERATURE (72%); HIKING (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); SOLAR ENERGY (64%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ELIZABETH GEORGIA O'KEEFFE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



437 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Cost-Cutting Strategy

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DAYTON, Ohio, March 16

 BODY:
For many years, the General Motors Corporation has been giving in to strikes at critical parts factories while hiring almost no new workers, so that its work force has gradually aged and begun retiring.
As these older workers have left, and some have been laid off during recessions, G.M. has been able to buy more and more of its parts from low-cost outside companies that are often not unionized. The result, as one auto industry veteran noted this week, is that G.M. has lost every strike for a decade while still managing to shrink its payroll by more than 100,000 jobs. 
 G.M. has taken a much blunter approach this month, in the hope of reducing its costs more quickly. Its executives have been insisting that the company's long-term survival depends on its rapidly gaining more flexibility to buy more parts from outside companies, a practice known as outsourcing.
The result has been the biggest work stoppage in the American auto industry in a generation. Close to 3,200 brake factory workers here have been on strike for 11 days, calling for an end to the outsourcing of at least 100 jobs and for more safety training and equipment. The ensuing shortage of brakes has forced G.M. to close most of its North American car and truck plants, idling 124,700 more G.M. workers.
There have been hints in the last couple of days that G.M., having shown the union that it will no longer give in easily to strikes at critical parts factories, might be willing to compromise. After 10 days of barely speaking with United Automobile Workers representatives, the company sent a negotiator from Detroit on Friday and began intensive talks that continued today. The two sides also agreed on Friday to stop airing their differences in public.
G.M. reacted to the virtual shutdown of its manufacturing operations by announcing late Thursday that it would ask state governments to withhold unemployment benefits from laid-off U.A.W. workers. Various state laws limit or prohibit unemployment benefits for strikers, and G.M. contends that the U.A.W. is engaged in a national strike. While states usually end up paying benefits in contested cases, contested payments can be delayed for weeks.
The G.M. move is a financial blow to the U.A.W., which must decide whether to pay strike benefits to roughly 85,000 laid-off members while the unemployment benefits are delayed. In the past, the union has paid strike benefits with the understanding that it would be repaid once unemployment checks showed up. But many workers have failed to make the repayments after past strikes, and the U.A.W. is going into national negotiations with a strike fund depleted by a lengthy and unsuccessful strike at Caterpillar last year.
The strike has also idled close to 40,000 G.M. workers who are not members of the U.A.W., most of them in Mexico and Canada, and G.M. has not challenged their unemployment benefits.
The strike's duration has shown a new commitment by G.M.'s management to reduce costs quickly. "G.M. is really drawing the line in the sand here and saying, 'We've got to get competitive,' " said David E. Cole, the director of the Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation at the University of Michigan.
Harry J. Pearce, G.M.'s vice chairman, said in an interview this week that G.M.'s long-term viability depended on controlling its costs so that it could sell cars and trucks at competitive prices. If G.M.'s own auto parts factories cannot match outside companies in the price and quality of their products, he said, then G.M. must buy from the outside companies. But he added that G.M. would be happy to continue making its own parts if the cost came down.
G.M. negotiators have been seeking work-rule changes here aimed at improving productivity, and they want more flexibility to choose which parts they manufacture here.
"Guaranteeing contracts to ourselves that are not competitive is a flawed strategy if ever I heard one," Mr. Pearce said on Tuesday.
G.M. is trying to control costs more quickly at a time when the U.A.W. has new leaders with a slightly more hard-line reputation than their predecessors, and when the U.A.W.'s three-year contracts with the Big Three are set to expire on Sept. 14. The new president of the U.A.W., Stephen P. Yokich, made his name in the last several years by winning parts-factory strikes as director of the U.A.W.'s G.M. division.
Several changes in the auto industry have nonetheless made it hard for G.M. to wait patiently for retirements. The most important is the growing resistance to higher prices by American car buyers.
When the Ford Motor Company added a lot of new features to its Taurus sedan last autumn and raised the price by $1,000, sales plunged. Ford disclosed in late February a new emphasis on cost control that included the elimination of 6,000 engineering jobs in its product development section.
As Mr. Pearce pointed out this week, G.M. still produces a higher proportion of its own parts than Ford or the Chrysler Corporation. That gives G.M. an extra interest in controlling these costs.
Some executives at rival auto makers still believe firmly that a car company cannot win a parts factory strike. They point to the large personal savings of many U.A.W. members and the virtual impossibility of hiring and training replacement workers quickly enough to avoid losing a large share of the car market.
These executives contend that G.M. officials blundered into their current predicament and are now struggling to extricate themselves from the trap of their own tough rhetoric. "You say in the locker room, 'We're going to stop being pansies any more,' then you go out and lose 18 more factories," one executive said. "Has it become a passion play rather than a mere drama?"
Mr. Pearce disputed that assessment, saying G.M.'s top management had been involved in the strike from a very early stage and had carefully considered the possible outcomes.
"I'm not terribly surprised at what I see and I don't think anybody else should be," Mr. Pearce said, contending that as G.M. tries to control its costs, "You are inevitably going to have some level of unrest between the union and the company."
G.M. came into the strike with record earnings last year and fairly large cash reserves. The company also has a substantial inventory of unsold cars. But G.M. is also running short of its most popular and profitable sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks.
That is a stiff price to pay in a squabble over whether 100 or so jobs at two factories here are subcontracted to outside businesses. The question is the extent to which any victory on these 100 jobs can set a precedent for G.M. to outsource more jobs across the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON (OHIO); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); OHIO, USA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; STRIKES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); STRIKES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



438 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1771 words

HEADLINE: Many States Fail to Fulfill Child Welfare

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16

 BODY:
At least 21 states are under court supervision because they failed to take proper care of children who had been abused or neglected, and many of them have flouted their obligations even after promising in legal settlements to protect the constitutional rights of foster children, court records show.
Judges across the country have found what Judge Thomas F. Hogan of Federal District Court here described as "outrageous deficiencies" in child protection services. 
 Court records paint what another judge, in Illinois, called "a bleak and Dickensian picture."
Child welfare officials in many states, swamped with work, are slow to investigate reports of child abuse and neglect. They often place children in unsafe or overcrowded foster homes and provide them inadequate medical care. They afford few of the social services needed to keep families together or reunite them. And they are delinquent in finding adoptive parents for children languishing in foster care.
These failures come at a time when the need for services is immense. Surveys by the Federal Department of Health and Human Services show that the annual number of abused or neglected children has more than doubled in the last decade, to 2.9 million from 1.4 million. The annual number seriously injured by abuse, the department says, has quadrupled, to 572,000 from 143,000.
"Children are being hurt more often and more seriously," said Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
A Federal advisory committee said recently that abuse and neglect were the leading cause of death among children under 4 and accounted for 2,000 fatalities a year among children of all ages.
David S. Liederman, executive director of the Child Welfare League of America, a private group respected by children's advocates and state officials alike, said social workers were often handling 50 to 70 cases apiece. The league, whose standards are viewed as a benchmark, recommends no more than 15 cases a worker.
The Federal Government provides $4 billion a year to the states for child protection services. The National Governors' Association recently urged Congress to let each state take its share as a lump sum, or block grant, with more freedom to decide how the money is spent. But the Clinton Administration says it would be foolish to reduce Federal supervision and enforcement, in view of the abysmal conditions brought to light in many lawsuits.
Martha A. Matthews, a law professor at the University of California at Los Angeles, cited several reasons for the increase in child abuse and neglect. Among them are the crack epidemic and an increase in economic hardship resulting from the failure of welfare benefits and the minimum wage to keep pace with inflation. Indeed, many states are now cutting cash assistance, and as a result, Professor Matthews said, some families cannot afford necessities like shelter, fuel and warm clothing for their children, so that accusations of child neglect will probably increase.
Advocates for the poor say stringent work requirements being adopted by states as a condition of welfare benefits may also increase child neglect, if parents cannot find or afford child care. "Low-income parents may have to resort to unsafe or unreliable child care, and if the child is harmed, the parent can be charged with neglect," Professor Matthews said.
Even states like Utah, which might seem far removed from the drug abuse and violence of big cities like New York and Chicago, have been targets of class-action lawsuits that contend the states failed to care for children beaten or sexually abused by their parents.
Carol Clawson, the Solicitor General of Utah, said that "there were clearly problems" when the state was sued in 1994 by the National Center for Youth Law, a nonprofit law firm. In a settlement reached six months after the suit was filed in Federal District Court, Gov. Michael O. Leavitt promised improvements in virtually every aspect of child welfare services.
But an independent panel established under the agreement said last month that the state was flouting 53 of its 92 commitments, and lawyers for the plaintiffs said they would soon return to court to demand enforcement of the consent decree.
Mr. Leavitt, who has been in the forefront among Republican governors urging Congress to entrust the states with more responsibility, acknowledged that Utah had not fully complied with the decree. "The litigation has become a hindrance to our ability to fix the system, a diversion," he said in an interview. "It's the single part of my job that I find most difficult. We are dealing with social trends we don't control."
Angela L. Adams, a lawyer at the New Mexico Department of Children, Youth and Families, said: "The use of litigation as a form of child welfare advocacy has become almost routine. Lawsuits have been filed or threatened in almost every state."
The cases are usually complex. The State of Illinois has retained the firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom to defend state officials in a dozen child welfare cases. Martha C. Allen, a spokeswoman for the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services, said the agency had paid $7.9 million to Skadden, Arps since 1989.
State responses to the suits vary widely. Some officials are cooperative and constructive, seeing the litigation as an opportunity to make improvements and press state legislators for more money. Other states are slow to change and reluctant even to disclose the data needed to assess their performance.
In Alabama, conditions for abused and neglected children have improved considerably as the state carries out a consent decree approved by a Federal district judge four years ago. Statewide, the number of children in foster care has declined 21 percent, to 3,650 from 4,625, since then. In the first counties carrying out the decree, the average time spent in foster care has declined to 100 days, from more than 300.
Paul Vincent, director of the Alabama Division of Family and Children's Services, said the state now provided extensive training to foster parents and caseworkers, who in the past received "little or no formal training." Ira A. Burnim of the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, who represents the Alabama children, agreed. "The kids are safer," he said. "Protective service workers are doing better jobs."
In Missouri, by contrast, Judge Dean Whipple of Federal District Court found state officials in contempt for failing to carry out a court-approved consent decree protecting foster children in the Kansas City area. The failure, he said, resulted from the officials' "lack of commitment to make a good-faith effort to make the consent decree work." After being cited for contempt, state officials agreed to a new consent decree in 1994. But a lawyer for the children, Fred Rich of Legal Aid of Western Missouri, says there has been "dismal compliance."
Gary J. Stangler, director of the Missouri Department of Social Services, does not dispute that assessment. "It's difficult to change the culture of an agency," he said. "This lawsuit has been a prod to state officials, but it has contributed to defiance as well as compliance. Any legislative body resents being forced to do this by the Federal courts."
And Jerome G. Miller, a court-appointed receiver given authority over the child welfare system here in Washington, said he had been frustrated at every turn by the "bureaucratic intransigence" of city employees. The nation's capital is in the midst of a budget crisis, but Judge Hogan, overseeing a vast child welfare case here, said that was no excuse, inasmuch as the city had failed to make the "minimal effort" needed to obtain large amounts of Federal money for abused and neglected children.
In all, child welfare programs are now being carried out under court orders or consent decrees in Alabama, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, the District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Utah, Washington and West Virginia.
In New York City and State, child welfare agencies are operating under at least five court orders and consent decrees. In December, after years of piecemeal litigation, advocates for abused and neglected children filed a comprehensive lawsuit asserting that the city agency was in crisis and should be taken over by a court-appointed receiver.
In a separate lawsuit in January, the Government charged that New York City and State officials had fraudulently obtained tens of millions of Federal dollars by falsely reporting that services were being delivered to thousands of foster children. The city had already come under fire for its handling of the case of Elisa Izquierdo, a 6-year-old beaten to death in a domestic violence case in 1995.
Connecticut's child welfare system is also operating under a consent decree. In New Jersey, Winnie Comfort, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Human Services, said there had been no lawsuits challenging the system of protective services for children.
Lawyers for foster children have been remarkably successful in establishing the children's legal rights, even though the victories do not always produce immediate improvements in the quality of care.
Children removed from the homes of their biological parents are deemed to be in state custody, whether they live in state institutions or with foster parents. Federal courts have repeatedly ruled that such children are protected by the 14th Amendment, which says that no state shall "deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law."
Courts often compare the rights of foster children to those of prison inmates and adults committed to mental hospitals against their will. Thus, Federal judges have ruled that foster children have a right to be protected against physical harm and psychological abuse, just as they have constitutional rights to food, shelter and medical care.
But courts have found countless violations of these rights. In the Washington case, a child identified as LaShawn A. told a child psychiatrist that her foster mother had beaten her. When the doctor asked who loved her, she replied, "No one." When he asked who hated her, she said her foster mother.
Another child, Kevin E., has been in the custody of the District of Columbia for 11 years, with no plan for adoption or psychiatric care. "He told the hospital staff that he hated himself," Judge Hogan found, "and he climbed into a trash can and asked to be thrown away."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerome G. Miller, a court-appointed receiver given authority over the child welfare system in Washington, says he has been frustrated at every turn by "bureaucratic intransigence" of city employees. (David Scull/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YOUTH LAW (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE; FOSTER CARE; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT CHILD WELFARE (93%); CHILD ABUSE (92%); FOSTER CARE (91%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); PARENTS (78%); ADOPTION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); MINIMUM WAGE (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); COCAINE (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



439 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Economics of Scarcity: Being First on the Block Has Its Price

BYLINE: By DAN NEIL

 BODY:
DO you absolutely, positively have to have a BMW Z3 right away? No problem. Two were advertised in The Dallas Morning News last week -- for $50,000, roughly nearly $20,000 over the manufacturer's suggested retail price.
And then there's Steve Meronek and Isaac Marti of Miami Beach, Fla., who hold the options on 36 Z3's. "We're charging whatever the market will bear," said Mr. Meronek, a freelance investor who is advertising the cars in Car and Driver and Road & Track magazines. "We've accepted offers that are five grand over sticker." 
 Entrepreneurs like Mr. Meronek, as well as opportunistic dealers, will see to it that buyers determined to have a Z3 will get one, if the price is right. The history of some other hot cars -- the Corvette ZR-1, Mazda Miata, Lexus LS 400 -- suggests that the Z3 will prompt some big-league price gouging.
BMW officially discourages sellers from charging premiums over the sticker price. "However, ultimately the dealer is an independent businessperson," said Barbara Heep-Richter, a spokeswoman for the company, based in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. "You can't control the dealer to that extent.
Raul Colon, general manager of BMW Manhattan, has pledged to charge only the manufacturer's suggested retail price for the Z3. "When someone overpays for something, they don't forget," he said. "They may buy from you once, but you won't get them back again."
And, he added, it's one Z3 to a customer.
Why are the cars in such short supply? For one thing, demand was stoked to the heavens by Hollywood's hype of the recent James Bond film, "Goldeneye." Customers were putting down $1,000 deposits on the car as early as last summer, when the vehicle was still simply a prototype.
Then there is production. The Z3 is made only at a new plant in Spartanburg, S.C., which is slowly spooling up to its production goal of 225 cars a day; Z3's will account for about 170 of that total, with the balance being 3-series sedans.
BMW expects to make 35,000 Z3's for the 1996 model year, but 60 percent are destined for 100 markets around the world. That leaves 14,000 for domestic consumption.
That number was divvied up among BMW's 345 United States dealers, prorated based on their sales volume last year. Starting last summer, dealers started taking deposits against their allocation. Dealers are now calling people who made deposits, asking how they'd like their Z3's outfitted. The cars are special-ordered from the factory, painted and equipped according to the buyers' tastes. A car is delivered about 30 days after it is ordered.
Dealers in many parts of the country have run through their 1996 allotment. BMW Manhattan's allotment of just under 100 '96-model Z3's is pretty well spoken for, Mr. Colon, the general manager, said. The dealership is taking "reservations" for 1997 models without requiring the usual deposit.
Unfortunately, there is no clearinghouse through which Z3 seekers can find dealers in other regions that still have some of their allotment left. The best strategies include cruising the Internet -- Mr. Meronek and his Toronto-based partner, Kurt Erhardt, have listed their cars on the World Wide Web -- checking classified ads, and leaving a standby deposit with a dealer. Some people forfeit their deposits, freeing up an extra Bimmer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMW3 (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SPORTS CARS (90%); SEDANS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); CONSUMPTION (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (62%); 

PERSON: STEVE MERONEK (86%); RAUL COLON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



440 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 2; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: March 10-16;
Americans Spy on French

BYLINE: By Tim Weiner 

 BODY:
The Central Intelligence Agency spied not wisely and not too well when it sought to steal economic secrets from France, the agency's inspector general reported.
In 1993 four C.I.A. spies posing as diplomats and an undercover operative posing as a Paris representative of a private American foundation set out to to uncover French positions on world trade talks. But the operative communicated too openly with the C.I.A.'s Paris station and communed too closely with the French official she was targeting. 
 In February 1995 the French exposed the operation, and the spies fled Paris. Last week's report raises the issue of whether spying on allies for economic data is worth the reward, and whether the C.I.A. would do better concentrating on terrorists and more traditional targets. TIM WEINER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (96%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (96%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ESPIONAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ESPIONAGE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRENDS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



441 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Downsizing: How It Feels to Be Fired

BYLINE: By Steve Lohr 

 BODY:
EARLIER this month, The New York Times published a series of articles called "The Downsizing of America" about the causes and consequences of layoffs.
Overall unemployment is low, the articles noted, and far more new jobs have been created than old ones lost. Yet even though many companies are reaping big profits and the economy is growing, the layoffs continue. More and more of the jobs disappearing are those of higher-paid, white-collar employees, often at large corporations. Many of the newly jobless have college degrees or graduate degrees. Education no longer protects workers from being cast out. 
 The Times invited readers to send their own accounts of downsizing to an electronic mail address. Below are excerpts from some of the hundreds of replies, nearly all sent by electronic mail -- to be sure, a self-selected group equipped with computers and willing to tell their stories.
Many speak of disappointment, anger and loss, of new jobs paying a fraction of their old ones, of lost medical insurance and pensions, of uprooted families and broken marriages. Others had difficulties but believe they have emerged from the experience stronger. STEVE LOHR
 
 
 
To California and Back
 In early 1990, my husband accepted a job offer in Orange County, Calif. We sold our home in northern New Jersey, picked up our three children and went off into the Pacific sunset.
We were convinced this would be a better life of more money and greater opportunity. We bought a beautiful home. I found a great job. Our kids were beginning to call this place with palm trees "home."
In January 1993, the horror that is now our life began. My husband's job was eliminated; the company that relocated us was relocating itself to Colorado. This wasn't supposed to happen to professional people like us. Out of work for seven months, my husband again relocated -- back to New Jersey -- the only offer he'd had.
The children and I remained in California for one year as we attempted (unsuccessfully) to sell our home in a dying economy. Eventually, once again, I sacrificed my career and uprooted three happy kids to the either cold or humid, albeit familiar, Northeast.
Although the new employer generously funded the moving, no resources were available to us upon our arrival that would allow us to stock up empty cupboards or sign up little boys for the fall soccer season. Because we were unable to recoup our previous salary levels, we have fallen into financial ruin.
No longer yuppies, now we work and work and yet are barely solvent. My marriage is on hold.
 
SHELLY KAPLAN
Succasunna, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MARRIAGE (87%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); SOCCER (50%); 

PERSON: KAPLAN, SHELLY

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



442 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 2; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Downsizing: How It Feels to Be Fired

BYLINE: By Steve Lohr 

 BODY:
EARLIER this month, The New York Times published a series of articles called "The Downsizing of America" about the causes and consequences of layoffs.
Overall unemployment is low, the articles noted, and far more new jobs have been created than old ones lost. Yet even though many companies are reaping big profits and the economy is growing, the layoffs continue. More and more of the jobs disappearing are those of higher-paid, white-collar employees, often at large corporations. Many of the newly jobless have college degrees or graduate degrees. Education no longer protects workers from being cast out. 
 The Times invited readers to send their own accounts of downsizing to an electronic mail address. Below are excerpts from some of the hundreds of replies, nearly all sent by electronic mail -- to be sure, a self-selected group equipped with computers and willing to tell their stories.
Many speak of disappointment, anger and loss, of new jobs paying a fraction of their old ones, of lost medical insurance and pensions, of uprooted families and broken marriages. Others had difficulties but believe they have emerged from the experience stronger. STEVE LOHR
 
 
 
Too Many Jobs
 Recently, I saw a political cartoon depicting an affluent older man making a speech at a banquet. He was saying, "Last year, thousands of new jobs were created in this country." The thought balloon over the waiter's head said, "Yeah, and I've got three of them." I didn't know whether to laugh or cry.
You see, for the past year, I've had two jobs instead of the one job I used to have. Together, those two jobs pay approximately 10 percent of what my one job used to pay. I have a Ph.D. in chemistry from a large university with a well-respected chemistry program.
I had entered graduate school with a dream of working for an I.B.M. or an AT&T, doing research that would make a positive difference in people's lives. It took me five years after graduation to land that first industry job. I took great pride in the knowledge that I was working to decrease pollution and produce a useful product. I took my $20,000 sign-on bonus and bought a condominium.
After 2 1/2 years, I was downsized out of the company. I spent eight months writing hundreds of letters, making hundreds of phone calls and networking at conferences. I got one job offer -- 800 miles away. I bid tearful goodbyes and put my condo on the market. The market wasn't very good -- everyone else was downsizing, too. My $20,000 became $10,000 overnight.
Just before Christmas 1993, I started work at the central research facility of a "good, stable company, heavily committed to research." After one year, things appeared to be going well, so I bought a house. I paid my taxes, bought company stock and planned for my future.
In 1995, I received a pink slip for Valentine's Day. My new job had lasted all of 15 months. That was almost a year ago, and I'm still looking for full-time work.
 
NANCY K. McGUIRE
Bay City, Mich.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nancy K. McGuire job hunting in New York. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



443 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 2; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Downsizing: How It Feels to Be Fired

BYLINE: By Steve Lohr 

 BODY:
EARLIER this month, The New York Times published a series of articles called "The Downsizing of America" about the causes and consequences of layoffs.
Overall unemployment is low, the articles noted, and far more new jobs have been created than old ones lost. Yet even though many companies are reaping big profits and the economy is growing, the layoffs continue. More and more of the jobs disappearing are those of higher-paid, white-collar employees, often at large corporations. Many of the newly jobless have college degrees or graduate degrees. Education no longer protects workers from being cast out. 
 The Times invited readers to send their own accounts of downsizing to an electronic mail address. Below are excerpts from some of the hundreds of replies, nearly all sent by electronic mail -- to be sure, a self-selected group equipped with computers and willing to tell their stories.
Many speak of disappointment, anger and loss, of new jobs paying a fraction of their old ones, of lost medical insurance and pensions, of uprooted families and broken marriages. Others had difficulties but believe they have emerged from the experience stronger. STEVE LOHR
 
 
 
Happily Unemployed, With Boat
 I have been downsized by the World Bank, after more than 15 years working as an economist. Both my wife and I were made redundant the same month (last August). I am 57, my wife 53.
Fortunately, we have no mortgage on a large old townhouse in D.C., the World Bank has given me a more than adequate severance package, we have managed to save quite a bit since arriving in the U.S. some 16 years ago, and I can cash in a large part of my pension.
We now look at this unexpected situation as a unique chance to change life styles, spend more time together, structure our working day differently and do new things. The first thing we did last year after being made redundant was to buy an old sailboat! In the short run, we'll go sailing, do a lot of writing and happily get by on about $3,000 a month pre-tax, compared with close to $10,000 post-tax before. People shouldn't only look at the negative side.
 
EUGENE VERSLUYSEN
Washington, D.C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); MARRIAGE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); SAILING (71%); MARINE VESSELS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



444 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Downsizing: How It Feels to Be Fired

BYLINE: By Steve Lohr 

 BODY:
EARLIER this month, The New York Times published a series of articles called "The Downsizing of America" about the causes and consequences of layoffs.
Overall unemployment is low, the articles noted, and far more new jobs have been created than old ones lost. Yet even though many companies are reaping big profits and the economy is growing, the layoffs continue. More and more of the jobs disappearing are those of higher-paid, white-collar employees, often at large corporations. Many of the newly jobless have college degrees or graduate degrees. Education no longer protects workers from being cast out. 
 The Times invited readers to send their own accounts of downsizing to an electronic mail address. Below are excerpts from some of the hundreds of replies, nearly all sent by electronic mail -- to be sure, a self-selected group equipped with computers and willing to tell their stories.
Many speak of disappointment, anger and loss, of new jobs paying a fraction of their old ones, of lost medical insurance and pensions, of uprooted families and broken marriages. Others had difficulties but believe they have emerged from the experience stronger. STEVE LOHR
 
 
 
Downsized and Pregnant
 I worked for the U.S. General Accounting Office, a Congressional agency that exposes fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement of Federal funds. The agency got a 25 percent budget cutback from the Republicans. But no one in my office expected the New York field office to close.
We received the bad news on Aug. 7. At the time, I was 8 1/2 months pregnant. I was unable to look for a job because no one was interested in interviewing someone in that condition. I appealed to upper management for an extended time with the employment counseling services, but was denied. The exact quote from the Washington lawyer was, "G.A.O. didn't get you pregnant."
The office closed on Nov. 10. I have been looking for a job since then. My husband has taken on a second job, often working 90 hours a week. I am having a hard time looking for work while caring for my daughter. I can't hire a sitter until I have income coming in.
 
DIANA ERANI
Riverdale, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); CLOSINGS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MARRIAGE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); ACCOUNTING (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



445 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Downsizing: How It Feels to Be Fired

BYLINE: By Steve Lohr 

 BODY:
EARLIER this month, The New York Times published a series of articles called "The Downsizing of America" about the causes and consequences of layoffs.
Overall unemployment is low, the articles noted, and far more new jobs have been created than old ones lost. Yet even though many companies are reaping big profits and the economy is growing, the layoffs continue. More and more of the jobs disappearing are those of higher-paid, white-collar employees, often at large corporations. Many of the newly jobless have college degrees or graduate degrees. Education no longer protects workers from being cast out. 
 The Times invited readers to send their own accounts of downsizing to an electronic mail address. Below are excerpts from some of the hundreds of replies, nearly all sent by electronic mail -- to be sure, a self-selected group equipped with computers and willing to tell their stories.
Many speak of disappointment, anger and loss, of new jobs paying a fraction of their old ones, of lost medical insurance and pensions, of uprooted families and broken marriages. Others had difficulties but believe they have emerged from the experience stronger. STEVE LOHR
 
 
 
Education Won't Help
 In the 19 years since receiving my Ph.D., I have worked full-time for seven colleges and universities in three states. The longest I was able to stay at a single institution was six years, and I stayed at several institutions for periods as brief as one year. I have drawn unemployment compensation five, yes five, times. I have currently been unemployed for two years. I have applied for close to 2,000 jobs.
At age 45, I have little hope that I will have any more of a career as an academic psychologist. The standard cliche is that we need a better educated workforce. Well, from where I am sitting, having an education is no guarantee that one won't be left behind.
 
JAMES C. MEGAS
St. Paul, Minn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James C. Megas, Ph.D., in his home office. (Judy Griesedieck for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



446 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 19; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:

WEARING OF THE GREEN
Stamford wears the green today for its first St. Patrick's Day Parade, stepping off at noon from St. John's Church at Atlantic and Bell Streets. Winding through Bank and Main Streets, back to Atlantic and up Bedford Street, across Forest Avenue, and down Greyrock Place, it will conclude at the Hibernian Hall, 186 Greyrock Place. 
 More than 40 organizations have signed up to march, almost a dozen of them musical, including the Celtic Pipe and Drum Corps of Greenwich, Stamford Police Emerald Society, Stamford Yankee Drum and Bugle Corp, Trumbull Pipe Band and the Academy of Irish Dance.
A reviewing stand has been placed at Bedford and Forest Streets and the grand marshals, chosen by the Stamford Ancient Order of Hibernians, are William McNamara and Kathleen Walsh.

INTERACTIVE ART
Real Art Ways opens another of its unusual public interactive installations at various sites in Hartford today through May 3. The principal venue is the art center's 56 Arbor Street headquarters, and the satellite locations are City Hall, the Civic Center, Connecticut State Museum, Connecticut Historical Society, Old State House and all nine public libraries.
"The Museum of National Dialogue" is the project's title and Robert Peters is the artist, but it is not art in any of its customary disciplines. Mr. Peters has set up what he calls questionnaire podiums at all the locations.
The questions, which will change week to week, are "Does ownership preclude free speech?" "Can complex ideas be made simple?" "Are you one of US or one of THEM?" "Why do we expect those in power to lie?" "Does speech control reality?" and "Can anything be said if it is said politely?"
The public is invited to record answers on slates at each podium. The slates retain the answers in their waxy surfaces even though other answers are written over them. At the end of each week the slates will be collected and placed at Real Art Ways as part of the Peters installation, which includes a newsprint replica of the floor of the legislative office building, a six-foot flounder camouflaged into the floor, a frieze of blank television sets lighting up the ceiling and several sculptural forms.
The installation has been supported by the National Endowment for the Arts. Hours at Real Art Ways are 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Monday through Friday, noon to 5 on Saturday. The number to call for more information is 860-232-1006.

 HADLEY ON DESIGN
Albert Hadley, who with Sister Parish formed the Parish-Hadley interior design firm in New York, will speak today at 2 o'clock in the Pequot Library, 720 Pequot Avenue in Southport.
Acknowledged to be the leader in the field for decades, the partners were probably best known for their work in the Kennedy White House. In addition, they created interiors for an imposing clientle that included Rockefellers, Gettys and Astors. But Mr. Hadley also has a penchant for working on homes for clients of modest means, challenging himself to produce economical miracles of decor.
His talk will be illustrated with slides of some of the 168 photographs in his new book, "Parish-Hadley, Sixty Years of American Design," published by Little, Brown.
Admission is free, and the library phone number for more information is 259-0346.

GAY TEEN-AGERS
A two-day conference on the issues of gay and lesbian teen-agers will be held in West Hartford on Friday and Saturday from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. at the UConn School of Social Work, 1789 Asylum Avenue West.
Sponsors include the Connecticut Departments of Education, Public Health, and Children and Families; the Connecticut Federation of Teachers, the Urban League of Greater Hartford and the AIDS Interfaith Network, among others. The conference is open to teachers, social workers, health care and mental health professionals, families and young people.
Workshops will be held addressing the needs of youthful gay, lesbian and bisexual people in school, at home and in society. Registration costs $45 a day for adults, or $65 for two days. Individuals under the age of 22 will be charged $15, or $20 for two days. More information may be obtained by calling 860-344-1777.

ARTISTS' MODELS
A payment of $9 is all that's required to take advantage of a rare opportunity in the suburbs -- to draw or paint from the live model.
At the Ridgefield Guild of Artists Barn, at the end of Halpin Lane, artists are invited to bring their materials and drop in any Tuesday evening from 7 to 9:30 or on Thursdays from 9:30 A.M. to 12:30 P.M. Easels and drawing tables are provided. Call 438-8712 for more information.

SUMMER BLOOMS
Four lecture-workshops are scheduled this week at the Greenwich Garden Center on Bible Street. On Monday from 10 A.M. to 1 P.M. Brent Heath will give a slide-talk and demonstration on summer-blooming bulbs in the garden and in containers. To plant your own, bring a container or buy one at the lecture along with such unusual specimens as calla, nerine, lycoris, hymanthus, acimenes, prima donna lilies and calladiums. The fee is $35.
Sowing seeds for herbs, vegetables and flowering annuals in a flat to take home, with instructions for care and feeding, will be the subject tackled by Gail Egol at 10 A.M. on Wednesday. The cost is $25.
Also on Wednesday at 10 A.M., Georgia Spratt will rush the Easter season with a program on pysanky, the age-old Ukrainian method of decorating eggs. The fee is $45.
A session on Friday at 10 A.M. will be conducted by Caroline Holmes, chairwoman of the Herb Society of England, manager of her own herb nursery and lecturer on cooking with herbs for the National Trust and the BBC. Her slides will illustrate the history and styles of herb gardens and the many uses of herbs. The fee is $25. Call 869-9242 for more information.

VERY BIG MOVIES
An Imax film festival is scheduled at the Maritime Center in Norwalk on the next two Saturdays and Sundays. Saturday's programs run consecutively from 11 A.M. to 3 P.M. feature "Fires of Kuwait," about the containment of 600 flaming oil wells during the war in the Persian Gulf; "Into the Deep," a look at the denizens of the Pacific Ocean, and "Destiny in Space," lifting off and spacewalking with NASA's astronauts. "Survival Island," where huge collections of seals, penguins and albatross summer off the coast of Georgia, and "Africa: The Serengeti," following a million wildebeest as they migrate, are the others.
Sunday's features during the same hours are "Antartica," "The Fiddle," a fictional journey through five generations of owners of a single Ozark fiddle; "Beavers," "The Living Sea," a 1996 Oscar nominee, and "Search for the Great Sharks."
Tickets are $6, $4.50 for children 2 through 12 and adults 62 and older. The center, at 10 North Water Street, overlooks the mouth of the Norwalk River, and the phone number for more information is 852-0700, extension 206. ELEANOR CHARLES

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 1996, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A listing of coming lectures in the Connecticut Weekly yesterday gave an incorrect date for a lecture by the author Grace Mirabella. It is March 26, not March 19.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Destiny in Space" is part of an Imax film festival to be held at the Maritime Center in Norwalk starting next Saturday. (Smithsonian Institution and the Lockheed Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (55%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (55%); CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (55%); CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); HISTORY (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ENDOWMENTS (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); DANCE (70%); LIBRARIES (66%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (64%); INTERIOR DECORATING (60%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: ALBERT HADLEY (74%); ROBERT PETERS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



447 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2693 words

HEADLINE: In the Region, Strengths Amid Softness

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
LIKE an automobile with one leaky valve, the New York metropolitan region's residential real estate market clattered through last year, losing some of its momentum from 1994.
The analyses of those who keep tabs on the market -- academics and even institutionally optimistic industry representatives -- are peppered with such adjectives as "sluggish," "uncertain," "muddled" and, at best, "modest." And if affordable interest rates were -- and still are -- what kept the car rolling, the knock in the engine that sapped buyer confidence was fear, real and sublimated, of corporate downsizing. 
 Scanning the latest headline about this company or that announcing a retrenchment, "people say, 'Oh, well, that's a couple of thousand jobs, but I'm still working,' " said Stanley Duobinis, forecasting director for the National Association of Home Builders. "But the problem is that when they see job cuts there's a sort of fear that builds up. Their worries about their own jobs prevent them from moving up into that new house. There's a domino effect."
To be sure, there have been areas of relative strength in the regional market, particularly in communities just north and west of New York City -- traditional bedroom communities in Bergen, southern Westchester and Fairfield. Prices throughout those areas reflected increased demand in 1995.
But swaths of Long Island, northern Westchester and central New Jersey experienced price declines that etched a portrait of a soft -- though hardly precipitous -- market. And those areas offered a clearer picture of the entire region. None of the counties surrounding New York City enjoyed border-to-border robust sales or price appreciation, and all three states in the region experienced sales and price declines.
"We had an upswing in '94, a bit of a yielding in '95, and that leaves us with a lot of uncertainty in '96," said Dr. James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University.
Beyond sales and prices, the pattern was apparent in another measure of the market -- housing starts. "If we compare construction today with what we had 10 years ago, it's noticeably reduced," said Mr. Duobinis. "It's not a disaster, but it's very, very sluggish."
Mirroring Dean Hughes's assessment, Mr. Duobinis said, "We're talking about a market that grew a little in '94, then slid a bit in '95."
The home builders association, using data collected by the Census Bureau from local government agencies that issue construction permits, estimated that New York State recorded 18,500 single-family housing starts in 1995, down from 22,900 in 1994; New Jersey had 20,200 housing starts last year, down from 22,400, and Connecticut had 8,100 starts, slightly down from 8,200.
Viewing the regional market as in a stall rather than a dive, Dean Hughes saw 1994 and 1995 as "somewhat mirror images of one another."
Two years ago, coming out of the recession of the early 90's, he said, "we had rising interest rates all through the year" -- normally a drag on sales -- "but that was counteracted by improved job growth in all three states. It produced a reasonably good resale market, the best in the 90's, so far."
Last year, job growth slowed, which normally would weaken demand, Dean Hughes said, "but that was counteracted by falling interest rates" throughout the year. Thirty-year fixed mortgage rates stood at about 7 percent at the start of 1994, but rose to 9 percent by year's end. So, 1995 rates started at 9 percent, but dipped to 7 percent by December. "The housing market should have responded strongly," he said, "but it was held back by weaker job growth."
Which altitudinal direction the real estate industry takes in coming out of the stall this year will be powered -- or not -- by the performance of the regional labor market. "Interest rates are where we want them; 7 percent is a precondition for a strong housing market," Dean Hughes said. "But it must be matched by job growth and consumer confidence."
Prospects for job growth were boosted last week when the Federal government announced an increase of about 700,000 in the number of people employed across the country in February, compared with January, along with a drop to 5.5 percent from 5.8 percent in the nation's jobless rate in those same months, as measured by the number of people applying for unemployment insurance. Ironically, the immediate effect of the improvement in employment statistics was a case of the jitters in the securities markets, with a sharp decline of the stock market the day the figures were announced.
Whether or not the national job improvement played out in the New York region could not be determined because statistics for the tri-state area will not be available for two weeks, said John L. Weiting, regional commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.
At least through January, however, the regional job picture was decidedly static. New York State's unemployment rate stood at 6.2 percent at the end of January, up slightly from 6.1 percent in January 1995. New Jersey's rate went down, from 6.8 percent in January 1995 to 6.5 percent this year, but has hovered there since the early fall. In Connecticut, the rate was 5.3 percent in January of both years. If those levels hold, "you're just not going to see an economy that's strong enough to further reduce the ranks of the unemployed," Mr. Weiting said, "and that will have a lot of implications for the real estate market."
The implications are already keenly real for members of the baby-boom generation, post-World War II offspring who are approaching their 50's, had delayed starting families during the 1970's, have achieved professional peaks and whose children are now teen-agers needing their own rooms.
"The baby boomer who has just seen officemates lose jobs is not about to trade up to a larger house," said Dr. Susan Wachter, a professor of real estate and finance at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School. "These are people who normally, in previous cycles, would be trading up. But they are worried now. And they are more likely to save that money for their children's education. That's what's happening. And this is the portion of the market we are losing out on, particularly in this region where we have an older population."
Michael Carliner, an economist with the homebuilders association, estimates that 2 of 3 sales in the nation have been trade-ups to baby boomers in recent years, and that the proportion is larger in the tri-state region. Uncertainty among those potential buyers is apparent in the market.
In all New York State, said Charles Staro, executive vice president of the State Association of Realtors, there was a decrease in home sales, from 124,819 in 1994 to 115,604 last year, with a slight increase in average prices, from $111,700 to $115,240. The data was compiled by the association's 43 local realty boards. "With additional interest rate cuts and any hint of stabilization in the job market, this could reverse 1995's trends and bring buyers back," Mr. Staro said.
T HE slippage was also apparent in New Jersey, where that state's Association of Realtors tracked 138,000 sales in 1995, down from 145,000, as well as a decrease in median prices, from $145,400 in 1994 to $138,300 last year. "When you speak of New Jersey," said Robert Kinniebrew, president of the New Jersey Association of Realtors, "that's AT&T, and they were going to let go of 11,000 across the country" -- including 7,000 in New Jersey alone.
And in Connecticut, according to Vincent M. Valvo, publisher of The Commercial Record, a real estate and banking newspaper, there were 50,750 single-family home sales in 1995, down from 54,354. Median prices were also down, to $125,000 in 1995 from $128,000. The data came from deeds and mortgages filed in town halls.
Defense cuts have taken their toll on Connecticut, particularly in the central portion of the state, Mr. Duobinis said. "And the insurance industry is going through the same sort of consolidation that we're seeing in banking," he added. "It's not so much big mergers and takeovers, but companies are getting out of certain lines of insurance. Cigna Insurance got out of auto insurance a few years ago, and that allowed them to cut people in Hartford and Philadelphia."
Discerning real estate trends by the numbers is an inexact science, at best. Sales of single-family homes are usually reported by local boards of realtors, based on data from their multiple-listing services. But not all real estate agents are members of the boards, and not all sales in a given area are recorded. Some boards include co-ops and condominiums in their data, while others only count single-family homes.
One local board may calculate median prices -- meaning that half of the sales are above that figure and half below -- while other boards use an average. Some state boards do not compile statistics county by county, but by region within the state.
Still, the numbers can provide indications of market trends. And the numbers for the communities immediately surrounding New York City show a consistent pattern of a slightly slackening market last year.
The New Jersey Association of Realtors provides data by region. In Northern New Jersey, which includes Bergen, Bloomfield, Hudson, Hunterdon, Morris, Passaic, Somerset, Sussex and Warren Counties, there were 55,500 sales in 1995, down from 59,900 in 1994. The median price was $187,900 last year, compared with $190,100.
Central New Jersey, which includes Monmouth, Middlesex, Mercer and Ocean Counties, reported 45,900 sales last year, down from 46,500. And the median price in Central New Jersey was $140,200, compared with $140,100. "Most people are staying put," said Mr. Kinniebrew.
In Westchester, according to the county Board of Realtors, there were 6,466 residential sales recorded in 1995, down from 7,076 in 1994, the rebound year in the regional market, but still well ahead of the 5,738 sales in 1993. Of the 6,466 sales last year, 4,561 were single-family homes, 790 were condominiums, 759 were co-ops and 356 were 2- to 5-family houses. The median price in Westchester last year was $235,000, slightly down from $239,500 in 1994. Gilbert Mercurio, executive officer of the Westchester Board of Realtors, said he believed 1996 "is going to be like 1995, maybe a little less active."
"That 1994 year really satisfied a lot of the pent-up demand," Mr. Mercurio said. "By no means all of it, but to the extent that it was a very high-volume year, we should not expect to see it repeated soon."
The Long Island Board of Realtors provides a county-by-county breakdown. In Nassau, according to Randy Kaplan, a board official, 6,951 single-family home sales were tracked in 1995, down from 7,505 in 1994, and the median price was $175,000, down from $177,000. Suffolk reported 8,992 sales last year, up from 8,679 in 1994, with a median price of $136,000. Comparison prices for Suffolk in 1994 were not available.
D ATA gathered by The Commercial Record show that Fairfield County, Conn., had 15,233 single-family, co-op and condo sales in 1995, down from 15,720 in 1994, with median prices slipping to $188,000 from $189,900. Dr. John M. Clapp, a professor at the University of Connecticut's Center for Real Estate and Urban Economic Analysis, said that western Fairfield County, closest to New York City, outpaced the rest of the county, particularly in price appreciation.
"Employment has grown, office vacancy rates have fallen and they got the Swiss Bank Corporation to build space in Stamford," Dr. Clapp said. "It's not occupied yet, but it's helped stabilize confidence." He said Fairfield "has gotten a lot of spillover from New York City. Firms that can substitute telecommunications for face-to-face contacts in the city will move portions of their activities into lower Fairfield County."
Dr. Clapp's assessment of a price-appreciation trend in western Fairfield is bolstered by data from an alternative measure of the market -- the repeat-sale survey devised by Case Shiller Weiss, a real estate statistics firm in Cambridge, Mass.
The survey is based on a table showing the average price of all single-family homes sold in zip code areas year by year. To determine price fluctuations in 1995, for example, the survey took the purchase price of each home sold in each zip code area during the year just ended, compared it to the price the house brought the last time it was sold, and then, using the annual index, adjusted the earlier price to what it likely would have been had the house sold in 1994.
Particularly striking about the pattern of price fluctuations in 1995 was a nearly unbroken band of appreciation that stretched northeasterly from Bergen County across the Hudson River through the southern tier of Westchester and well into Fairfield County. That band stands as a sort of demarcation line for a block of northern Westchester where prices consistently registered declines. Specifically, in Bergen County, where there are 61 zip codes, 19 areas experienced price increases of 4 percent or more over those in 1994, and none had decreases exceeding 2 percent.
In Westchester, where there are 64 zip codes, 32 experienced increases of 4 percent or more -- all of them across the southern tier, including Mount Vernon, New Rochelle, White Plains and Yonkers. But in the northern section of Westchester, 15 areas had price drops of at least 2 percent, and 13 others experienced slight drops.
And in Fairfield County, where there are 45 zip codes, 16 experienced price increases of 4 percent or more, including all of Norwalk and Stamford, while there were no areas with declines of more than 2 percent.
Asked why there was a clear demarcation between northern and southern Westchester, Mr. Mercurio said, "It may be that northern Westchester contains a higher proportion of more highly priced properties, such as estates, that have lagged behind in the post-1990 recovery period."
There was another distinctive band, this one experiencing price declines, though slight. It formed an uneven ring in the counties of New Jersey that surround Staten Island, including the eastern portions of Monmouth and some areas of Middlesex, Union and Hudson.
Robert Shiller, a professor of economics at Yale University and a founder of Case Shiller Weiss, said he "wouldn't get alarmist about these numbers."
"We've seen much bigger swings in the past," he said. "There were times in the 80's when we saw 30 percent increases in a year in the Northeast, and after the boom, prices fell 10 percent in many places. So it's nothing like that."
In Nassau County, according to Case Shiller Weiss, 5 of the 63 zip code areas -- Floral Park, Garden City, Hewlett, Mineola, West Hempstead and Williston Park -- showed price increases of 4 percent or more, while none had decreases exceeding 2 percent. And in Suffolk County, prices also remained stable, with only 3 of 78 zip codes experiencing declines of more than 2 percent and only 1 area -- Lake Grove -- showing an increase of more than 4 percent.
The numbers, said Dr. Wachter, the real estate and finance professor, do not forebode an impending downturn. "But," she said, "we're talking about slow growth."
Employment, population and per-capita income in the region are all growing more slowly than elsewhere in the nation, she said, because higher costs send jobs elsewhere, "so we must go with our strengths."
Infrastructure is one regional strength; population density can be another. "We have a pretty good transportation system, and high-density population can provide a greater market," Professor Wachter said. 'So we need to increase access to the market to overcome the effects of traffic congestion, and that means infrastructure."
Dr. Wachter said prospects for the region in the 21st century "are not so promising" unless there are "major investments in infrastructure and human capital -- labor force skills. "Those are long-term needs," she said, "and residential real estate prospects reflect these larger, global forces."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page map last Sunday depicting changes in housing prices from 1994 to 1995 mislabeled a highway in Westchester County. It was Interstate 684, not 687.

GRAPHIC: Maps: "The Ups and Downs of Housing Prices"
 The map shows changes in prices of single-family houses sold in 1995 compared with the previous year. Much of Bergen County in New Jersey and Fairfield County in Connecticut showed relatively high increases. In New York, the southern part of Westchester County, including all ZIP codes in the cities of Yonkers, Mount Vernon, New Rochelle and White Plains, showed relatively high gains of more than 4 percent, while much of the northern part of the county recorded declines greater than 2 percent. Rockland County and small parts of Westchester County are not included because there was insufficient appropriate data available to the company that prepared the analysis. (Data: Case Shiller Weiss, Cambridge, Mass.) (pg. 1)
 
"Price Change of Single-Family Homes, by ZIP Code" shows changes in prices of typical single-family houses sold in 1995 compared with the previous year, by ZIP code. (Data: Case Shiller Weiss, Cambridge, Mass.) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); NEW YORK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SUBURBS REAL ESTATE (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CITIES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUILDING PERMITS (68%); CENSUS (62%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS DEAN HUGHES (76%); STANLEY DUOBINIS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



448 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MANHATTAN BEACH/SHEEPSHEAD BAY;
Lundy's Leads a Street's Revival

BYLINE: By MARK FRANCIS COHEN 

 BODY:
The restaurant is one of glee-evoking legend, where families devoured pink chowders, nibbled on light biscuits and dined on lobster. And now when people enter the new Lundy's, they saunter across the clay-colored floor and often smile nostalgically as they witness the shucking at the clam bar, the soft lights on the golden pillars and the waiters resting large plates of food on the white-clothed tables.
"I'm hoping they still have the french fried onion rings," said Margarita Garcia, as she scanned the multilevel restaurant from the hostesses' desk during a visit with her husband. "It is quieter." 
 The interest in Lundy's has translated into a resuscitation of Emmons Avenue, the commercial strip running along Sheepshead Bay. New restaurants have opened, desolate lots are being developed and vacant apartments are filling up. Property owners say real estate values have doubled. "This has started a chain reaction of development in Sheepshead Bay," said Donald Lentnek, who owns property in the area, including a 49-year lease on the Lundy's site. "The overflow has helped the other businesses."
The scene on Emmons Avenue has indeed changed since Lundy's reopened on Dec. 6. Calls have come in from all over to see if the restaurant is really running, diners have had to make reservations a month in advance to get a table for the weekend and hosts clock about 11 miles on busy nights running around the 800-seat restaurant.
After the restaurant, which once sat 2,500 people who came from all over the city, closed in 1979, the building had become a crumbling and graffitti-scarred hulk. Other stores withered and closed as the number of visitors to the neighborhood dropped. Peter Romeo, the co-director of the Sheepshead Bay Beautification Group, believed that Lundy's was inextricably linked to economic activity along the bay. So for the last five years, he has been trying to bring it back.
He started with the outside of the empty stucco building. He got local artists to cover it with murals. Then he lobbied neighborhood developers like Mr. Lentnek to take over the property and reopen the restaurant, which is now run by the TAM Restaurant Group.
"Mmm, taste this apple pie," Mr. Romeo said from inside the restaurant, after taking a scoop from a pie that he was bringing home. "We predicted that when Lundy's opened, there wouldn't be a vacant lot. And there isn't. The ones that seem vacant, people are negotiating on."
Despite some community opposition, many plans are underway. A shopping plaza anchored by Loehmann's is being developed on the avenue. A shopping mall, sports bar and parking lot are under construction. And a businessman has put in a bid to open a Mississippi-style riverboat on the bay with six restaurants.
"We might be making a monster in terms of traffic and people," Mr. Romeo said. "But were not going to let this community become a ghetto."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in the Neighborhood Report last Sunday with an article about the revitalization of Emmons Avenue in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, misstated the addresses of a restaurant and of a shopping plaza that is under construction. The restaurant, Lundy's, is at 1901 Emmons Avenue; the shopping center, Loehmann's Plaza, is at 2027-2063 Emmons Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A shopping plaza, anchored by Loehmann's, is under construction. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)
 
Map of Brooklyn highlighting the new developments along Emmons Avenue in Sheepshead Bay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LUNDY'S SEAFOOD RESTAURANT (BROOKLYN, NY)

ORGANIZATION: LUNDY'S SEAFOOD RESTAURANT (BROOKLYN, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SHEEPSHEAD BAY (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (88%); SEAFOOD (78%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); TRENDS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, MARK FRANCIS PETER ROMEO (69%); DONALD LENTNEK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



449 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: We Do Remember Example of the Elders

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert's March 11 column "Bullet to the Heart" notes the disappointment of William Manchester, the historian and biographer, in this generation's failure to heed the example set by the American men and women who fought in World War II. Mr. Manchester, who at 73 is recovering from open heart surgery, says the experiences and the wisdom of elders "are treated so cavalierly in a society that worships the young." 
 Take heart, for not everyone of the current generation has forgotten the contributions and sacrifices of your generation. Like you, my father was a marine who served in the South Pacific, and I have always been impressed by the men and women who survived the economic and psychological scars of the Depression, overcame their fears and led this country to victory over Fascism in World War II, and who then made this country the economic and military superpower it is today.
The lessons your generation taught us are many: a willingness to sacrifice for the common good, a refusal to quit even in the face of fear, deprivation, and defeat, and a commitment to defend the weak from the aggressor.
Get well, Mr. Manchester. Some of your younger readers have not forgotten your generation's shining example.
 
JOHN T. McCORMICK
New York, March 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (58%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (58%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (1939-45) WORLD WAR II (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); HISTORY (78%); MEN (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (56%); 

PERSON: MANCHESTER, WILLIAM; HERBERT, BOB; MCCORMICK, JOHN T WILLIAM RAYMOND MANCHESTER (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



450 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: William Warne, 90, Specialist In Irrigation and Reclamation

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
William Elmo Warne, a specialist in land reclamation and irrigation who served the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations and who directed a phase of California's immense California Water Project, died on March 9 at a convalescent home in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 90.
Mr. Warne had been a resident of Sacramento and Palo Alto. 
 He joined the Interior Department in 1935 as an editor in its Bureau of Reclamation. He became an assistant commissioner in the bureau in 1943 and was named an Assistant Secretary of the Interior in 1947.
Among his responsibilities were water, drainage and power development. He helped design and develop the Columbia and Missouri River Basin projects and had a hand in Indian affairs and in preparing Hawaii and Alaska for statehood.
After President Harry S. Truman created the Point Four program of technical assistance, a forerunner of the Agency for International Development, he sent Mr. Warne to Iran in 1951. For the next four years, he directed the program to modernize the country's agriculture.
In the late 1950's he took up similar tasks for the State Department in Brazil and in South Korea.
The state of California enlisted him in 1959 as director of the Departments of Fish and Game, Agriculture and Water Resources. Heading the water resources agency from 1961 to 1967, he oversaw a major phase of the California Water Project that, once completed, produced a 444-mile network of aqueducts and coffer dams channeling water from Northern California to the Los Angeles area.
He returned to private life in 1967 after Ronald Reagan defeated Gov. Edmund G. Brown. He later ran a consulting firm and became a farmer, raising walnuts and almonds. He remained a farmer until his death.
Born in Seafield, Ind., Mr. Warne graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1927.
He is survived by two daughters, Jane W. Beeder of McLean, Va., and Margaret W. Monroe of Palo Alto; a son, William R., of Arlington, Va.; three brothers, Merrill, of Burlingame, Calif., Everett, of San Diego, and Milton, of Honolulu. His wife of 65 years, Edith Peterson Warne, died in 1964. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE CO (92%); BUREAU OF RECLAMATION (57%); BUREAU OF RECLAMATION (57%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF RECLAMATION (57%); BUREAU OF RECLAMATION (57%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); IRRIGATION (91%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LAND RECLAMATION (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RIVERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); WATER QUALITY (64%); 

PERSON: WARNE, WILLIAM ELMO; SAXON, WOLFGANG JERRY BROWN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



451 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
A Most Sinister Gathering Of Not-So-Usual Suspects

BYLINE: By VINCENT CANBY 

 BODY:
Almost everybody loves a good mystery play, even those people who read mystery novels only when nothing else is available: you're spending a weekend in the country, it's late, everybody else is asleep, you have a choice between a tattered copy of June Bride and a stack of Agatha Christie paperbacks. Christie wins. At any point you can turn to the back of the book, find out who did it and go to sleep, the mind as barren as a looted tomb.
You can't do that in the theater. Since there's no possibility of jumping ahead, you're stuck with the playwright as turnkey. Yet every now and then the discipline pays off. That's if the writer is able to construct a puzzle with such economy and wit that you leave the theater experiencing a completely unexpected, ephemeral high. Think of Christie's "Witness for the Prosecution" and Anthony Shaffer's "Sleuth," or even of "The Last of Sheila," the densely clued, bitchily funny film written by Stephen Sondheim and Anthony Perkins. 
 Not for years have we had any theatrical mysteries as satisfying as these. And never has the time seemed more right for the kind of cerebral puzzles Mr. Sondheim constructs when he's not writing music and lyrics. Thus the great expectations for -- and great disappointment in -- the new Sondheim-George Furth comedy-thriller, "Getting Away With Murder," which opened last night at the Broadhurst.
"Getting Away With Murder" is like a board game that might better be called Group, in which the rules read like the instructions accompanying a VCR imported from the Far East. The dialogue is in English, but it's without character, largely made up of explanations that wouldn't be necessary if the mechanism itself had been more efficiently thought through.
The situation is this: It's a Saturday night in October; a fierce thunderstorm is in progress. Seven patients of an eminent psychiatrist, who's also a Pulitzer Prize-winning author, meet for their weekly group therapy session. The place is the doctor's suite on the top floor of a crumbling old Manhattan apartment building on West End Avenue. Because the building is scheduled for renovation shortly, it's otherwise empty, tended only by a Hispanic super whose language disabilities are aggravated by his fondness for pot.
Six of the patients have been in the group for some time. They are: a rich, high-profile real-estate promoter, responsible for the deaths of five workers on a construction site; a Connecticut society woman who shot a prowler later identified as her husband; a New York City police detective on suspension after fatally bungling a drug stakeout; an overweight Greek fellow who, supplied by Zabar's, is eating himself to death; an Asian-American woman who resents being Asian, a woman and a second-rate academic, and a pretty, lusty restaurant hostess who wants to become a mistress -- anybody's.
The group's new member, dressed in black tie like the real-estate man, is a powerful political consultant in line to become the next Mayor of New York.
As they gather in the doctor's waiting room, delivering so-so one-liners between great heaps of exposition, it becomes clear that something is wrong: there is no doctor. What the audience knows, and they don't, is that he's in a heap in his inner office, having been bludgeoned to death with a blunt instrument.
After the discovery is made, do they call the police? Foolish question. Having good reason to suspect that one of them did it, they conduct their own investigation amid power blackouts, sightings of phantom figures on the terrace outside and enigmatic messages on the doctor's answering machine. None of them need any more publicity. They keep the ghastly business in camera even as their numbers dwindle.
Good setup, clumsily executed. It seems at times as if the writers were longing for the freedom that a film affords. Cutaways to brief scenes in other locations, played in a cramped area downstage right, add information but take away from the tension that should be mounting within the principal set.
Mr. Sondheim and Mr. Furth, the collaborators responsible for "Company" and "Merrily We Roll Along," also write themselves into corners from which they escape only by introducing more characters. Yet they do know how to build suspense in short takes. There's some comic business involving an open elevator shaft, and a hoary if amusing trick played on the audience midway through. Unfortunately, just about everybody knows the identity of the killer long before the end, which thus becomes less apocalyptic than anticlimactic.
The biggest shock is the flatness of the writing. "The Last of Sheila" may not be high comedy, but it has lines that sting. Its picture of Beautiful People misbehaving is good, wisecracking, satirical entertainment. Though at least two of the characters in "Getting Away With Murder" suggest real-life models (Donald Trump, Anne Woodward), most of them are merely functions of the game Mr. Sondheim and Mr. Furth are playing. They're mouthpieces.
As directed by Jack O'Brien, who staged Lincoln Center's excellent and even more complicated production of "Hapgood," the principal performers are all good: John Rubinstein as the political consultant, Terrence Mann as the real-estate hustler, Christine Ebersole as the would-be mistress, Jodi Long as the Asian-American woman, Frankie R. Faison as the cop, Josh Mostel as the glutton and Kandis Chappell as the killer-socialite.
There's also something nuttily impressive about the demented profligacy with which "Getting Away With Murder" has been produced. It looks as if money were burned. Douglas W. Schmidt's great, atmospheric set seems to have a life of its own as, at one point, it revolves slightly to show the audience the body no one else yet knows about. Also first-rate are Kenneth Posner's spooky lighting and Gregory Mech's special effects.
It's possible that Mr. Sondheim and Mr. Furth had great fun weighing the many possibilities their original idea suggested. The audience is not so privileged. It can only consider the end result in which the final decisions play like desperate compromises. They're never inevitable.
 
GETTING AWAY WITH MURDER
By Stephen Sondheim and George Furth; directed by Jack O'Brien; sets by Douglas W. Schmidt; lighting by Kenneth Posner; costumes by Robert Wojewodski; sound by Jeff Ladman; special effects by Gregory Meeh; fight director, Steve Rankin; general manager, Marvin A. Krauss; production stage manager, Jeff Lee. Presented by Roger Berlind. At the Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, Manhattan.
 
WITH: John Rubinstein (Martin Chisholm), Christine Ebersole (Dossie Lustig), William Ragsdale (Young Man), Michelle Hurd (Charmaine), Kandis Chappell (Pamela Prideaux), Josh Mostel (Vassili Laimorgos), Terrence Mann (Gregory Reed), Frankie R. Faison (Dan Gerard), Jodi Long (Nam-Jun Vuong), Al Espinosa (Roberto) and Herb Foster (Dr. Conrad Bering).

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Rubinstein, Christine Ebersole, Josh Mostel and Terrence Mann in "Getting Away With Murder" at the Broadhurst Theater. (Joan Marcus/"Getting Away With Murder")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: GETTING AWAY WITH MURDER (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); MURDER (88%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); THEATER (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); MUSICAL THEATER (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); CELEBRITIES (74%); BOARD GAMES (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (69%); WITNESSES (68%); COMEDY FILMS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); POLICE FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: CANBY, VINCENT STEPHEN JOSHUA SONDHEIM (68%); ANTHONY PERKINS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



452 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Van Gordon Sauter: Back in TV (in a Small Way) and Still Making People Mad

BYLINE: By ANDY MEISLER 

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif.

 BODY:
Is Van Gordon Sauter a TV visionary? Or is he a destructive provocateur?
That question once divided the media industry into two camps. It has not been heard much, however, since Sept. 11, 1986, when Mr. Sauter left CBS after a controversial and tumultuous reign as its news chief. 
 But now the debate, albeit in a somewhat more muted form, may be flaring up again. Mr. Sauter is once again at the controls: this time of a public television station. And he is once again stirring up controversy with his views.
"I just think that public television is in dire trouble," said the bearded Mr. Sauter, wearing his trademark tweed suit, bow tie and suspenders and smoking a cigar on the patio behind the headquarters of KVIE Channel 6 here. "You know, public television was created in the 1960's and fundamentally has been frozen in Lucite. The audience has changed, the medium has changed and the competitive picture has changed. And now, it, too, just has to change."
For the last nine months, thanks to a surfeit of free time and some fortunate political connections, he has been general manager of KVIE, the Public Broadcasting System affiliate serving California's semibucolic seat of government.
Mr. Sauter himself appears on KVIE frequently, both as an enthusiastic pledge-drive host and as a co-host, two or three nights a week, of "Express," the half-hour public affairs program he started.
His local Sacramento celebrity, if not his new status as PBS gadfly, marks yet another unexpected twist in a life and career already full of them. Mr. Sauter, 60, describes himself as a conservative libertarian. He is married to Kathleen Brown, the liberal Democrat who in 1994 made an unsuccessful run to be governor of California. He is financially independent, lives in a comfortable house beside the Sacramento River and plans on seriously pursuing his true love, fly fishing, after a maximum two-year stint in his current post.
To be sure, his diagnosis is shared by most public broadcasting executives, struggling with competing cable television networks and the threat that the Government will "zero out" its support of public broadcasting.
Where Mr. Sauter differs is in his prescription: he advocates an end to the annual PBS budget battle by swearing off government funding entirely; abnegating all support from the federally-funded Corporation for Public Broadcasting -- and, indeed, eliminating the Corporation entirely.
"I don't think a single channel supported by the Government is going to survive," Mr. Sauter said. He said that PBS should look to the private sector for funding; trading the cachet and prestige of public television for veiled, or more blatantly commercial, support.
"I just think that what the company needs to have is, first of all, effectiveness in the marketplace," he said. "It needs to have the resources which would allow it to do more programming, more promotion, more advertising, which would allow it to become an international supplier of programs in a consequential way.
"PBS has one of the most valued brand names in America. I don't think one can say that it's a brand name that's being effectively merchandised," he said.
Mr. Sauter is uncertain about how such a private industry-public television partnership would work: whether, for instance, a media giant like Time-Warner or Gannett would "adopt" PBS or whether an entirely new corporation should be formed.
"I haven't really gotten that far," said Mr. Sauter, who said he believed the details could be worked out.
What is certain is that Mr. Sauter's views have received less than enthusiastic support. In fact, the response to him evokes echoes of the reaction the CBS News old guard had when Mr. Sauter did what he felt was necessary to prepare that operation for the future.
"I totally disagree with him," Sharon Rockefeller, the former Corporation for Public Broadcasting chairwoman, said. Ms. Rockefeller is now president of WETA, the PBS affiliate in the District of Columbia.
"Federal money is the core of our economics," she said. "We simply could not produce the national programs we do without Federal support. I don't see how a public-private partnership would have the same goals and purposes that we do. Private ownership would totally change the nature of what we do. I don't understand what he means by it, and I'm not willing to find out, either."
Mr. Sauter acknowledges that he has received a "terrible" response to his views. But he intends to continue speaking out, to anyone who cares to listen.
It was through his wife's political connections that Mr. Sauter met David Townshend, a partner in Townshend, Hermocillo, Raimundo & Usher, a Sacramento-based political consulting and public relations firm. Mr. Townshend was a member board of directors of KVIE, which had recently dismissed its station manager of 15 years.
"We wanted to go in a different direction," Mr. Townshend said. "We were for all practical purposes just a very big satellite dish sitting on top of a building that does fund-raising. We wanted someone to run it like a business."
Mr. Sauter has carried out extensive changes at KVIE. Prime-time ratings have risen somewhat since his arrival, and figures provided by the station show a 4 percent increase in memberships.
In the short time he has run the station he has authorized additional local programming, including "Express." He has instituted more aggressive fund-raising efforts, including hiring a new director of membership with extensive direct-mail experience. He has also hired several staffers he unabashedly calls "sales people," assigning them to raise money from local businesses.
Along with a handful of other PBS stations, KVIE has begun running 30-second promotional spots from underwriters. He has also revamped the stage set for the station's pledge drive and has improved its pledge premiums and on-screen graphics, unabashedly emulating the Home Shopping Network.
After he became president of CBS News in 1981, Mr. Sauter made drastic changes. Among them were budget cuts and the layoff or forced retirement of many longtime CBS News reporters and producers and a shift away from straight reporting from Washington and New York and toward more soft features.
To many CBS News staffers, the changes were appalling, epitomizing the triumph of style over substance.
The day after the financier Laurence A. Tisch gained control of CBS, which is now owned by the Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Mr. Sauter was asked to resign.
Mr. Sauter said he rarely watches network television these days.
In retrospect, the changes in television and TV news since 1986 have dwarfed anything Mr. Sauter or his allies at CBS began. Moreover, many of his disputed innovations are now standard practice at all the major network news operations.
"Some of the criticism of Van is justified, but a great deal is not," Dan Rather, the CBS News anchor, said recently of his friend. "Sure, he made some mistakes -- but so did we all."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Van Gordon Sauter in a control room at KVIE, the public television station he manages in Sacramento, Calif. (Don Preisler for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: KVIE-TV (SACRAMENTO, CALIF); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (62%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: KVIE-TV (SACRAMENTO, CALIF); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; PUBLIC TELEVISION PUBLIC TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); POLITICS (71%); SPORT FISHING (50%); 

PERSON: MEISLER, ANDY; SAUTER, VAN GORDON VAN GORDON SAUTER (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



453 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Phone Plan Is Attracting Immigrants In New York

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
Danny Coronel, a bartender from Elmhurst, Queens, lost his telephone when a former friend used it for calls to Hong Kong -- $1,900 worth. Jose Ramos, a livery-cab driver, and his wife, Jackie, never had a phone, even though they moved to Washington Heights in Manhattan from the Dominican Republic more than two years ago. "We didn't have anything in our name in this country," Mr. Ramos said. "It was just too hard."
They are by no means alone in New York, where the percentage of homes without phones is higher than in any other metropolitan area in the country. Tens of thousands of New Yorkers, most of them recent immigrants, go for long periods without a home phone, an appliance as common in American households as a refrigerator or a front door. The experts cite a variety of reasons -- credit problems, language barriers, lack of identification or simple fear of the system. Some people get phones only to lose them quickly to homesickness as unpaid bills for international calls mount. 
 Instead, in many neighborhoods like Washington Heights and the Lower East Side, Flushing in Queens and Sunset Park in Brooklyn, thousands of people have cobbled together a kind of alternative telephone existence. They carry beepers and cut-rate international calling cards, forage for working pay phones and, for the last several years, have flocked to a growing number of phone parlors, storefront businesses that let customers call overseas from private booths.
But now a tiny midtown telephone company that operates more than 150 phone parlors believes it has found an innovative way to begin changing that and at the same time build itself into a minor player in the local telephone market in New York.
In early January, the four-year-old company, Microtel Communications, began installing special phone lines in the homes of customers who have lost Nynex service or cannot get it. Working something like long-distance pay phones, the line allows users to make local calls and reach directory assistance and 911 for $23 a month. When customers want to make calls outside the New York area, however, they must pay in advance at one of the centers the company has set up throughout the city, particularly in Queens, the Bronx and Washington Heights. They can talk until their time runs out, and then the call is cut off.
"Because there's no risk, we don't need to protect ourselves -- no questions, no credit applications," said Robert A. Manghir, the company's president. "It's a great marriage. We're giving people service who couldn't get it, and that's wonderful -- and play the violins -- and we're making money at it, too." Telecommunications experts say they believe it is the first service of its kind in the country.
In the shadows of the recent deregulation of the telecommunications industry, with long-distance giants now racing into local markets, Microtel has quietly seized a head start on a sizable share of potential customers long ignored, largely because "Baby Bell" companies formed by the breakup of the AT&T monopoly, like Nynex, have not had a cost-effective way of providing service while also controlling risk. While some Baby Bells, like Bell Atlantic, have provided services like Microtel's, they have done so only on a limited basis. Microtel intends to make the service the heart of its business.
Using leased Nynex lines, the company sets up a switching system that connects customers to a central hub. Even though the phones are scattered in different locations, they are essentially extensions of the same system, much like the phones in a business office. Microtel then provides the long-distance service by buying millions of minutes of long-distance time from other carriers at wholesale prices and reselling the time to their phone parlors and home-phone customers.
The potential for the business is huge. As of November 1995, the Federal Communications Commission and the Census Bureau estimated that more than 350,000 homes in the New York metropolitan area, or nearly 12 percent, lacked telephone service. That is the highest percentage of any large metropolitan area in the country, the agencies found.
Nynex has a program called Life Line that allows elderly and welfare recipients to get phone service for almost no money, but many of the customers Microtel hopes to reach miss that safety net. They are largely working-class immigrant families from the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Mexico, Pakistan, Bangladesh and India who are not on public assistance but who also cannot afford to pay deposits or erase a debt left on a phone by a previous user.
While their jobs are often tenuous and their income fluctuates, they also tend to spend much more on long-distance because many of their loved ones are in the countries they left behind.
"It's a nice, lucrative little niche if they can convince the people out there in this situation that they are reliable," said David J. Roddy, chief telecommunications economist for the accounting and consulting firm of Deloitte & Touche.
He added that the company was anticipating strategies that other local providers would probably take under deregulation, such as aiming at specific pockets of customers and offering nontraditional service and payment plans. "I think they're going to have plenty of competition before long," he said.
The company has signed up a little more than 1,000 customers since it began advertising the service late last year on radio, in Spanish-language newspapers and in fliers and banners proclaiming, "Todos Califican" or "Everybody Qualifies."
Microtel relies on small neighborhood businesses, like its own phone parlors or video stores or bodegas, to serve as agents, who enroll customers, collect their long-distance money and at the same time use the service as a magnet to draw more customers into their stores. On Sherman Avenue in Washington Heights, for example, Jose Caba, who has owned a clothing boutique for 17 years, runs the service out of his basement and has signed up several dozen longtime customers.
The company's sales strategy so far has been a mixture of brash car-lot hucksterism and carefully planned ethnic marketing -- Pakistani salesmen knocking on doors in heavily Pakistani Flushing, print ads tailored for Ecuadorean weeklies. In a move to solidify its credibility in Washington Heights, its most promising neighborhood, the company hired a businessman well respected in the Dominican community, Nelson Acosta, and recently promoted him to a vice presidency.
Mr. Manghir, whose mother, Faye, owns the company, dwells little on the social or cultural aspects, however. "You want dial tone?" he asked in a recent interview, going into one of his stock sales speeches. "We'll give it to you no questions asked, in the basement, the bathroom, the attic, one room, two rooms, three rooms, wherever you want it. Pay up front and call wherever you want. Pay your bills, or we'll shut it off. Simple as that."
Some consumer advocates are wary that the company will end up exploiting those it purports to help. "While it's good that at least someone is willing to come in to give them something, we think this is basically second-class service," said Robert Ceisler, executive director of the New York Citizens Utility Board. "And there's danger that profiteering companies are going to come in and try to take advantage of people just because they have trouble getting a phone."
But the company appears to be gaining popularity in the neighborhoods it serves. Its long-distance rates are sometimes better than those of bigger carriers -- 65 cents a minute to Colombia, compared with 74 cents with MCI or about 81 cents from AT&T, for example. "I'm telling everybody to sign up," said Mr. Ramos, the 29-year-old livery driver from Washington Heights, who added that he does not mind that he has to hand over the money before he calls his mother in Santo Domingo.
"It's a good idea for people with only so much money: I can only talk what I can pay," he said. "My sister has had her phone cut off twice because she talks too much and then she can't pay. She gets on and just can't hang up."
Agustin Garcia, president of the Dominican Chamber of Commerce of New York, had a line installed in his headquarters in Washington Heights in January and his staff uses it frequently to call Santo Domingo, he said.
"There has been a vacuum in phone service in this community for a long time," Mr. Garcia said. "Anyone who comes here and provides an alternative to New York Telephone and speaks to us in our own language is going to be welcomed with open arms." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (88%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: MICROTEL COMMUNICATIONS MICROTEL COMMUNICATIONS (90%); NEW YORK (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROTEL COMMUNICATIONS NEW YORK (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (88%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (88%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES IMMIGRATION (92%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); REFUGEES (70%); CITIES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (69%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (53%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



454 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: At 27, a Talk Star Sets Out To Transform Chinese TV

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
Yang Lan traveled from Shanghai to New York City to attend graduate school because, she said, her fans back home in China would not have left her alone to study. Oprah Winfrey could sympathize.
Like Ms. Winfrey here, Ms. Yang has been one of her country's most popular television talk-show hosts. Her weekly program, "Zheng Da Variety Show," was the top-rated talk show in China from 1990 to 1993. Unlike Ms. Winfrey, Ms. Yang quit her gig in 1994 to enroll at Columbia University, where she is about to earn a master's degree in international relations. 
 Two weeks shy of her 28th birthday, Ms. Yang is plotting a return to the small screen when she goes home in June. She is developing a weekly syndicated series, "Yang Lan Horizon," which will be devoted to Western popular culture and the influence that people like Steven Spielberg and Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber exert on Chinese culture.
With her polished manner, telegenic looks, and razor-sharp grasp of the economics of show business, Ms. Yang is emblematic of a new generation of Chinese who are taking the first steps toward transforming Chinese television from a creaky, Government-controlled public utility into a more entrepreneurial American-style business.
With the support of her new husband, Bruno Z. Wu, a Shanghai television entrepreneur, and a little help from a well-financed former music executive, Robert J. Morgado, Ms. Yang even hopes to develop and star in programs that would be broadcast in the United States -- reversing, if only slightly, the tide of American television that flows into Asia.
"I'm only getting started," Ms. Yang said over lunch recently at Tang Pavilion, a Shanghai-style restaurant in Manhattan, "but I want to start early."
As a television personality, Ms. Yang has already shown her ability to appeal to a mass audience. Now, she and her husband are using Western-style business practices in an effort to make Ms. Yang a one-woman television franchise in China.
By Hollywood standards, Ms. Yang is already a major star. She was selected to host "Zheng Da" in an open audition at the age of 22, while still a senior at the Beijing Foreign Studies University.
The program, which Ms. Yang described as a cross between "Good Morning America" and "Donahue," became an instant sensation: Its frothy mix of interviews with Chinese celebrities and games involving a studio audience routinely drew the highest ratings of any program on Chinese Central Television, the Government-owned national network.
Ms. Yang, who carried on a spirited repartee with her older, male co-host, Zhao Zhong-Xian, also became a favorite of Chinese Government officials, who asked her to act as a host at various events, including the United Nations women's conference in Beijing last September.
By the age of 25, though, she felt burned out. Ms. Yang, who is a native of Beijing and whose father is a professor of linguistics at her old university, said she wanted to attend graduate school to gain the intellectual resources to tackle more serious topics on television.
At Columbia, Ms. Yang has been in the International Media Communications program, which is part of the School of Public and International Affairs. To hone her skills as a journalist, Ms. Yang also took classes in reporting and writing at the Graduate School of Journalism.
Donald H. Johnston, a Columbia professor and the director of the media communications program, recalls the day that Ms. Yang came as a prospective student for an interview. "She knocked me over because she was dressed like someone from Fifth Avenue, and she was as poised as anyone who ever came out of American television," he said.
Ms. Yang's academic pursuits faithfully reflect her professional interests. She said, for example, that she was researching a term paper about American talk shows.
"These shows seem to be very liberal and progressive on the surface," she said in flawless English, "but when you listen to the hosts talking, they are actually reinforcing stereotypes about people."
For all her criticism of American talk shows, Ms. Yang studiously avoids controversial issues as they apply to her country. She describes herself as basically apolitical and said that in her new series she would eschew politics for coverage of cultural issues.
"I'm in a position to do something beyond ideology," she said.
Ms. Yang met Mr. Wu at a lunch with friends in New York last year. They were married in October in a lavish ceremony at the Plaza Hotel -- and have forged a partnership that may prove as important to her professional future as anything she learned in graduate school.
Mr. Wu, who is 29, owns a syndication company that distributes American and Australian programs to Chinese stations. His big break came in late 1993 when Time Warner's music division signed a deal with his company, Youban Entertainment Group, to distribute a music-video program called "Warner Music Stars" on Chinese television.
Mr. Morgado, who was then the chairman of Warner Music Group, played a key role in negotiating the deal. And when Mr. Morgado started a firm this year to invest in small overseas media companies, his first move was to acquire Warner's minority stake in Mr. Wu's company. Mr. Morgado has pledged to invest further in Youban, and Youban is helping to finance Ms. Yang's series.
Mr. Wu said his company had syndicated "Yang Lan Horizon" to 51 regional and municipal television channels in China, which reach about 80 percent of the nation's 200 million television households.
For now, China is still dominated by Government-controlled broadcasters: Chinese Central Television, with its five channels; 30 regional networks based in the provinces; and more than 700 local channels operated by the major cities.
But experts on Asian media said that emergence of cable and satellite television would inexorably expand that market -- and create a keen desire for programs like Ms. Yang's. "Once the change in leadership stabilizes and the Government liberalizes, there will be tremendous new demand," said S.K. Fung, the president of NBC Asia.
Those are big uncertainties, of course. But Ms. Yang means to be ready in any event. She has returned to China during each break in classes to tape specials. "I keep appearing on the TV so they won't forget me," she said with an easy laugh, sounding for all the world like Oprah.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yang Lan gave up her top-rated talk show in China to pursue her master's degree at Columbia University. "I'm only getting started." (John Sotomayer/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SHAANXI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); EAST CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SHAANXI, CHINA (58%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; CABLE TELEVISION; SATELLITES GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (87%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); WOMEN (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); RESTAURANTS (63%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; YANG LAN OPRAH WINFREY (91%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



455 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: IN THE CROWD;
In Michigan, Blue-Collar Support Is Drifting From G.O.P.

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Mich., March 17

 BODY:
In a shot-and-beer tavern hazy with cigarette smoke, a couple of auto workers relaxed on bar stools after cashing paychecks fattened by overtime, and toasted a politician neither had supported four years ago.
"I wouldn't have my job if it wasn't for Bill Clinton," said Gregg Schulte, 36, a $22-an-hour electrician at a Chrysler engine plant here that has increased production during the past four years. 
 His pal and co-worker, Richard Pasik, 30, put it squarely: "If you're a working man and you don't vote for Clinton, you're just not thinking things through."
Both men cast protest votes for Ross Perot in 1992, when each was bitter about working at much lower-paying, no-benefits, nonunion construction jobs. But when the economy began to pull out of a recession -- soon after Mr. Clinton took office -- they landed coveted Chrysler jobs.
Trenton is one of the heavily industrial towns south of Detroit, a stretch known as Downriver that is emblematic of the white, working-class swing vote that Ronald Reagan successfully courted in the 1980's, and that Senator Bob Dole will need in November if the Republicans are to take back the White House.
Republicans once were as scarce here as foreign cars, and about as popular. Sizable numbers of industrial workers have been defecting from the Democratic Party for more than two decades, starting with the law-and-order campaign used by Richard M. Nixon to rally "the silent majority" in 1968.
In one sign of the changing times here, Jim DeSana, the longtime Democratic Mayor of Wyandotte, recently switched to the Republican Party to run against Representative John D. Dingell, a Democrat who entered Congress 40 years ago.
To Republicans here, the Democratic Party and the labor union hierarchy that supports it are wildly out of step with a conservative rank-and-file that is fed up with welfare abuse, affirmative action and gay people in the military.
But if the Republicans are counting on red-meat cultural issues to inspire waves of angry white men in hard hats to reject the Democrats for Mr. Dole, they would probably be disheartened by the talk in the Trenton Taproom, a popular haunt among auto workers, construction tradesmen and police officers.
Talking politics after the first-shift closing whistle on Friday, just about everybody at the horseshoe-shaped bar said they were going to vote their pocketbooks in November. And if anyone here intended to vote Republican, it went unsaid.
"Oh, there are a few guys at the plant who say they'll vote against Clinton," Mr. Pasik said, snuffing out a cigarette. "They start making big money, you know, and they think they're Republicans. But I tell 'em, 'Don't forget your background. It wasn't the Republicans who brought good money to union workers.' "
Voter surveys illustrate the situation facing Mr. Dole. White male blue-collar voters backed Republicans over Democrats by two to one in the 1992 and 1994 elections. They now favor Mr. Dole over Mr. Clinton, but by 49 percent to 41 percent. Among union voters, they back Mr. Clinton 53 percent to 35 percent for Mr. Dole.
To be sure, it is a long time to November, and some economic indicators suggest a downturn that could affect the political picture. But for now, judging from interviews with about three dozen voters in the vast industrial corridor along the Detroit River, Mr. Clinton has solid support.
Almost everybody here seems to be looking past the primary on Tuesday, with Mr. Dole expected to trounce Patrick J. Buchanan, who once had high hopes for Michigan, where his protectionist stance on trade might be expected to score points. But Mr. Buchanan is viewed with suspicion among many auto workers, who have not forgotten the revelation four years ago that the made-in-America populist owned a Mercedes-Benz.
Sandy Verduce, 50, who works part-time as a clerk in a Trenton clothing store, said she would vote for Mr. Dole on Tuesday, calling him "the least offensive Republican."
Mr. Buchanan, she added, "runs around in a cowboy hat, saying things about certain ethnic groups that really cross the line -- I mean, the man could be sued."
At the Sunrise Donut Shop in Southgate, John Simko, a 72-year-old retired auto worker, put down his cherry turnover at the mention of President Clinton, grimacing as if he had lost his appetite.
"I'm not crazy about Dole, but I'll vote for any Republican ahead of Clinton," said Mr. Simko, who added that he quit the Democratic Party when it nominated George McGovern in 1972. "I myself was a card-carrying Democrat. The Democrats are giving away the country -- all this welfare."
Only one thing could stop Mr. Simko from voting Republican. "If they pick Colin Powell for V.P., no way!" he said. "I can't tell you why -- but it's not because he's black."
Mayor DeSana of Wyanodotte, the Democrat-turned-Republican, first won office here 38 years ago, and then served as state senator and county commissioner, before returning to City Hall, said the class-based politics of Representative Dingell and President Clinton was outdated.
"People around here are really upset about welfare," said Mr. DeSana, the son of a tavern owner. "You want to see a working-class guy get upset? Go stand outside the factory gates, and wait for some tired fellow to walk out after his shift, and then ask him about people who sit home and collect welfare."
But right in the Mayor's own office, Terry Martin, a 28-year-old union laborer mending some electrical wires, scoffed at the notion that blue-collar people belong in the Republican Party.
"The Republicans just try to divide working people," Mr. Martin said. "And the Republicans are very preachy. They want to stick their nose in personal issues. When I was younger, I was involved in an abortion. And God only knows where I'd be if I had to become a husband and father when I was 22 -- when I shouldn't have been."
Nancy Collier, 45, whose job in a warehouse was recently eliminated in a corporate downsizing, said she had been "dead-set on voting Republican." But she is now thinking about backing President Clinton, although she would "have to keep quiet around my husband."
"I'm really concerned about health care now," Mrs. Collier said. "At least the Democrats wanted to do something about it. Hillary tried. And she got such a bad rap. People were against her because she was a strong, intelligent woman who was a true partner with her husband."
Mrs. Collier, describing herself as deeply religious, also said she was offended by Republican talk that seems to assert support from God. "I mean, is Pat Buchanan more Christian than the rest of us?" she asked.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Union laborer, 28: "The Republicans just try to divide working people," Terry Martin said. "They want to stick their nose in personal issues."; Store clerk, 50: Sandy Verduce said she would vote for Bob Dole in the Michigan primary, calling him "the least offensive Republican."; Retired auto worker, 72: "I'm not crazy about Dole, but I'll vote for any Republican ahead of Clinton," said John Simko, formerly a Democrat.; Auto worker, 30: "If you're a working man and you don't vote for Clinton, you're just not thinking things through," said Richard Pasik. (Photographs by Peter Yates for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BLUE COLLAR WORKERS; ELECTION ISSUES; LABOR OVERTIME (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); SMOKING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MEN (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); MAYORS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); WELFARE FRAUD (65%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (77%); JOHN DINGELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



456 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: PATRICK J. BUCHANAN;
Holiday Push Into Territory Of Democrats Gleans Little

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 17

 BODY:
In an emerald turtleneck and a union jacket, Patrick J. Buchanan plunged into his two adopted cultures today, knocking back a beer at a St. Patrick's Day parade and softening a long-held view on strikers' rights at the urging of organized labor.
He might be genealogically more German than Irish, and historically more scold than ally to labor, but Mr. Buchanan tried to set aside such incongruities today, visiting a union hall this morning and parading with union members this afternoon. 
 "It's just an overwhelming Irish Democrat area," Mr. Buchanan said, as he ambled up Western Avenue, occasionally waving his shillelagh and doffing his plaid cap. "They're good Irish folks, they probably agree with me on a lot, and they've disagreed with me in the past."
Some still disagreed. "Kiss Me I'm Irish," read one sign, "and Buchanan's a Bigot." Mr. Buchanan was booed along much of the parade route. To obscene gestures flashed repeatedly from one balcony, he returned only a broad grin and a wave.
Some in the crowd said that Mr. Buchanan faced an insurmountable hurdle: he was a Republican marching through Chicago's overwhelmingly Democratic South Side, right past the 19th Ward Democratic headquarters.
"He's got courage coming here, but I don't think anybody'll be impressed," said Mari Anne Wolf, a housewife.
Stressing his concern for working people, Mr. Buchanan has been asking Democrats here, in Ohio and in Michigan to cross over and vote for him in primaries on Tuesday. But as today's events demonstrated, it is an uphill struggle.
This morning, Mr. Buchanan visited Local 150 of the International Union of Operating Engineers, the workers who operate heavy machinery. From the union hall, Mr. Buchanan appeared on the ABC News program "This Week" and declared that he would rethink his opposition to legislation considered critical by organized labor.
"I think that we Republicans ought to take a look at our position," Mr. Buchanan said, "and not contribute anything that increases the economic insecurity of working men and women in this country."
He was referring to the striker-replacement bill, which would keep companies from permanently replacing workers who strike because of economic concerns.
Although the local's president, William E. Dugan, stopped short of endorsing Mr. Buchanan, he said that the Republicans could easily break the Democrats' hold on labor. He added, "This concept of labor's jumping aboard just because a person's a Democrat -- I think those days are over."
Mr. Buchanan's positions on issues like gun control appeal to working people, added Mr. Dugan, whose office was decorated with the head of a stuffed giraffe -- with about seven feet of neck -- that he had shot in Botswana.
But Mr. Buchanan had trouble winning over even Irish-American Republicans today. Before the parade, from behind the bar at the Summer West Beeftsro, Mr. Buchanan handed Marge Mullarkey, a Republican, a soft drink and a green carnation. But Ms. Mullarkey confided that she would vote for Senator Bob Dole because she thought he had a better chance of becoming President. Mr. Buchanan, she said, "would be elected in a few years, not now."
As Mr. Buchanan emerged from behind the bar, he assured Bob Lille, a plumber and union member, that he was considering supporting the striker-replacement legislation. "You back us on that, we'll back you 1,000 percent," Mr. Lille said.
But as Mr. Buchanan moved on, beer in hand, Mr. Lille admitted that he would never support a Republican. "I've supported Democrats my whole life," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (64%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; LABOR; STRIKES; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICS (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); GUN CONTROL (72%); ELECTIONS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; BENNET, JAMES PATRICK J BUCHANAN (97%); BOB LILLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



457 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Explosion Levels Old Power Plant And Lifts City's Hope of Renewal

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., March 17

 BODY:
At a time when this city is struggling to revive its fortunes, blowing up a building has become an occasion for celebration.
Hundreds of people gathered this morning to watch a blast that destroyed a 73-year-old power plant that had once provided the electricity for more than a dozen factories. But the factories have long since closed, and in three seconds, at about 8:50 A.M., the United Illuminating Company's 16-story Steel Point Generating Station collapsed with a muffled boom, disappearing in a black cloud of dust. 
 The crowd whistled and applauded.
"That was beautiful," said Mario Marcano, 54, whose family had gathered on his porch a few blocks away to watch.
"Totally cool," declared 9-year-old Steven Greytak of Newtown, standing across the Pequonnock River from the plant with his father, George, a United Illuminating employee, and a host of other utility employees, past and present.
It was a bittersweet moment in Bridgeport history, an event that some said marked the passing of an era. The Steel Point Station, a coal-powered plant, has not operated since 1983, when it was placed in "deactivated reserve status." It was permanently retired nine years later.
Another power plant in the area, one with greater capacity, the Bridgeport Harbor Station, opened in 1957 and continues to operate.
In its heyday, Steel Point had lines that went directly to Bridgeport Brass and Carpenter Steel and supplied electricity to General Electric's small appliance division, Remington Arms and Jenkins Valve.
All of these factories are now empty shells in the landscape of this Long Island Sound city, which has lost 70 percent of its manufacturing jobs over the last 25 years, among them the 160 positions at the Steel Point power plant.
United Illuminating, the New Haven-based utility, hopes to sell the 15-acre waterfront Steel Point site, and the land has already become the source of dreams for Bridgeport's future. Only last fall it was being touted as the ideal location for a new casino, until the legislature rejected the idea. Donald J. Trump has mentioned it as a good spot for an amusement park.
"This is prime real estate," said David W. Hoskinson, a United Illuminated vice president who has overseen the site's cleanup and demolition. Over the last year, he said asbestos and lead were removed from the buildings, and in the next few months the remaining walls and boilers will be knocked down, and other contaminants removed.
Mr. Hoskinson said, "We've turned a brown field into a green field," terms referring to the improvement of polluted industrial sites.
By about 7 A.M. today, dozens of former and current Steel Point employees had come to a party at the Bridgeport Harbor power station to watch the explosion. They were armed with cameras, video recorders and binoculars. Doughnuts, orange juice and coffee had been laid out by the company. Many people were wearing green carnations and shamrock stickers to mark St. Patrick's Day. It felt like a company picnic.
About 130 pounds of explosives had been placed in 360 spots throughout the old plant, positioned to sever the steel supports for the boilers and building.
Before the charges were detonated Gus Lawrence, 59, once an assistant control room operator at Steel Point, was awash in memories.
"I'm retiring in 10 days, and I'm taking this building with me," Mr. Lawrence, now an electrician with the company, said. He recalled starting in the coal room in 1961 and working his way up. Next to him was Charlie Belletsky, a wiper at the plant who was the best man at Mr. Lawrence's wedding.
"Remember how I used to polish the brass tubes?" Mr. Belletsky said.
"That place was immaculate; it shined," Mr. Lawrence answered.
With half of its exterior falling off and its frame bared to the elements, it was difficult for a visitor to imagine the plant as the sparkling wonder that Mr. Lawrence described.
A few minutes later, a cloud of smoke emerged from Steel Point. "I think they fixed the boiler," Mr. Lawrence said. The plant suddenly exploded. The smoke stack tumbled down. Mr. Lawrence's face grew ashen, and he took a few deep breaths.
People clapped. Mr. Lawrence's eyes were moist.
"Are you all right?" his wife asked.
"I'm just a little mad at the applause," he said. "I guess I'm just getting old."
The crowd began to leave, and Mr. Hoskinson, the vice president, declared the explosion a success. He waved goodbye to a friend.
"It doesn't take much to gather a crowd in Bridgeport, does it," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The site of a United Illuminated Company power plant in Bridgeport is part of visions for a turnaround on the city's waterfront. Explosives leveled the plant yesterday. (Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); CRS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS332811 METAL HEAT TREATING (54%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3398 METAL HEAT TREATING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: UNITED ILLUMINATING CO (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); CARPENTER TECHNOLOGY CORP (54%); STEEL POINT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: STEEL POINT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EXPLOSIONS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WATER POLLUTION (73%); TRENDS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); ASBESTOS (60%); CASINOS (50%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



458 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Thomas Enders, Diplomat In Cold War, Is Dead at 64

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

 BODY:
Thomas O. Enders, a career diplomat who played a major role in the secret bombing of Cambodia during the Nixon Administration and guided the early Reagan Administration policy in Central America, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 64.
The cause of death was melanoma, a form of skin cancer, according to a statement by Salomon Brothers Inc., where he was an international financial adviser after retiring from the State Department in 1986. 
 A man of imposing size who climbed mountains in his spare time, Mr. Enders was a blunt-spoken conservative pragmatist whose diplomatic career included assignments as Ambassador to Canada and Spain, Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Business Affairs and Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs.
While his career was highlighted by cold war intrigues in tropical climes, he also played a central role in reaching an agreement with Canada to construct a natural gas pipeline to the United States and in setting up a Reagan Administration program to increase United States trade with Latin America.
Mr. Enders was born on Nov. 28, 1931, in Hartford, the son of an affluent Connecticut banker and nephew of John F. Enders, a Nobel Prize-winning virologist. He attended Yale, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in his junior year and was a prominent member of Scroll and Key, the select secret society known to provide a network for high-powered careers. He met his wife, Gaetana Marchegiano, the daughter of an Italian diplomat in Tangiers, in 1951, while he was doing research on the medieval economy of Morocco.
Mr. Enders received master's degrees at the University of Paris and at Harvard University and joined the State Department in 1958.
After working as an economic officer in Stockholm and Washington, he was made deputy chief of mission at the United States Embassy in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, in 1969. But he quarreled openly with the Ambassador, William Leonhart, and was assigned to Washington.
Self-confident but also aloof, Mr. Enders found himself through much of his career in the middle of tangles within the State Department and with officials of the Defense Department and the Central Intelligence Agency.
"His brain power was towering," said Alexander M. Haig Jr., a former Secretary of State and a patron of Mr. Enders, "but he tolerated fools not easily, and that contributed to his reputation for brusqueness and perhaps impatience."
Lawrence Pezzullo, who worked for Mr. Enders as Ambassador to Nicaragua in 1981, said: "He had the exterior of a very cold, difficult kind of person. But what was behind it was a very impressive intelligence and strength of character."
Mr. Enders quickly rebounded from his setback in Yugoslavia, and he was assigned to Cambodia, where he became deputy chief of mission in 1971. There, Ambassador Emory C. Swank placed Mr. Enders in charge of a committee that reviewed and cleared requests by the Government of Prime Minister Lon Nol for secret American bombing raids on Cambodian territory occupied by North Vietnamese forces.
Mr. Enders' role in the bombing, considered a vital component of President Nixon's efforts to bolster the Saigon Government during the withdrawal of American ground forces from South Vietnam, won him the recognition of Henry A. Kissinger, then the national security adviser. But it angered powerful members of Congress when he was accused of misleading two staff members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee who went to Phnom Penh in 1973 to investigate whether the American air strikes exceeded Congressional restrictions.
A year later, when Mr. Kissinger, then the Secretary of State, promoted Mr. Enders to Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Business Affairs, the Foreign Relations Committee delayed the appointment for several weeks as a mild protest.
After serving as Ambassador to Canada and the United States representative to the European Economic Community, Mr. Enders was selected by Secretary of State Haig in 1981 as the first of three Assistant Secretaries of State for Inter-American Affairs in the Reagan Administration.
Many Congressional Democrats considered Mr. Enders a hard-liner, largely because he strongly defended the Government of El Salvador during a period of frequent death-squad killings and army massacres. But he was considered something of a dove within the Administration for pressing for negotiations with leftists in both El Salvador and Nicaragua, and he fought bitterly with several senior officials, including the American representative to the United Nations, Jeane Kirkpatrick, and William J. Casey, the Director of Central Intelligence.
In August 1981, before the contra guerrillas were anything more than a nuisance for the Nicaraguan Government, Mr. Enders flew to Managua for two days of talks with the Sandinista leader Daniel Ortega Saavedra. The two forged a tentative agreement in which Washington would stop sending money to the contras in return for the Sandinistas' promising to curtail their military build-up and halt their backing of the guerrillas in El Salvador.
But a State Department draft of the agreement was rewritten by the national security adviser, Richard Allen, to include blunt language that the Sandinistas eventually rejected.
"If President Reagan had bought on to what Enders sensed when he met with the comandantes," Ambassador Pezzullo said, "you would have very likely had a situation in which the contra war would have never occurred."
Apart from his career, Mr. Enders was a mountaineer who climbed extensively through the Canadian Rockies and the Alps, and he collected rare books on travel and exploration.
The funeral will be at 10 A.M. Wednesday at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, 869 Lexington Ave., followed by a private burial in Connecticut.
In addition to his wife, Mr. Enders is survived by three daughters, Domitila, of Manhattan, Claire Enders Thomson of London and Alice Roessler of Washington; a son, Thomas, of Bethany, Conn.; three grandchildren; his brother, Anthony Enders of Manhattan, and a sister, Dr. March Enders Kornack of Washington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas O. Enders (Associated Press, 1982) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CAMBODIA (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); SPAIN (79%); MOROCCO (79%); SERBIA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); SWEDEN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS INC (72%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CAMBODIA (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); SPAIN (79%); MOROCCO (79%); SERBIA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); SWEDEN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATH; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); COLD WAR (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); CANCER (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); SKIN CANCER (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); NATURAL GAS (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); VIROLOGY (66%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (65%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (53%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (53%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (53%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (53%); 

PERSON: ENDERS, THOMAS O; KRAUSS, CLIFFORD THOMAS O ENDERS (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



459 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Doubts on Tying Job Loss To Laws on Environment

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 17

 BODY:
Environmental regulations have not been an important cause of job losses, a California State Senate report, due to be released on Monday, concludes.
The report, to be issued by the Office of Research of the Democrat-controlled Senate based its conclusions on a review of previous research and data. 
 Critics of environmental regulations, particularly of the Endangered Species Act, have long argued that the rules kill jobs and stifle businesses and the economy.
But the report says those contentions are exaggerated. It states that shifts of business to other countries or states with less-stringent laws are not a big cause of job loss. More jobs are lost because of leveraged buyouts, mergers, taxes and other forces, the report says.
The estimated loss of 30,000 jobs in the wood-products industry, for example, has mainly been caused by the decreased demands by the construction industry and by gains in productivity rather than by logging restrictions created to protect the endangered spotted owl, the report says. It also blamed the industry's failure to undertake practices to insure future timber supplies for the loss of thousands of jobs.
Jobs losses in the Los Angeles area in the past few years resulted more from military cuts than from the state's implementation in the 1980's of the nation's strictest air-quality controls, the report says.
The State Senate report relied mainly on the research of Stephen M. Meyer, director of the Project on Environmental Politics and Policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr. Meyer has studied the relationship between strong environmental laws and economic growth in all 50 states.
In an interview, Mr. Meyer said his research showed that the economies of states with stronger environmental policies were even stronger than those of states with weaker policies.
But Lynn Scarlett, vice president of research at the Reason Foundation, a conservative research organization in Santa Monica, Calif., warned that such conclusions might be based on faulty assumptions.
She said that states with the most productive economies may have more stringent environmental laws because they have more money to spend on such "luxury" items.
"It's deceptive not to portray to people that there are trade-offs," she said. "Simple assertions are typically deceptive simply because economies and what makes them work are complex. The truth probably lies somewhere in the middle."
Ms. Scarlett referred to a study in 1990 by Harvard University researchers that said that environmental laws slowed economic growth by 0.2 percent a year from 1974 and 1985, and that the gross national product would have been about 2.5 percent higher without such laws.
A spokesman for State Senator Maurice Johannessen, a Republican who represents a Northern California district where a sawmill with 150 workers recently closed, said any effect on industry was keenly felt.
"You cannot mitigate job losses in rural, resource-dependent areas to job gains in urban areas," said the spokesman, Jim Goodwin. "When you look directly at those communities and families affected, it's hard to accept that these regulations have no economic impact."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (66%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (79%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (74%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (69%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN M MEYER (80%); LYNN SCARLETT (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



460 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1971 words

HEADLINE: Digital TV, Dollars and Dissent;
The Political Battle Grows Over the Use of New Broadcast Technology

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 17

 BODY:
There are a lot of disturbing programs on television these days. But lately some of the most ominous emanations from broadcast stations have taken the form of a lobbying campaign.
"Imagine your favorite shows . . . gone," warned a big newspaper ad taken out last Wednesday by KRON-TV, NBC's affiliate in San Francisco. "Local news, weather and sports . . . gone. The Olympics for free . . . gone. That's what some in Congress have in mind." 
 That was just one sample from a nationwide media blitz by television broadcasters, a barrage that includes a toll-free telephone hot line to sign up grass-roots political support from viewers. The number (1-888 NO-TV-TAX) generated about 3,500 calls a day last week, according to the National Association of Broadcasters.
At issue is something called digital television, but the fight is not about technology as much as it is about money. Television broadcasters see themselves as locked in the political battle of their lives, a battle that may intensify in the next two weeks as the House and Senate commerce committees conduct extensive hearings on the question of how to bring this technology to viewers.
Digital television is a technology that grew from plans in the 1980's to develop high-definition pictures with movie-like sharpness. But it has evolved to allow many other possibilities, which include the transmission of four to six shows at once; high-speed data services, and even wireless links to the Internet.
Broadcasters argue that the new technology will be stillborn and that the survival of free television will be jeopardized unless the Federal Government provides every television station a second, transitional channel.
Without these transitional channels, broadcasters say, they cannot switch to digital services unless they shut down their existing analog services -- a move that would leave people with conventional television sets in the dark. The industry contends that it would take many years for the nation's viewers to buy new digital-television sets or devices to convert their analog sets into digital receivers.
But the industry's critics, including Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, contend that broadcasters are asking taxpayers for a multibillion-dollar giveaway. Government economists estimate that the licenses earmarked for digital television -- essentially unused channels in the UHF band -- would be worth at least $10 billion if the Government auctioned them to the highest bidders.
In fact, in December and January, Senator Dole held up passage of the Telecommunications Act over the issue of the digital airwaves, agreeing to let the legislation proceed only after getting a commitment from his Congressional colleagues to take up the matter separately -- and soon.
Money is not the only issue. Some consumer groups and Federal officials argue that broadcasters should get new licenses only if they reserve some new capacity for expanded public service: more educational programming for children, free broadcast time for political candidates or new types of community services.
"If they get more spectrum, they should give more public service," said Andrew Jay Schwartzman, director of the Media Access Project, a nonprofit group in Washington. The debate is like a Rubik's cube puzzle that no one has solved. No matter how the pieces are assembled and reassembled, they never line up quite right.
The battle centers on four options:
*"Loaning" every TV station a second channel at no cost during the transition from analog to digital television -- but with no new obligation and no specific deadline to return the original broadcast license for new users. This is the broadcast industry's preference.
*Auctioning the licenses to any and all bidders and letting the winners do whatever they want with the frequencies they acquire. This approach is championed by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who argues that current broadcasters have no special claim on the licenses.
*Granting current broadcasters each a digital license and forcing them to surrender their analog licenses in a decade. This is the Clinton Administration's position, intended to advance digital television but prevent a giveaway.
*Giving broadcasters a new license while imposing tough requirements for services like public-interest broadcasting or other types of nonprofit wireless communications services. This is the approach proposed by Mr. Schwartzman and leaders of other nonprofit groups.

The Broadcasters
New Forms Of Competition
Television broadcasters say the survival of free, or advertiser-supported, television depends on getting new channels for digital service.
"If you look out 5 to 10 years, cable is going to have huge video capacity and you're going to have the same thing from telephone companies and satellites," said Richard Cotton, the general counsel of NBC. "I don't think it's too strong to say that over the long haul there is zero possibility that a single-channel analog video provider can survive against that kind of competition."
Broadcasters say they would surrender their existing licenses as soon as most viewers switched to digital service. But no one knows how long that would take, and the industry has adamantly opposed any firm deadlines for returning the old licenses to the Government.
Robert C. Wright, the president of NBC, argued earlier this year that a spectrum auction would amount to a tax on broadcasters, forcing them to pay the Government to stay in business. He also argued that more than half of the spectrum would go to "people with another use that has nothing to do with broadcasting" -- cellular-phone companies, for instance.
But many broadcasters acknowledge that they are uncertain about the demand for digital services and are unclear about their own intentions. "The surveys we've seen suggest that in 10 years we might have 10 percent penetration for high-definition sets," said Ralph Gabbard, the president of Gray Communications in Lexington, Ky., which owns eight stations in small and medium-sized markets. He wondered whether such a small slice of the market would be worth significant investment. "Can a broadcaster afford to invest $8 million to $10 million in equipment? Where's the advantage? Where's the business?"
That view was echoed by Ben Tucker, the president of Retlaw Broadcasting, a company in California that is controlled by the heirs of Walt Disney. "I've heard all kinds of speculation about what the business opportunities might be, but I've seen no business plan that shows how you enhance the business in your market," Mr. Tucker said.
 
The Money
$12.5 Billion Or $70 Billion?
Lawmakers like Senator McCain say that the fairest approach for taxpayers would be to simply auction all the television frequencies and use the money to reduce the Federal deficit. That idea has drawn considerable interest, as lawmakers have watched the Federal Communications Commission raise billions from auctions of wireless telephone licenses. Senator Dole, the Senate Majority Leader and the likely Republican nominee for President, insisted earlier this year that giving broadcasters new licenses would be "corporate welfare."
But opinions vary about what the licenses earmarked for digital television would be worth. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that they might fetch $12.5 billion in an auction, while economists at the F.C.C. have said the licenses might be worth $70 billion.
But many experts say that auctions could easily kill digital television because many licenses would fall to companies with plans for services that have nothing to do with television.
The notion that an auction could help reduce the deficit got a chilly reception at a hearing before the Senate Budget Committee last week. "Spectrum auctions are not the solution to the deficit problem," said Senator Phil Gramm, the Texas Republican. "It is a one-shot deal that will net us maybe $10 billion to $15 billion. But all we're doing is making it easier for one year." That view was echoed by Senator J. James Exon, Democrat of Nebraska. "Some see the spectrum as a cash cow," he said. "I do not, and I don't think that should be the driving force of our policy."
 
The White House
Clinton Proposal For Transition
The Clinton Administration has proposed a third approach, aimed at promoting digital television while also generating revenue for the Treasury. Under the proposal, the Government would meet the broadcasters halfway, by giving each a second, digital channel for every existing analog television channel they operate. But the Government would impose a strict timetable, auctioning the current analog television licenses in 2002 and forcing today's broadcasters to switch off the analog stations by 2005.
Administration officials say their proposal provides the best of all worlds: a chance for broadcasters to move smoothly to digital technology and a chance for the Government to reap what Administration forecasters expect to be about $17 billion in auction revenue.
"What we are trying to do is create a win-win-win situation," said Larry Irving, Assistant Secretary of Commerce in charge of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration. But broadcasters and many others say the plan would impose huge costs on consumers. The most optimistic forecasts predict that only a third of households will have digital television receivers by 2005. That means millions of other consumers would then have to junk their conventional sets or buy digital converter boxes.
No one knows what these boxes will cost. The closest comparison now is the digital receiver for Hughes Communications' DirecTV satellite service. That receiver now costs about $500, but the price is expected to fall as computer chips continue to become less expensive.
Mr. Irving, citing statements by television industry officials, said the boxes would cost as little as $25 apiece by the time they were needed. But as recently as December, White House officials estimated that the converter boxes would cost $100.
 
Consumer Groups
Making a Push For Public Service
The last option is one favored by some consumer advocates and by Reed E. Hundt, the F.C.C. chairman: offering broadcasters the transitional licenses they seek, in exchange for a broad new commitment to public service. Under proposals offered by Mr. Schwartzman of the Media Access Project, broadcasters could satisfy these obligations in a variety of ways. They could simply set aside part of their frequencies for nonprofit community and education services.
Or they could pay a revenue tax for any subscription services beyond free television -- money that would be used to build a trust fund for public telecommunications projects. Or they could simply commit to carrying a minimum amount of public programming -- educational television for children, free broadcast time for political candidates or programs created by local government or community groups.
Broadcasters say they want no part of such plans, arguing that they already carry public-service programming.
But Mr. Hundt said the Government was well within its rights to demand new public-service broadcasting -- and should do so. "A TV license carries no property rights," Mr. Hundt said last week. "It is a license to use the public property, and it can be conditioned in exactly the same way that an apartment lease can be conditioned for 'no pets' and 'no children.' "
"Think about it," Mr. Hundt added. "We could break the back of the political fund-raising monster" by providing free broadcast time for candidates. "Thanks to the digital communications revolution," he said, "all we have to do is ask. The only question is whether Congress and the F.C.C. have the will to make these requests."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert C. Wright, left, the president of NBC, opposes an idea backed by Senator John McCain: Auctioning the airwaves for digital television. (Photographs by The New York Times) (pg. D8)
 
Chart/Photos: "THERE ARE MANY WAYS TO CARVE A CASH COW"
 To promote advanced television, the Government originally planned to give television stations a second channel in the UHF frequency band. But the advent of digital technology allows more options: cinema-quality pictures; multiple, lower-resolution programs; a blend of video and data; or services like paging.
 
ONE OPTION: One Program Per Channel, High-Resolution Images
 Picture quailty is based on the number of dots per inch, Sending cinema-quality images would be possible on a digital channel, but would rule out other uses.
 
ANOTHER OPTION: More Services, Lower-Resolution Images
With fewer dots, picture quality would decline, though it could be better than todly's analog video. More bandwidth would be available for other money-making purposes.
 TELEVISION SHOWS: More programs could be shown on separate "channels" where only one could be broadcast before. EXAMPLE: On station 2 there would be four choices -- Drama 2A, News 2B, Cartoons 2C, Sports 2D.
 TEXT: Supplements the images. EXAMPLE: Scores with a basketball game.
 DATA: Transmit dada unrelated to programming. EXAMPLE: Run paging system on the spare bandwidth.
 
(Source: Federal Communications Commission) (pg. D1)
 
Graph: "WHERE ON THE SPECTRUM" shows the extent of broadcast spectrum which is under discussion. It falls in the UHF range. (Source: Westinghouse Research and Development Center) (pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 104 P.L. 104 TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1996 (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; AUCTIONS BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); LOBBYING (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUCTIONS (84%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (73%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; DOLE, BOB (SEN) JOHN MCCAIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



461 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Russia Join in Supersonic Jet Study

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: ZHUKOVSKY, Russia, March 17

 BODY:
In an unusual economic collaboration uniting former cold war adversaries, a leading manufacturer of Russian warplanes has joined forces with the American aerospace industry to carry out research for a possible supersonic passenger plane for the 21st century.
The Tupolev Design Bureau, best known for designing Russia's huge Blackjack bomber, has turned its TU-144 supersonic plane into a flying laboratory. 
 The experiments are being carried out at the behest of top American aerospace companies, who have also produced their share of warplanes and are now interested in determining whether it is economically feasible to build a new civilian plane that could fly at more than twice the speed of sound.
The sleek TU-144, which is to serve as the flying laboratory, was officially unveiled today at the heavily guarded military airfield here, an hour's drive from Moscow.
In an event redolent with political symbolism, the delta-wing plane was festooned with American corporate logos, like those of the Boeing Company, the Rockwell International Corporation and the McDonnell Douglas Corporation. The Russian Army Choir sang "America the Beautiful."
In another twist, any aircraft that emerges from the American-Russian collaboration may compete with the French and the British, who have already produced the Concorde supersonic plane.
"It's ironic that former Russian and American bomber manufacturers are now working together on a civilian program," said Louis J. Williams, a specialist on high-speed flight for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, which is financing the experiments. "At the same time, the competition with Europe is intensifying."
The Concorde has given the Europeans considerable experience in supersonic transport operations, and the Russian-American collaboration is intended to erase that advantage and perhaps give the United States a lead, American officials said.
"We want to even the playing field," Mr. Williams said.
Still, despite the good will here today, it was clear that the hard-up Russian aviation industry has more pressing hopes for the further collaboration than American aerospace executives, who still appear noncommittal on the future production of a supersonic passenger plane.
The origins of today's partnership go back more than two decades, when the first effort was mounted to develop the supersonic transport plane.
The first supersonic transport was developed under the guidance of Andrei N. Tupolev and his son Aleksei A. Tupolev, who was at today's unveiling. The plane made its maiden flight on Dec. 31, 1968.
All told, Russia produced 17 of the planes, one of which was involved in a sensational air crash at the 1973 Paris air show. But the Russians concluded that the planes were uneconomic and phased them out of service.
Britain and France developed the somewhat smaller supersonic Concorde, which made its maiden flight in 1969 and its first commercial flight in 1976. But Congress blocked a similar American project over concerns about economic feasibility and possible environmental damage.
Some experts still say the glory days of the supersonic transport are not at hand. "Speed is not that important," said Chris Chiames, spokesman for the Air Transport Association, a trade association for the major airlines. "When you look at the business travel market, the overriding factor tends to be convenience and frequent service."
But others experts with an eye on business travel across the Pacific say there will be a market for supersonic commercial flights.
In something of a switch, the American Government has begun a research program on high-speed civilian aircraft and plans to spend a hefty $1.9 billion on research by 2001.
And by all accounts, the experiments with Russians are being carried out at bargain basement prices. Including ground tests of the engine, they will cost NASA about $15.5 million, some $8.5 million of which is being paid to Tupolev.
The project was called for in a 1993 agreement between Vice President Al Gore and Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia.
Standing in front of the hangar, which still bears an outsized portrait of Lenin, Aleksei Tupolev added that the Americans were right to work with the TU-144, since it was "a little better" than the Concorde.
There are to be 32 flights, the first of which is scheduled for the end of April. The data will be shared.
Aleksandr L. Pukhov, Tupolev's chief designer, said the Russians would like to fly the plane to California for sonic boom tests in a second phase of the experiments. But American officials said that had not yet been agreed.
Robert E. Spitzer, a Boeing Company vice president, indicated that any decision on production of a supersonic transport was years away. "We will go almost to the turn of the century before we have all the data collected," Mr. Spitzer said.
Valentin T. Klimov, Tupolev's director general, was more upbeat, wrapping his project in political themes intended to appeal to Americans.
"It used to be that the emphasis was on military aviation and civil aviation was not so interested in supersonic," Mr. Klimov said. "Now, maybe the civilian area may be more important to aviation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Russian warplane manufacturer, Tupolev, has joined American companies in research for a new supersonic passenger plane. A test model of the TU-144 was rolled out for ceremony in Zhukovsky, Russia, yesterday. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (91%); BAB (BRU) (91%); BA (NYSE) (91%); ROK (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (91%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (69%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (69%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (78%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); 

COMPANY: TUPOLEV DESIGN BUREAU; BOEING CO; MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORP BOEING CO (91%); ROCKWELL AUTOMATION INC (69%); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (69%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TUPOLEV DESIGN BUREAU; BOEING CO; MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORP NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DESIGN; SUPERSONIC TRANSPORT (SST); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; RESEARCH MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); COLD WAR (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); ARMIES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRLINES (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (72%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



462 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Intel to Abandon Paragon Line of Supercomputers

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 17

 BODY:
The Intel Corporation has told customers of its Paragon supercomputer business that it will stop making the computers at the end of September and ship its last machines by the end of the year.
Intel executives said the decision had been discussed since 1993. The Paragon system was introduced in 1991 and about 100 machines have been sold since then. Prices range in the millions of dollars, depending on the number of microprocessors. 
 "This is another indication that we've ended one era and begun another one," said Gary Smaby, an industry analyst at the Smaby Group in Minneapolis.
The first supercomputers, crucial for advanced military, scientific and engineering applications, were created in 1966 by the Control Data Corporation, which is now the Ceridian Corporation. Subsequently and until recently, Cray Research Inc. dominated the market.
Intel entered the supercomputer business in 1984 with a subsidiary called Intel Scientific Computers. At first the company used its 286 and 386 processors in its computers, then in 1990 it introduced the Paragon system, the first based on the faster i860 microprocessor.
But the remarkable increase in power of off-the-shelf computer systems, coupled with the decline of military and Government spending after the cold war, has shrunk the market. Now supercomputer makers are unable to stay significantly ahead of developers of consumer products like personal computers.
That has created a wave of consolidation and bankruptcy, including the recent demise of supercomputer companies like the Thinking Machines Corporation and the Maspar Computer Corporation, and the acquisition of the Convex Computer Corporation by the Hewlett-Packard Company, as well as the agreement by Silicon Graphics Inc. to acquire Cray Research.
In 1995, Silicon Graphics and Cray Research together controlled about 43 percent of the $1.91 billion market for scientific, engineering and technical computing, according to an estimate by the Smaby Group. Intel ranks fifth in that market, with only a 4 percent share.
"This is a dramatically declining market," said Ed Macy, an Intel vice president who has run the company's supercomputer business. "Today there are virtually no independent survivors in the high-performance computing market."
Increasingly, the companies with the resources to invest in pushing the frontiers of computing performance have been consumer electronics companies.
That process is expected to accelerate when the next generation of Intel microprocessors has been widely distributed. Intel has badly lagged behind the makers of reduced instruction set computers -- with simplified hardware that speeds computing -- in mathematical calculations known as floating-point operations. The recently introduced Pentium Pro microprocessor has closed the gap and is expected to be available in standard office computers soon.
That suggests new difficulties for the makers of high-end computers such as mainframes and supercomputers.
"What will happen when people can buy their scientific work station over the phone from a PC company like Gateway?" Howard Richmond, a vice president at the Gartner Group, said, referring to Gateway 2000.
While Intel has decided to stop manufacturing the Paragon machines, Mr. Macy said the company would continue work on its Teraflop supercomputer, now being designed under a $45 million contract from the Government. Teraflop is the ability to perform a trillion complex calculations a second.
He said Intel would continue to try to sell scaled-down or "miniature" versions of the Teraflop system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); ARB (NYSE) (91%); SGI (NASDAQ) (83%); HPQ (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (91%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (91%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (91%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (83%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (72%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP INTEL CORP (98%); ARBITRON INC (91%); CERIDIAN CORP (91%); CRAY RESEARCH INC (83%); SILICON GRAPHICS INTERNATIONAL CORP (83%); THINKING MACHINES CORP (66%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (66%); CONVEX COMPUTER CORP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); MINNESOTA, USA (72%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PERSONAL COMPUTERS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) SUPERCOMPUTERS (94%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (87%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); PARALLEL COMPUTING (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); COLD WAR (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN ANN LIVERMORE (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



463 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
THE MAKING OF A BOMBER
Suicide bombers against Israelis are recruited through a long process of indoctrination and often are considered martyrs, but the family of one bomber showed ambivalence about his actions. A1
 
NEW COPYRIGHT WORRIES
Publishers are worried about their ability to protect against copyright infringement after the appearance on the World Wide Web of a book that had been banned by a French judge for privacy violations. A1
 
RABIN KILLER'S TRIAL ENDING
In final arguments in the trial of the confessed killer of Prime Minister Yitzak Rabin of Israel, the prosecution challenged the assertion by the accused's lawyer that he did not mean to kill Mr. Rabin. A8
 
JOINT AEROSPACE EFFORT
Russian and American manufacturers will collaborate on a possible supersonic passenger plane, and a flying laboratory for the plane was unveiled in an event heavy with political symbolism. A9
 
RUSSIAN COMMUNIST'S PROGRAM
The Russian Communist leader revealed his program for the presidential race, which was anti-free market and populist but avoided hot-button terms like "nationalization" and "Communism." A9
 
GUNS AN ISSUE IN SCOT KILLINGS
Britain, still mourning the killing of 16 Scottish children, turned its attention to why the country's stringent gun laws did not provide protection from the killer. A5
 
CHINA WARNING OVER TAIWAN
China, which is conducting war games near Taiwan out of disapproval over an election that it sees as an independence move, warned the United States to keep its navy away from the Taiwan Strait. A3
 
SOUR NOTE ON SERB DEFENDER
A German-language writer who has been defending the Serbian cause has stirred a storm of criticism in countries that are especially sensitive to Germany's role at the beginning of the Balkan conflict. A7
 
Fires in a Sarajevo suburb as Serbs prepared to leave. A6
 
Kurdish protests in Germany led to calls for deportation. A7
 
Lahore Journal: Sticky wicket for Asian cricket. A4
 
National A10-13, B6
 
FULL-SCALE ATTACK ON TOBACCO
In going after the tobacco industry, the Justice Department has mounted the Administration's most aggressive effort against the makers of a single consumer product, lawyers say. A1
 
NEW FORCE IN ADOPTIONS
A new Tennessee law allows adoptees 21 or older to find out the names, addresses and other information the state has about their birth parents. But the new law does offer some their privacy. A1
 
VYING TO BE NO. 2
Even as they unite behind Bob Dole, four Midwestern Republican Governors are eyeing one another as they vie for national acclaim over the biggest prize of all: to be picked as Mr. Dole's running mate. A1
 
WITHER THE WORKING CLASS
Trenton, a heavily industrial town south of Detroit, is emblematic of the white, working-class swing vote that Ronald Reagan captured. But Bob Dole may not be able to count on the area in the fall. B6
 
CONTRACT WORK EXPANDING
Even as the President and Congress race to take credit for shrinking the Federal payroll, the Government's costs for outside, or contract, employees keep rising. A1
 
BUCHANAN COURTS IRISH AND LABOR
Visiting Chicago, Patrick Buchanan knocked back a beer at a St. Patrick's Day parade and softened a long-held view at the urging of organized labor. B6
 
PROGRESS IN STRIKE TALKS
Negotiators from the General Motors Corporation and the United Automobile Workers union made progress toward the settlement of a 12-day brake factory strike. A10
 
FLYING TO PROTECT ENVIRONMENT
In what some have dubbed "The Environmental Air Force," 150 volunteer pilots from Alaska to Costa Rica are using their skills and their planes to further environmental causes. A10
 
Detroit Journal: An IHOP becomes one city's power restaurant. A10
 
Metro Report B1-5
 
PERIL TO REGION'S SHIPPING
Rising shoals of mud threaten to undermine the economic engine that is New York Harbor, where 4,500 ships a year carry $60 billion worth of goods and generate tens of thousands of jobs. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-15
A television and radio museum in the heart of Beverly Hills. C11
Celebrating a New York Times
centennial. C11
Theater: "Getting Away With
Murder." C11
Music: "La Finta Giardiniera." C12
Books: "Rebel Hearts." C15
Television: "Letting Go: A Hospice Journey." B10
"Sting: The South Bank Show." B10
 
Sports C1-10
Boxing: Tyson's domination. C1
Columns: Anderson on Tyson C3
Rhoden on Hoyas' Iverson C5
Horse Racing: Lukas's Derby prospects look good. C2
N.C.A.A.: Texas Tech and Georgetown win; Villanova loses. C1
 
Obituaries B7
Thomas O. Enders, U.S. diplomat
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
Editorials
The beltway campaign.
No press cards for spies.
Why principals defect.
Topics: Pass the pork rinds.
Letters Anthony Lewis: D plus 90.
Bob Herbert: Sardine sandwich.
William Safire: A case for polyandry.
Richard Klein: Text and subtext.
 
Chronicle B10 Bridge B10 Crossword C15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); SERBIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS.COM INC (56%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS EXPORT GROUP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); SERBIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); COPYRIGHT LAW (77%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (77%); WRITERS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (77%); LAWYERS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); PARENTS (72%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); COPYRIGHT (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); GUN CONTROL (71%); ADOPTION (71%); JUDGES (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (70%); TOBACCO MFG (69%); GOVERNORS (66%); DEPORTATION (50%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



464 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2940 words

HEADLINE: SHALLOW WATERS: A special report.;
Curbs on Silt Disposal Threaten Port of New York as Ships Grow Larger

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Rising shoals of mud threaten the economic engine that is New York Harbor, where 4,500 ships a year carry $60 billion worth of goods and generate tens of thousands of jobs.
As always, thousands of tons of riverborne silt sift into the harbor's shipping channels each day. For 80 years, the soupy mud was just a nuisance here, but now it threatens the dominance of this East Coast seaport. The Army Corps of Engineers routinely scooped up the mud and dumped it in the Atlantic a few miles east of the Jersey Shore. 
 A recent change in Federal tests, though, foreclosed that dumping option when most of the harbor mud failed to meet new standards covering contaminants and toxicity.
As a result, last year less than half of the annual accumulation of four million tons of mud was cleared from harbor channels and berths. And this year, at best, according to the Corps of Engineers, only a third of the silt will be removed.
The harbor is choking in mud as port officials -- desperate to clear channels -- remain locked in debate with beachfront communities, fishermen and some environmental groups, who oppose any further disposal of tainted silt in the ocean.
Signs of trouble in the harbor's economy are growing. Since 1994, New York-bound ships have increasingly called first at the deeper port of Halifax, Nova Scotia, to lighten their loads. The harbor's biggest handler of cargo containers, Maher Terminals, estimates its annual container flow has dropped 5 percent since then. One shipper, Maersk, Inc., has shunted some cargo to Norfolk, Va., which has deeper water.
Worse is yet to come, according to port officials and labor and business interests connected to the harbor. Even as current dredging needs are not being met, the harbor's channels and berths must be dug deeper than ever -- in some cases through bedrock -- to serve a new, larger class of cargo vessels that will soon carry goods to the Eastern Seaboard from the fast-growing manufacturing centers of southern Asia. Traders say the route west from India, for example, through the Suez Canal will be cheaper than shipping to California and loading goods onto trains for the ride east.
The first of this new generation of ships -- the Regina Maersk, a 1,033-foot-long, 46-foot-draft Danish container ship -- was launched on Jan. 24. Dozens of similarly sized vessels have been ordered or are being built. Much of the economic activity generated by New York Harbor may move elsewhere if the owners of such ships settle on a different port as their East Coast hub. The result, they say, would be a shrunken economy, lost jobs, higher costs for goods ranging from gasoline to orange juice, and more shorelines with the rusty, weed-strewn look of the miles of empty Brooklyn docks.
Even the harbor's best known feature, the Statue of Liberty, may be affected. The channel that allows tour boats to dock at the monument is getting clogged.
Unable to sail directly to harbor terminals, many oil tankers are anchoring near the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and pumping part of their load into barges. Such operations have increased 75 percent since 1989, raising costs and the risk of oil spills. Sometimes ships have to sit for hours in a costly wait for high tide.
The plight of New York Harbor has been created not only by the environmental debate, port experts say, but also by a lack of long-term planning by New York and New Jersey and the bistate Port Authority. Other harbor cities, like Baltimore, began dredging deeper and finding new disposal methods for mud more than a decade ago.
"New York has everything in place to be a hub port except the shallow draft," said Capt. Robert A. Deane, a harbor pilot with 32 years of experience guiding ships to their berths. "If we can't solve this problem," he said, "we may as well put flower boxes and parking lots along the waterfront."
Many shipping experts and harbor officials say only a comprehensive plan to find places for dredged mud -- worked out by the two states' governors and agreeable to environmental groups and port interests alike -- will provide enough reassurance to keep ships coming. And they say the time for such a pact is now.
Lillian C. Borrone, the director of port commerce for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said: "It's got to be this year. Our users are not confident we will overcome this. They've told us face to face they're ready to invest in New York to bring more cargo here, but they're reluctant until they see this problem fixed."
New Jersey's Governor, Christine Todd Whitman, who last week called the dredging impasse the leading threat to jobs in the region, formed a dredging task force that in December produced a list of long-term solutions. But Governor Whitman and her team have been criticized by harbor officials and businesses for continuing to oppose new, less polluting ocean-disposal methods for the tainted mud, methods that could be employed right now.
New York's Governor, George E. Pataki, coming late to the table, announced in January that Michael C. Finnegan, his counsel, close friend, and chief dispute resolver, would work to find a middle ground. New York City officials, hoping to lure some maritime commerce back to the abandoned piers of Staten Island and Brooklyn, are offering ideas. But New York, like New Jersey, has continued to reject any dumping of the mud in coastal waters.
And every day, the silt-laden Hudson, Hackensack, Passaic and Raritan rivers coat the shoaling channels with more mud.
 
The Port
Today's Problem Echoes the Past
This is not the first time that New York has faced a crisis because of a lack of dredging. A century ago, ship owners were urging state officials and the Corps of Engineers to deepen the channels cutting through the shoals that give the harbor an average depth of only 18 feet.
In an eerie echo of the current clamor, steamship owners said that a new generation of ships -- like the Mauretania and the Lusitania -- would otherwise be unable to call at New York at all. "There is hardly a month that passes when some one or another of the great ocean passenger and freight carriers does not report touching the ground," said one letter sent by a shipping company to the Corps.
The Corps of Engineers completed the main channel in September 1907, just 10 days before the Lusitania made the first Manhattan-bound transit of the route.
Many New Yorkers' impressions of the waterfront date from that era, when Manhattan was the embarkation point for thousands of steamship passengers and the Brooklyn docks were thick with stevedores. But activity has long since shifted through the shallow cut between Staten Island and Bayonne -- the Kill van Kull -- to Newark Bay and the Arthur Kill.
Snaking between Staten Island and New Jersey, the Arthur Kill is the center of the region's enormous trade in petroleum. Some 30 billion gallons of jet fuel, heating oil, gasoline and other petroleum products are shipped in, out and around New York Harbor each year , or more than flows through the next four busiest oil ports -- Houston, New Orleans, Corpus Christi and Port Arthur, Tex. -- combined.
That commerce is already faltering. A dozen oil-handling companies have a backlog of dredging requests totaling 566,000 tons. Mud samples along the entire length of the Kill have been deemed unsuitable for ocean dumping under the new Federal tests. According to a 1995 survey by the New York Petroleum Council, close to one billion gallons of the annual 30 billion gallon total is now being handled by barges shuttling between tankers and the shore.
And the effects of shoaling channels are being felt in Newark Bay, the heart of the modern port. Every year, more than 1.2 million aluminum containers full of imports or exports flow through Port Elizabeth and Port Newark, with 10,000 trucking companies hauling loads in and out of the 2,100-acre complex. But every year, a little more of that trade shifts to Halifax or Norfolk, said M. Brian Maher (pronounced marr), whose company, Maher Terminals, handled close to half of the total container traffic through the port last year.
Terminal owners and workers are particularly frustrated, Mr. Maher said, because most of the contamination that has delayed dredging is not from shipping, but from such sources as an abandoned factory on the Passaic River, a site where Agent Orange was made during the Vietnam War. Worse still, he said, is the lack of evidence that the harbor mud dumped at sea has had any adverse impact. "All the environmentalists ever talk about is, there's a risk," Mr. Maher said. "After 80 years, I ask the simple question: Where's the damage?"
 
The Problem
Higher Threshold For Dumping
To Cynthia A. Zipf, the damage from the New York Harbor dredging operation lies as a 10-square-mile blot of tainted sea bottom 75 feet beneath the waves 6 miles east of Sandy Hook. Ms. Zipf is the executive director of the Sandy Hook-based group Clean Ocean Action, whose mission for 12 years has been to keep the ocean free of hazardous substances.
Her bullseye is the Mud Dump Site, a 2.2-square-mile rectangle designated by Federal environmental officials as the disposal site for dredged material after the passage of the Ocean Dumping Act in 1977.
The law required that dredged mud pass tests for toxicity and the presence of certain chemicals before it could go into offshore waters. In retrospect, many scientists and dredging experts say, the standards were too lax.
For example, hard-shell clams, originally used to test if material to be dredged was poisonous, proved too hardy. "The only way you can kill them is to step on them," said Richard L. Caspe, the director of water management for the New York office of the Environmental Protection Agency.
But some fisheries scientists and many port and dredging officials say a round of test revisions in December 1992 went too far in the other direction -- raising the standard so high that few mud samples could pass. The costly new tests -- designed specifically for New York Harbor mud -- expose a variety of sensitive organisms to both stirred-up mud and stagnant samples. The tests also look for traces of several previously ignored compounds, including dioxins.
The change in the tests was not because of changing Federal environmental policy or law; in some ways, it was the equivalent of publishing an updated edition of a textbook. The E.P.A. mandate is to keep its prectices in line with the latest scientific methods, said a spokeswoman, Mary Mears. But the consequences of the shift were enormous.
Under the original standard, less than 5 percent of mud samples failed. Since the new testing regimen went into effect, a steady two-thirds of samples have failed. Federal scientists defend the tests, saying that samples that fail are clearly toxic to bottom-dwelling organisms. And it is the general toxicity of the material -- not the presence of any single contaminant, like dioxins -- that has most often caused a sample to fail, the scientists say.
Finally, they say, New York Harbor needed extra tests because it is the only major harbor in the country that has historically had only one disposal option: the ocean.
The first major dredging operation after the new tests went into effect -- in which the Corps of Engineers began in 1993 to deepen the approaches to the container wharves in Newark Bay -- precipitated several lawsuits by environmental groups. The suits ultimately failed, but they delayed other dredging projects as Federal judges issued rulings requiring small changes in the test.
A few temporary solutions have been developed: mud has been shifted to unused berths or pushed from shallow spots in channels into adjacent deep spots. And this year will see the first new underwater disposal of tainted mud -- in pits in Newark Bay, pits that will be capped with clean sand.
The Newark Bay "borrow pits," created when sand was mined for construction decades earlier, are acceptable to New Jersey communities because the bay bottom is already so polluted that the addition of capped pits will be a net improvement. But the current plan for the pits will hold less than half a year's dredging volume.
A proposal to create larger offshore disposal pits by mining valuable sand near the old Mud Dump Site -- and then using some of the clean mined sand to cover both the pits and contaminated hot spots around the site -- has gained the support of at least one environmental group, the Environmental Defense Fund. But anything expanding the old dumping ground is unacceptable to Clean Ocean Action, and to Governor Whitman.
Port officials, the Corps of Engineers and harbor businesses say they are confounded by the continued opposition. They point to a 1995 Federal study of gamefish caught around the old dumping ground that showed no elevated levels of hazardous compounds. In fact, the Mud Dump Site is one of the most popular fishing spots along the Jersey Shore.
Ms. Zipf remains adamant, saying that past sloppy practices by the Corps of Engineers do not bode well for future ocean-dumping projects. While dumping dredged mud and rock at the Mud Dump in 1993, the corps unwittingly created a pinnacle that came within 12 feet of the surface. The heap of rubble was only noticed when a barge struck it in November 1993.
Environmental groups had a field day; they called the new hazard to navigation Mount Spike.
 
The Future
At a Crossroads, With Competition
Dr. Roberta Weisbrod, a biochemist for the New York State Department of Environ mental Conservation, recently tried to take a break from several years of wrestling with dredging issues on a trip to Belgium.
As she toured the ancient city of Brugge, she learned it had once been a thriving hub of maritime commerce. "In the 14th centu ry, the town fathers decided not to dredge," she said. Shipping shifted down the coast. "Brugge was a bustling port," she added. "Now it's a museum."
New York Harbor, she said, is at a similar turning point. With Norfolk and Halifax rap idly increasing business, more rounds of meetings and task forces will not suffice, she and many other New York and New Jersey port experts said.
One point on which everyone agrees is the need to link any solution of the dredging dilemma to a renewed commitment to clean up the sources of the pollution that created the problem in the first place. And everyone also agrees that the days of dumping mud at $5 a ton -- the cost of barging mud to the ocean site -- are over. Somehow, a political ly acceptable formula will have to be de signed to spread the higher costs of alterna tives among those who benefit -- not just harbor users, but also the states of New York and New Jersey, and New York City.
Most of the proposed alternatives have been tried and tested elsewhere. From Osa ka, Japan, to Baltimore, dredged silt has been used to build artificial islands that are home to everything from international air ports to pelican habitat. Underwater stor age pits are being dug to hold Boston's contaminated mud. Silt is being used in the Pacific Northwest to rehabilitate shoreline degraded by past industrial uses.
Increasingly, Dr. Weisbrod, Lillian Bor rone of the Port Authority, and other harbor experts say, the harbor mud should be per ceived as an asset, not a liability. On land -- away from sensitive marine organisms -- the silt is deemed harmless by the E.P.A. That concept is catching on.
In a preliminary test, 100,000 tons scooped from the Port Newark channel will be used this spring to create a foundation for a parking lot at an outlet-store mall being built in Elizabeth, with the prospect that up to 500,000 tons of silt from the channel leading to the Statue of Liberty may follow, Ms. Borrone said. New technologies for re moving contaminants from the mud are also being tested, but many experts say it will cost too much and take too long to refine to put into widespread practice soon.
Dr. Weisbrod and a group of Brooklyn politicians are focusing on another kind of solution: Why not reduce dredging needs by shifting some of the shipping to parts of the harbor that are naturally deeper -- like Brooklyn? For many years, Representative Jerrold Nadler has proposed reviving the Brooklyn waterfront and adding a new rail link by building a tunnel under the harbor, Dr. Weisbrod said. "We all thought he was crazy," she said, "but now it looks like it's making sense."
Talk of Brooklyn can also be heard from experience-hardened people who ply the wa ters every day: the harbor pilots.
As he guided his 65-foot pilot boat along the Staten Island waterfront -- to take depth soundings in a channel that had not been dredged for many years -- Capt. Raymond V. Keenan pointed on a chart to the broad 40- foot-deep channel running north along the miles of now-abandoned piers from Sunset Park to Owl's Head.
It would take little effort to dredge that channel to the 45-foot depth required by the new ships, he said. Instead of a twisting, three-hour, 26-mile run to Newark Bay, ships would have a 90-minute straight shot to Brooklyn, Captain Keenan said.
As he maneuvered closer to a jumble of collapsed piers and sunken skeletons of old boats to get depth readings, Captain Keenan said he could not understand the dredging impasse. "There has got to be some kind of meeting point where everyone can agree."
He left an area recently dredged to 35 feet. Then the needle on the depth sounder jumped. With a soft grinding scrunch, the boat ran aground.

GRAPHIC: Diagrams: "Building A Highway In the Harbor" shows the depth that the New York Harbor must be dredged to make it deep enough for cargo ships to pass through. (pg. 1); "Roots of a Problem" shows the two methods that the channel is cleared, types of ships affected, amount dredged yearly, and comparisons with other East Coast ports.; "No Place to Go" shows a map of channels and berths where rising sediment is too contaminated for Federal standards to be dumped in the ocean. (Sources: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; Port Authority of New York & New Jersey; New York Shipping Association; New Jersey Petroleum Council; Maersk Inc.) (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: MAERSK.B (CPH) (58%); MAERSK.A (CPH) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (66%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: MAERSK INC (66%); A P MOELLER-MAERSK A/S (58%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK HARBOR; UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; PORTS; WATER POLLUTION; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); WATER POLLUTION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ARMIES (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996



465 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Volcanic Fury Rocks Pacific Sea Floor Where Inner Earth Meets Outer Earth

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
IT is the heartbeat of the planet, a fundamental force of nature that continuously shapes the earth, concentrates gold and other rare metals, adjusts the sea's chemical balance, provides the main path by which the planet's interior oozes to the surface and may even be the place where life itself first arose eons ago. Yet because it occurs in the inky blackness of the deep sea, under the crushing weight of miles of sea water, it is mysterious and poorly known.
The pumping heartbeat is the rhythmic eruption of hot lava along a volcanic rift that girds the globe like seams on a baseball. In all, the rent is 46,000 miles long and its hidden fury accounts for an estimated 90 percent of the planet's volcanism. Each year it could bury the interstate highway system in 10 feet of lava. 
 In the last three weeks, scientists who monitor undersea microphones originally built to spy on Soviet submarines got a rare peek at its power as they detected hundreds of seaquakes about 95 miles off the coast of Oregon. The upheaval zone, along a rift segment known as the Gorda Ridge, is about two miles deep.
Battling foul weather, the McArthur, a 175-foot research ship of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, raced to the area and lowered sensitive detectors into the icy depths. On March 10, scientists discovered a huge plume of warm water that wafted over the volcanic rent like a smoky cloud six miles wide.
"It's very exciting," said Dr. Christopher G. Fox, an agency scientist who tracked the deep rumbles from shore. "These kinds of events are the primary vehicle for exchanging material between earth's interior and exterior, but we know almost nothing about them."
Lowering bottles on long lines, shipboard scientists scooped up tiny, heat-loving microbes from the plume and took them back to the University of Washington in Seattle, where experts are trying to learn more about the exotic organisms that thrive in the fiery rifts. Studies have shown that some of the microbes can flourish at up to 230 degrees Fahrenheit, a temperature hotter than boiling water and deadly to most forms of life.
"This is the soonest we've been able to get to an eruption site to do microbiology," said Dr. John A. Baross, a biologist at the university who studies heat-loving microbes. "These plumes put out huge amounts of material. They're giant."
The only time scientists have previously monitored a similar upheaval was in June 1993 when the Juan de Fuca Ridge just northwest of the current site exploded in tremors monitored by the Navy microphones, which have increasingly been shared with civilians since the end of the cold war. The eruption's heat over the months and years gave birth to a lavish ecosystem, including not only microbial growths but colonies of tube worms and other bizarre creatures that inhabit the sunless depths.
The sea-floor rifts, especially the Gorda Ridge, became economic stars in the 1980's when they were found to be laced with gold and other precious minerals, helping to prompt President Ronald Reagan to double the size of the United States by claiming all seas within 230 miles of shore.
While important for these and other reasons, the rifts remained little known and their evolution was a mystery until the 1990's when Navy microphones allowed scientists to begin monitoring recurring undersea eruptions off the West Coast.
After the recent sea quakes began on Feb. 28, the team of scientists boarded the McArthur and sailed over the Gorda Ridge to discover the giant plume, which was about six miles wide. Such plumes have been found on only a few previous occasions.
"It's pretty exciting," Dr. Edward T. Baker, the expedition's chief scientist and a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration expert based in Seattle, said in a telephone interview from the ship shortly after bad weather forced the vessel to head back to shore.
The McArthur, which specializes in coastal exploration, had only 1.8 miles of line on board and was therefore unable to conduct measurements all the way to the bottom two miles down, nor could she pinpoint the volcanic site on the sea floor. It was thus unclear whether lava had erupted or whether the seabed had merely cracked open to expel huge quantities of hot water and microbial life, possibly as a prelude to an eruption.
Even if the deep fury proves to be only cracking along the volcanic fissure, that would be an important discovery, since so little is known about what gives birth to the giant plumes, said Dr. Karen Von Damm, a geochemist at the University of New Hampshire who heads an interagency Federal group that coordinates studies of the rifts.
"If you can have a megaplume without an eruption, that would be pretty interesting," she said. "These things put out a tremendous amount of warm water and over time influence the chemistry of whole oceans."
If the scientists win financing from the National Science Foundation, they hope to send out a different research ship next month equipped with longer lines and underwater cameras to photograph the sea floor, which is the only way to confirm whether lava actually erupted.
Given the continuing budget crisis in Washington, some of the scientists worry that the financing might not materialize and that an important scientific opportunity might be lost.
If the Gorda tumult proves to be an eruption, scientists would try to monitor its biologic and geologic repercussions in the months and years ahead, just as they have done at the Juan de Fuca site. Many ships, robots and submersibles already scheduled to do research off the West Coast this spring and summer would be diverted to explore the volcanic depths.
"We're on a learning curve," said Dr. Robert W. Embley, a senior scientist with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Newport, Ore., who studies the volcanic rifts. "That's why this is so interesting."

GRAPHIC: Diagram: "An Upheaval Below the Sea" shows a diagram of the seismic disturbance extending two miles off the West Coast. (Source: Oceanus)(pg. C1)
 
Map of the Pacific Ocean showing location of the upheaval site. (pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: G FOX (54%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GORDA RIDGE (PACIFIC RIFT ZONE); PACIFIC OCEAN; UNITED STATES (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOLOGY; EARTHQUAKES; VOLCANOES SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); OCEANS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); BIOLOGY (88%); WEATHER (87%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (73%); COLD WAR (72%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J JUAN DE FUCA RIDGE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



466 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Suspension of Iraq-U.N. Talks Lifts Oil Prices to 4-Year Highs

BYLINE: The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Crude oil futures surged yesterday to their highest levels in more than four years after oil talks between Iraq and the United Nations were temporarily suspended and traders rushed to buy crude.
Also benefiting from the rally were heating oil, unleaded gasoline and natural gas futures, as well as copper and sugar futures. Over all, the Commodity Research Bureau's index of 17 commodities rose 2.16 points, to 250.43. 
 The decision by the United Nations and Iraq to halt the oil-for-food negotiations for two weeks lifted crude oil prices for the sixth consecutive session on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Many traders and refiners had bet Iraq would flood the market by selling $2 billion in oil every six months, causng prices to drop before contract obligations came due.
"With little, if any, news regarding Iraq, the general sentiment has been to focus on these low stocks for crude and heating oil," Gerald E. Samuels, managing director of ARB Oil Inc. in Los Angeles, said. "It's just been a phenomenal move higher."
April light sweet crude rose $1.28, to $23.27 a barrel, the highest price since Nov. 6, 1991. April heating oil rose 2.41 cents, to 60.28 cents a gallon; April unleaded gasoline rose 1.39 cents, to 64.31 cents a gallon, and April natural gas rose 17.8 cents, to $2.511 for 1,000 cubic feet.
Copper futures advanced sharply on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange as investors bet warehouse stocks would show another large draw-down this week as signs of economic activity pick up. May high-grade copper rose 1.10 cents, to $1.18 a pound.
Copper futures prices have improved in recent weeks amid a spate of government reports that show generally strong activity in construction and auto manufacturing, where the metal is used a great deal, according to Bette Raptopoulos, an analyst for Prudential Securities.
The market has generally ignored the strike at the General Motors Corporation that could affect copper consumption if it continues, she said.
Sugar futures neared one-year highs on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York amid heavy speculative buying and strong near-term demand. May world sugar rose 0.24 cent, to 12.41 cents a pound, the highest since April 28, 1995. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET FUTURES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); COFFEE (69%); CONSUMPTION (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



467 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Volatile Stock Market Is Good Sign, Not Bad

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Gaming on Wall Street" (Op-Ed, March 12): Martin Mayer laments the commoditization of stocks and hankers for the "good old days" when the cognoscenti had uncontested access to the market. Volatility increases whenever you involve the people, with their diverse ideas, hopes and dreams, as opposed to a chosen elite. I would hardly call that cause for lament. 
 Mr. Mayer's concerns about excessive volatility ring hollow when you read his comments about finance economists. If they and the markets do not produce anything except paper profits for themselves, why the concern about price volatility?
In Mr. Mayer's view, Main Street need not concern itself with Wall Street. I thought we put that argument to rest in the 1991-92 credit crunch. The recession's severity can be attributed to reductions in Wall Street's activity that is so necessary to finance Main Street investment.
Markets will continue to be volatile, but that is a sign of success. Markets are successful if they reflect investors' processing of new information to revise their expectations.
If in the wake of two Government shutdowns and secrecy by the Federal Reserve, information is inaccurate or misleading, we should discuss ways to improve its quality rather than return to the days of the rumor mill. As long as there is money to be made from superior information, there will be market participants investing in improved analysis and economic data.
 
LINDA ALLEN
New York, March 12, 1996
 
The writer is a professor of finance at Baruch College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; MUTUAL FUNDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: MAYER, MARTIN; ALLEN, LINDA (PROF) MARTIN MAYER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



468 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: David M. Gordon, 51, a Leader Among Left-Wing Economists

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
David M. Gordon, a leader of leftist economic thought and a professor at the New School for Social Research in New York, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 51 and lived in Manhattan.
The cause was heart failure, his family said. He had been awaiting a heart transplant. 
 In his research and writings, Professor Gordon concerned himself with what he described as the waste and inefficiency built into corporate America's bloated management ranks.
In his last book, "Fat and Mean," to be published in May, he argued that, despite reports to the contrary, this "bureaucratic burden" had survived the mass layoffs and downsizings in recent years and remained a source of wasteful conflict between managers and workers.
Mr. Gordon, born on May 4, 1944, in Washington and raised in Berkeley, Calif., was a member of a prominent family of economists. His father, Robert Aaron Gordon, was chairman of the economics department at the University of California at Berkeley and president of the American Economics Association. His mother, the late Margaret S. Gordon, was also an economics professor at Berkeley, and his brother, Robert J. Gordon, is a well-known mainstream economist at Northwestern University.
David Gordon took a different route. After receiving his bachelor's degree, magna cum laude, from Harvard University in 1965, he helped found "The Southern Courier," a civil rights newspaper in Atlanta. Returning to Harvard, he received his Ph.D. in 1971, taught briefly at Yale University and became a founding member of the Union for Radical Political Economics, an organization of leftist economists. Mr. Gordon joined the New School's faculty in 1973 and for a while was chairman of the economics department.
Among his published works, his best known is "Beyond the Waste Land: A Democratic Alternative to Economic Decline," written in 1983 with two other economists. In that work, the authors attributed the wage stagnation and declining economic growth that had set in a decade earlier to inflated production costs and worker-management conflicts stemming from wage inequality, a phenomenon just beginning to show up in government statistics.
James Tobin of Yale, a Nobel laureate in economics, hailed the book's reasoning and findings. "It is good to see left-wing political economy come alive," he said.
Besides his brother, Mr. Gordon is survived by his wife, Diana R. Gordon, who is chairwoman of the political science department at City University of New York.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David M. Gordon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (78%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (77%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); POLITICS (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); WRITERS (76%); PUBLISHING (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (57%); 

PERSON: GORDON, DAVID M (PROF) JAMES R TOBIN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



469 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Gains in U.S. Stocks and Bonds Produce a Late Surge for Dollar

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against most leading currencies yesterday, bolstered late in the day by surges in American stock and bond markets.
The dollar was also helped by comments by a Bundesbank official that pointed to lower German interest rates ahead. 
 In late trading in New York, the dollar rose to 105.99 yen, from 105.93 yen on Friday. The dollar also rose to 1.4753 German marks, from 1.4725 marks. But the British pound rose sharply against the dollar, climbing to $1.5325 from $1.5265.
Analysts said the dollar was bolstered by a rise of 98.63 points in the Dow Jones industrial average, which closed at a record high of 5,683.60. Gains in American markets suggested increased demand for dollars from foreign investors.
But market watchers also said that Wall Street's performance was not as important as the relative strengths and weaknesses of the German and American economies along with a change in trade flows with Japan.
Ernest Welteke, a German monetary official, noting the lack of strength in his country's economy, raised the possibility of an interest rate cut there eventually. Lower interest rates make a country's assets and currency less attractive to investors, so his statements hurt the mark and helped the dollar.
Mr. Welteke said lower rates could encourage investment and job growth in Germany, which is suffering from its highest unemployment levels since World War II. But he equivocated about whether the central bank actually would lower rates. Analysts have been expecting such a move for several weeks.
The dollar's rise against the yen was helped by the Japanese Government's report yesterday that the merchandise trade surplus fell for the eighth consecutive month in February, dropping 46 percent, to $6.13 billion.
The imbalance with the United States, Japan's largest trading partner, fell 29 percent.
Also, the continuing tensions between China and Taiwan made the dollar a safe haven against the yen.
"There is a slight upward trend developing in the dollar," said Randolph L. Donney, director of capital markets research for the Pegasus Econometric Group. "But it's been a fairly lethargic kind of market." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (93%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (93%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: ERNEST WELTEKE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



470 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Citizenship Of Belief

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
In the years I lived and worked abroad as a correspondent, I came to know men and women who seemed to me the best Americans I had ever met. Within them was the conviction that what America stood for was what they ached for -- the chance to achieve whatever lay within their talents and energy, in a free society. The phrase needed no definition.
They believed that America, above all countries in history, could have an influence for good beyond its borders. Not always, but often enough to justify democratic idealism, they were right. 
 None of these people had ever set foot in the U.S. I met them in every one of the countries from which I reported -- intellectuals in Asia, freedom fighters in Eastern Europe, students in Africa. For me, they were "foreigners" in citizenship but countrymen in belief.
Soon I understood that this vision of an America in which foreigners had a stake was not just something America gave to them, but a richness they gave to us -- a sweet stream of strength and nourishment.
Most of my foreign Americans did not want to migrate to America. That is the "hordes" fantasy so dear to those who fear the outsider, usually because of their own inadequacies. What my friends hoped was simply that the existence and example of the U.S. might someday make their own countries more livable.
Among those I met who did want to migrate to America, nobody thought that it was a wide-open country but an attainable goal if they wanted it enough to leave their countries, create a new life for themselves and, in time, for families left behind. America assured them that yes, it was reasonable. So it has been during the lives of most -- born or arrived -- now living in this country.
If Americans do not pay attention, in the next few weeks that will change. Before both houses of Congress are bills that if passed as introduced will cut legal admission to the U.S. by about 40 percent, eliminate whole categories of family members eligible for entry, remove aid benefits and make asylum impossible for many who have come here seeking succor from terror and torture.
This immigration legislation, the most sweeping and abrasive in 70 years, will make this a lesser country economically. It will reduce the flow of talented foreigners who have been responsible for creating whole American industries. It will turn away the kind of people whose crafts and brawn have empowered America.
Intellectually, idealistically and spiritually the legislation will be for America an agent of desiccation.
All this has been depressing to those who believe America needs immigration to keep its pores open. Particularly unpleasant has been the campaign to persuade Americans that there's not much difference between illegal and legal immigrants by treating them as part of the same problem and legislation.
But in one important way, the struggle has been revealing and inspiring. Leading the fight to separate illegal and legal immigration and preserve a decent legal-immigration policy are some important conservative Republicans. Pro-immigration Democrats did not get much help from conservative Democrats -- nor much passion from the Administration.
Without these particular Republicans the struggle would have been lost by now, as pro-immigration coalitions gladly acknowledge. So, for breaking the mold of mean-spirited, nativist conservatism that the Buchanans of America create, Americans should thank such conservatives outside government as former Senator Malcolm Wallop, Jack Kemp and William Bennett. Also: Stuart Anderson of the conservative Cato Institute, whose outstanding report on immigrant contribution to American high technology was published by the conservative organization Empower America, 202-452-8200.
In the Senate, Spencer Abraham, a first-term Republican, has shown leadership and courage that make him a much-admired advertisement for the State of Michigan.
One of the articles he co-wrote recalls President Reagan's final address to the nation. Mr. Reagan said he had often spoken of the "shining city" of America and that in his mind he saw it "teeming with people of all kinds living in peace and harmony."
"And if there had to be city walls," said Mr. Reagan, "the walls had doors and the doors were open to anyone with the will and heart to get here. That's how I saw it and see it still."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INDUSTRIES LIFE INSURANCE CO (51%); AMERICAN INDUSTRIES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); LEGISLATION (85%); IMMIGRATION LAW (85%); REFUGEES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (74%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



471 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Why Taiwan Scares China

BYLINE: By Christopher J. Sigur; Christopher J. Sigur is a senior associate at the Asia Pacific Policy Center.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In the debate over China's military exercises in the Taiwan Strait, few have discussed a fundamental reason for its actions: Taiwan's emerging democracy. China's main concern is not any movement toward independence but rather the effects of Taiwanese democracy on the island's foreign policy.
Until recently, both China and Taiwan had implicitly recognized the island's de facto independence and dealt with it peacefully. They negotiated Taiwan's participation in numerous international institutions, from the International Monetary Fund to the Olympics, by sidestepping the independence question. China tolerated Taiwan's efforts to open embassies abroad. But the military exercises in the strait show that this implicit understanding is in tatters. 
 What has changed? With its first-ever direct presidential elections on Saturday, Taiwan will become a full-fledged democracy.
President Lee Teng-hui's controversial visit to Cornell University last summer was a symptom of Taiwanese democracy. To stay in power in a democracy, of course, one must respond to the opposition's views. The opposition in Taiwan does not want reunification with the mainland and has increasingly demanded international recognition of the island. Hence, President Lee's campaign to rejoin the United Nations, his trips to Asia, Latin America and Europe (which have been termed "vacation diplomacy") and the push to have Congress grant him a United States visa.
It is naive to think that if only Mr. Lee had chosen not to go to Cornell, if only he had not offered the United Nations a $1 billion gift in an apparent attempt to gain a seat, China would not be acting so belligerently.
Beijing's leaders recognize that Mr. Lee's actions are prodded by democracy and it horrifies them. China's state newspapers often refer to Taiwan's "demands for independence in the guise of democratization," clearly linking one with the other.
What the People's Republic sees across the strait is a China whose people are ready to choose their own leaders, with all the demands that makes on a political system: regularly scheduled elections, a free press and political parties that must take their opponents' ideas seriously, because you never know who will be in power tomorrow. Beijing is not prepared to accept this model in Taiwan or on the mainland.
Thus, even if Mr. Lee renounced Taiwan's United Nations bid, canceled all his overseas trips and closed his country's few embassies, both he and Beijing would recognize that the moves are meaningless. Democracy institutionalizes uncertainty, and neither Beijing nor Taiwan could predict how the voters would react. China may not have liked seeing Taiwan under the firm grip of the Nationalists for the last four decades, but at least they were predictable.
The United States must recognize that it has a fundamental interest in promoting Chinese democracy, and in protecting its sole example in Taiwan. Thus, we must warn China in no uncertain terms that we will not sit idly by if Taiwanese democracy is threatened, encourage our allies to make similar declarations and continue to back up our words with a show of American naval power.
Democracy's uncertainties will only increase the threats to the security and economic stability of the entire region. The United States is vital to any long-term solution. The Chinese on both sides of the strait are unlikely to reach a solution unless Washington keeps them talking.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TAIWAN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: SIGUR, CHRISTOPHER J LEE TENG-HUI (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



472 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Too Many Engineers, Too Few Jobs

BYLINE: By Michael S. Teitelbaum; Michael S. Teitelbaum, a demographer, is a member of the United States Commission on Immigration Reform.

 BODY:
Is there such an acute shortage of skilled scientists and engineers that America's computer industry and research laboratories must recruit thousands of foreign workers yearly in order to compete globally?
That's what Sun Microsystems, Intel, Microsoft, the National Association of Manufacturers and the American Immigration Lawyers Association would have you believe. They successfully lobbied Congress to drop immigration reform proposals that would have held down increases in the number of highly skilled foreign workers. Statistics, however, contradict them. There is no shortage of scientists, engineers or software professionals. If anything, there is a surplus. 
 Claims of an impending dearth of scientists and engineers began a decade ago, when Erich Bloch, then the director of the National Science Foundation, declared that unless action was taken, there would be a cumulative shortfall of 675,000 over the next two decades.
Congress responded. The National Science Foundation received tens of millions of additional dollars for science and engineering education. And in 1990, Congress nearly tripled the number -- to 140,00 per year -- of employment-based visas for immigrants with certain skills.
Not surprisingly, the number of science and engineering doctorates reached record levels. From 1983 to 1993, the annual number of Americans earning such Ph.D.'s increased 13 percent. But the number of slots for graduate students grew even more dramatically during that time -- about 40 percent. The excess spaces were filled by foreign students, who often stayed in America to compete in the job market. Meanwhile, the United States sharply increased the number of foreign-born scientists and engineers it let in; 39,000 were admitted in 1985, 82,000 in 1993.
The labor shortage never materialized. But global competition rose and the cold war ended. High-tech corporations and defense contractors were forced to downsize; state budget crises forced large universities to sharply reduce their hiring of new faculty.
Unemployment among scientists and engineers remains much lower than for low-skilled workers, as it does for all highly educated workers. Nonetheless, tens of thousands of highly skilled professionals have been laid off. For instance, from 1991 through 1994, I.B.M. laid off 86,000 workers; AT &T, Boeing and Hughes Aircraft laid off a total of 135,000 workers.
It is an employer's market; stagnant or declining salaries have been the trend. For instance, from 1968 through 1995, the median annual salary, including benefits, for an engineer with 10 years of experience declined 13 percent in constant dollars, to $52,900. Meanwhile, salaries in other professions like medicine and law greatly increased.
Job prospects for recently minted scientists and engineers have plummeted. A 1995 study by Stanford University's Institute for Higher Education Research concluded that "too many doctorates are being produced in engineering, math and some sciences," not including biological and computer sciences. It said: "Overproduction, estimated to average at least 25 percent, contradicts predictions of long-term shortages, given current demand."
Engineers and software professionals who have lost their jobs could be easily retrained by the big high-tech companies. However, there is no incentive to do so, as long as they can easily hire from U.S.-educated foreign nationals.
As one software professional let go by a computer company reported, he and his colleagues are "disposable" rather than "recyclable."
In short, the situation is out of balance. A record number of Ph.D.'s, but a weak job market. Claims of a labor shortage, but stagnant or declining wages. Thousands of laid-off professionals, but increased foreign recruitment. Shortage or surplus? Ask any downsized engineer or computer professional for the answer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); DTV (NASDAQ) (52%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); DIRECTV (52%); BOEING CO (52%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (83%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (83%); AMERICAN IMMIGRATION LAWYERS ASSOCIATION (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (83%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (83%); AMERICAN IMMIGRATION LAWYERS ASSOCIATION (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SHORTAGES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES IMMIGRATION (92%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); REFUGEES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (76%); TRENDS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); 

PERSON: TEITELBAUM, MICHAEL S ERICH BLOCH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



473 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Has Threefold Rise In Pretax Profit

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
The partners of Goldman, Sachs & Company got the welcome news of an earnings turnaround yesterday afternoon, hearing that their business, buoyed by booming financial markets, earned pretax profit of $565 million in its fiscal first quarter ended Feb. 29.
That is more than a threefold increase from pretax profits of $160 million in the comparable quarter a year earlier, Goldman partners were told at a meeting at their Broad Street headquarters in downtown Manhattan. 
 This latest quarter was the firm's fourth best quarter ever, surpassed only in 1993 when the first three quarters of the firm's fiscal year, which ends on Nov. 30, registered even higher earnings. The strong results by Goldman for its most recent quarter -- its fifth consecutive quarter to show improvement -- reflected its continued turnaround after a particularly difficult year in 1994 when Wall Street's earnings slumped and Goldman's top leaders left.
"It was a very positive quarter for all divisions, there was very consistent profitability," said a Goldman partner who declined to be identified. Unlike corporations, partnerships are not taxed directly; rather, the firm's partners pay taxes individually on their shares of the firm's profits, making it is impossible to state meaningful after-tax earnings. Wall Street's last big private partnership, Goldman, which was founded in 1869, decided earlier this year to remain a private partnership after several senior employees spent months studying the firm's capital structure and needs.
"We have had favorable markets; we have had a relatively attractive environment to execute a turnaround," Jon S. Corzine, Goldman's chairman and senior partner, said in a recent interview. Lauding his employees, Mr. Corzine maintained that the firm had really pulled together during 1995. He even contended that the upsets of 1994, when successive interest rate rises roiled the bond markets and hurt Goldman's earnings, may have been good for the firm. "We were a little too comfortable with where we were and what we were about," he said.
Mr. Corzine and his deputy, Henry M. Paulson Jr., Goldman's vice chairman and chief operating officer, began running the firm almost 18 months ago, and have led it back to robust health. Goldman, which has 174 partners and more than 7,000 employees, made $1.37 billion in pretax profit in the fiscal year ended Nov. 30, 1995 -- a strong recovery from $508 million earned in its previous year. "We must be on 12 cylinders now; the momentum has increased," Mr. Paulson said in an interview earlier this year.
In its first quarter, Goldman had revenue of $1.464 billion and expenses of $899 million, according to a partner who attended yesterday's meeting. That compares with revenue of $906 million and expenses of $746 million for the quarter a year earlier. Rising compensation accounts for the increase in expenses, the Goldman partner said. Goldman's financial statements will not be completed for another few weeks, but they are expected to show that the firm's capital grew to well over $5 billion at the end of its first quarter, from $4.9 billion on Nov. 30.
Despite the banner earnings, Goldman has recently failed to maintain all its momentum in some important markets, according to statistics from the Securities Data Company, a New Jersey statistical concern that monitors the financial markets.
From the beginning of the year until March 15, for example, Goldman has slipped to fifth place as a manager in the United States equity issue market, with a 6.6 percent market share, according to Securities Data. A year earlier Goldman was in first place with a 28.5 percent share of the market for domestic equity issues, a ranking it retained for the whole of 1995 when it held a 17.3 percent market share. Morgan Stanley, Smith Barney, Merrill Lynch, and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette all ranked above Goldman as managers in the domestic equity issue market so far this year.
In the 11 weeks of 1996 ended March 15, Goldman managed a total of $1.1 billion of United States equity issues. This was far below Morgan Stanley and Smith Barney, each of which managed more than $2 billion of such issues.
And, as an adviser of announced United States mergers and acquisitions, Goldman ranked No. 8 in the first 11 weeks of this year with a 4.9 percent market share, working on six announced transactions with a value of $4.14 billion; in the first quarter of last year, Goldman advised on 14 announced transactions with a value of $5.35 billion to rank No. 7 among its peers.
Goldman, however, may be hiding some of its achievements when it comes to its current standings in the league tables. Brokerage firms often report large amounts of business at the end of the quarter, raising their league rankings substantially, according to Richard Peterson of Securities Data. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERVIEWS (86%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BOND MARKETS (73%); BONDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: TRUELL, PETER JON CORZINE (78%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



474 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries' Prices Rise a Bit; Long-Bond Yield at 6.70%

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities moved moderately higher yesterday.
The small rise followed a week of declines that were prompted by a March 8 employment report showing that a surprisingly strong number of jobs were created in February. But yesterday's gain was seen as mostly technical in nature. 
 Comments by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, at a bankers' forum in New Orleans yesterday did not affect the market. Most market participants have ruled out another interest-rate cut at next week's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy-setting group.
Reports indicated that Mr. Greenspan told the bankers' forum that the Fed had not changed its view of the economy, despite the strong February jobs data, and that inflation remained in check with the economy moving forward.
The next important economic report for the market to digest will be tomorrow's report on retail sales in February. The numbers could provide the market with more evidence of whether economic growth is at a pace that threatens to raise the rate of inflation.
Donald H. Straszheim, chief economist at Merrill Lynch & Company, said that after the tumult of last week, "we still see the economy as soft, not strong."
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 14/32, to 91 1/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 6.70 percent, from 6.73 percent on Friday.
At the Treasury's regular weekly bill auction yesterday, demand was mediocre, traders said, as rates increased from the previous week, reflecting the downturn in market sentiment. The average rate for a three-month maturity was up 7 basis points, to 5.02 percent, and a six-month issue up 6 basis points, to 5.06 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Bond prices were bolstered by a covering of short sales at the outset of the session and then again near the close of the futures market in the afternoon. In a short sale, an investor borrows a security hoping to sell it then buy it back at a lower price, making a profit. If prices rise, the short-seller faces a loss and may buy other securities to limit his losses.
Robin Mesch, chief fixed-income analyst for Thomson Research of Boston, said that the market appeared to be trying to establish a base from which to rally.
"The first time the June bond futures contract hit a price of 110 - 110 17/32, we witnessed an extremely strong reaction rally, a combination of taking profit in the form of short covering and the initiation of new long positions," she said. "But near the close today, we retraced back to 110 17/32."
Trading in the futures market often affects the Treasury cash market.
In the market for corporate debt, investor demand for high quality has not evaporated even though prices of corporate bonds have declined along with those for Treasury securities, if to a lesser degree.
A $200 million two-part bond offering through by the Appalachian Power Company, a unit of the American Electric Power Company, was priced through Lehman Brothers to yield 6.456 percent for first-mortgage bonds due in 2001, at a spread of about 32 basis points more than a comparable five-year Treasury note, while an equal amount of Appalachian Power first-mortgage bonds due in 2006 was priced through Morgan Stanley to yield 6.873 percent, or about 46 basis points more than a comparable Treasury issue.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills		 	 	Average Price	98.731	97.442		 	 	Discounted Rate	5.02%	5.06%		 	 	Coupon Yield	5.16%	5.26%		 	 	High Price	98.741	97.447		 	 	Discounted Rate	4.98%	5.05%		 	 	Coupon Yield	5.11%	5.25%		 	 	Low Price	98.731	97.442		 	 	Discounted Rate	5.02%	5.06%		 	 	Coupon Yield	5.16%	5.26%		 	 	Accepted at low price	98%	94%		 	 	Total applied for	$44,374,168	$39,729,858		 	 	Accepted	$13,504,498	$13,528,838		 	 	Noncompetitive	$1,475,322	$1,208,790	
 
Both issues are dated March 21, 1996. The three-month bills mature on June 20, and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 19.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since November. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (91%); MER (NYSE) (91%); 8675 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); BONDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); FUTURES (89%); AUCTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RETAIL SALES (67%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (65%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



475 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Weapons Industry Turns to Latin America

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, March 15

 BODY:
Of the hundreds of billions of dollars spent each year on arms and weapons worldwide, Latin America has not been among the big buyers because of its weak economies and a United States policy that restricts the sale of high-technology military equipment.
But recent cutbacks in spending by major industrialized nations have forced military contractors to chase whatever business they can get, no matter how small, and developing countries with newly stabilized economies like those in Latin America have increasingly become the new target customers. 
 Perhaps that explains why so many secretaries of defense, generals, colonels and weapons contractors from around the globe participated in Chile's 1996 International Air and Space Show last week.
While the name suggests an exhibition akin to a family weekend outing, the event was without question the largest display of technology to make war that has ever been staged in Latin America. As advanced jet fighters, bombers and transport planes performed skillful maneuvers in the sky above, contractors and vendors demonstrated the lethal workings of helicopter gunships, tanks, hand grenades, radar systems, machine guns and rocket launchers.
A total of 400 companies from 43 countries participated in the show, seeking a share of the estimated $2 billion in weapons sold to Latin America last year. The United States Defense Department estimates that between 1994 and 2000, Latin American countries will spend $3.6 billion to $5.2 billion annually, or about 3 percent of the worldwide sales.
"The days of the big sales are gone and companies are being pressed by shareholders to chase any possible lead," said Brett Lambert, vice president for Defense Forecasts Inc., an arms consulting firm in Washington. "Six or seven years ago, half the countries down there wouldn't have sent a representative, but companies are so hungry for sales that they are willing to go anywhere and to cut very favorable deals."
Industry analysts and executives said that such a big turnout for a relatively small market illustrated how desperate weapons dealers had become. But it also shows growing optimism that Latin America will become a major arms market as its economies continue to grow and countries seek to replace outdated equipment.
The analysts said that Latin America's three richest nations -- Brazil, Chile and Argentina -- would be the region's biggest spenders on weapons, with priority being given to equipment improvements as these countries seek to maintain their security with limited funds. But analysts do not rule out emergency spending to combat regional conflicts, insurgencies and drug trafficking.
The United States brought the largest contingent to the weapons show this year. Indeed, American weapons contractors said that for the first time, United States Defense Department officials actively encouraged them to attend the event and provided the contractors with valuable assistance in transporting goods to be displayed.
The Defense Department brought a B-2 bomber, two A/F18 fighter planes, two F-16 fighter planes, a C-17 transport and various other military aircraft. The Secretary of Defense, William J. Perry, and the Secretary of Transportation, Federico F. Pena, were among the top American officials who attended the show.
At a news conference, Mr. Perry said that with the end of the cold war, the United States was considering waiving some of the rules that currently restrict Latin American countries from buying advanced military weapons.
Thomas E. Williams, vice president for communications for McDonnell Douglas, which makes the C-17, said: "You can't go to all air shows. You have to pick and choose, but we knew that we had to be here in Santiago."
Russia, which demonstrated a variety of military aircraft at the 1994 show, returned without wings this year, saying that financial constraints and a lack of orders from last year's show had forced it to concentrate on selling ground weapons, like multiple rocket launchers, T-80U tanks, and small arms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CHILE (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (76%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; CHILE; UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CHILE (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (76%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; LATIN AMERICA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMS SALES ABROAD; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); RADAR SYSTEMS (77%); TRADE SHOWS (74%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); HELICOPTERS (52%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



476 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Executive Defends Downsizing

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 18

 BODY:
Robert J. Eaton, the chief executive of the Chrysler Corporation, defended companies today against "the ongoing demonization of corporate America by some of our most prominent politicians and news organizations."
Speaking to the Economic Club of Detroit, Mr. Eaton said that the huge layoffs criticized by politicians and the news media came because companies believed that they must cut costs to compete in increasingly global markets. 
 "Downsizing and layoffs are part of the price of becoming more competitive," Mr. Eaton said. "The price for not doing it, however, is much higher in both economic and human terms." He said that his company's priority was "perpetuating ourselves so we can serve all our constituencies."
Mr. Eaton said that "American executives are not the ogres portrayed by the press in recent weeks." He cited news reports in The New York Times' series, "The Downsizing of America," and Newsweek's cover article, "Corporate Killers," in its Feb. 26 issue.
Politicians have also criticized layoffs as companies are reporting profits. Mr. Eaton said, "Big business has become an election-year straw man for those who like to pit American against American by promoting the politics of fear and envy." He said such attacks were leading the country toward "class warfare."
The Chrysler executive said that other chief executives shared his concerns. "I don't know of anyone that doesn't," he added.
Corporations are under pressure from shareholders who are taking an increasingly active role in company business. Institutional investors who control larger and larger stakes have changed the focus of businesses to increasing short-term profits and dividends. Rather than selling the stock of companies whose managers they disagree with, Mr. Eaton said, the investors pressure the company to change, even ousting a number of chief executives in the process.
And standing behind those institutional investors are American workers who have sunk their retirement savings into mutual stock funds and are fighting to be sure they get the best returns possible, he said. Those are some of the same workers who in turn have been laid off as their employers struggle to please investors, Mr. Eaton said.
"So if we don't like the kind of pressure these funds put on our companies, we can't point fingers," Mr. Eaton said. " 'Them' is us."
Mr. Eaton argued that the turmoil may be for the best.
While the Labor Secretary, Robert E. Reich, and others have debated the definition of corporate responsibility, Mr. Eaton said that "companies that focus on making money become more competitive, and that in turn means more economic growth, and more jobs, and all the other results that stakeholders care about."
As an example, Chrysler has hired more than 15,000 blue-collar workers in the last five years, he said. But it did not set out to create more jobs. "Our goal was to get more competitive," Mr. Eaton said. "New jobs and more security for the existing ones are simply results of being more competitive."
Mr. Eaton quoted a popular country song to describe the atmosphere he and other executives face.
"Remember the song, 'Mamas, Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up to Be Cowboys,' " Mr. Eaton said. "Today, apparently the shame is raising a son who grows up to be a C.E.O." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES; CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; AUTOMOBILES; CORPORATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LAYOFFS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: EATON, ROBERT J; MEREDITH, ROBYN ROBERT J EATON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



477 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE WHITE HOUSE;
PRESIDENT DRAFTS 1997 BUDGET PLAN OFFERING TAX CUTS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 18

 BODY:
When he presents his election-year budget to Congress on Tuesday morning, President Clinton will call for roughly $100 billion in tax cuts over the next five years, fleshing out several of his proposals to benefit the middle class and to close a number of loopholes enjoyed by American business.
With the presentation of the 2,000-page document, Mr. Clinton will be putting forth some of his main campaign arguments against Senator Bob Dole, the presumptive Republican nominee. But there are few surprises in the fiscal 1997 budget proposal, which is drawn from Mr. Clinton's last offer to Republicans before negotiations broke down two months ago on the still-unresolved 1996 budget. 
 The largest share of the cuts will come from a tax credit of up to $500 for families with at least one young child, and a deduction of up to $10,000 for college tuition and other degree programs -- proposals that Mr. Clinton first made in December 1994.
Under the plan Mr. Clinton will submit on Tuesday, almost all the cuts would peak in the 1999 fiscal year and then disappear the following year, unless the deficit was reduced considerably more than the Congressional Budget Office's projections. Assuming the deficit reduction is not ahead of schedule, taxes would increase again just as the next Presidential election cycle begins four years from now.
Mr. Clinton's $100 billion in tax cuts are roughly half of the amount proposed by Congressional Republicans when the jousting over the 1996 budget came to a temporary end, forcing the Federal Government to operate on a series of short-term resolutions. The two sides are still far apart on issues ranging from Medicare and Medicaid to welfare overhaul, and the Administration's fiscal 1997 proposals will go nowhere, Congressional leaders say, until the parallel debate on this year's budget is resolved.
"In the next few weeks, everyone's going to have to make a decision about whether or not to give up on the 1996 budget and just limp along, or try to put something together with Dole," one senior Administration official said late today. "And until we get past this year's problem, the 1997 budget is just a debating point with the Republicans."
Campaigning today in Illinois, ahead of the primaries on Tuesday in the Midwest, Mr. Dole again questioned whether Mr. Clinton truly wanted a budget deal this year, or whether he saw political advantage in playing out the stalemate. "Mr. President, if you want a real balanced budget, if you want to make fundamental changes, I'm willing to sit down with you," he said. If an agreement is reached, he said: "You'll get credit. I'll get credit."
White House aides said today that Mr. Clinton planned to meet on Wednesday with Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senator Dole to discuss several issues, including the budget impasse. But they said the scheduling of the meeting did not signal a breakthrough in the budget talks. Also invited to the meeting were Representatives Dick Armey, the House majority leader, and Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, as well as Tom Daschle, the Senate Democratic leader.
The presentation of the budget gives the President a chance to flesh out many proposals that are whipped around in campaign speeches, and copies of budget summaries being faxed around Capital Hill today detailed some proposals for the first time. It would, for example, close a series of highly technical corporate tax breaks that save companies roughly $10 billion a year. It would tighten the rules for expatriate millionaires, so that the Treasury could claim part of their earnings even if they renounce United States citizenship.
But in the budget proposals, Mr. Clinton is continuing to resist Republican efforts to reduce the capital gains tax. Instead, he would end the practice of allowing investors to identify which shares of stock they are selling, which often enables them to pay a lower tax by declaring that they are selling the shares that initially cost them the most to purchase. Under the new rule, they would be required to compute profits based on the average cost of the shares they hold in a specific stock.
Perhaps the most striking statistics in the new budget arise from the one area of agreement between Mr. Clinton and the Congressional Budget Office: the slow-growth future of the American economy. Both project 2.3 percent annual growth over the next six years, though the Congressional Budget Office predicts that interest rates will be somewhat higher than the White House does.
Those economic assumptions are the underpinnings of the estimates about when the budget will finally be in balance. But several months ago, June E. O'Neill, the director of the budget office, conceded that the figures for the distant budget years, after 1998, were based on "straightlining the numbers," or taking the last projection and assuming each successive year would be the same, and did not take into account what would happen if a fairly severe recession hit in the interim.
Even if those projections are unreliable -- and most economists say long-term estimates of the economy's health are unreliable by definition -- they are the common ground on which Mr. Clinton and Mr. Dole will battle over the next eight months. Each has a balanced budget, and each is out to persuade voters that the other's approach is either fraudulent or dangerous.
Charts accompanying Tuesday's budget proposal show that the Administration project a $164.2 billion deficit in the 1997 fiscal year, which begins on Oct. 1. It would turn into a $7.6 billion surplus in 2002. If the budget is actually balanced that year, it would be the first time since 1969.
In fact, the President's proposal carries the oneupmanship of budget-balancing to a new height: It promises a surplus by 2001, a year before the Republican plans would yield the same result. But those are based on the Administration's economic assumptions, which are slightly more optimistic than those of Congress.
Mr. Clinton's aides said today that he would use the budget to highlight tax proposals that are the centerpiece of his "Middle Class Bill of Rights," first announced in the days immediately after Republicans seized control of both houses of Congress in 1994.
Under the new budget, for example, the $500 tax credit for families with children would fully phase in during the 1999 tax year. But it would not be available to families with adjusted gross incomes of more than $75,000. Initially, Mr. Clinton proposed that the deduction should be available to families earning up to $100,000.
Similarly, the $10,000 tax deduction for higher education and training -- the main proposal growing out of Mr. Clinton's argument that the Government should encourage investments in people as well as factory equipment -- would not be fully available until 1999. And it would be reduced for families earning $100,000 a year and eliminated for those receiving $120,000 or more a year.
The new budget would also allow couples earning up to $100,000 to deduct from their taxable income contributions they make to an Individual Retirement Account. Currently, they cannot deduct contributions if their income is over $50,000. The income limits for individual tax filers would also be increased, to $70,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (58%); AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (58%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (58%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX BUDGETS (95%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); FAMILY (73%); MEDICARE (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); MEDICAID (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



478 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Strike May Be Worst Blow For the Midwest Since '93 Floods

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DAYTON, Ohio, March 18

 BODY:
Government and private economists said today that the 13-day-old strike at two General Motors brake factories here has delivered the worst blow to the Midwest economy since the floods of 1993.
The strike has already reduced the nation's production of goods and services by $5 billion to $7 billion, wiping out a third of the already-weak economic growth in the first quarter, several economic research firms said today. 
 And the effects of a crippling shortage of brakes continued to ripple across the country today, as G.M. announced that it was temporarily laying off another 25,350 workers, bringing the company's total to 150,050. Even G.M. has not tried to keep track of the layoffs at its 1,600 suppliers, but their job losses also appear to be extremely heavy.
"I think this is the biggest single economic event in the Midwest since the flood," said Everett Ehrlich, the Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Statistics.
Negotiators from G.M. and the United Automobile Workers union have been meeting around the clock here since 9:30 A.M. Sunday in an effort to settle the strike, caused by a dispute over job security and safety for almost 3,200 workers here. Both sides continued today to observe an agreement not to discuss their differences publicly, but some participants in the talks have been privately optimistic that a deal may be reached in the coming hours or days.
Examples of the strike's effects are easy to find.
Jim Domin, the general manager of Jamestown Industries, stood at the entrance to his company's immense steel warehouse here this afternoon as two of his crew supervisors, Jeff Hatton and Darrell Campbell, shut off the endless rows of fluorescent lights high overhead. Until early this month, 63 people here sorted and shipped the doors and carpets of Chevrolet Blazers to a G.M. assembly plant in nearby Moraine, Ohio.
But when the assembly plant closed on March 9, Mr. Domin shut down most of the operations here the same day. Metal racks 15 feet high full of car doors still stand on the warehouse's concrete floor, where the workers left them.
"We laid off all our people, 60 people sitting home and waiting to come back, with no income coming in," Mr. Domin said.
Mr. Hatton and Mr. Campbell continued doing maintenance work until today, when Mr. Domin also laid them off with a promise that he would hire them back when the strike ends. "I like to take my family out to eat, and we won't be doing that," said Mr. Campbell, standing in his blue jeans, blue denim jacket and gray T-shirt near the warehouse's darkened entrance.
As people like Mr. Campbell stop going out to dinner and defer other purchases, the strike here affects workers in many other industries. DRI/McGraw-Hill, which runs a large computer model of the economy, estimates that the virtual shut-down of G.M.'s North American operations has resulted in a loss of up to $2.4 billion in output from the auto industry and up to double that in other industries.
If the strike continues, the biggest effect may eventually be felt in the confidence of businesses and consumers to continue spending money, said Scott F. Merlis, an independent analyst in Westport, Conn. "You are hurting business confidence and consumer confidence wherever there is an auto plant or an auto-supply plant and that is why this confrontation is unfortunate -- that's a lot of communities," he said. "There are a lot of communities that are reading about this on the front pages."
The strike's widespread effects have illustrated the continuing economic importance of the American auto industry, which exceeds that of many industries that have been receiving more attention lately. During the fourth quarter of last year, for example, the sales of G.M. were 19 times the sales of the Microsoft Corporation.
Mr. Ehrlich at the Commerce Department said that G.M. accounts for slightly more than 1 percent of the nation's economic activity.
Economic losses have been heavily concentrated in the Midwest, said James E. Annable, the chief economist at First Chicago NBD, the biggest bank in the Midwest. "It really is the biggest single economic jolt to the Midwest since the great floods," he said, adding, "It's big enough that it's changing the overall" economy.
The effects have rippled across all of North America, as 25 of G.M.'s 29 assembly plants, from Ramos Arizpe, Mexico, to Oshawa, Ontario, have shut down for lack of brakes. Another factory had been closed before the strike for retooling.
Just as the 1993 flood produced extra economic activity during the subsequent cleanup, the G.M. strike is likely to produce catchup work in the second quarter. Mr. Ehrlich said that at least half of the output lost in the first quarter would be made up in the second quarter.
Paul D. Ballew, the chief economist at J. D. Power & Associates, the auto consulting firm, said that G.M. would be able to catch up on car production. But G.M. will not be able to make up for lost time in the production of sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks because the factories making them were operating at full capacity before the strike, he said. Sport utility vehicles and light trucks are G.M.'s most profitable models.
The strike would have to last several more weeks to exceed the economic harm of the 1993 floods, Mr. Ballew said.
 Because the strike is about job security for the workers here, it may have captured the national imagination at a time of already-considerable concern about layoffs, Mr. Annable said. If consumer and business confidence is seriously hurt by the strike and the widespread layoffs, then the economy will not bounce back quickly, he warned.
Even if a settlement is reached this week, the strike will have reduced first-quarter growth in the gross domestic product to an estimated annualized rate of six-tenths of 1 percent, down from previous estimates of nine-tenths of 1 percent, Mr. Annable said.
The striking workers here want G.M. to reverse plans to buy more brakes and brake parts from outside companies.
While waiting for the strike to be settled, many workers across the country could be cautious about spending money. As Mr. Hatton prepared to leave Jamestown Industries today, he said he was planning to start buying cheaper gasoline.
"I'm just going to be a little more conservative in everything" involvng personal spending, he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Strike Rocks G.M." lists a daily tally of the G.M. assembly plant employees laid off. (Source: General Motors)(pg. D4)
 
Graph: "Total G.M. Workers Laid Off" shows total G.M. workers laid off, by department. (Source: General Motors)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP GENERAL MOTORS CO (84%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; STRIKES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FLOODS; LABOR LAYOFFS (91%); STRIKES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FLOORING (62%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH DARRELL CAMPBELL (65%); JIM DOMIN (65%); EVERETT EHRLICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



479 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: AN AMERICAN PLACE: Taxes and Election Fervor;
A Silent Wave of Anti-Tax Emotion Holds Sway in Perry Township, Ohio

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP 

DATELINE: PERRY TOWNSHIP, Ohio, March 18

 BODY:
Denny Fulk, a precinct captain canvassing Citadel Avenue, rang the bell, and as soon as the door opened a crack, launched into his pitch. "Hi, I'm Denny Fulk, I'm one of your neighbors, I live over on Banyan and I'm on the committee to pass the Perry school levy," he began. "We have an important vote coming up on the 19th and I'd like to give you some literature. Any questions I can answer?"
"I don't think so," said the woman, peeking out from behind her door. 
 "Passing this tax levy is important for the schools and the children and for our property values," Mr. Fulk said.
"O.K.," said the woman.
"Would you have an idea how you might vote?"
"O.K., I guess I'm leaning for it."
"That's great," Mr. Fulk said. "So we can count on your vote?"
"Probably," said the woman. Mr. Fulk thanked her, she smiled, he smiled, and as he got to the bottom of her walk, he whispered, "That's a no vote." After several more houses, Mr. Fulk caught up with his wife, Linda, who was canvassing the other side of the street.
"Everyone has been positive," said Mrs. Fulk.
"How many you think are lying to you?" asked Mr. Fulk.
Here in Stark County in northeastern Ohio, fighting the anti-tax vote is like chasing shadows. Anti-tax voters usually do not organize, do not show up at public meetings in large numbers, do not spend lots of money to defeat school levies or sales tax proposals. But come election day they slip into the polling booths and roar, "NO!"
Perry, a blue-collar and middle-class suburb of 30,000 near Canton, has passed just one tax levy in 17 years and is now $8 million in debt. If the tax increase fails on Tuesday, most busing will end immediately, the high school swimming pool will close and the board will consider shutting schools or disbanding the district.
This is not unusual here. For years Stark County voters slipped into the polls and roared "NO!" to a half percent increase in the sales tax, causing a financial crisis that closed down much of the county jail. At present there are 6,000 criminals convicted of misdemeanors who are out in the streets, on a waiting list to serve jail time here.
Such strong anti-tax feelings have a lot to do with why the Democratic President is proclaiming the end of big spending and big government. Perry is a suburb that has been "right" in picking the President every year since 1964. Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans, 8 to 5, here but they are Reagan Democrats, having deserted their party through the 1980's, before coming back to the Democratic fold in 1992, for President Clinton.
Tomorrow, these Perry voters will come face-to-face with the consequences of the anti-government, pro-business Reagan Revolution they helped spur. One of the reasons they are being asked to ante up more is that big government (in this case, the state of Ohio) and big business (in this case, the Timken Company, a steel and bearing manufacturer) are paying a lot less toward the schools.
In the last decade, the state's share of financing for the Perry schools has shrunk from 55 percent to 37 percent. This, along with tax breaks given to Timken, the largest local employer, set off the crisis.
In 1982, as an incentive to build a state-of-the-art steel plant in Perry instead of down South, Timken was given a 15-year real estate tax abatement, saving the company about $8.5 million. Also, over the last decade, the State Legislature reduced all corporations' personal tax rate from 35 percent to 25 percent.
And Timken, like most companies, has been more aggressive in recent years about cutting its inventory (further reducing its corporate tax) and about fighting its tax bills. This year, Perry has had to refund to Timken $1.4 million in overcharges made by state assessors.
The result is, Timken's annual tax payment to Perry has dropped from $4.5 million a year to $1.5 million in a decade.
It is a sign of the times, that even in Democratic Perry, after months of public hearings on the levy and scores of letters to the newspapers, there has rarely been any anti-Timken, or anti-corporate squawking.
"I don't blame Timken, you can't really blame Timken," said Mr. Fulk, as he went canvassing door to door in 12-degree weather. And Peggy Hrach, who has overseen the entire canvassing operation, poring over computer printouts precinct by precinct and street by street, volunteering weeks of her time to pass the levy, says, "Everyone gives tax abatements nowadays, so you know you can't count on industry any more to support the schools."
"I've had a good experience with the Perry schools," Mrs. Hrach said. "But do I have to pay for it? Yeah."
The mobilization to pass the levy is an impressive exercise in grass-roots democracy, in marked contrast to the Presidential primaries, which have spurred no local get-out-the-vote effort. Perry officials have held four public hearings on the levy, a lecture by a state expert on school financing, a pancake breakfast and weekly Perry pride pep rallies at the elementary schools.
The Perry teachers, who average $40,000 a year, a little above the county average, have donated $25 each to finance the campaign and gave back a negotiated 3 percent raise in hopes of gaining support.
By matching voter lists with school registration lists, Mrs. Hrach pinpointed 738 families that were not registered and had children in the schools. "We know who the people are, but we're discreet about it," she said. "We don't say, 'You're not registered to vote.' We say, 'By the way, if you're not registered, here's how you can do it.' "
Virtually every registered voter in the district has been visited by the canvassing volunteers.
After a public meeting in early February, Mrs. Hrach reported, "We registered 30 to vote at Little League last Saturday; we had three more tonight." Perry also registered 358 students to vote.
The message at the meetings has been simple: The state's not going to bail us out, industry's not, we have to do it ourselves. Certainly by East Coast standards, property taxes are a bargain here. While Perry is a similar community to Levittown, N.Y., taxes here on a typical house are $1,200, about one-fifth of Levittown's. The levy would add about $200 to the typical Perry resident's tax bill.
Still the betting here is that passage tomorrow is an uphill battle. The opposition remains in the shadows. The tax expert's lecture in February was attended by about 100 people. Bill Hammen, a Perry administrator, looked out over the audience and said, "When you take away the teachers and principals, it's discouraging."
After canvassing, Mrs. Fulk said, "You have people who tell you they voted it for it last time, they'll vote for it again, then you check and they're not registered."
Richard Capuano, the owner of the Donut Kettle here, says his customers aren't talking about the Presidential candidates, they're talking about the levy. So he invited them to his shop one night not long ago for a get-together with Perry school officials, sweetened by free cream sticks, powdered jellies and coffee. "I expected the place would be jammed," he said.
More school officials showed than citizens. The few who came, like Roland Arnold, a retired Republic steelworker, complained about teacher salaries, and said a freeze was not enough, there should be salary rollbacks. "Why pay more for a master's?" Mr. Arnold said. "It actually don't make a better teacher. What does a third grade teacher need with a master's?"
Jim Johnson, who has 26 years as a steelworker at Timken, said: "Myself, I'd like to see the checks and tallysheets. You can't expect the retired people to use their savings to pay taxes."
Mr. Arnold asked, "Why don't you put out some programs explaining this?"
Ken Hartwick, the superintendent said the district had put out 15 programs and fliers. "I never seen one," Mr. Arnold said.
They wanted to know why the public schools had to pay for students to be bused to private schools like Massillon Christian School. The superintendent said it was required by law, but Mr. Johnson shook his head and asked, "Why doesn't their parents take them?"
They wanted to know how often the schools bought new books. When Mr. Hartwick said the state recommends changing every five to seven years, Mr. Johnson said, "Books don't change that much."
On the way out, Mr. Arnold was stopped by a reporter and asked how he planned to vote. "You with the newspaper?" he asked. "I'll probably vote for it."
 
An American Place
Throughout the Presidential election year, articles in this series will examine Canton, Ohio, and surrounding Stark County, a political bellwether for decades.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Denny Fulk, a precinct captain in Perry Township, Ohio, has been canvassing for the schools levy. He recently visited Don Harding. (Scott Heckel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TKR (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: TIMKEN CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERRY TOWNSHIP (OHIO); UNITED STATES (95%); OHIO, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 TAXES & TAXATION (94%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SALES TAX (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); MISDEMEANORS (63%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); SWIMMING (60%); SPORTS (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WINERIP, MICHAEL; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



480 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Clinton to Seek Tax Cuts, But Not on Capital Gains
President Clinton, presenting his 1997 budget to Congress today, will call for $100 billion in tax cuts during the next five years -- notably a tax credit of as much as $500 for families with at least one young child, and a deduction of up to $10,000 for college tuition and other degree programs -- while making business bear the brunt of the cost of those breaks. [Page A1.]
 
Capital gains taxes, in effect, would rise under the Administration plan. Rather than cut the gains tax as Republicans have demanded, the Administration would close what it sees as loopholes. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [A1.]
 
G.M. Strike a Brake on the Midwest
Government and private economists said that the 13-day-old strike at two G.M. brake factories in Dayton, Ohio, had delivered the worst blow to the Midwest economy since the floods of 1993. The strike has cut the nation's output of goods and services by as much as $7 billion. Because of the brake shortage, G.M. has laid off 150,050 workers. [A1.]
 
Chrysler's chief, Robert J. Eaton, complained of the "demonization of corporate America" by politicians and news organizations, telling the Economic Club of Detroit, "Downsizing and layoffs are part of the price of becoming more competitive." [D4.]
 
Regulators Focus on Bad Brokers
Securities regulators announced a new effort to rid the securities industry of bad brokers. "You only have to hire a few clowns to make the industry look like a circus," Arthur Levitt Jr., the S.E.C. chairman, said. [D2.]
 
Leslie Fay to Spin Off Sassco
Leslie Fay Companies decided to spin off the Sassco unit to creditors, rather than sell it to a management group led by Sassco's president and founder, Arthur S. Levine. [D22.]
 
2 Scientists Cite Philip Morris
The F.D.A. released affidavits of two former Philip Morris research scientists detailing the company's efforts to study nicotine's appeal to smokers. A former executive testified that the company added tobacco byproducts to raise nicotine to specified levels. The company's shares fell $4.125 to $91.25. [A18.]
 
Gasoline Additive Shunned
The Environmental Defense Fund announced that some large petroleum companies had said they had no plans to use a controversial ethyl additive that raises gasoline octane. [D5.]
 
TCI to Buy Knight-Ridder Interest
Knight-Ridder agreed to sell Tele-Communications Inc. its 50 percent share of a jointly owned cable company. TCI will pay about $400 million in cash and stock and will assume more than $400 million in debt for Knight-Ridder's cable holdings. [D7.]
 
Elan to Acquire Athena
The Elan Corporation, an Irish company specializing in drug delivery technology, said it would acquire Athena Neurosciences for stock valued at $625 million. [D2.]
 
Boeing to Raise Aircraft Output
Boeing said it would increase production of its 737, 747 and 757 jetliners next year, reflecting the continued rebound in demand for commercial aircraft. Boeing shares rose $4.75 to $85.625, a 52-week high, on the New York Stock Exchange. [D4.]
 
Latin American Arms Sales Up
With industrialized nations cutting back on military expenditures, some 400 companies from 43 countries participated in Chile's 1996 International Air and Space Show, seeking a share of the increasingly important $2 billion Latin American weapons market. [D6.]
 
Time Warner's Head Softens Stand
Gerald M. Levin, Time Warner's chairman, testified that he was willing to consider putting part of Turner Broadcasting System, except its Cable News Network, into Time Warner's troubled partnership with U S West, which is suing to block Time Warner's planned acquisition of Turner. [D7.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,683.60, up 98.63
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.70%, down 0.03
The Dollar -- 105.99 yen, up 0.06
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Housing Starts
 February figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -2.6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (83%); ELN (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (83%); ELAN CORP PLC (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MIDWEST USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAX LAW (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (87%); SECURITIES LAW (86%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); FAMILY (77%); STRIKES (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); TUITION FEES (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (67%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); FUEL ADDITIVES (64%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (64%); NEUROSCIENCE (62%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



481 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Panel Backs Longer Benefits

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
The State Senate Appropriations Committee yesterday voted to extend unemployment benefits from 26 weeks to 32 1/2 weeks to win support from labor leaders for a plan to solve the impasse on the financing of hospital care for uninsured New Jerseyans. The bill would allow the state to continue tapping into the unemployment insurance fund for so-called charity care for the next two years, but would cut financing from its 1995 level of $400 million to $275 million. Since the most recent charity-care financing plan expired on Dec. 31, the state has missed two $33 million payments to repay hospitals for treating the uninsured.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; HOSPITALS; HEALTH INSURANCE HOSPITALS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); CHARITIES (88%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (87%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



482 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: Clothing Donations Go First to U.S. Poor, Not Africa Market;
Displaced Workers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Clothes You Gave Away Are a Hot Item in Africa" (news article, March 14): The job opportunities that this trade in discarded clothing provides for low-income people is at the expense of Africans who used to have better jobs in local textile and clothing manufacturing. 
 The Kenyan Government's restrictions on the importation of "mutumba," or bales of used clothing, is an attempt to protect livelihoods and to stanch the flow of capital from that third-world economy to the more vibrant economies of Europe and North America.
If devastation of African economies and obstruction of the difficult path toward African self-sufficiency is the price that American charities feel is appropriate to pay, they should reconsider the use of the term "charity."
 
MAURA GATENSBY
Vancouver, Canada, March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: AFRICA (95%); KENYA (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (67%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (95%); KENYA (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (67%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (88%); CHARITIES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TEXTILES (73%); APPAREL MFG (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996



483 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Yeltsin's Land Decree Is Illegal and Risky

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"With Land Sale Edict, Yeltsin Opens Way to Longed-For Era" (front page, March 17) is in error regarding what was accomplished. 
 President Boris N. Yeltsin created a constitutional crisis with his decree. According to the Constitution -- the one he wrote -- land rights are a subject of federal law, not presidential decree. The legislature has gone to court to have the decree annulled.
When the land code got its first reading last summer, the deputies endorsed it only after "freezing" Chapter 17, on the land market. Its details were to be debated this spring, the intention being to consider if land should be leased, Hong Kong-style, or sold outright.
But the bill approved in the summer was surreptitiously replaced by a different draft, presented by the Agrarian Committee on Nov. 14. This new draft left only one option: the "capitalist" land market.
When the new legislature convened in January, the shenanigans were discovered. The Natural Resources Committee intervened and the original draft was restored. Four days later, Mr. Yeltsin intervened with his unconstitutional act.
The Natural Resources Committee deputy chairman, Vyachislav Zvolinsky, has asked me, Ramsey Clark and others to testify for the legislature to help prepare a land law calling for leasing. Under today's conditions, sales or mortgages would involve substantial fraud and pave the way for loading down Russia's land with mortgage debt, leading to widespread insolvency and a foreign exchange drain.
 
MICHAEL HUDSON
New York, March 18, 1996
 
The writer is a research associate at the Jerome Levy Economics Institute at Bard College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATURAL RESOURCES COMMITTEE (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES COMMITTEE (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); WRITERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); HUDSON, MICHAEL WILLIAM RAMSEY 'RAMSEY' CLARK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



484 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: New York Plans to Stop Investing In Tobacco

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 19

 BODY:
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall announced today that he would stop investing state pension funds in tobacco stocks.
But to the dismay of antismoking groups, Mr. McCall said he would not completely sell off tobacco company stocks from the $74.5 billion fund's portfolio. 
 Mr. McCall said his concerns were economic rather than moral or social. He maintained that increasing legal and political attacks on the tobacco industry have raised questions about the risks of investing in tobacco companies.
"My actions today are not meant to conduct public policy through the investment process," said Mr. McCall, who is the state fund's sole trustee. "My actions are intended to prudently limit the fund's exposure to risk for the nearly one million retirees and members of the fund."
New York's pension fund is the second largest in the nation, after California's, covering 850,000 current and retired workers. It has $636 million invested in Philip Morris, RJR Nabisco and American Brands, among others.
Mr. McCall's decision highlights the broad pressures that tobacco companies are coming under, from Congressional scrutiny of industry practices to government bans on smoking in public places.
It is also an attempt by Mr. McCall to allay the concerns of anti-tobacco groups, which have been pressuring the state to divest itself of tobacco holdings.
Still, Mr. McCall can hardly afford to give up all the fund's tobacco stocks because they have been extremely profitable in recent years. Between 1985 and 1994, the fund earned $624 million from its tobacco investments, according to the Comptroller's office.
Mr. McCall said he would continue to monitor the impact that regulatory and legal actions against the tobacco industry have on stock prices.
"Given my fiduciary responsibilities," he said, "my concern about the fund would not be whether it was good for one's health but whether or not this can be a profitable investment."
The decision drew a mixed response from anti-tobacco advocates, who said that Mr. McCall did not go as far as they had hoped he would.
Blair Horner, the legislative director of the New York State Public Interest Group, a government-reform lobby, said the state's profits from tobacco investments pale in comparison to the $2.6 billion spent each year in New York to treat lung cancer, emphysema and other smoking-related illnesses.
"We applaud the fact that the Comptroller is trying to deal with the problem," Mr. Horner said. "But he should have gone a step further. The fact is that the state will continue to invest in companies that cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars in health care costs each year."
But Mr. McCall maintained that the state, as a major shareholder of tobacco stock, could pressure tobacco companies to change bad practices, like marketing cigarettes to teen-agers.
"As a major institutional investor," Mr. McCall said in a statement, "I will encourage management to address the underlying causes of the industry's problems." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (55%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: KRAFT NABISCO (55%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC INTEREST GROUP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC INTEREST GROUP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS TOBACCO INDUSTRY (92%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); SMOKING (89%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); LOBBYING (79%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); LUNG CANCER (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); SMOKING BANS (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); CANCER (60%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (55%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) H CARL MCCALL (97%); BLAIR HORNER (55%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



485 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: Making the Shoe Fit, Perfectly;
Companies Use Technology to Sell to a Market of One

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
When the Custom Foot shoe store opens its doors in Westport, Conn., for the first time tomorrow, it may be hard to judge how business is going: even shoppers making a purchase will be leaving empty-handed.
That's because this is a shoe store without shoes. Well, not exactly -- the store can draw on a potential inventory of more than 10 million pairs, with every style in every possible size. It's just that none of them have been made yet. 
 Instead of trying on shoes until they find some that fit reasonably well, shoppers at Custom Foot will have their feet scanned electronically, with the scanner capturing even the slight differences in size and width that typically distinguish the right foot from the left. The data will be transmitted to factories in Italy, where the shoes will be made to order and delivered in about two weeks. The price? An average of about $140, comparable to high-quality mass-produced shoes but well below the $500 or more that a handmade pair usually commands.
The store on Main Street in the affluent commuter suburb is the latest -- and in some ways most ambitious -- experiment in what marketing experts call "mass customization." This seemingly contradictory term describes the process of using computers, flexible manufacturing techniques and sophisticated marketing approaches to narrowly target products and services to the needs of the individual buyer.
Mass customization gives individual customers "exactly what they want, without creating overwhelming choice complexity or pushing costs up to the point that a company prices itself out of the market," Christopher W. Hart, a consultant who is president of the Spire Group in Brookline, Mass., said.
Some electronics products, such as computers made by Dell and Gateway 2000 and pagers made by Motorola, have been mass-customized for several years, with customers specifying the types of components to be used or the features desired. Large trucks are mostly custom built as well, with buyers detailing the type of engine, transmission and other major components to be included.
Mass customization is also catching on in the service sector. By studying demographics and individual credit histories, some financial services companies now offer customized deals for credit cards, for instance, varying the interest rates, credit limits and other terms, customer by customer. And certain luxury hotel chains, like Ritz-Carlton, compile detailed lists of each client's likes and dislikes. A traveler who registers at any Ritz-Carlton anywhere in the world does not have to ask for a nonsmoking room, a nonallergenic pillow or her favorite newspaper; her desires are already known.
But it is one thing to keep track of individual tastes or make a product from standard parts taken off the shelf. It is quite another to make something fit as snug as, well, a shoe.
"Clothing is a sterner test because everybody is unique," B. Joseph Pine 2d, the president of Strategic Horizons Inc., a consulting company in Ridgefield, Conn., said.
Levi Strauss & Company has been selling custom-fit jeans at its Original Levis stories, including those in New York, for more than a year, but the measurements are done by hand. By relying on an electronic scanner, the Custom Foot takes fashion customization to the next level in holding out the prospect of a more perfect fit.
"Mass customization is the wave of the future," said an enthusiastic Jeffrey Silverman, president of the store's parent company, the Measurably Better Corporation, and a veteran of the shoe business. The company, also of Westport, plans to open other Custom Foot stores in the next few months at the Short Hills Mall in Millburn, N.J., the Roosevelt Field Mall in Garden City, L.I., and the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn.
Whether shoppers will be similarly enthusiastic is not yet known, of course. For one thing, how exact the fit will be is not clear, since the shoes will not be made, as true custom-made products are, by craftsmen who work on them from start to finish. Instead, these shoes will be made on an assembly line whose equipment is fine-tuned to the specifications captured by the scanners.
Some marketing specialists also caution that the two-week wait for delivery may slow sales, particularly to customers who like the instant satisfaction of walking out the door with their purchases.
"This may be an idea whose time is not here yet," John Deighton, an associate professor at the Harvard Business School said. "Delay is the No. 1 enemy of impulse shopping."
But in the limited tests so far, customers, particularly women, have shown they are willing to pay a little more and wait a while to get clothes that really fit. Levi Strauss drew widespread attention in 1994 when it introduced its Personal Pair jeans for women, even though they cost $15 more than regular jeans and involve a wait of two to three weeks.
"In the focus group studies we've done, we found that women were very eager to get made-to-measure clothing at ready-to-wear prices," said Peter N. Butenhoff, the president of the Textile/Clothing Technology Corporation, an apparel research organization. "And they said they would be willing to wait up to two weeks to get the garments."
In fact, the textile research group is developing a system that uses a body scanner, computerized pattern modification and high-speed, single-ply fabric cutting to produce customized clothing in a factory, rather than at a tailor's store. The intention is to produce custom clothes at prices close to off-the-rack with an acceptable wait.
"It is our belief that it should be possible to do most apparel in a week and a man's suit in about two weeks, rather than the six or more weeks that it takes now," Mr. Butenhoff said.
Advocates of mass-customized systems say the approach sharply cuts distribution and handling costs, because almost no inventory is needed. And because every product is sold before it is produced, there is no need for profit-squeezing markdowns to sell slow-moving goods.
Other industries are also bullish on customization.
For example, Mr. Pine reports that a Japanese company, Paris Miki, uses a digital scan of a customer's face to produce a customized eyeglass lens shape to enhance the wearer's appearance. The shape is then used to make a pair of frameless glasses, typically within three days. The glasses are now being test-marketed in Bellevue, Wash. Eventually, the company expects to provide glasses with frames as well.
On another front, the Lutron Electronics Company of Coopersburg, Pa., has developed a family of lighting controls that are customized in a wide variety of shapes, colors and sizes in response to the needs of interior designers.
And auto makers, notably BMW, dream of taking sales prospects on virtual reality "test rides" while they custom-order a vehicle.
Such an approach could free dealers from the hugely expensive need to stock hundreds of cars to meet the different needs and tastes of consumers. It might also eliminate the need for high-pressure sales tactics to "move the iron" that is already on the dealer's lot.
A virtual reality simulator could change the whole car-buying experience, Mr. Hart of the Spire Group said.
"Imagine 'feeling' the performance differential of different engine options," he wrote in a paper describing the approach. "How about 'seeing' the different color options on the model you are interested in. Want to take a drive down the California coast? Just a moment while I push a few buttons. Want a premium stereo built into the car, as opposed to spending $2,000 at an after-market stereo shop? No problem."
Nothing quite so dramatic will greet shoppers at the Custom Foot, a modest, 850-square-foot store with shoe samples on the walls. Once the customizing concept has been explained by salespeople, interested customers will don white socks for the measurement process.
Two silhouette views are taken of each foot, from the bottom and from the side, generating 13 measurements for each foot.
Mr. Silverman describes the system as "about 10 percent technology" with the rest of the effort focused on marketing and customer handling. As the system was originally designed, for example, only the operator of the scanning device could see the computerized image of the customer's feet on a video screen. But an early test found that customers also wanted to watch. So now a separate monitor faces the seated customer.
After the scan, customers go to another terminal in the store to pick colors, styles, types of leather and other features and to check the price.
At the end of the day, the foot scan information and consumer choices for each order are to be sent to Measurably Better's nearby corporate office and then forwarded to its office in Florence. From there, the order data are distributed to the seven factories signed up to produce the shoes.
In addition to being able to produce custom shoes at close to off-the-shelf prices, the system allows the company to respond more quickly to changes in fashion, Mr. Silverman said. "Most Italian factories started working on shoes for the fall of 1996 a year ago, and American companies start 18 months in advance," he said. "I can go from a new style to shoes in the store in four weeks."
But what if the customer gets cold feet when the shoes arrive from Italy? After all, this will still be the first time the buyer tries on the shoes.
No problem, Mr. Silverman says, pointing to the store's guarantee to take back any pair, no questions asked.
But what happens then to an expensive product that has been made for one person, and one person only? Mr. Silverman says the rejected shoes will be donated to charity, where the intended recipients may be more willing to make a stretch.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey Silverman is president of the parent company of Custom Foot, a new shoe store in Westport, Conn., which will use electronic scanners to produce custom-made shoes. Data is transmitted to Italy with delivery of the shoes two weeks later. (Susan Brown for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Tailoring To The Individual"
 Several companies have adopted a precess of "mass customization," in which products and services are narrowly targeted to the demands of a specific customer. Unlike pure custom work, this is done without creating overwhelming complexity or dramatically pushing up costs.
 
JEANS -- Levi Strauss makes jeans to a woman's individual measurements.
 
NEWS -- Individual, Inc. scans 600 news sources to compile a different report for each customer.
 
HOTELS -- Ritz-Carlton records customer preferences in a central data base available to all hotels.
 
COMPUTERS -- Dell Computer uses software to translate buyer preferences into components for tailor-made machines.
 
LIGHTING -- Lutron Electronics makes custom lighting systems in a variety of shapes, colors and sizes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: CUSTOM FOOT (WESTPORT, CONN, STORE) GATEWAY INC (84%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUSTOM FOOT (WESTPORT, CONN, STORE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: SHOES AND BOOTS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET SHOE STORES (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); DISCRETE MFG (87%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); HOTEL CHAINS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



486 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Strong Start, But Bonds Back Down

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Bonds gave up an initial gain and were little changed yesterday as investors debated whether a jump in oil prices and signs of stronger economic growth would bring about an increase in inflation.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond fell 5/32, to 90 28/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose a basis point, or hundredth of a percentage point, to 6.71 percent. 
 "It looks like the economy is going to do a little better, and there are some things, like rising oil and other commodity prices, that suggest inflation will start to grow a little bit," said Denny Niedringhaus, who manages $300 million in bonds for Southwest Bank of St. Louis. "We could see bond yields over 7 percent this year."
Not so, other investors said. "I still think we'll see lower interest rates sometime over the next 6 to 12 months," said Jan Terbrueggen, who manages $1 billion in bonds for Flagship Financial in Dayton, Ohio, adding that yields were likely to fall back to 6 percent.
Pat Sheehan, who manages $4.5 billion at Smith Barney Asset Management, said that he saw no reason for yields to be as high as they were. "It's still a low-growth, low-inflation environment," he said.
The debate boils down to whether inflation, which erodes the value of bonds, will head higher this year; it has slowed since 1990. The prices of consumer goods last year climbed 2.5 percent, after 2.7 percent increases in both 1994 and 1993.
In one sign that economic growth and inflation could soon pick up speed, the price of oil jumped $1.07 a barrel yesterday, to $24.34, the highest since January 1991, when the Persian Gulf war began.
Recent signs of growth also include the jump in employment last month. In February, 705,000 jobs were added to payrolls, the biggest one-month increase since 1983.
Bonds initially gained yesterday after the Government said housing starts rose 3 percent in February, to an annual rate of 1.49 million. Economists, on average, had expected a 2.6 percent drop.
Analysts attributed much of the rise in February to a recovery from the depressing effect of snowstorms in the Northeast during December and January. Also, the Government cut its figure for January's gain in housing starts to 1.5 percent from the initial estimate of 4.4 percent.
To some traders, the bond market's behavior recently has supported the view that investors will need striking confirmation that inflation and economic growth are not accelerating before they will buy more fixed-income securities. "The market is reading bad news anywhere it can," said John Fath, a trader at Nationsbanc Capital Markets in New York.
Treasury yields, the benchmarks for borrowing costs on everything from credit cards to corporate loans, have risen sharply, reflecting expectations that a rebounding economy will keep the Federal Reserve from cutting rates next week at its next policy meeting. The yield on 30-year Treasury bonds has risen about three-fourths of a percentage point this year.
The average rate for a 30-year mortgage climbed to 7.83 percent in the week that ended March 15 from 7.38 percent the previous week, according to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
Yesterday, Treasuries with shorter terms than the 30-year bond also showed little movement. The discount rate on the three-month bill rose to 5.04 percent from 5.03 percent, a bond-equivalent yield of 5.19 percent. The six-month bill's discount rate also rose a basis point, to 5.05 percent, for a yield of 5.27 percent.
The price of the three-year note was unchanged at 97 14/32, for a yield of 5.97 percent. The price of the five-year note was also unchanged, at 97 26/32, for a yield of 6.14 percent. The yield on two-year notes held steady at 5.85 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST BANK OF ST LOUIS (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); DESERT STORM (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



487 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Measuring the New Clinton

 BODY:
If voters were choosing between the Bill Clinton who ran for office in 1992 and the President who issued his budget plan for 1997 yesterday they would find enormous differences. That is not surprising, given that the political landscape has changed so sharply. As the Republicans have gained strength, the President has retreated from some of the core principles and programs he once embraced. One can complain that Mr. Clinton has made some regrettable concessions, but in a broad sense he had to retreat.
Even so, the choice this year is not between the old Clinton and the new Clinton. It is between Mr. Clinton's watered-down budget and Bob Dole's even worse budget plans that were blocked by the White House. 
 The broad outlines of Mr. Clinton's concessions have been known for months. Some of his ideas to balance the budget in seven years are fanciful. He would cut spending largely after leaving office, in 2002, and would cut taxes only temporarily while he is in office. Political reality suggests that Congress will do the opposite by reneging on the huge spending cuts when they come due and by extending tax cuts in 2000, an election year. A balanced budget is not in the offing.
Some of the budget-cutting is misguided. The President reneges on his 1992 campaign promise to boost spending on training, education and scientific research by $20 billion a year. In this budget, public investment barely stays ahead of inflation. The only answer to inner-city blight is a modest embrace of an unproven idea -- tax cuts for businesses that locate in urban ghettos. The plan makes little effort to reform the politically charged Medicare program. But the worst concession to the Republicans is the plan's embrace of a five-year limit on cash assistance to welfare enrollees. Mr. Clinton proposed time limits two years ago, but in those days he also proposed providing public-sector jobs to parents who could not find work on their own, an idea he has now abandoned.
Mr. Clinton's budget for education and training is inadequate, but it is far better than the G.O.P. plan to cut these programs by about $30 billion and cut science programs by 30 percent by 2002. On welfare, Mr. Clinton, unlike the G.O.P., would preserve federally guaranteed Medicaid and welfare payments. He would also provide vouchers that welfare enrollees could use to buy housing and some other necessities for their children after they hit the five-year time limit on cash benefits.
The Republicans want an unwarranted cut in taxes on capital gains -- the profit from selling stocks and other investments -- but Mr. Clinton wants to close loopholes that allow wealthy investors to evade this tax. The Republicans want the Environmental Protection Agency to largely disappear. Mr. Clinton wants to increase its enforcement budget by more than 20 percent.
Many analysts dismiss the President's budget as an irrelevancy because the Republican-controlled Congress will not give it a second look. But budgets, especially with seven-year horizons, are more a statement about priorities than policy. There is much to be learned from the document issued yesterday. Mr. Clinton's policies are far from what he promised four years ago. But they are also far better than what Mr. Dole and his colleagues have in mind.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (72%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); MEDICARE (70%); CHILDREN (70%); SLUM DWELLINGS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (65%); CITY LIFE (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (60%); MEDICAID (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



488 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Stock Prices Lower, With Dow Falling 14.09

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
The stock market took a breather yesterday, with prices lower after Monday's record-setting performance.
"There was a little bit of profit taking, but that was not surprising after the Dow went up almost 100 points the previous day," said Richard C. Pell, chief investment officer of Bank Julius Baer. "And the big story was Philip Morris." 
 The Dow Jones industrial average -- which rose 98.63 points, to an all-time closing high of 5,683.60 on Monday -- slipped 14.09 points yesterday, to 5,669.51. Philip Morris, which fell 4 7/8, to 86 3/8, accounted for the Dow's overall decline by itself.
Other key market indexes fell by even smaller amounts. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks eased 0.96 point, to 651.69, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 1.92 points, to 1,112.50.
Market breadth, though, was positive on the New York Stock Exchange, with advancing issues outnumbering decliners, 1,295 to 1,090. Turnover on the Big Board rose slightly, to 440.1 million shares, from 437.1 million shares Monday and well ahead of the three-month daily average of about 420 million.
The Commerce Department said yesterday that housing starts rose 3 percent last month to the highest annual rate in more than a year. This news helped to push bond prices down; the 30-year Treasury bond was off 5/32 and its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, inched up to 6.71 percent, from 6.70 percent on Monday.
"The rotation among stock groups, which has been the pattern in the last couple of weeks, continued," Mr. Pell said. "People moved towards cyclical stocks and away from defensive issues."
Tobacco companies, led by Philip Morris, were once again buffeted by liability concerns, following disclosures on Monday by former workers in statements to the Food and Drug Administration detailing research into nicotine's attraction to smokers. RJR Nabisco fell 1 3/8, to 29 3/4; American Brands dropped 1/2, to 43 1/4; and UST declined 1 1/8, to 31 5/8.
Technology stocks were hit by a selloff after scoring gains in recent sessions. I.B.M. closed at 121 3/4, down 2 7/8; Hewlett-Packard closed at 101 1/4, down 1 3/4; Digital Equipment closed at 67 1/4, down 2, and Silicon Graphics closed at 25 1/8, down 3/4.
In contrast, airline stocks surged higher and the Dow Jones transportation average advanced 30.46 points, to a record of 2,215.21. UAL, the parent of United Airlines, forecast better-than-expected profits for the first quarter and jumped 8 7/8, to 213 1/8. Delta Air Lines increased 2 1/8, to 82, and AMR, the parent of American Airlines, rose 3/4, to 91 3/4.
Oil services companies gained as the price of crude oil climbed to more than $24 a barrel. Schlumberger closed at 78 1/4, up 3/4; Rowan closed at 11 3/4, up 3/4, and Helmerich & Payne closed at 33 7/8, up 1/4.
The auto sector, composed of economically sensitive stocks, was generally strong. Chrysler rose 1 5/8, to 63 1/2, andGeneral Motors advanced 1 1/4, to 54 1/4. But Ford Motor slid 1/4, to 33 5/8.
Also finishing lower was Walt Disney, which slumped 1 7/8, to 65. McDonald's, a typical defensive stock, gave up 1 3/4, to 50 3/8. And Pacific Telesis dropped 1 1/8, to 26 3/8, amid investor worry over its ability to increase earnings and continue to pay its current dividend.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (52%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); KRAFT NABISCO (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TOBACCO MFG (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); HOUSING STARTS (65%); AIRLINES (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD RICHARD C PELL (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



489 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Fight Over Picking Up Tab For S.&L. Bailout Renewed

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19

 BODY:
The savings-and-loan crisis may have passed, but the fight over who picks up the bill rages on.
Six and a half years after Congress passed sweeping legislation to clean up $150 billion in losses from a decade of mismanagement and fraud at the nation's savings and loans, savings institutions and their commercial bank competitors are arguing anew over how much responsibility each industry has to make up a share of the losses. 
 At stake is not just the cost to financial institutions, but the growing possibility of default on $8.2 billion of bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, an arm of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, which was established in 1987 to help pay for an early bailout package. And in the long run, Federal regulators including Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned in testimony to the House Banking committee today, the hard-won stability of the savings-and-loan industry and of its deposit-insurance fund could be undermined.
The survivors of the financial carnage in the savings industry are now very healthy, and though regulators said another recession could create some problems, no one is worried about systemic failures.
Rather, regulators said, the main problem now is that savings institutions are forced under terms of the bailout package to pay hefty premiums into the industry's depleted deposit-insurance fund, while banks pay little or nothing into their industry's fund. As a result, healthy savings institutions are moving deposits into affiliates that qualify as banks.
Because the bank insurance fund is fully capitalized, healthy banks now pay only a token $2,000 a year into their fund.
Savings institutions, by contrast, pay 23 cents for each $100 of deposits into their deposit-insurance fund. That means an institution with $100 million in deposits -- relatively small by industry standards -- would pay $230,000 a year.
As the amount of deposits covered by the savings industry's insurance fund declines, so does the total of premiums the fund takes in. The remaining savings institutions will probably tend to be those with a higher risk of financial problems, the regulators said, potentially putting more strain on the fund.
In total, the savings industry's fund is required to have $1.25 on hand for every $100 of deposits held by the industry, but at the end of last year had only 47 cents for every $100.
Indeed, the fund has only $3.4 billion in it. That's a little more than a third of the reserves it is supposed to have -- and a level that the Treasury said could be wiped out by the failure of a single large savings institution or several medium-sized ones.
Not only is the fund left badly undercapitalized, but because nearly half of the premium income is used to pay holders of the Financing Corporation bonds, regulators said that the risk of the fund defaulting on the bonds was also increasing.
"We're looking at a deteriorating process where as healthy institutions leave, then the burden falls on, by definition, less healthy institutions," Mr. Greenspan said. "It's a cumulative downward spiral which seems to me inevitable in the long run, although the time frame is difficult to judge."
Asked at the hearing by Representative Bill McCollum, a Florida Republican, whether time was of the essence in dealing with the problem, Mr. Greenspan replied, "Unquestionably."
A measure passed last year with support from both parties and the White House was meant to solve the problem. But the measure was attached to the vetoed balanced-budget bill, making the savings-industry legislation the victim of a bigger and more politically charged dispute.
The measure would have charged savings institutions a one-time assessment of $6 billion to lift the insurance fund to its required level. It would also have spread responsibility for paying interest on the bonds across both the banking and savings industries -- a step that commercial banks said would cost them $12 billion in the next 25 years.
With the issue now reopened, banks are lobbying hard against it and their pressure has stalled if not killed efforts to revive last year's legislation.
Citing heavy opposition from banks around the country, James M. Culberson Jr., the president of the American Bankers Association, told the committee: "Bankers are extremely upset with the prospect that having rebuilt their fund at no cost to taxpayers they may be asked to pay approximately $12 billion to help relieve an obligation of one of their principal competitors."
The savings industry's survivors said they were happy to shoulder the heaviest share of recapitalizing their insurance fund and paying interest on the bonds. But they said they should not be held solely responsible, especially since as survivors they constitute the savings industry's most conservatively run institutions.
James F. Montgomery, the chairman of America's Community Bankers, the savings industry's trade group, urged the committee to try again to pass the legislation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FINANCING CORP; FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN INSURANCE CORP; FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (58%); FEDERAL SAVINGS&LOAN INSURANCE CORP (57%); FINANCING CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCING CORP; FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN INSURANCE CORP; FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION SAVINGS & LOANS (97%); BANK FAILURES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); BOND ISSUES (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



490 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Starts of Housing Surged 3% in February

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19

 BODY:
Builders started work on new homes last month at the highest rate in more than a year as they prepared for a rush of buyers eager to lock in mortgage rates before the rates move higher.
All regions except the Midwest reported increased construction, the Commerce Department said today. The increases pushed national housing starts 3 percent above the January level, to an annual rate of 1.49 million. The February rate is the highest since December 1994, when the rate was 1.51 million. 
 Relatively low mortgage rates, which remain below 8 percent even after a recent rise, and increases in employment are fueling demand for houses, analysts and home builders said. "Job growth is what drives the housing market," said Ted Mahoney, president of Windjammer Construction in Plainville, Mass.
The report "fits the very optimistic tone" reflected in a survey by a home builders' group that was released today, said Raymond Worseck, chief economist with A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis. The National Association of Home Builders said its housing market index for March jumped 10 points, to 60, the highest level since May 1994.
Mr. Mahoney said the survey was consistent with his experience recently. "I'm sold out," he said. "I put my last house under agreement this weekend."
For the industry as a whole, these are still nervous times. Recent Government figures showed that new-home sales rose 4.2 percent in January, but the supply of new homes for sale rose eight-tenths of a percent, to the highest level in 16 years.
If the economy stumbles and home sales wither in coming months, builders will find themselves saddled with the carrying cost of unsold homes that may require price cuts to sell.
Today's report showed that housing construction was not as strong in January as earlier reported. The January increase was 1.5 percent, not the 4.4 percent that the Government had estimated a month ago.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg Business News had expected starts to decline about 2.6 percent in February, as winter storms slowed commerce on the East Coast. In fact, starts in the Northeast recorded the biggest gain, surging 33 percent, to 127,000. Starts increased 5.7 percent in the West, to 425,000, and rose 4.2 percent in the South, to 647,000. The Midwest was the exception, showing a decline of 11.6 percent, to 291,000.
The outlook suggests an acceptable year for housing even though mortgage rates have surged since February, when the rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage averaged 7.08 percent. Last week, the rate was at 7.83 percent, a seven-month high, according to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
That is still relatively low, analysts said. At February's mortgage rate, the average monthly payment on a $100,000 loan was $670.68, up from $667.32 in December. By contrast that payment would have been $822.68 in December 1994, when mortgage rates were at their recent peak of 9.25 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction" tracks new private housing started and permits authorized, at seasonally adjusted annual rates, from September 1994 throught February 1996. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (88%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MIDWEST USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STATISTICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); 

PERSON: TED MAHONEY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



491 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Aide's Claim of Secrecy for Inaugural Funds Is Contradicted

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 19

 BODY:
As part of an effort to block the State Assembly's investigation of Gov. George E. Pataki's inaugural fund, a lawyer for the corporation that raised money for the event told a state court today that the names of the contributors would not be turned over to investigators because the donors had been promised secrecy.
But officials with two corporations that gave money to the event said today they were never told of such a policy. 
 Virginia Gold, a spokeswoman for AT&T, which contributed $10,000 to the event, said the solicitation for an inaugural fund-raiser came in a letter from Charles A. Gargano, then the chairman of Mr. Pataki's inaugural committee and now the State Commissioner for Economic Development. Asked if there was any promise of anonymity in the letter or in follow-up phone calls, she said no.
Bob Fauteux, a spokesman for Pfizer Inc., which gave $5,000 for the inaugural, said officials at his company also were not told of any policy of anonymity by inaugural fund-raisers.
In interviews with The New York Times last fall, 16 other companies and individuals acknowledged that they had donated money, goods or services to the inauguration. None said anything about being promised anonymity by N.Y. Inaugural '95, as the fund was called. What is more, the names of more than 50 companies and individuals who contributed services or money to the inaugural were listed in a program given the 13,000 people who attended the Governor's swearing-in ceremony.
N.Y. Inaugural '95 and a sister corporation, N.Y. Transition '95, are the focus of an investigation by the Assembly, whose Democratic leadership has contended that contributors to the two profit-making corporations may have received special favors from the Pataki administration. The Assembly has estimated that the two corporations raised at least $1.4 million, and the court hearing today was to hear the corporation's challenge to the Assembly's subpoenas for records and information about the fund.
Mr. Pataki's supporters established the fund shortly after his election in November 1994 to raise money privately for his transition and lavish three-day inauguration. At the time, Mr. Pataki's aides promised to keep all contributions within state campaign finance limits and to disclose the names of all donors.
But they did neither, first allowing corporations to contribute much more than the $5,000 limit set by state election law for corporate campaign contributions. Then, after repeatedly promising to disclose the identities of contributors, when they received a formal request from The Times last November, they refused.
In November, Mr. Pataki's aides said they were keeping the names secret because they wanted to shield the Governor from knowing who had given to his inauguration. That way, they argued, Mr. Pataki would not feel obligated to help those contributors.
But today, the lawyer, Michael J. Hutter, offered a different reason for keeping the contribution list secret: to protect the contributors. In arguments before Justice Joseph Harris in Supreme Court in Albany, Mr. Hutter said that revealing the names of donors could open them up to harassment or stigmatization by Mr. Pataki's enemies.
In an interview after the hearing, Mr. Hutter said secrecy "was a conscious policy that was explained to contributors." He said he thought that many contributors gave to the corporations because they were told "there was not going to be disclosure."
Mr. Hutter asked Justice Harris to invalidate the Assembly subpoenas for records. Justice Harris did not issue a decision today.
Though he said that people soliciting money for the inaugural were expected to tell all contributors that their names would be kept secret, Mr. Hutter said he could not explain why some contributors did not recall being told of the policy. A spokeswoman for Mr. Pataki, Zenia Mucha, said she was not involved in the inaugural corporations and could not comment on its activities.
Asked why Pataki aides kept telling reporters that contributors' names would be disclosed even though the two corporations had established a policy of secrecy, Mr. Hutter replied, "I just don't know what was going on with the second floor," where the Governor's office is in the State Capitol.
Mr. Hutter said officials at the two corporations sent several letters to the Governor's office telling them that the corporations would not release the names.
But when Ms. Mucha, Mr. Pataki's spokeswoman, was told of Mr. Hutter's comments this evening, she said the Governor's office was never sent any such letters.
Several minutes later, Mr. Hutter revised his account, saying he had been mistaken. The inaugural money had not sent any letters to the Governor's office explaining their policy of secrecy until November, when Ms. Mucha formally announced that the names of donors would not be disclosed. Then, however, she said the secrecy was to protect the Governor and his aides, not the donors.
At today's court hearing, the lawyer for the Assembly Democrats, Evan Davis, told Justice Harris that detailed information about the inauguration was needed to help the Assembly draft legislation to regulate inaugural money.
But he also said it was in the public's interest to know who gave money to the event. "The abuse, or appearance of abuse, we're dealing with here is quid pro quo: give to get," said Mr. Davis, who was a lawyer for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (69%); PFE (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (69%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: NY INAUGURAL '95; NY TRANSITION '95; AT&T CORP; PFIZER INC PFIZER INC (69%); STATE ASSEMBLY (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: NY INAUGURAL '95; NY TRANSITION '95; AT&T CORP; PFIZER INC STATE ASSEMBLY (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; ETHICS; GOVERNORS (US); INAUGURATIONS ; ETHICS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION FUNDRAISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); ETHICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICS (68%); ELECTION LAW (60%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



492 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Survival Of the Nastiest;
Manhattan Lab Draws Fame For TB Bacteria in Freezer

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
In a ninth-floor laboratory on the East Side of Manhattan, there is a white chest-style storage freezer that is home to some of the nastiest little Darwinian survivalists on the planet. Packed in plastic vials and suspended at 70 degrees below zero centigrade, this is New York City's own private hot zone: the lethal drug-resistant tuberculosis bacteria that flared in the city in the early 1990's came to rest here as the outbreak subsided.
It is one of the largest collections of its kind in the world, with more than 4,500 samples, many of them all but immune to medicine's front-line antibiotics. 
 Nobody wants these bugs. But public health officials, researchers and drug company scientists cannot afford to forget about them. And Dr. Barry N. Kreiswirth has them.
"When scientists think of multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis, they think of New York," Dr. Kreiswirth said.
That is, in fact, the good news and the bad news rolled into one. The city became a point on the map for epidemiologists and bacteria hunters as a place where -- for a complex array of reasons -- tuberculosis began to stir and evolve beyond the reach of traditional medicine. Now, largely because of Dr. Kreiswirth's collection, and his computer database analyzing the bacteria's every genetic nuance, the city has become a kind of tuberculosis research clearinghouse. From a public health crisis has come a new asset.
"It's not exactly a business everybody wants to get into, having a collection of drug-resistant tuberculosis," said Dr. Bruce Montgomery, a senior vice president at Pathogenesis, a Seattle-based pharmaceutical company that has a contract with Dr. Kreiswirth's lab, the TB Center at the Public Health Research Institute, to test antituberculosis drugs. "I haven't heard of a lot of people saying, 'Boy, we need to get that.' But they got there first, and that makes them a big plus for New York science."
How the strains of TB bacteria came to be at an obscure 54-year-old private institute, on First Avenue near 26th Street across from Bellevue Hospital Center, that most New Yorkers have probably never heard of is one part of the story. Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia figures prominently in that tale, believe it or not.
But this is also a detective drama, as Dr. Kreiswirth's researchers, using DNA fingerprinting techniques, have homed in on the New York tuberculosis strains. The institute helped confirm, for example, an early hypothesis by physicians at Columbia University and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine who had traced a particular strain to a men's shelter, since closed, on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, where a mutation in the bacteria apparently occurred in one unknown human host and spread from there. Institute workers call that moment the Big Bang.
There are also some odd economic implications to TB and its treatment, in which the institute again is playing a central role. Tuberculosis, historically one of mankind's great scourges, is today overwhelmingly a disease of the poor, falling heavily among immigrants, intravenous drug users, people with AIDS and third-world populations. Because the number of cases, at least in developed countries like the United States, had been falling for decades through most the 20th century, many drug companies had quietly stopped making TB antibiotics.
But the outbreak in New York City, which in 1991 and 1992 had more multidrug-resistant tuberculosis cases than all the rest of the nation combined, has dramatically refocused attention on the havoc that TB can still bring and the staggering financial costs to a sophisticated, modern medical care system. Since the outbreak began, the total cost in New York City alone has been about $1 billion, mostly from extended hospital stays by patients, according to the city's Health Department estimates.
So far, six companies have sent some of their best drugs to test against Dr. Kreiswirth's worst bugs, and two compounds that arose from those tests, both from Pathogenesis, are now being tested. If the drugs are approved for use, the company specifically hopes to recoup some of the development costs from urban public health agencies that would be prime financial beneficiaries.
"If you had a drug that would shorten the course of therapy or prevent drug resistance," Dr. Montgomery of Pathogenesis said, "the amount of money that drug could save the city of New York would be phenomenal."
The backdrop is that the tuberculosis outbreak in New York has receded. New York City health officials are expected to report on Friday that new TB cases fell in 1995 for the third year in a row, though there are still far more than in the late 1970's, which will probably be remembered as the disease's low ebb in this century.
Dr. Kreiswirth's work is a kind of postscript to that ordeal. But it also is the starting point for what medical researchers say will be a resurgence of the disease sooner or later, although no one really knows when, given the disease's unpredictability. It is a war that Dr. Kreiswirth believes cannot be won. He compares it to the old Mad magazine comic strip, "Spy vs. Spy," in which every move by one spy is counteracted by the other in a never-ending dance. Every new advance by science only pushes the bacteria, among the world's oldest life forms, toward some new evolutionary twist.
"We're training these bugs," Dr. Kreiswirth said. "We're making them better at what they do. They've been around for three and a half billion years and we thought we were going to win? Who were we kidding?"
The disease re-emerged in New York as a close ally to the AIDS virus -- people with weakened immune systems started getting many diseases that had seemed all but conquered. The bacteria evolved into drug-resistant strains partly because patients, many of them homeless, did not continue the months of drug treatment necessary to kill all the bacteria. Taking antibiotics only for a while, or only periodically, killed only some TB bacteria. The survivors could then multiply and spread and were stronger in facing the antibiotic the next time around.
But there are also some profound mysteries. The strain traced to the men's shelter, called the C strain in the institute's nomenclature, can be treated by regular medication. It has not become drug-resistant like the notorious W strain, for example, and yet it has continued to spread, apparently because of some biological advantage that researchers have not been able to pin down.
How the institute built its collection is itself a kind of survival-of-the-fittest story. Founded in 1941 by Mayor La Guardia as a liaison between city health agencies and the academic world, but belonging fully to neither, the institute inhabits a niche all by itself -- no other major American city has anything quite like it, said Jack T. Crawford, chief of diagnostics and molecular epidemiology in the TB section at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.
In late 1991, the institute's odd-duck status -- private but dedicated by its charter to a mission of public health -- paid off. Its president, Lewis M. Weinstein, a nonscientist who is a former chief executive at Kinney System, the parking company, reached out to the corporate community from which he came. Within a year, using more than $1 million in corporate donations, mainly from Pfizer Inc. and Hoffmann-La Roche, the institute's tuberculosis lab was up and running.
Being able to take and test patient samples free of charge got the database going. And once he had the largest database, Dr. Kreiswirth said, it only got easier to get more. The Federal Department of Veterans Affairs, for example, recently agreed to send its TB samples to the institute.
Samples have also arrived for testing from seven countries in South America and Africa. Recent reports in medical journals that some strains associated with the New York outbreak had been diagnosed in other cities around the world are expected to further increase the number of requests for DNA comparison -- and thus provide more samples for the freezer.
Dr. Kreiswirth said the next breakthrough in his TB detective work would come out of the blue, a phone call perhaps from a physician who remembered a weird case years back and just happened to save a sample.
"I'm in search of that historical collection that I know is out there," he said. "Then we can take these questions another 10 years back in time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Barry N. Kreiswirth, director of the TB Center at the Public Health Research Institute, examines test results that show how one strain of bacteria responds to different antibiotics. The center houses more than 4,500 samples of tuberculosis-causing bacteria; A microscopic view of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacteria that causes TB. Only through genetic testing can doctors distinguish one strain from another.; A DNA fingerprint, shows nine TB strains that are frequently seen in New York City cases. Read vertically, the 17-bar pattern in the "W" column indicates a strain that apparently originated outside the city and is difficult to treat. The three-bar patter in the "C" column shows a strain that has been traced to an Upper West Side men's shelter which has since closed. Unlike the W strain, the C strain is very treatable with antibiotics. (Melchior DiGiacomo, 1992) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC HEALTH RESEARCH INSTITUTE COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); NEW YORK (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC HEALTH RESEARCH INSTITUTE NEW YORK (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TUBERCULOSIS; RESEARCH TUBERCULOSIS (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); BACTERIA (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DRUG RESISTANCE (90%); EVOLUTION THEORY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (75%); DNA (74%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (71%); GENETIC SCREENING (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (62%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



493 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Court Lets Workers Sue If Tricked of Benefits
The Supreme Court ruled that workers whose employers trick them into giving up benefits can sue to have the coverage restored. The 6-to-3 decision gave new teeth to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
The case involved former employees of Massey-Ferguson, a subsidiary of Varity, who were encouraged to transfer to a new subsidiary that quickly closed, leaving them without health care coverage. [Page A17.]
 
Will Tobacco Stocks Rise Again?
Philip Morris stock continued to plunge, losing almost $5 yesterday, and it has fallen $20 since a small competitor agreed to settle tobacco litigation. Analysts say that represents a buying opportunity in the company, which also makes products like coffee and beer. But opponents of the tobacco companies state that a fundamental change has occurred. Market Place. [D8.]
 
Signet Faces Possible Fraud
Signet Banking of Richmond said it might be the victim of $81 million in fraudulent commercial loans, and F.B.I. agents arrested two people on charges of bank fraud. [D4.]
 
More S.& L. Problems Loom
Savings institutions and commercial banks are arguing again over how much each should pay for the savings debacle of the 1980's. At stake is the possibility of default on $8.2 billion in bonds issued for the bailout. [D2.]
 
Cable Company Buys Teams
Comcast, the cable company, agreed to buy the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team and the Flyers hockey team. [D4.]
 
Auto Talks Falter in Ohio
Progress faltered in talks between General Motors and the U.A.W. to settle the strike in Ohio, and G.M. laid off more workers. [D4.]
 
Stocks Catch Their Breath
The stock market paused after Monday's jump. The Dow Jones industrial average, after advancing almost 100 points on Monday, slipped 14.09 points, to 5,669.51. [D8.]
 
Home Building Revives
Builders started work on new homes last month at the highest rate in more than a year, as builders prepared for buyers locking in relatively low mortgage rates. [D2.]
 
Crude Oil at $24 a Barrel
Crude oil prices rose to their highest levels since the gulf war, and are up $4.73 a barrel, or 25 percent, in seven sessions. [D18.]
 
Stronger Growth for Japan
Japan's economy expanded at a 3.6 percent annual rate in 1995's fourth quarter, but growth for the year was under 1 percent. [D3.]
 
I.B.M. Picks PC Chief
Samuel Palmisano, head of an I.B.M. unit dealing with corporate customers, will take over the personal computer business. [D7.]
 
Executive Quits Blockbuster
Viacom said Steven Berrard, left, quit as chief executive of its Blockbuster video stores. He is going to work for Wayne Huizenga, Blockbuster's former chairman, who is leading a start-up called Auto Nation, which will sell used cars. [D2.]
 
A Special Forum for Cyberspace
A forum known as a cybercast is being created to discuss a court case taking place this week about free speech, pornography and the web of computer networks. The forum combines verbal jousting, E-mail and speech files. [A14.]
 
Times Mirror Reaches to Workers
After many job cuts, Times Mirror's chief executive said his job now was to inspire employees at a time of rapid change. [D6.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,669.51, down 14.09
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.71%, up 0.01
The Dollar -- 106.17 yen, up 0.18
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Retail Sales
 February figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +1.1%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); VIA (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (80%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (80%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BB LIQUIDATING INC (80%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); VIACOM INC (50%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (54%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (54%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); BASKETBALL (79%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (79%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); TOBACCO MFG (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); BONDS (70%); ARRESTS (67%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (62%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); MORTGAGE RATES (61%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



494 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Executives From Taiwan Worry, but Stay in China

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, March 19

 BODY:
Like many Taiwan businessmen who live and work in this city, Chiang Yu-min likes to relax by leaving his steel factory at the outskirts of town to meet friends for a meal at Taipei City or one of the other hip, upscale restaurants that cater to "tai shang," as Taiwan businessmen are known in mainland China.
But it is hard for Mr. Chiang to relax when all his friends are talking about what they see as the possibility of war. 
 "We're nervous every day, so we're used to it," he said, smiling wearily. "None of us really expect war to break out, but it's on our minds all the time."
With Taiwan and China closer to military conflict than they have been in decades, investors from Taiwan are on edge here, torn by two seemingly conflicting actions: China's efforts to encourage investment at the same time that it conducts military exercises near Taiwan just before the presidential election is held on Saturday.
More than 100,000 business executives from Taiwan are believed to be in China. They have brought a surge of investment, some $25 billion, second only to money from Hong Kong and more than from the United States, demonstrating China's economic stake in avoiding a serious showdown over Taiwan.
Most Taiwan businessmen here prefer to focus on the positive, saying that they cannot imagine that any blood will be spilled and that business opportunities are still good. It would be unwise to express political opinion, they say.
But talk of war has highlighted their uncertain status in the mainland, where they are neither foreigners nor natives.
In recent years, China's Government has welcomed executives from Taiwan not just for their investments, but also for the web of personal and financial ties that Chinese leaders suggest will help keep Taiwan, which they consider a renegade province, from becoming too independent.
In blaming its current troubles with Taiwan on President Lee Teng-hui, China favors increased contact with ordinary Taiwan residents.
"Although relations are getting tense and complicated, we want to promote more trade and investment from Taiwan," said Zhang Zhichun, director of the Taiwan Affairs Office in Shanghai. "New investors may hesitate, but the ones already here can see what a good environment it is."
Though that environment has been good in recent years, it is now under threat from the current dispute. Most businessmen seem to doubt that armed conflict will occur, but some express fear that they could lose their stake in the mainland.
"All that has been achieved over the last 5 to 10 years could disappear," said Kent Liu, chairman and general manager of Shanghai Taylor Food Company, which makes ice cream. "If there were a war, the Taiwan economy would collapse, and so would the economy in the coastal areas of China."
Not long ago, anyone from Taiwan visiting China was suspected of being a spy for the Nationalist Government, which fled to the island in 1949 after losing a civil war to the Communists.
Executives from Taiwan began entering the China market 10 years ago and, by emphasizing common language and ignoring political history, became savvy and aggressive investors. By the end of 1995, they had committed an estimated $25 billion in all kinds of enterprises in China.
But today, with politics threatening to undercut China's prosperity, the Taiwan businessmen occupy a somewhat precarious position: they are insiders, but they do not quite belong.
"The Government has assured us they will protect our rights," said Yang Ta-cheng, chairman of Shanghai's Taiwanese Businessmen's Association. "I believe them. Our interests are deeply intertwined."
Yet Mr. Yang described how, despite having the same language and cultural upbringing as mainlanders, he felt like a complete outsider when he arrived here in 1992, and how it took three years before he got used to living here.
He was welcomed by the Government as a compatriot, but has to pay a higher "foreigner" price in hotels and on airplanes. He was free to head his own company, but cannot speak freely with his staff for fear of political "misunderstandings."
Like many of his colleagues from Taiwan here, Mr. Yang left his wife and children in Taipei, Taiwan's capital, and travels to Taiwan to see them for a few days each month. He is in China to make money.
Chinese officials estimate that there are more than 30,000 companies in China with Taiwan investors, and though no one counts exactly how many Taiwanese live here, Mr. Yang suggested that it could be more than 100,000.
As an indication of the role that Taiwan businesses play in China's economic boom, Mr. Yang estimates that they employ five million people, and perhaps can account indirectly for the employment of another five million.
"That means about 30 million people are living off Taiwan companies," he said, counting children and other unemployed dependents.
Mr. Liu predicts a peaceful resolution to the crisis and says he is so eager for news about it that he reaches for the Taiwan newspapers delivered to his home as soon as he returns from work, irritating his wife with the way he ignores her.
"She doesn't like it," he said, "but I feel like I have to know what is happening. We can't influence politics. All we can do is sit off to the side and talk about it."
Mr. Yang, the businessmen's association chairman, shaking his head in frustration, added: "Everyone wants to stay unified, so why are we even talking about violence? One false move and there could be chaos. This society could come apart."
The tremendous economic growth in Shanghai and other coastal Chinese cities in recent years seems to offer a palpable alternative to such dark thoughts.
Christina Tsui, a housewife, came reluctantly from Taiwan to Shanghai because her husband was already here.
"Of course, I was afraid he'd get a mistress!" she said. After a year of adjustment, she has grown accustomed to living here, she said, in part because her family can maintain a higher standard of living.
"I have three children and four maids," she said. "With a driver and two tutors, that's 10 people I have to supervise. I feel like a general manager."
Mrs. Tsui said that although she and her friends had talked about the political situation a lot recently, she saw no reason why the life she was enjoying in Shanghai should be affected by it.
Simin Huang, a Taiwan restaurateur whose seventh-floor office sits atop a building with a restaurant of different cuisine on each floor, is likewise focusing on the upside. His building, for example, is worth five times what he paid for it four years ago.
"Everyone knows there can't possibly be any real problem," said Mr. Huang, reclining comfortably in a deep leather sofa in his spacious office. "There's too much at stake."
If other investors are hesitating to put any fresh money into China, he said, his company is proceeding with plans to open 400 fast-food outlets in Shanghai within two years.
"I am 100 percent confident," Mr. Huang said.
Of all Taiwan investors in China, he guessed, at least 80 percent are making money. "Among those who came early," he said, meaning three or more years ago, "I'd say 100 percent are making money."
If businessmen like Mr. Huang thrive on such optimism, ignoring the unpredictability of politics and concentrating on the benefits of making money, some transplants from Taiwan are more cautious.
Mr. Chiang, the steel factory manager, said that while business was proceeding well, he regularly encountered bureaucratic and management problems that he never saw in Taiwan. One of his concerns is that he feels he has to watch what he says in conversation with his staff or with local acquaintances.
"Talking about politics is fine as long as you all agree," he said. "As soon as we start to disagree, I know I'd better stop, and I change the subject." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (97%); CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (92%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; TAIWAN (97%); CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EAST CHINA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH YANG TA-CHENG (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



495 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Calls For Tax Cuts In New Plan For Budget

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19

 BODY:
President Clinton proposed a $1.64 trillion budget today embodying months-old proposals for middle-class tax cuts and slower growth in spending, and he sought to paint the Republican-controlled Congress as the impediment to balancing the Federal budget by 2002.
"We should enact a balanced budget and we should do it now -- not after the November election, not after the political season, not later, but now," Mr. Clinton said in presenting his budget for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1. "The American people deserve nothing less. It is the right thing to do." 
 At the same time, Mr. Clinton invited Congressional leaders to the White House for a budget meeting on Wednesday, even though he has been deadlocked with them for months over tax and spending priorities for the current fiscal year, which is half over. The current budgets of nine Cabinet departments and scores of other agencies are still in dispute.
The Republicans promptly responded with withering fire against Mr. Clinton today, blaming him for the deadlock for rejecting their previous plans for balancing the budget, which had tax cuts twice as big as he wants and deeper spending cuts than he supports.
"We passed a balanced budget -- Clinton vetoed it," Speaker Newt Gingrich said. "Who's he kidding? We passed tax cuts -- Clinton vetoed it."
The Senate majority leader, Bob Dole, sounded a similar note, saying: "The good news about the budget is that at least the President is talking about it again. We've had nine different budget submissions in the last 12 months by the President of the United States. I think it's an American record, probably a world record."
Mr. Dole, who is virtually certain to face Mr. Clinton in the November Presidential election, did say that he would look forward to the meeting on Wednesday if the President was serious. And he offered a small olive branch aimed at resolving Congressional disputes over the pending line-item-veto bill, which Mr. Clinton has long favored and which the Republicans called for in their Contract with America.
Because some Republicans are reluctant to give Mr. Clinton the line-item veto, the power to strike individual items from spending bills, Mr. Dole proposed in a phone call with the President today that the effective date of the measure be delayed until next year. Mr. Clinton agreed.
"If that's the best we can get, that's the best we can get," said the White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry. "We thought the Contract on America applied to this session of Congress, but the President would like to have that power, and he's delighted that it looks more likely that he'll have it for a second term."
Budgets are always the tangible financial outlines of a politician's political priorities, but, more than most, Mr. Clinton's is an almost purely political exercise this year. It has about $100 billion in tax cuts for the middle class, proposes the closing of some corporate tax loopholes and vows to protect programs for education, the environment and the elderly.
The bulk of the proposals Mr. Clinton re-announced today have been the core of his domestic agenda since December 1994, when, after the Republican Congressional sweep, he revived his 1992 campaign promise of middle-class tax relief.
Virtually all those proposals -- new tax deductions for college education, a $500 tax credit for families with children and the like -- have lain dormant with Congress, though not, the White House believes, with the electorate, so Mr. Clinton amplified his views once again, on the eve of the general election campaign.
"After a lot of hard work," Vice President Al Gore said, "he and his team have managed to balance the budget without unbalancing our values." Mr. Clinton stood by Mr. Gore's side at a White House briefing that was chock-full of such sound bites. "This plan recognizes that Government cannot do everything, but that it must do some things," Mr. Gore added.
Under Mr. Clinton's plan, spending would rise about 4 percent above the estimated $1.57 trillion the Government will spend this year. A handful of agencies would receive much more. At the Justice Department, spending would increase nearly 14 percent in an effort to counter drugs, violent crime, terrorism and illegal immigration.
But Republicans were underwhelmed, making it clear that they held out little hope for resolving disputes over the current year's budget, much less a quick agreement on next year's, or over the broader plan to cut taxes and spending and balance the budget over the next seven years.
"We're going to study it carefully," said Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who is chairman of the Budget Committee. "Maybe there's something we can work together on. But it's very, very difficult when the President gives a State of the Union address bragging about how he's going to make Government smaller, and in an election year it still grows."
Part of the Republicans' ire reflects the reality that Mr. Clinton has not accepted some of their major priorities, like a cut in the capital gains tax. In fact, he proposes to require investors selling stocks to compute their profits based on the average cost of the shares they hold in a specific company. That would keep them from holding down their taxes by claiming that they are selling the shares that originally cost them the most, which would minimize their gains.
In all, Mr. Clinton would also raise about $44 billion over seven years by eliminating what his budget describes as unwarranted tax benefits, most of them for corporations. His plan would restrict multinational corporations' ability to reduce their United States taxes with taxes paid to foreign governments.
But Mr. Clinton's proposal today also shows once again how far he has moved toward accepting many of the Republicans' other conditions, like their calls to balance the budget in seven years, rein in the growth of Medicare and Medicaid spending (although he would limit that less severely than the Republicans) and cut taxes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton presented his budget plan for the next fiscal year yesterday. With him at the presentation were Vice President Al Gore and Laura D'Andrea Tyson, head of the National Economic Council. (David Scull/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "A SAMPLER: Highlights of President Clinton's Budget"
Some specific proposals for 1997 in the President's $1.64 trillion budget released yesterday.
 
SOCIAL PROGRAMS
 
MEDICARE: $210.1 billion proposed in a plan to save $124 billion over seven years mostly by curbing payments to doctors, hospitals, nursing homes. Increases options to Medicare beneficiaries and begins transformation from a traditional fee-for-service program to managed care. Compares to $197.4 billion recommended for 1996.
 
MEDICAID: $105.5 billion proposed in a plan to save $59 billion over seven years by limiting per-person spending and redirecting payments to hospitals serving large numbers of Medicaid and uninsured patients. Flexibility to states trying money-saving innovations. Keeps Federal guarantee of coverage for all eligible poor. Compares to $94.9 billion recommended for 1996.
 
WELFARE: Would limit aid to five years and make it conditioned on recipient's preparing for full-time work. Saves $40 billion over seven years. Gives states flexibility to tailor programs.
 
HEAD START: $3.9 billion to expand program to 40,000 more children, including 1,200 infants and toddlers.
 
CHILD CARE: $1.049 billion block grant to finance day care for 750,000 children and help communities with programs to protect children from abuse.
 
TEEN-AGE PREGNANCY: $30 million for a new teen-age pregnancy prevention initiative expanding community programs previously financed locally.
 
AIDS: $1.4 billion to unify efforts at National Institutes of Health, a 1.7 percent increase for N.I.H research, $807 million for Ryan White AIDS treatment activities, increasing by $32 million the 1996 proposal.
 
NEW DISEASES: $45 million to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's new infectious disease program, a $26 million increase over the 1996 recommendation.
 
JUSTICE
 
DRUGS: Drug Enforcement Adminsitration scheduled for $835 million, up 30.6 percent, for 60 new agents around the country, a new office in South Africa and 54 new agents with a new Southwest Border Drug Trafficking program.
 
VIOLENT CRIME: $1.5 billion for another 19,000 local police officers to bring the number financed since 1994 to 68,000 of 100,000 promised by 1999. Another $31.8 million to crack down on violent youth gangs through grants to states and expansion of F.B.I.'s Safe Streets task forces.
 
TERRORISM: Money for 108 new anti-terrorism F.B.I. agents
 
IMMIGRATION: Immigration and Naturalization Service budget to $1.99 billion, a 21.7 percent increase, for 700 more Border Patrol agents and 150 more immigration inspectors.
 
Overall, the Justice Department budget increases by 16.4 percent over budget legislation pending for 1996. (Source: Associated Press)
 
EDUCATION
 
NEW PROGRAMS: $250 million as down payment on Mr. Clinton's $2 billion initiative to get computers in schools by 2000. Scholoarship awards of $1,000 each, totaling $130 million, for high school students graduating in the top 5 percent.
 
GOALS 2000: $476 million, up 30 percent, for states and school districts raising academic standards and implementing reform. $7.2 billion, up 7 percent, for Title I schools, which serve 7 million poor students.
 
HIGHER EDUCATION: Maximum Pell Grant awards go to $2,700, up from 2,340. New tuition tax deduction of up to $5,000 per family, growing to $10,000 by 1999.
 
(Comparisons are to fiscal 1995 budget, as Congress has not passed Education Department's 1996 budget.)
 
Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Clinton's 1997 Budget Proposal" provides estimates of receipts and outlays of the President's proposed budget. (Source: Associate Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) BUDGETS (96%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); DOLE, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



496 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: THE BALKAN PEACE: THE PENTAGON;
Pentagon Report Predicts Bosnia Will Fragment Without Vast Aid

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19

 BODY:
The Pentagon has offered its grimmest assessment of the prospects for peace in Bosnia to date, warning that without an enormous international aid program to rebuild its economy and political institutions, the country will probably fragment after the withdrawal of NATO peacekeeping troops late this year.
The assessment for the Senate Intelligence Committee was prepared by the Pentagon's senior intelligence analyst, Lieut. Gen. Patrick M. Hughes, and it could signal an effort by the Defense Department to distance itself from blame if the civil war resumes shortly after the NATO withdrawal. 
 General Hughes, the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, offered reassuring words in his report for American troops stationed in Bosnia, suggesting that NATO forces face no organized military threat. If the war resumes, he said, it will not be until after the American peacekeepers and their NATO allies have pulled out.
But the report, dated Feb. 22, offered no similar solace for the people of Bosnia. General Hughes said that the "prospects for the existence of a viable, unitary Bosnia beyond the life" of the NATO deployment are "dim" without a large international program to revive Bosnia's war-shattered economy.
If his assessment is accurate, the peace effort in Bosnia could well be doomed, since the civilian reconstruction effort there is barely under way and its economy and physical infrastructure -- roads, water and electricity lines, telephones -- are still in ruins. The last American soldiers are scheduled to withdraw from Bosnia in December.
General Hughes said that the strategic goals of the warring factions in the region "have not fundamentally changed" since the days of the civil war and that tensions among them would probably grow in the months leading up to the NATO pullout.
If that is true, the Clinton Administration might come under intense pressure from its NATO allies not to withdraw American troops by the end of December -- a deadline that the Administration insists it will hold to.
The Pentagon assessment also implicity questions basic elements of the American-brokered Dayton peace agreement, which laid out what critics in Congress called unrealistic deadlines for political and economic reconstruction in Bosnia and for the withdrawal of peacekeeping troops.
"There's only so much our soldiers can accomplish," said another senior Defense Department official, echoing the report's central findings. "The military forces agreed to keep the peace for a year, and that's what we're doing. But this peace will not hold without an effort to rebuild the country. That's not being done yet. And that's not our job."
The job of organizing the economic and political reconstruction of Bosnia has been left to a European delegation led by Carl Bildt, a former Swedish Prime Minister.
But Mr. Bildt has complained repeatedly in recent months that foreign governments have been slow to make available the billions of dollars needed for civilian reconstruction -- everything from building bridges to printing election ballots -- and that the political component of the peace effort is lagging far behind its military component.
In a meeting this month with donor countries, he pleaded that the donors "do more to honor the pledges we have made."
While questioning whether Bosnia was about to dissolve once again into civil war, General Hughes said in his report that "in the short term, we are optimistic" about the situation faced by the 18,400 American soldiers stationed there as part of the peacekeeping force.
"We believe that the former warring factions will continue to generally comply with the military aspects" of the peace accord, the report said. "We do not expect U.S. or allied forces to be confronted by organized military resistance."
The threat faced by the American forces would come instead from land mines "and from various forms of random, sporadic low-level violence," the report said. "This could include high-profile attacks by rogue elements or terrorists." So far only one American soldier has been killed in Bosnia, an Army sergeant who was killed in an explosion on Feb. 3 as he tried to defuse a land mine.
The report suggested that if the civil war resumes, it will flare up only after the NATO forces have pulled out, removing the buffer that has kept the factions at peace for most of the last four months.
"The overall strategic political goals of the former warring factions have not fundamentally changed," General Hughes said. "Without a concerted effort by the international community, including substantial progress in the civil sector to restore economic viability and to provide for conditions in which national (federation) political stability can be achieved, the prospects for the existence of a viable, unitary Bosnia beyond the life of IFOR are dim." The NATO forces in Bosnia are known as the implementation force, or IFOR.
General Hughes suggested that all of the fragile alliances created by the peace accord might collapse -- with tensions between the Bosnian Muslims and Bosnian Croats threatening their federation, with the Bosnian Croats working toward "de facto integration" with Croatia, and with elections and the resettlement of refugees "delayed or stymied."
He said that the Bosnian Serbs were likely to consolidate their hold on their own territory, seeking "some form of political confederation" with Serbia.
Questions about whether any peace in Bosnia would outlast the presence of NATO troops -- and whether American troops would be stuck there if it did not -- were at the heart of the debate in Congress that preceded votes to authorize the American military deployment. Senator Bob Dole, the front-runner for the Republican Presidential nomination, demanded and won an Administration pledge to play a role in arming and training the Bosnian Government's army.
The assessment by the Defense Intelligence Agency is only slightly more pessimistic than remarks heard elsewhere in the Pentagon. Senior Defense Department officials have long warned that the peace would fail without a huge effort to rebuild Bosnia and to give the people some hope of economic and political stability after years of slaughter.
"Ultimately I think the bigger problem is not the military implementation of the peace agreement," Gen. John Shalikashvili, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the House National Security Committee this month. "We need to make sure we understand that it is equally important to the overall effort -- and also to the safety of the troops -- that we get on with the civilian functions that need to be performed."
"And when I say 'we,' I don't mean the military, but the nations that are involved in this effort," he added.
"The elections have to go forward, the refugees have to begin to return, reconstruction has to start, the infrastructure has to be rebuilt so that the people in the country can see an advantage to not fighting." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRENDS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



497 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
USAir's terminal at La Guardia comes in second in a poll ranking airport concession programs.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell 

 BODY:
WITH short runways, inadequate parking space and its location in the heart of a busy city, New York's La Guardia Airport wins few accolades from passengers or pilots. But the USAir terminal at La Guardia tied for second place with Portland, Ore., International Airport in a recent poll ranking airport concession programs. USAir's operation at Pittsburgh International finished first.
In the poll, airport executives, concessionaires and consultants were asked to rank the top three airports in the country with the best retail services, including concept mix, physical layout, design and theme. All three winning airports are among the growing number that charge "street prices" in their retail stores. 
 The poll was conducted by World Airport Retail News, an aviation industry newsletter.
 
Giveaways and Discounts
Travelers appreciate discounts and getting something for nothing, so an increasing number of hotels and airlines are using such promotions to call attention to themselves.
Inter-Continental Hotels and Resorts, for example, is celebrating its 50th anniversary by giving away two solid gold bars, worth $12,500 each, to winners in a promotion running in 27 cities in the Americas, from Buenos Aires to Washington.
The sweepstakes runs through Oct. 15, 1996, and is open even to people who do not stay at an Inter-Continental. However, frequent guests will be entered automatically each time they stay. Inter-Continental, which is owned by the Saison Group of Japan, has 177 hotels in 67 countries.
Cathay Pacific is not giving away gold bars, but it is allowing members of American Airlines' AAdvantage frequent-flier program to bid on any of 100 first-class seats from North America to Hong Kong. Such flights usually cost 125,000 frequent fliers miles, but bidding at this auction starts at 40,000. The carrier has already received about 500 bids and expects another 500 by the time bidding ends on March 31.
 
American Airlines Update
AMR's American Airlines will begin daily nonstop service between Dallas-Fort Worth and Santiago, Chile, on Nov. 1. The new flights will be in addition to its daily nonstop service between Miami and Santiago. Gerard J. Arpey, an American vice president, said that Santiago had become a strong market for business and leisure travelers primarily because of the strength of the Chilean economy.
American already serves Sao Paulo, Brazil, with daily nonstop flights from Dallas-Fort Worth and has an application pending with the Department of Transportation for nonstop service between Lima, Peru, and Dallas-Fort Worth.
On Monday, American started a frequent-flier program for travelers who are away so often they do not always have time to arrange having their lawns tended, termites routed, carpets cleaned or home security systems installed. The program is in conjunction with Service Master -- which owns Trugreen-Chemlawn, Terminex, Merry Maids, Service Master Residential Services and American Home Shield -- and Pittston's Brinks Home Security.
The program costs $79 a year. Members get miles when they purchase listed services -- and will have access to one-stop shopping and 24-hour home advisers, along with a a 30-day Service Master guarantee. Moreover, dissatisfied members can have their membership fee refunded.
 
Hotel Update
Crown Plaza Hotels and Resorts, owned by Bass P.L.C., will offer triple airline miles plus free enrollment in its frequent-guest program to customers who present a competitor's frequent-guest card upon check-in, through May 22.
Hyatt Hotels is offering rooms at least $50 below its published rates at 19 hotels in California. Based on space availability, the rates are in effect March 29 through April 14.
 
A Taxing Reward
Here's some tax news that won't trouble your sleep: If your 1995 tax return lists a donation of at least $25,000 to the National Endowment for the Arts, Club Med will give you a free week at its Columbus Isle Village in the Bahamas. A donation of $50,000 or more on a joint return will earn two free trips. The purpose of the promotion is to highlight Club Med's collection of folk art and artifacts at the resort. To qualify, a copy of your 1995 tax return and proof of donations must be sent to Club Mediterranee in New York by May 1. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); IHG (NYSE) (56%); IHG (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); NAICS561720 JANITORIAL SERVICES (50%); SIC8744 FACILITIES SUPPORT MANAGEMENT SERVICES (50%); NAICS561730 LANDSCAPING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541320 LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); CHILE (91%); PERU (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (52%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (85%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (66%); 

COMPANY: USAIR GROUP U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (83%); INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (56%); INTER-CONTINENTAL HOTELS CORP (56%); MERRY MAIDS LP (50%); TRUGREEN COS LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: USAIR GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); CHILE (91%); PERU (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (52%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (85%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (66%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC) AIRPORTS (93%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); LOYALTY MARKETING (86%); SWEEPSTAKES (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (74%); RESORTS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN GERARD ARPEY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



498 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE PRIMARIES;
Dole Continues to Roll Toward G.O.P. Nomination

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Wednesday, March 20

 BODY:
Senator Bob Dole roared through the industrial Midwest Tuesday, piling up resounding primary victories in Illinois, Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin that left him just a handful of delegates short of sealing the Republican Presidential nomination.
"I think it's safe to say now that I will be the nominee," Mr. Dole, shedding his usual caution, declared at a rally of mostly young supporters at a Washington hotel Tuesday night. Next week's primary in California is likely to put him over the top. 
 Mr. Dole pounded his only remaining rival, Patrick J. Buchanan, drawing about three times as many votes in Illinois and Ohio. The outcome was closer in Wisconsin and Michigan.
With 98 percent of the vote counted in Ohio, Mr. Dole led Mr. Buchanan 66 percent to 22 percent. In Illinois, the count was 65 percent to 23 percent, with 85 percent of the votes counted. In Michigan, with 90 percent of the votes in, the Senator led 52 percent to 34 percent. And in Wisconsin, with 89 percent reporting, Mr. Dole's lead was 53 percent to 34 percent.
Several news organizations declared Tuesday night that Mr. Dole's sweep of the Big Ten primaries had assured him of enough delegates to the Republican National Convention to win the nomination outright. But an independent count by The New York Times found that Mr. Dole, the majority leader, would have only 914 of the 996 delegates needed after Tuesday's results were in.
Mr. Dole, the senior Senator from Kansas, also stopped short of claiming the prize. His aides said they were eager to keep up whatever suspense they could before the California primary, when 165 delegates, the largest cache of any state, are at stake. "California, here I come!" the Senator said Tuesday night.
But Mr. Buchanan, the former commentator, was no more than an afterthought for Mr. Dole Tuesday night as he recited his triumphs over the last three Tuesdays and trained his attacks on President Clinton.
"March has been a great month," Mr. Dole declared to the cheering audience in Washington. "Republicans across America are now united behind their choice as the candidate they want to restore common-sense conservatism to the White House. That will happen on Nov. 5, 1996, and take effect January 1997." He vowed that there would be "fundamental change in my Administration, in a Dole Administration, after Clinton is long gone."
Even as Mr. Dole was looking toward a confrontation with the President, he expressed concern Tuesday night about Ross Perot's strongest hint to date that he would run as a third-party candidate. Mr. Perot said earlier Tuesday that if his supporters wanted him to run, he would do so and give his full commitment to the race.
In response, Mr. Dole said in an interview on the ABC News program "Nightline" that the prospect of a Perot candidacy "does concern me."
"He helps Bill Clinton," the Senator said. Mr. Perot won 19 percent of the vote in his 1992 Presidential bid.
Mr. Buchanan pointed to his showing in Michigan, where he was winning about a third of the vote, as he was in Wisconsin, as evidence that his candidacy should not be dismissed. "We basically won the campaign for Michigan," he said, noting that he had rebounded from extremely low levels in newspaper polls. Mr. Buchanan's advisers said their candidate at least deserved to be considered as a Vice Presidential prospect.
Already campaigning in California, Mr. Buchanan was still seeking to slow the Dole juggernaut. He contended that his outspoken positions against immigration might give him a "miracle in California."
The primaries Tuesday were essentially a desultory exercise. The only suspense was over how close Mr. Dole would come to crossing the 996 delegate mark to claim the prize that has eluded him twice before. It was quite a contrast with the situation only a month ago, when Mr. Buchanan humiliated the Senator in the New Hampshire primary and Mr. Dole fought to climb back into contention, declaring a battle for the heart and soul of the Republican Party.
Mr. Dole's success Tuesday continued a winning streak that began on March 2 in South Carolina. Since then, he has overwhelmed his opposition in every contest, from New England to the Rockies. Even before Tuesday voting, Mr. Dole seemed to have an insurmountable lead, having amassed 718 convention delegates. An additional 219 delegates were at stake on Tuesday.
Mr. Dole has a major edge over Mr. Buchanan in California's winner-take-all primary, polls there show. And in Tuesday's voting, Mr. Dole drew vigorous support from nearly every demographic group, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls. The surveys were conducted by The Associated Press and the four major television networks.
But one reason Mr. Buchanan attracted more support in Michigan and Wisconsin was that in those states he found a receptive audience for his attacks on foreign trade and complaints of economic problems.
Mr. Dole's barnstorming of the Midwest in the last few days was more a victory lap than actual campaigning. His aides said they had always expected him to triumph yesterday; the only question was how overwhelming his victories would be.
Still, there were signs of trouble ahead for Mr. Dole. At least 4 in 10 of the voters in Ohio, Michigan and Illinois said Mr. Dole did not have any new ideas, according to the voter surveys. In Illinois, more than one-third of those who backed Mr. Dole said they had done so even though he had no new ideas to offer.
Economic issues like jobs, taxes and the deficit were at the top of voters' concerns. In Michigan, for example, those issues were the leading concerns of 60 percent of voters. The next most important issue was abortion, but it was cited by only 11 percent of voters in the state.
In the surveys, voters did not shed much light on whether Mr. Dole should pick a running mate who supports or does not support abortion rights. About one-third of voters in Illinois, Michigan and Ohio said it did not matter whether the running mate favored abortion rights. Another fifth said Mr. Dole should select a running mate who supports legal abortion. But a sizable minority, roughly one-third, said Mr. Dole should choose a running mate who opposed legal abortion.
Midwestern Governors have been jockeying to be picked as Mr. Dole's running mate, but the voter surveys showed no consensus on who the choice should be, although Gen. Colin L. Powell was popular. In Michigan, voters chose Gov. John Engler over General Powell. But in Illinois, voters were divided between General Powell and their Governor, Jim Edgar. And in Ohio, General Powell ran about 10 points ahead of the Governor there, George V. Voinovich.
On Monday night, in Mr. Dole's final day of campaigning in the Middle West, he went out of his way to emphasize in a speech that he was heartened to have Governor Engler's endorsement, which did not come until late last week. Asked by a reporter if there was trouble between the two of them, Mr. Dole replied, "Unless you're trying to stir some up, I hope not."
Rather than engage his sole remaining rival, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Dole used his Midwest tour as more of a warmup for the general election. He trained most of his attention on Mr. Clinton, challenging him to resume negotiations over a balanced budget, welfare overhaul and tax cuts.
In another indication that the primary phase is all but wrapped up, Dole aides said the Senator planned to travel to his hometown of Russell, Kan., on Monday to celebrate with family and friends.
Mr. Engler acknowledged that the primary in his state had been nothing more than a formality. "I don't think the voting is very important anymore," he said. "I'm not sure there's much to be learned. But the importance for the fall is crucial."
 
Election on Line
Computer users may obtain late results of yesterday's Republican Presidential primaries from The New York Times's two services: The New York Times on the Web, at http://www.nytimes.com, and @times, on America Online.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Illinois, where Democrats as well as Republicans voted in the primary yesterday, Don Hardy, left, and Ralph Drafall took time to chat after the vote at the American Legion building. (Matt Kryger/Elgin Courier News via Associated Press)(pg. D21); Senator Bob Dole greeted cheering supporters last night at a political rally in Washington. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 
Chart: "AT THE POLLS -- G.O.P. Voters in Three States: What's on Their Minds" shows result of a poll conducted regarding inssues facing the 1996 Presidential campaign in Michigan, Ohio and Illinois. "BY THE NUMBERS: Results From Tuesday's Primaries" lists results from Tuesday's Republican Presidential primaries. (Source: Associated Press)(pg. D21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (60%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (60%); AMERICAN LEGION (59%); AMERICAN LEGION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (59%); AMERICAN LEGION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; OHIO; WISCONSIN; ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (95%); OHIO, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PRIMARIES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (58%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L; PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996



499 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
So Chipper, So Smiley, So Upbeat, but Why?

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY 

 BODY:
Should Willy Loman rise from his lonely grave in the next few weeks and visit the Circle Repertory Theater, he would surely recognize the character being played there by Frank Whaley.
True, the Buster Poindexter pompadour might throw him for a second. But otherwise, Peter Hogancamp, the central figure in a broken-hearted, symbol-cluttered play by Charles Evered called "The Size of the World," is like Willy's younger self on Benzedrine: a frenetic, hopelessly hopeful soul who, even though it's the 1990's, has dragged out that tattered "smile and a shoeshine" philosophy for success. 
 Mr. Whaley's Peter is a Vesuvius of chipper, Dale Carnegie-style adages, delivered in tongue-twisting eruptions with the gestures of a high school debate captain. The lodger of Stan and Vivian Merkle (Louis Zorich and Rita Moreno), an older couple in Passaic, N.J., Peter has a nightmarish, cartoonish intensity that would be just right for a "Saturday Night Live" sketch, perhaps titled "The Dead Salesman Who Came to Dinner."
Mr. Evered, a 30-year-old playwright and screenwriter, is in absolute earnest, though. So is Peter, when he says, "I'm gonna run and talk so fast through this life that no one's ever gonna catch me." "The Size of the World," which has been staged by the Circle's artistic director, Austin Pendleton, may be packaged in shiny irony. But it's definitely not sending up the postwar American drama of disillusionment. Beneath its whimsical, absurdism-tinged surface beats a sentimental 1950's heart.
At two full acts, "World" has the feeling of a single conceit stretched well beyond the limits of its charm. Mr. Evered -- who shows a sure, if conventional, structural sense and an ability to sustain a poetic logic -- has talents. Knowing when to quit is not among them.
The play has been produced and acted with such obvious care and affection that initially you root for it, hoping that it's not going to take you where you think it's headed. And there's no question that the work is informed by a real core of anguish about human loneliness and thwarted connections. But it is also stymied by the good-student neatness of the symbolic correspondences it sets up. There's no room for the characters to breathe naturally.
"World" is less about plot than coy, meaningful imagery. In it, the quiet life the Merkles have known since their only son left home is disrupted when they rent a room to Peter, an unemployed professional public speaker.
A few things you should know about these people before you decide to meet them: Peter has lost his parents; the Merkles have, in effect, lost their son. Stanley is blind, although the coddling, homey Vivian says "it's better not to let him know" that others know this. Stanley is an amateur historian and rock collector; Peter is terrified by "the idea of caring about something in the past tense."
Vivian keeps a tape recording of their long-dead dog barking (so Stanley will believe it's still alive) and refers wistfully to "our dogwood," now only a stump beside which the family fish (named Champion) is buried. "Everything you say you have doesn't exist," notes Peter, who is slower to get the point than the audience.
"World" has been provided with an ideal set, a butter-yellow time warp of a kitchen, by Jeff Pajer. And the actors make a lot out of the single notes they have been given to sing. Mr. Whaley uses some arch, distancing mannerisms that seem to belong more to the performance than the character. But Ms. Moreno's regretful, silky maternalism and Mr. Zorich's defensive bluster are as affecting as the material allows.
Actually, the classic filial-parental triangle shown here, with its sad, inevitable pattern of needy clinging and breaking away, will always be relevant. And when Ms. Moreno delivers a soundless scream of anguish near the play's end, it is hard not to empathize. But like the prolix Peter, "World" twists itself into some mighty precious knots to state the self-evident.
 
THE SIZE OF THE WORLD
 
By Charles Evered; directed by Austin Pendleton; sets by Jeff Pajer; lighting by Tom Sturge; costumes by Walker Hicklin; stage manager, Tom Stone; sound by Raymond D. Schilke; production manager, Karen A. Potosnak. Presented by Circle Repertory Theater, Mr. Pendelton, artistic director; Milan Stitt, executive director; Andrew Chipok, managing director, in association with Donald R. Pitti and Charles Rucker. At 159 Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village.
 
WITH: Rita Moreno (Vivian Merkle), Frank Whaley (Peter Hogancamp) and Louis Zorich (Stan Merkle).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Louis Zorich, left, Rita Moreno and Frank Whaley in "The Size of the World," by Charles Evered, at the Circle Repertory Theater. (Gerry Goodstein/"The Size of the World")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CIRCLE REPERTORY THEATER CO DALE CARNEGIE TRAINING (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CIRCLE REPERTORY THEATER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); NEW JERSEY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER & DRAMA (92%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); 

PERSON: BRANTLEY, BEN; EVERED, CHARLES RITA MORENO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



500 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Bermuda's new campaign tries to shed the resort's staid image.

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere 

 BODY:
BERMUDA will switch off its award-winning "Bermuda shorts" campaign today in favor of a kickier campaign designed to shed its staid image and attract younger, first-time visitors.
DDB Needham New York, the Omnicom Group unit that created the "Bermuda shorts" concept in 1990, is also responsible for the new ads, which carry the tag line "Let yourself go." The campaign -- more visually striking and spirited than its predecessor -- is running in media geared to travelers ages 25 to 49; the budget is $12.2 million for the year starting April 1, up from $10.2 million for the corresponding period a year ago. 
 Another first: Bermuda, which Competitive Media Reporting says was the sixth-largest travel destination advertiser in 1995, is teaming up with American Express to promote itself by direct mail. All ads are geared to the United States market, which produces 83 percent of Bermuda's visitors.
Tourism is the lifeblood of Bermuda. Half of the island's gross domestic product is tourism-related, while one-third of the adult population is employed in tourism-related jobs. But tourism has declined during the last nine years, dropping from a peak of 631,314 visitor arrivals in 1987 to 589,855 in 1994 and then to 557,628 in 1995. Air arrivals from Bermuda's top four markets -- New York, Boston, Philadelphia and Washington -- fell almost 14 percent last year; last fall, for the first time, repeat visitors outnumbered first-time visitors.
Enter David Dodwell, 48, a Cornell University hotel school graduate and owner of the Reefs, a small, upscale resort in Southampton. A member of Parliament since 1993 and minister of tourism since August, he is the first tourism chief with travel expertise.
"We recognized the gradual decline in arrivals and decided we needed to change people's perceptions," Mr. Dodwell said in a telephone interview from Hamilton. "While DDB had won many awards for the 'Bermuda shorts' campaign, the call to action just wasn't there. We have to get back into the minds of people. We want them to feel Bermuda, crave Bermuda."
To that end, Mr. Dodwell commissioned DDB Needham to come up with a campaign that would increase the number of Americans arriving by air this year by 25,000, and another 25,000 next year.
Unlike the "Bermuda shorts" campaign, the new advertising is visually bold, more overtly humorous and irreverent. One print ad, with a man's and a woman's legs peeking out from under a beach umbrella, is captioned, "Of course our sand is pink, it's blushing." Another, with a man windsurfing, suggests that a visitor "Arrive as Clark Kent, leave as Superman."
The commercials, directed by Peter Kagan of Nike "Revolution" fame, are even more playful: one has a couple flying past Bermuda's sights on a moped, accompanied by Steppenwolf's "Born to be Wild," while another combines Louis Armstrong crooning "I'm in the Mood for Love" with photographic allusions to romance, shots of flowers blooming and waves breaking.
James Cammisa Jr., a Miami-based travel industry analyst, said that in many respects, the new campaign was "strategically very right."
He added: "There's a growing role of entertainment in travel. Beaches aren't enough any more. People are constrained for time and money, and they want to pack the most they can into a vacation."
The campaign will make Bermuda appear "more contemporary, active and vibrant compared to dated, old Caribbean islands," Mr. Cammisa said. But he warned that aiming it at a younger audience could be a mistake. The 25-to-44-year-old market will decline by 9 percent over the next 10 years, while the market for those over 45 will rise 26 percent, he said.
The previous DDB Needham campaign was called "Bermuda shorts" not for its focus on the famous Bermuda short pants but for the brevity of the ads and plays on words to convey Bermuda's charms.
Richard Lobel, group account director at DDB Needham, said his team was inspired in creating the new campaign by the highly successful and seductive campaign for Norwegian Cruise Line that carries the theme "It's different out here." That campaign was created by a sibling Omnicom shop, Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco.
The Bermuda print ads will run through August in mostly regional editions of 24 magazines, including travel, food, golf and life-style publications where Bermuda has advertised before, as well as additional titles like Entertainment Weekly, Playbill, Sports Illustrated and Vanity Fair.
All other media purchases for the campaign will focus on East Coast markets and Chicago. DDB Needham is buying prime-time local television for the first time in three years; the commercials will appear on "Friends," "Seinfeld," "E.R." and the Academy Awards show, among other programs.
Radio spots and co-op newspaper advertising, done in conjunction with tour operators, will run through August. Bermuda will also advertise this summer on a billboard -- another new medium -- on the Long Island Expressway that will read: "It takes longer to get to the Hamptons. Bermuda, let yourself go."
As part of Bermuda's total marketing effort, which Mr. Dodwell estimates at $14 million, Rapp Collins Worldwide, the Omnicom direct marketing unit, and American Express will send information about Bermuda to 250,000 card holders in Chicago and nine East Coast markets; the mailings will be aimed solely at individuals who have never visited Bermuda.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bermuda is beginning a new advertising campaign aimed at younger people that will include a billboard appearing on the road to the Hamptons enticing tourists to visit Bermuda instead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DDB NEEDHAM WORLDWIDE OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DDB NEEDHAM WORLDWIDE

GEOGRAPHIC: BERMUDA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ADVERTISING; NYTRAVEL MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); RESORTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUDGETS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); WATER SPORTS (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (52%); 

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



501 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Russian Diplomacy Gets a Wily Spy and Survivor

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 20

 BODY:
A month after American-led forces defeated Iraq in the Persian Gulf war, Yevgeny M. Primakov, then a top adviser to Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the last Soviet leader, published a dashing account of his last-ditch efforts to broker a face-saving solution for Saddam Hussein in February 1991 and prevent the ground war.
The efforts of Mr. Primakov, now the Russian Foreign Minister, failed, but that did not damp his relish for desert adventure. A former Pravda correspondent in the Middle East, he sounded like a Soviet-era Lawrence of Arabia as he told in the pages of his old newspaper of his dangerous race to the Iraqi President's safe house in Baghdad, his camouflaged car backlit by falling American bombs. 
 Mr. Primakov, 66, does not look like an adventurer. With his bulky frame, somber face and thick, dark-rimmed glasses, he more resembles John Le Carre's bookish spymaster, George Smiley. In fact, Mr. Primakov proved a circumspect but wily chief of foreign intelligence for five years under President Boris N. Yeltsin before becoming Foreign Minister in January.
When he was first appointed, American diplomats were suspicious of his Soviet background, his diplomatic meddling in the Middle East, and his intelligence work. But as he prepares to meet with Secretary of State Warren Christopher in Moscow this week, Mr. Primakov's experience and pragmatism have so far managed to mollify Washington's worst fears.
"I was pleasantly surprised," Mr. Christopher said of their first encounter in Geneva last month. Another senior Western diplomat, who insisted on anonymity, said: "He's straightforward and professional and he is not rude. He makes his point, but he can also listen."
Even though he came into office echoing the pervailing nationalist, anti-Western rhetoric, Mr. Primakov has not yet indicated any significant shifts in Russian foreign policy. So far, his most visible contribution to Mr. Yeltsin has been domestic -- in replacing the unpopular Andrei V. Kozyrev, a liberal who was villified as too subservient to the West, Mr. Primakov has robbed the President's Communist-nationalist opposition of a favorite whipping boy.
The hostile Russian Parliament is not baying for Mr. Primakov's head. Even hard-line Communists describe him as a tough, experienced bureaucrat who won't sell out Russian interests.
From his first day in office, Mr. Primakov set himself up as the Un-Kozyrev. His predecessor, a genteel career diplomat who speaks fluent English and French, was accused of neglecting ties with former Soviet republics in favor of Europe and the United States.
Mr. Primakov's first overseas trip was to war-torn Tajikistan. Pushing for greater economic and political cooperation, he has since traveled to Kazakstan, Belarus and Ukraine. Most recently, he went to Poland -- to remind the new Government in Warsaw of Moscow's staunch opposition to NATO expansion.
Earlier this month, he criticized the West for expressing reservations about Moscow's attempts to increase integration between Russia and former republics. But this week he even more sharply attacked the Communist-led Parliament's vote to dissolve the treaty that dismantled the Soviet Union, a nonbinding resolution whose symbolism alarmed Ukraine and most other former Soviet republics.
Mr. Primakov, an Arabist who worked for various official research centers before being inducted into Leonid I. Brezhnev's circle of foreign policy advisers in the 1970's, is perhaps best known for his survival skills.
Recruited by Mr. Gorbachev to help carry out the policy of perestroika, or restructuring, he served the Soviet leader loyally, defending him against the failed coup of August 1991. But when power shifted to Mr. Yeltsin, so did Mr. Primakov. "He has no ideology," said a former colleague at the Russian intelligence service, the external branch of the former K.G.B. "He's not for or against anything. He's a genuine pragmatist."
Born in Kiev to a Jewish family, he was raised in Tbilisi, Georgia. In a bow to the state-sponsored anti-Semitism of the time, he changed his name as a student to Primakov before entering the prestigious Institute of Oriental Studies in Moscow. His Russian friends consider him a Georgian by character, if not birth; he is described as a warm, humorous man who is intensely loyal to old friends.
When he was asked by Mr. Yeltsin to head the foreign intelligence service, Mr. Primakov was viewed warily by many K.G.B. old-timers. Even though Mr. Primakov had strong ties to the K.G.B. since his days as a foreign correspondent, he was not seen by the old guard as a professional spy.
But Mr. Primakov proved an able administrator, valued by his subordinates less for his intelligence acumen than his bureaucratic finesse -- he could protect his turf from Kremlin interference when other departments could not. One K.G.B. officer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, recalled that during the October 1993 insurrection in Parliament, Mr. Primakov resisted intense pressure from the Kremlin to publicly support Mr. Yeltsin.
And he worked hard to maintain the foreign intelligence service's distance from the bungled, unpopular war in Chechnya. "Primakov kept us out of the Chechnya mess," the K.G.B. officer said. "Primakov stayed in his job for five years -- there have been five different heads of the internal service."
At the Foreign Ministry, Mr. Primakov has brought a few trusted aides over from the intelligence side, but he has not significantly reshuffled the staff and some diplomats there say that morale, which had sagged under Mr. Kozyrev's disorganized rule, has improved.
Mr. Primakov's early reviews in Russia have been so favorable that some analysts are already speculating that if Gennadi A. Zyuganov, the Communist leader, were to be elected President this summer, he might ask Mr. Primakov to stay on in the job.
"Let's not be hasty -- he worked for Gorbachev and Yeltsin," cautioned Anatoly I. Lukyanov, the former chairman of the Soviet Parliament who was jailed for supporting the coup against Mr. Gorbachev and now advises Mr. Zyuganov. "But he is smart and certainly artful -- the kind who can walk through a rainstorm and not get wet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yevgeny Primakov at a news conference in Helsinki in February. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); POLAND (92%); UKRAINE (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELARUS (79%); FINLAND (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (76%); 

COMPANY: K G B (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: K G B (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); POLAND (92%); UKRAINE (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELARUS (79%); FINLAND (79%); GULF STATES (73%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (76%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); POLITICS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); 

PERSON: PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (MIN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



502 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
Anything vs. Whatever

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
It is Wednesday, Sept. 25, 1996, the night of the first Taco Bell Presidential Debate. The candidates are at their podiums on stage at Washington University in St. Louis. The moderator, Ricki Lake, shakes hands with President Clinton and Bob Dole and gets the show rolling.
Lake: Wow! This is exciting. The topic for this evening is "He's Trying to Steal My Job!" Now, according to the draw, Senator Dole -- 
 Clinton: I just want to tell you, Ricki, I love your show, especially those makeovers for fat girls. Speaking of things that are big as the broad side of a barn, the era of Big Government is over. This is the age of possibility. More Americans from all corners of the country and all walks of life should have more options to reach more kinds of personal and family and community fulfillment than they have ever had in all of human history. But if we're going to do this, we have to find a way to go into this very modern, new world still clinging to our old-fashioned values, because it's no accident that we're still around here after 220 years.
And let me just follow up on myself, Ricki. I think that Bob and I agree on many things. He's mainstream. I'm centrist. I got off track for awhile. But then Dick Morris helped me glom onto some Republican issues like a hair in a biscuit. I have gone a long way to try to meet Mr. Dole in agreement on a balanced budget and welfare reform, in my effort to give the American people a rebirth of bipartisan productive accomplishment. And it has been real interesting to watch and see whether the creative tension --
Dole: Gaghhhd!
Lake: Mr. President, you are way over! Mr. Dole, your opening statement.
Dole: Bob Dole is a doer, not a talk--
Clinton: Ricki, if I might just add, I think I know what Bob is trying to say. He believes that now is the time for us to look to the challenges of today and tomorrow, beyond the burdens of yesterday. Bob and I agree that we've got to get a government that works better and costs less. We agree that liberals need not apply for Federal judgeships. We agree that families are the foundation of American life. He's trying to say that we must all ask more of ourselves, we must expect more of each other, and we must enable all our people to make the most of their own lives with fundamental values, more educational opportunity, economic security, safer streets, in a safer world.
Dole: Stop lying about my vision!
Clinton: As I was saying, Ricki, Bob and I agree that parents need more control over what their children see and what they are taught. That is why I have signed the V-chip legislation, and why I invited Hollywood media moguls to come to the White House and pretend that they care about improving what our children see on television. We're fighting for the heart and soul of our country.
Lake: Mr. Dole, is your daughter dating a criminal or a space alien, or living as a boy?
Dole: We're the party of ideas. Not certain what they are. Not born in blue suit. Not good with little slogans or phrases. Tested and tested. Don't give up easily. Got around to buttonhooks a few years ago. Voluntary school prayer. No more Mapplethorpe. Bob Dole wouldn't cozy up to Castro. Bob Dole wants English as the official language, tax credits for this or that, better America for blacks, whites, whatever. Got to get back on track on moral issues, character, corruption, whatever. I've never raised the issue of Whitewater. Got Al D'Amato for that.
Clinton: I would like to say a word from the baby-boom generation to Senator Dole and to all our other senior citizens in this auditorium who fought so long ago in World War II: I salute your service and so do the American people.
Dole: Agghhh!
Lake: Time for closing statements, guys. President Clinton?
Clinton: Our country is, and always has been, a great and good nation. But the best is yet to come if we all do our part. God bless you, and God Bless the United States of America. Do I have to stop talking now?
Dole: Bob Dole is a real person. Bob Dole will do the right thing. That's what Bob Dole is about.
Lake: Tune in for the next debate in St. Petersburg, when the moderator will be Jerry Springer and the topic will be "Help! I'm Obsessed With My Pollster!"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; DEBATING POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (74%); CHILDREN (69%); BUDGETS (64%); JUDGES (60%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



503 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Retail Sales Figures Send Treasuries Up

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Treasury prices rose yesterday after a report on retail sales was weaker than expected.
After recent reports on employment and industrial production showed unexpected strength in the economy, yesterday's data helped ease concerns that the economy was growing too fast to allow the Federal Reserve to lower short-term interest rates this spring. Bond prices rallied after the Commerce Department reported that retail sales rose eight-tenths of 1 percent in February, less than the rise of 1.1 percent that had been forecast. 
 "It's a relief rally," said John Ryding, an economist at Bear, Stearns & Company in New York. "People had priced in the worst" before the retail sales report, he said.
Still, one report is unlikely to instill confidence in a market still shaken by a March 8 selloff that came after a report showed more than 700,000 jobs were created in February. Most market participants are looking for further clues to the direction of the economy and in the meantime do not expect the Federal Reserve to take any action when its policy-making committee meets on Tuesday.
The market gets one of the first reports on March economic growth today, when the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia releases a survey of regional manufacturing conditions.
"People will be looking very closely at it to see if the manufacturing sector is rebounding," Mr. Ryding of Bear, Stearns said.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 1 yesterday, to 90 27/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 6.63 percent, from 6.71 percent on Tuesday. It was the biggest price gain in more than a week.
Prices of shorter-term maturities also rose, with the price of the two-year note gaining 8/32, pushing its yield down to 5.71 percent from 5.85 percent.
Bond prices briefly dipped after Republican leaders of Congress ended a one-hour meeting with President Clinton over plans to balance the budget, traders said.
"People were hoping the Republicans would use their leverage to get a budget deal," said Andrew Brenner, a senior bond trader at Nomura Securities International.
Disappointment over the failure of Congress and Mr. Clinton to agree on a budget plan has helped drive 30-year bond yields up about 75 basis points this year, said Bob Alley, who oversees $3 billion of fixed-income securities at AIM Investment Advisors in Houston. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
In the corporate debt market, Riverwood, an Atlanta-based maker of cardboard packages, sold $650 million of bonds in two parts to help pay for its buyout by Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Inc., a New York leveraged buyout firm.
The company sold $250 million of 10-year notes at a yield of 10.25 percent and another $400 million of 12-year bonds at a yield of 10.875 percent. Those yields were at the low end of where the bonds were marketed.
In another sale of junk bond debt, EKCO Group Inc., a New Hampshire maker of housewares, sold $125 million of 10-year notes in a private sale, according to MCM Corporate Watch, which tracks sales of fixed-income and other securities.
In the municipal market, the Greater Detroit Resource Recovery Authority's sale of $423 million in revenue bonds felt the effect of last week's decision by Illinois to repeal a subsidy for several waste incinerators. Some investors said the repeal set a dangerous precedent for the market as a whole, saying it could be equated to an issuer walking away from its obligations.
"There hasn't been a lot of good news as of late about resource recovery plants," said John Mooney, who manages about $190 million in insured bonds for the SunAmerica Asset Management Corporation.
The bonds due in 2006 were priced to yield 5.35 percent, or 17 basis points more than what comparable insured bonds were yielding before the sale, according to Bloomberg Fair Value analytics.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since December. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (68%); CLAYTON DUBILIER & RICE INC (60%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES RETAIL SALES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BONDS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (84%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (83%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



504 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: A Program to Revive Harlem

 BODY:
Harlem was once the center of life for the African-American middle class and a Mecca for artists, writers and musicians. But during the 1960's, middle-class flight and business closings left the district one of the most depressed in New York City. The city-funded effort that resurrected the South Bronx somehow passed Harlem by. Even so, recent years have seen a slow but steady influx of middle-class homeowners, drawn by affordable real estate and Harlem's proximity to both midtown and the suburbs.
Now the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, financed with Federal, state and local money, will try to spur a commercial renaissance with a $300 million development fund and $250 million in tax incentives, to be spent over 10 years. The amount is small given the immensity of the job. The empowerment zone will only succeed if officials target dollars where they will do the most good. 
 By express subway lines, Harlem is a mere two or three stops from Times Square, and its vintage prewar buildings should make it one of the most desirable locations in Manhattan. But Central Harlem and East Harlem have almost 6,000 abandoned apartments -- more than eight times as many as the East New York section of Brooklyn, which ranks just behind them on the city's abandonment list.
Even so, not-for-profit development groups, using both public and private dollars, have been fighting back. The North General Hospital project and Abyssinian Baptist Church have worked hard to reclaim their immediate areas from decay. The St. Charles Condominiums and Bradhurst development projects, both near historic Strivers Row, have also produced pockets of optimism amid the blight. The appetite for home ownership in Harlem generally seems to be outstripping supply.
The empowerment zone hopes to amplify these gains by attracting businesses and creating jobs. The city, state and Federal governments have committed $300,000 in cash, to be spent on small-business loans, training ventures and related activities. In addition, companies that move into the zone will receive a $3,000 tax benefit for each full-time job they create. Zone officials need to choose their targets carefully.
Both City Hall and the business community were skeptical of the zone, given Harlem's history of political infighting and loose spending of public dollars. In an effort to allay that skepticism, zone officials have hired as director Deborah Wright, the City Housing Commissioner. The Giuliani administration credits Ms. Wright with developing the city's new housing policy, which will save tens of millions in redevelopment costs by placing city-owned residential properties in private hands. The zone's board of directors, headed by Richard Parsons, President of Time Warner Inc., seems well suited to its task.
Empowerment zone officials will come under intense pressure to pack the payroll with political appointees -- and to spend money in far-fetched ways not at all related to economic development. But 10 years from now, the zone will be judged on how many businesses it spawned and how many jobs it created. Urban policy has already fallen into grave disrepute. Failure or mismanagement in Harlem would signal its death knell.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; FEDERAL AID (US) MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (66%); APPOINTMENTS (63%); HOSPITALS (50%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



505 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: John Engler, Welfare Maverick

 BODY:
Gov. John Engler of Michigan is running hard to become Bob Dole's running mate, largely on his record of driving down welfare rolls. Mr. Engler's policies deserve credit, though a robust state economy did much of the work. But the intriguing part of this story is that the best parts of his welfare policy might make Mr. Dole mightily uncomfortable. They mirror President Clinton's welfare bill, which Mr. Dole and his Republican colleagues ridiculed out of existence.
Under Mr. Engler's 1992 program, parents on welfare sign a "social contract," which commits them to spending at least 20 hours a week in training, work education or community service. The state, in turn, makes work possible by subsidizing child care and health coverage. It also makes work attractive by allowing enrollees to keep more of their earnings. Recipients who fail to live by their contract may lose some benefits. No parent who follows these rules is thrown off the rolls. 
 All this is remarkably like President Clinton's proposal, which embraced the idea of reciprocal responsibility by government and enrollees. Conversely, it is remarkably unlike Congress's plan -- which Mr. Engler helped design and Mr. Clinton vetoed. Congress would have imposed time limits on benefits whether the parent had followed state rules or not. Though Mr. Engler hotly opposed Congressional efforts to micromanage the states, he swallowed time limits, perhaps as a necessary concession to win the freedoms he craved. Back home, he has taken a more sensible approach. But time limits have since become the rage nationwide.
According to the Center on Law and Social Policy, a liberal research group, states are also becoming stingier. More states have cut benefits by at least 10 percent in the past year than in the previous 20 years. Gov. George Pataki of New York proposes to cut benefits by 25 percent. Gov. John Rowland of Connecticut cut 11 percent.
Under law, states must get Washington's approval to overhaul welfare rules. Before 1995, most states sought permission to impose work requirements. In recent months, the vast majority of states have been asking for time limits. Putting welfare recipients to work costs lots of money. Cutting off benefits after two years or so saves money.
The conservative turn after the 1994 elections gave governors, desperate to balance their budgets, political cover to cut welfare spending in the name of reform. A largely unnoticed brake on the "race to the gutter" has been the Administration's refusal to approve state proposals that do not provide some ongoing help for parents who follow state rules. The Congressional bill would have stripped the Administration of this power.
The trend toward time limits is ominous. Upward of 30 percent of welfare mothers are unemployable because of low skills, substance abuse or other handicaps. In Detroit, according to a recent study, the probability that a young, black high school dropout will find a decent-paying job is less than 10 percent. States that impose time limits will drive these women and their children into poverty. Only a few states, like Vermont, Utah and Michigan, promise backup jobs or continuing support in return for community service.
During Mr. Engler's term, Michigan has reduced its welfare rolls to their lowest levels in 20 years. One reason is that the percentage of welfare recipients who work doubled. But another was Mr. Engler's unsympathetic strategy for reducing the welfare caseload. For starters, he eliminated the state welfare program for childless adults, throwing thousands into homeless shelters. Further, he and the legislature seem reluctant to spend the money required to underwrite the positive aspects of his program -- the training, education and child care that enrollees will need once Michigan's roaring economy slows down.
Even so, Michigan remains among the few states that acknowledge the basic need to take care of welfare parents who do everything the state asks but still cannot find a decent-paying job. It reflects badly on Congressional Republicans that they are so far out of step with a Governor whose tough but imaginative policies have attracted the attention of their party's presumed Presidential nominee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); VETO (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PARENTS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ENGLER, JOHN (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



506 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Moderate Rise in Retail Sales Seen as More Evidence of Growth

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20

 BODY:
American shoppers pushed $201.1 billion across retail counters in February, a moderate eight-tenths of 1 percent monthly rise that economists called further evidence that the economy was expanding somewhat faster after skirting recession for much of the winter.
"The pace of growth is beginning to pick up," said John Ryding, senior economist at Bear, Stearns & Company in New York. 
 Taken by itself, the Commerce Department report was inconclusive because of extremely harsh weather in January, a possible statistical overcompensation for February's leap day, and the fact that the initial estimate covers only about 15 percent of outlets in the full retail survey, analysts said.
But combined with other recent upbeat data on jobs, housing, industrial output and consumer confidence, the sales figures tend to support the notion of an economy picking up a bit of steam. Few, if any, specialists still expect the Federal Reserve to make another cut in short-term interest rates at its policy meeting on Tuesday, though some believe the central bank may see a need to ease monetary policy by its May 21 session.
The bond market rose after the sales figures were released, apparently because the figures show that when the automotive sector is excluded, retailers took in just four-tenths of 1 percent more revenue last month. That followed a decline of two-tenths of 1 percent in January.
"The February bounce-back was slightly less than expected," said Mark P. Vitner, an economist at First Union National Bank in Charlotte, N.C. "But all the data seem to be pointing to at least a modest pickup in the economy. That makes it a slam dunk that the Fed's on hold."
Sales of nondurable goods, which account for 59 percent of the total sales figure, climbed four-tenths of 1 percent last month. That followed a two-tenths of 1 percent increase that merchants eked out in January despite the blizzard that hit the Northeast.
Analysts calculated, however, that leap year distorted the seasonal adjustment process enough to lop five-tenths of a percentage point off nondurables and three-tenths of a point off total sales.
"There's more mud in these numbers than at any time I can recall," Mr. Vitner said, noting that the General Motors strike would affect much of the March economic data and make it hard to judge underlying trends.
Sales of durable goods, those designed to last at least three years, jumped 1.4 percent last month, mainly reflecting a hefty 2 percent rise in car sales, spurred by incentive programs.
The other durable-goods categories showed gains of eight-tenths of 1 percent for merchants selling building materials, hardware, garden supplies and mobile homes, and three-tenths of 1 percent for those dealing in furniture and equipment for the home.
Among nondurables, department stores and others selling general merchandise gained 2.3 percent, apparel and accessory stores gained 1.2 percent and bars and restaurants and drug stores each gained three-tenths of 1 percent. Food stores had an eight-tenths of 1 percent decline following a surge of 1.1 percent in January, while gasoline service stations had unchanged sales, held back by a decline in the price of gasoline.
The Commerce Department revised modestly upward its results for both December and January. December now shows a seven-tenths of 1 percent gain (one-tenth higher than before) while January shows a one-tenth of 1 percent decline instead of a three-tenths of 1 percent decline.
The figures on retail sales, which account for one-third of economic activity, are adjusted for recurring seasonal variation, holidays and trading-day differences but not for price changes. An adjustment is made for leap year but private analysts said it was faulty, diminishing reported sales more than it should have.
The department said it would make its annual revision of sales estimates, covering the period from January 1993 to February 1996, next week.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Retail Sales" tracks total sales, seasonally adjusted, from September 1994 through February 1996. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (72%); FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK OF CONNECTICUT (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RETAIL SALES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); BONDS (73%); MOBILE HOMES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MARK P VITNER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



507 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Strikers Fear Threat To Way of Life

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DAYTON, Ohio, March 20

 BODY:
The rest of the world knows the nation's largest auto maker as the General Motors Corporation, but residents of this quiet southeastern Ohio city have their own name: Generous Motors.
The nickname reflects a mixture of awe and envy at the wages and benefits that G.M. provides to its workers here. The 3,200 brake factory workers who have been on strike for 15 days are mostly high school graduates who lately have earned an average of $69,000 a year by working six- and seven-day weeks. 
 That is more than four times what recent high school graduates can earn here. With inflation-adjusted wages down by more than 20 percent for high school graduates over the last 20 years, G.M. wages sometimes raise eyebrows.
Larry Herron, a 45-year-old worker on the picket line here, recalled a bank teller who was appalled by his paycheck. "I said, 'Lady, you probably make $16,000 to $17,000, and I pay that much in taxes,' " Mr. Herron recounted.
In the minds of America's storied labor leaders, auto workers were supposed to be well paid. Rich corporations like G.M. were supposed to share the wealth with the men and women who toiled for the benefit of the company. It was a vision articulated by Walter Reuther, who led the United Automobile Workers union after World War II, and negotiated steadily richer pay and benefit formulas. Over the years, auto workers became he best-paid factory workers and solid citizens of the middle class.
U.A.W. members have the money to own their own homes and maybe a vacation home, too. They drive new cars and send their children to college.
But now, many of the workers here see their strike as a struggle to protect their gains. G.M., however, sees it as a fight cut labor costs to protect the well-being of the company and its stockholders.
Negotiations to settle the strike continued Tuesday night and through today. People close to the talks suggested that a deal might still come this week, possibly on Thursday, given that considerable progress had been made since both sides sent down fairly senior officials from Detroit last Friday.
One longtime auto industry labor relations observer said that the marathon bargaining sessions, together with the two sides' six-day-old blackout on public discussions of their differences, suggested that a deal might be imminent. "You just don't behave the way they're behaving unless you're close to a settlement," he said. "When you declare a blackout, you're really going for a settlement."
G.M. announced today that it had laid off another 9,250 workers, bringing the company's total to 175,800 layoffs since the strike began. While even G.M. does not know how many employees have been laid off by its suppliers, estimates run into the hundreds of thousands.
The Labor Secretary, Robert B. Reich, said today on the CBS program "This Morning" that Federal mediators were available, but he noted that both sides already seemed to be bargaining in good faith.
While waiting for a settlement, G.M. officials have been emphatic in contending that the company's long-term survival depends on holding down costs here. "At the end of the day, if we are not competitive, we will lose those high-paying jobs in the U.S.," said Harry J. Pearce, G.M.'s vice chairman, in an interview last week. "In that scenario, everybody loses."
Union picketers see it differently. "It's about the future of the kids coming behind us," said Howard Lowe, a 49-year-old metal worker with graying hair who walked the picket line last weekend in a red windbreaker and gray trousers. "If we don't take a stand now, they're not going to have jobs."
G.M.'s efforts to bring costs under control now are complicated because the company posted record profits last year. But Wall Street investors have not been satisfied, fretting that the company still has not lowered its costs enough in order to stay profitable or at least break even in the next recession.
G.M. has made the same arguments this year that companies in many manufacturing industries have made over the last decade while driving down labor costs with layoffs and pay freezes. Few industries still offer the high wages and numerous benefits of the auto industry. G.M. officials estimate they pay about $20 an hour in wages, plus benefits, including a health plan that still allows workers to choose their own doctors and pay no expenses except routine office visits.
The high compensation for workers here is a legacy of the post-World War II days when everybody from Boston to Bangkok drove an American car. The main concern of the American auto industry then was in preserving labor peace so that the cars could keep rolling off the assembly lines and the profits could keep rolling in.
No car maker was more generous with its workers than G.M. Mr. Reuther used to say that when the workers wanted innovative work rules, they should bargain for them at the Ford Motor Company, which had thinner profit margins but executives unafraid to experiment. But for money, Mr. Reuther used to say, the union should go to G.M.
The union went to G.M. repeatedly, winning the removal of a cap on cost-of-living adjustments just before the high inflation of the 1970's, and winning ample pensions before the baby-boom generation began worrying about retirement.
Now G.M. is trying to draw the line here on its labor costs. With demand for cars and trucks strong recently, G.M. has been buying more brakes from nonunion outside suppliers and asking its workers to put in six- and seven-day weeks, paying them an average of close to $30,000 a year in overtime. The workers here have struck, demanding that brake orders not be given to outside companies and that G.M. hire more workers so that the next generation of Dayton residents can find good paying jobs here as well.
Yet some of the workers here do not want their children to follow them into the factory, despite the high pay. They cite the long hours and frequent injuries here, and the lack of alternatives for many who went from high school into the Army and then into the factory.
Warren M. Cooper, a 53-year-old maker of heating and ventilation ducts who is on strike, drives a 1984 black and silver Chevrolet pickup truck with 169,000 miles on it because he has spent his pay putting all three children through college.
And Mr. Herron, the metal worker, said that he had high hopes for his 14-year-old son. "I don't want him working in a factory," he said. "He's going to college, hopefully Ivy League -- he's a very bright boy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (60%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON (OHIO); UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); DAYTON, OH, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS; STRIKES; LABOR WAGES & SALARIES (91%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); STRIKES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); WORK WEEK (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



508 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: House Panel O.K.'s Bill Assuring Health Care in Job Switches

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20

 BODY:
In a unanimous vote, the House Commerce Committee today approved a bill intended to guarantee health insurance coverage for millions of Americans who switch jobs or lose jobs each year.
The measure will be bundled together with legislation from three other House committees. The chief deputy whip for House Republicans, Representative Dennis Hastert of Illinois, said the full House would probably vote on the package next Thursday. 
 The Senate plans to vote on a bipartisan bill to increase access to health insurance next month. The Senate bill is sponsored by Senators Nancy Landon Kassebaum, Republican of Kansas, and Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.
The House package is more complex than the Senate measure, and it is likely to contain provisions that many Democrats detest like limits on damages in malpractice lawsuits and tax incentives for people to establish savings accounts for medical expenses, as an alternative to standard health insurance. But the Commerce Committee has no authority over these matters, so they were not included in its bill. As a result, Democrats had no reason to oppose it, and the vote was 38 to 0.
For years, House Republican leaders have championed medical savings accounts and restrictions on malpractice lawsuits. But the chairman of the Commerce Committee, Representative Thomas J. Bliley Jr., Republican of Virginia, said today that he would urge party leaders to let the full House vote on the bill approved today by his committee, without the provisions dealing with medical savings accounts, malpractice and other hotly debated issues.
Mr. Hastert, who is coordinating development of the health care package for House Republican leaders, said they had not decided whether to include malpractice legislation and medical savings accounts in the bill that goes to the House floor. "We want a bill that the President can sign and that we can get through the Senate," he declared.
Republicans say medical savings accounts encourage people to pay more attention to the price of health care because they realize that they are paying for it with their own money. Democrats say the accounts appeal mainly to people who are healthy or wealthy and will lead to an increase in premiums for people who remain in conventional plans.
Senators Kassebaum and Kennedy have said they will resist all amendments to their bill, which does not deal with either medical savings accounts or malpractice suits. Clinton Administration officials have made clear that they, too, would prefer Congress to omit those provisions.
The bill approved by the Commerce Committee, like the Kassebaum-Kennedy bill, would guarantee coverage for people moving from one employer-sponsored health plan to another. Thus, a person laid off in one city could not be turned down by an insurance company at a new job in another city because of a chronic medical problem.
Both bills would also guarantee coverage for people leaving an employer's group health plan and trying to obtain insurance on their own for themselves and their dependents.
Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said he supported the bill because "half a loaf is better than none." But he added: "Some on the other side of the aisle seem committed to taking a couple of good wholesome slices of health insurance reform and slapping a lot of extraneous junk food on top, creating a health care hoagie of medical savings accounts, caps on medical malpractice awards and other unhealthy additives. These anchovies, olives and onions are sure to tickle the taste buds of a few very special interests, but cause heartburn for millions of consumers."
The Commerce Committee today rejected a Democratic proposal that would have required health plans providing maternity benefits to cover at least 48 hours of hospital care after childbirth. Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, said some insurers were, in effect, forcing women to leave the hospital after just 24 hours.
But Republicans said Congress should not dictate the benefits to be provided under private health plans. "Insurance companies shouldn't be practicing medicine, and neither should Congress," said Representative Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: GROUP HEALTH PLAN INC (60%); HOUSE COMMERCE COMMITTEE (90%); REPUBLICAN OF KANSAS (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMERCE COMMITTEE (90%); REPUBLICAN OF KANSAS (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; HEALTH INSURANCE LEGISLATION (95%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); US HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY & ACCOUNTABILITY ACT (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); LITIGATION (88%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POLITICS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (58%); TAX INCENTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT TED KENNEDY (79%); EDWARD J MARKEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



509 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: CALIFORNIA;
Dole on Verge of Victory, But Autumn Is Uncertain

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 20

 BODY:
For the first time in more than three frustrating decades, California Republicans are poised to play a decisive role in choosing a Presidential nominee. More or less.
While some say Senator Bob Dole has already clinched the 996 delegates required for the nomination by sweeping Tuesday's Midwestern primaries, Mr. Dole has adhered to more conservative tallies, which show his campaign still several dozen votes short of the prize. As a result, the Kansas Senator says he will wait for the outcome of next Tuesday's California primary before formally claiming victory. 
 Polls here predict Mr. Dole will have little trouble thrashing his last serious rival, Patrick J. Buchanan, the former commentator.
By waiting for California to put him over the top next week, Mr. Dole will gain what many state Republicans say will be a strategic beat on the real battle for California: the contest next fall against President Clinton. Ken Khachigian, a Republican campaign consultant, said the best thing Mr. Dole could do would be stay in the state next week and do a victory lap, celebrating his California-borne candidacy.
But even as Mr. Dole stands on the verge of a resounding victory in the primary, some Republicans say they are edgy, recalling with some bitterness what happened in 1992, when George Bush conceded California to Mr. Clinton. The tactic not only cost Mr. Bush the state, but left Republican candidates across California to fend for themselves, without Mr. Bush's coattails or infusions of Presidential campaign cash.
With the nation's richest trove of electoral votes -- California counts 54 of the 270 needed to be elected -- the state already looms large in the calculations of Clinton campaign aides, who readily characterize the state as a "must win." Mr. Dole's aides say the Senator could be elected without carrying it, but they concede that disaster resulted when Mr. Bush decided not to contest it.
"It's possible, mathematically, as in some poly-sci class, to get elected President without California," said Gov. Pete Wilson, Mr. Dole's California campaign manager and briefly a Republican contender himself. "But practically, you shouldn't try it. Anyway, you never cede anything to your opponent that will hurt others lower down on your ticket and free him to use resources elsewhere. So you have to compete here."
Current California polls have Mr. Clinton leading Mr. Dole by almost 20 points, a daunting gap, even given that the election is still more than seven months off.
The President has visited California 23 times since taking office, something of a White House record, and he recently began broadcasting campaign advertisements in major media markets. At every opportunity, he has funneled into the state all manner of Federal money, from disaster aid to transportation projects.
Mr. Dole, by contrast, has spent little time in the state, leaving some state Republican leaders to grouse that he not only has endangered his own chances here in the fall but also the chances of Republican legislators and others who will be on the ballot with him. And, unlike Mr. Clinton, who has not had to compete in any primaries, Mr. Dole has no money left for any television ads, pending receipt of Federal funds for the post-convention part of the campaign.
Some top Republicans here worry that Mr. Dole may yet abandon California if the battle remains uphill, much as Mr. Bush did.
"A lot of us, all the way down to the courthouse level, still carry that abandoned-ticket scar tissue that Bush left us with in 1992," said State Assemblyman Jim Brulte, the former leader of the Republican caucus in the Assembly. "But beyond that is the fact that it costs a good $10 million of the $60 million that Presidential candidates get to run a competitive campaign in California, more than anywhere else. Now, if you decide not to compete, then you free up not just yourself but your opponent to spend that money somewhere else. It's a tough call."
Mr. Dole's national campaign manager, Scott Reed, insisted today that the Senator "absolutely" would not abandon California this fall. "We will not make the mistake Bush made in 1992," he said.
Whatever Mr. Dole's ultimate plans for California, for the moment he is headed here, arriving on Friday for a three-day swing during which he plans to emphasize Republican plans for halting illegal immigration, increasing foreign trade, controlling crime, creating jobs and eliminating affirmative action, all major concerns of California voters.
Mr. Khachigian, an old hand at running California and national political campaigns, says he expects the race to tighten steadily now that Mr. Dole is assured of the nomination. "Bob Dole can win California in November," he said.
Meanwhile, Mr. Buchanan, who won 26 percent of the vote here in 1992, continues to snipe at Mr. Dole.
Arriving in California on Tuesday with plans to remain a full week, Mr. Buchanan said his goal was not victory but a strong enough showing to give him and his followers a say in the San Diego convention this summer. Then, accusing Mr. Dole of being out of touch with the true desires of Republicans and calling Mr. Clinton soft on illegal immigration and protecting American jobs, he took off on a swing that will take him from the Mexican border, up through the Central Valley and on to the green hills of the north.
Without enough money for television advertising, he is working the hustings mainly by holding rallies and by appearing on every possible radio and television talk show.
Can he repeat his 1992 show of strength here?
Recent polls put his support below 20 percent, with indications that his demands for an end to abortion, free trade pacts and corporate downsizing are meeting some resistance in a state where most voters support abortion rights, where international trade undergirds 20 percent of the economy and where job formation is on the rise after extended layoffs.

GRAPHIC: Tables: "AT THE POLLS: Republican Primary Voters in Three Midwest States" shows percentage of men, women, college graduates, those who are not college graduates, liberals, moderates, conservatives, Republicans, Independents, members of the religious right, and those not part of the religious right who voted in Michigan, Ohio, and Illinois for either Buchanan or Dole. (Based on exit polls of Republican primary voters conducted by Voter News Service, an organization of ABC News, CBS News, CNN, NBC News and the Associated Press. The exit polls were conducted with 1,748 voters leaving 45 precincts in Michigan, 1,535 voters leaving 50 precincts in Ohio and 1,295 voters leaving precincts in Illinois.)
 
"KEEPING TRACK: Delegate Tally" lists the current breakdown of the Presidential preference of delegates to the Republican National Convention, as compiled by The New York Times.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (62%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



510 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE CHALLENGER;
Buchanan Taking Aim At Dole On Free Trade

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, March 20

 BODY:
Pointing to Ross Perot's potential candidacy and his own strong showing in two Midwestern primaries, Patrick J. Buchanan said today that he hoped to shatter the Republican Party's historic commitment to free trade, suggesting he may bedevil Senator Bob Dole on that issue as much as on abortion.
While strict opposition to abortion has been party policy for years, Mr. Buchanan is seeking to shift fundamentally the party's approach to trade and foreign relations. 
 "I don't believe long term the Republican Party has a real future if it continues down the road of internationalism, of globalism, of interventionism, of trade deals," Mr. Buchanan said at a news conference this morning in Irvine, Calif.
In the last two weeks, as Mr. Dole defeated him in state after state, Mr. Buchanan's threats to the party came to sound like whistling past the graveyard. But by campaigning against international trade agreements, Mr. Buchanan won more than one in three votes on Tuesday in Michigan and Wisconsin, certain to be battleground states in the general election.
Further, Mr. Perot, who has strongly hinted that he might run, is also an opponent of pacts like the North American Free Trade Agreement and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. His entry into the race would increase pressure on Mr. Dole to modify the party's stance.
Mr. Buchanan said that the November election "is shaping up as a replay of '92," and that Mr. Dole, like President George Bush four years ago, would lose voters to Mr. Perot if he did not better address their economic anxieties.
Multiplying Mr. Dole's worries, Mr. Buchanan and his aides today again markedly failed to discourage speculation about a possible third-party candidacy.
"I'm not saying yes or no to that," Mr. Buchanan told reporters this morning. "By the time we get to August, there could be third, fourth -- you could be talking about fifth parties."
Mr. Buchanan's sister and campaign chairwoman, Angela Bay Buchanan, said that she and her brother planned to meet with Buchanan organizers from around the country in Virginia next week to consider a third-party candidacy.
"There are some very strong feelings within our ranks about that," said Ms. Buchanan, who is believed to favor such a step.
She said that while Howard Phillips of the U.S. Taxpayers Party had offered Mr. Buchanan that organization's slot on many state ballots, "we've given him no indication we would do it."
Here in California, Mr. Buchanan has been emphasizing his opposition to illegal immigration. He came here this afternoon to view three parallel steel fences recently built along a muddy ditch on the border with Mexico. Mr. Buchanan said the fences, along a short stretch of the border, were deterring illegal immigrants.
"What I've said about a security fence -- triple-lined -- it works, it's not that extreme, so to speak," Mr. Buchanan said.
In response to a reporter's question, Mr. Buchanan said he had not formulated language on trade that he would like incorporated in the Republican platform. He said the party was deeply split over the issue.
"The Republican Party clearly now has a very powerful economic nationalist wing, which I lead," he said. "It has a very powerful internationalist GATT-Nafta wing, which funds a tremendous number of Republicans. How you pull that party together over the long haul is a very serious problem."
Earlier, in Irvine, Mr. Buchanan said that Mr. Dole would need his supporters to win critical states in November. "If Bob Dole cannot bring home the Buchanan voters in the Middle West, he can't win the Middle West," Mr. Buchanan said.
Mr. Buchanan said he expected Mr. Dole to clinch the nomination in the next week. But Mr. Buchanan plans to keep campaigning long after that, he said, to maximize his influence within the party.
With money tight, Mr. Buchanan cannot afford to advertise here, so he is running a one-week campaign keyed to television news and talk radio shows. Ms. Buchanan, the campaign chairwoman, said, "What we'll start to do is hoard our money again and play in Pennsylvania," which holds its primary on April 23.

GRAPHIC: Photo: With a steel border fence as a prop, Patrick J. Buchanan discussed immigration issues yesterday in San Diego. Mr. Buchanan said he planned to continue campaigning long after next week's primaries. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) BAY BUCHANAN (57%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN; MICHIGAN; ; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ABORTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (62%); 

PERSON: BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; DOLE, BOB (SEN); PEROT, ROSS; BENNET, JAMES GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



511 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Run-Up in Oil Price Halts; April Contract Falls $1.28

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Oil prices touched their highest levels in more than five years yesterday before falling sharply. Most analysts and traders said they expected that the recent surge in prices would end with spring's arrival, after one of the harshest winters on record.
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the April contract for West Texas intermediate crude oil, which expired yesterday, settled at $23.06 a barrel, down $1.28 for the day, after trading as high as $25.60. On Tuesday, the contract settled at $24.34 a barrel. Nearly two months ago, the spot price of oil hovered as low as $17 a barrel. 
 In large measure, the run-up in price, particularly over the last week or more, has been the result of an increase in demand by refiners, compounded by three months of freezing weather.
"Over the last six months, U.S. refiners have made a structural change in the way they manage their inventory levels, and have been able to operate with 7 percent to 9 percent less inventory than they have in the past," said Michael L. Mayer, a managing director and oil analyst at Schroder Wertheim in Burlingame, Calif. "The cold weather, not only here but in Western Europe as well, as forced those who need inventory to pay up for it."
Refiners -- beyond seeking to keep their inventories lean to free up working capital -- have been particularly vigilant against oversupply for the last month to six weeks as negotiations proceeded between Iraq and United Nations authorities over a possible resumption of Iraqi oil sales on an emergency basis. The Iraqi Government argues that the American-led embargo on the sale of its oil has caused its people critical shortages of food and medicine.
If Iraq were granted permission to sell on world markets, it is estimated that such sales would add 700,000 barrels a day to the available supply. The talks, however, broke off unsuccessfully at the end of last week.
"Refiners have been waiting for the Iraq news to come," said George Brown, a vice president at the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company. "That has not materialized, and as a result, there has been a mad scramble to buy oil."
Another reason that inventories remain lean, currently reflected in the price of 12-month oil futures contracts, is that most traders and brokers expect prices to fall in coming weeks and months.
"Oil to be delivered a year from now is selling at $17 a barrel," noted one trader, who insisted on not being further identified. "No one wants to hold oil for future delivery because they think it is going to get cheaper."
For a day at least, that belief was reflected in the stock prices of major oil companies, many of which came under selling pressure yesterday.
Mr. Brown and others said they expected prices to soften this spring because global demand for oil tends to fall in the second quarter -- a period of modest consumption of heating oil and gasoline.
"Demand for oil will drop almost three million barrels a day in the spring from the winter," Mr. Mayer of Schroder Wertheim said. "If Iraqi oil came on stream on top of that, you would have a substantial amount of oil to deal with."
But others are not so sure about the outlook for American energy prices.
"Structural demand for oil falls by about three million barrels a day globally, but demand for West Texas intermediate goes up by more than a million barrels a day in the spring here in the United States," the oil trader said. "The betting is still that prices are going to decline. But organizations like the International Energy Agency have consistently underestimated growth in demand, and inventories have been reduced to levels that have become critical. God help us if there were any sort of blow-up somewhere in the world."
Philip K. Verleger, an economist at Charles River Associates, a Boston-based economic-consulting firm, said that "for the last nine months I have expected prices to fall, but inventories around the world haven't been building up." He added, "That suggests demand is still out there."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Oil Prices Have Soared . . . but the Trend May Change" tracks price of a barrel of crude oil scheduled for May delivery. Graph runs from the beginning of the year through yesterday. Graph also tracks price of a barrel of curde oil scheduled for delivery in each month from June through December, as of yesterday's close. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); SPOT MARKET (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); INVENTORIES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (64%); WORKING CAPITAL (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N MICHAEL L MAYER (57%); GEORGE BROWN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



512 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Posts Modest Advances Amid Uncertainty on Germany

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar was little changed against the mark and other major currencies yesterday because of conflicting signals over another cut in German interest rates.
The dollar was quoted at 1.4737 German marks, up from 1.4730 on Tuesday. The dollar also crept higher against the yen for the sixth day in a row amid tension between China and Taiwan and optimism that the dollar would have room to rise after Japan's fiscal year ends on March 31. The American currency rose to 106.35 yen, from 106.17 on Tuesday. 
 The dollar initially slipped against the mark after a bigger-than-expected jump in Germany's M-3 money supply, the Bundesbank's main inflation indicator, dented hopes for a German rate cut in the next month. Lower rates would be likely to hurt the mark because they would make German deposits less lucrative.
The German central bank has come under increasing pressure to lower rates as unemployment has surged to postwar highs in recent months. But the Bundesbank's sole mandate is to fight inflation, and the country's M-3 money supply grew at an annual rate of 12.6 percent in February, well above the bank's target range of 4 to 7 percent as well as most analysts' expectations.
Hopes for a rate cut, however, were somewhat revived yesterday after the release of a survey showing a drop in German business confidence last month.
The dollar was also helped in early New York trading by reports that President Clinton and Republican Congressional leaders were meeting to discuss the budget, traders said, and from a rise in bonds. It pared those gains after the meeting lasted only an hour, leading some traders to conclude that the months-long budget impasse would continue.
The British pound was quoted at $1.5390, up from $1.5335.
In other late New York trading, compared with late Tuesday, the dollar was quoted at 1.1910 Swiss francs, up from 1.1887; 5.0475 French francs, up from 5.0345; 1,554 Italian lire, down from 1,556, and 1.3600 Canadian dollars, up from 1.3580. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (91%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (94%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (91%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT CURRENCIES (94%); GERMAN MARK (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BRITISH POUND (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



513 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Digital Says It Won't Meet Forecasts, and a Sector Slumps

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

 BODY:
Blaming slow sales of its personal computers, the Digital Equipment Corporation said yesterday that this quarter's earnings would fall below analyst expectations. The news sent Digital's shares tumbling nearly 17 percent, dragging down other computer issues and, in turn, the broader market.
The question for investors in Digital and other technology issues is whether the slowing sales of personal computers is a temporary or protracted trend. 
 In making the case that the slump is a passing phase, many analysts have cited the slow corporate adoption of the Microsoft Corporation's Windows 95 operating system. In this view, sales will pick up in the second half of the year, after large companies complete their evaluations of Windows 95 and begin to buy the more powerful PC's that the system requires.
But Digital's warning for the third quarter, ending March 31, comes amid other recent signs of softness in the personal-computer market, including plunging prices for memory chips and less optimistic forecasts from the Compaq Computer Corporation and I.B.M. Earlier this week, Dataquest, a market research firm, released a report that concluded the home market for PC's is rapidly maturing; Dataquest forecast just 8 percent growth in 1996, down from 22 percent in 1995 and 42 percent in 1994.
Digital's shares dropped $11.25, to close at $56, on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares in the Hewlett-Packard Company dropped $3.625 to $97.625; those of I.B.M. fell $4.75, to $117; Compaq fell $2, to $38.125, and the Dell Computer Corporation fell $1.125 a share, to $32.50.
Related stocks also took a hit, with declines at the Intel Corporation, Micron Technology Inc. and Microsoft. The Dow Jones industrial average fell as much as 52 points in the session before rebounding to close at 5,655.42, down 14.09 points.
John Jones, an analyst with Salomon Brothers in San Francisco, recommended caution about the entire information-science sector, citing a broad shift in economic factors that does not bode well.
"We've had the wind at our back in this group for two years," he said. "We've seen now collectively, enough indications -- softness in certain markets, the PC market getting ugly, currency shifts, memory prices under pressure -- and yet the stocks until a few days ago were trading at two-year highs."
Mr. Jones has downgraded Digital, I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard and several smaller companies, and sees no hurry to begin buying the stocks again. "Is this a long-term downturn or a speed bump in the road? I think it's a speed bump," he said. "The fundamentals of these companies are better than in years, but it doesn't mean their earnings aren't going to get hit. It's going to take a couple of quarters to settle out, so we think it's better to be cautious for a while."
Other analysts argued that while sales of personal computers had clearly slowed, there was little indication that work stations, servers and larger systems had followed suit. Driving down the share price of a diversified technology company like Hewlett-Packard or I.B.M. because of weakness in PC sales, they said, has created an opportunity.
"We're saying buy I.B.M. and H-P,"said Steven Milunovich, an analyst with Morgan Stanley. But even he downgraded Digital Equipment to neutral. "I would return to the stock, but right now I don't think it's going to go anywhere," he explained.
Digital's problem is that PC's account for nearly 20 percent of the company's revenue; while sales of servers based on the company's Alpha chip are strong, they are not enough to compensate for such a big hit, Mr. Milunovich said. "My guess is the PC slowdown will cost them 25 to 30 cents a share and they just can't offset that with other business," he said.
But Stephen Smith, an analyst with Paine Webber, said the rest of Digital's businesses were performing well enough that investors should stay with the stock. "Everything else at D.E.C. is above plan; to get bitten in the leg by the PC business like this is a real tragedy," he said. "I think it's a major overreaction." He said Paine Webber has had a buy on Digital shares since they were at $18, and it was keeping that recommendation.
A positive indicator for Digital today was a Microsoft report that sales of its more powerful operating system, Windows NT, have accelerated. "Windows NT is really beginning to kick into high gear, and D.E.C. is aggressively serving that market," Mr. Smith said.
On the other hand, he said, Digital's advisory that price cuts have not stimulated corporate PC sales is worrisome -- and not just for Digital. "I'm concerned about I.B.M.'s exposure, Hewlett's exposure," he said. "It does not look to me like a D.E.C.-specific problem."
One reason for the divergence of views is that some indicators can be read in many ways. The steep drop in memory prices is widely believed to reflect excess inventories at PC manufacturers, created by the drop in demand. But cheaper memory lowers the manufacturing cost for computers, which should lead to lower prices, higher margins or both.
"Demand may be slowing on the PC side, but we can't see that there's any slowing on the work station side," said Doug van Dorsten, an analyst with Hambrecht & Quist. "The upshot of all this is the tea leaves are a mess right now."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Technology Issues Take a Tumble" tracks Digital Equipment stock price since the beginning of 1995. Graph also lists yesterday's closing prices for other computer industry companies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (95%); DELL (NASDAQ) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); MU (NASDAQ) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP; MICROSOFT CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (95%); DELL INC (84%); INTEL CORP (84%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (83%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP; MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SOFTWARE PRODUCTS PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); TRENDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (76%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); MEMORY CHIPS (72%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (61%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



514 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1771 words

HEADLINE: Hospitality Is Their Business;
One Ethnic Group's Rooms-to-Riches Success Story

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
In the quarter-century that people of Indian ancestry have been emigrating to the United States in sizable numbers, they have carved out a steadily bigger share of the nation's hotel industry. Starting with no-name motels, they soon graduated to Days Inn, Econo Lodge, Rodeway and other economy franchises.
Today, with more than 12,000 properties, Indian-Americans own 46 percent of America's economy hotels and 26 percent of the nation's total 45,000 lodgings. 
 "We used to be isolated in a few states in the South," said Ravi Patel, whose Charlotte, N.C., company, Sree Inc., owns 20 hotels. "Now we're almost everywhere."
They are also moving up. A new generation is buying properties like Sheratons, Radissons and Hiltons, adding an upscale chapter to an immigrant success story.
The first wave of motel ownership was propelled by the Indian-Americans' strong family ties, close-knit communities and a willingness to invest years of sweat. This latest wave represents a break with tradition and a willingness to tackle bigger, more complex challenges. But the original community still provides the backing, as today's entrepreneurs pool the resources of extended families and borrow from fellow Indian-Americans, for whom a handshake is often sufficient collateral.
"These Indians are modern Horatio Algers," said Joel Kotkin, a senior fellow at the Pepperdine University Institute for Public Policy in Malibu, Calif. "They're willing to start in marginal and sometimes risky areas that native-born Americans are not interested in going into, and working incredibly long hours."
Ramesh Gokal, who bought a 26-room hotel in North Carolina soon after coming to the United States in 1976, is now president of Knights Inn, a chain of about 160 franchised economy hotels. Children of the industry pioneers are establishing their own companies and using newly acquired knowledge of capital markets to build budding empires.
"My parents' generation did business by having x dollars, buying y goods and selling for z," said Karim Alibhai, the kinetic 32-year-old president and chief executive of Gencom American Hospitality, a family-owned hotel group in Houston. "At the roadside hotels they ran, the management philosophy was get guests in and out, and have the maids clean the rooms."
But these days, "you have to know administration, management and how to use Wall Street to invest and to grow," added Mr. Alibhai, who was born in Kenya and majored in economics at Rice University. (Many Indian-American hotelkeepers came to America by way of Africa, where their families had lived for several generations in many cases.)
In Mr. Alibhai's case, the big plans are not just talk. In September, he co-sponsored a $350 million initial public offering of a real estate investment trust, one of the largest in United States history. Paine Webber was the lead investment banker and Mr. Alibhai was initially the biggest individual shareholder.
Today Gencom affiliates, which began with a single Best Western that Mr. Alibhai's parents bought in 1979 after emigrating from Kenya, own all or part of 47 hotels in 13 states. Properties include the 759-room Radisson New Orleans, the 650-room Sheraton Astrodome in Houston as well as Marriotts, Hiltons and boutique hotels in Boston and San Antonio. Revenues are expected to exceed $200 million this year.
Like his parents, Mr. Alibhai said, he "worked the desk, drove the shuttle van to the airport and learned to fix the sewer plant." In the three years after finishing college in 1984, years in which the Houston hotel industry bled red ink, he still did odd jobs at the hotel, but spent most of his time learning the business.
"Operating during that recession was my M.B.A.," said Mr. Alibhai, a trim, tennis-playing executive whose office is in a sleek Houston high-rise. In 1987, with the economy looking up but hotel values still down, Mr. Alibhai began buying distressed properties, often jointly with other Indian-Americans.
"That's when the real learning process began," he said, "not just acquiring the properties but convincing lenders who had tightened their purse strings to finance me. I had to change their perception of Indians as being identified with low-end hotels."
In many ways, Mr. Alibhai's world of revenue streams, variable inflation rates for assessing potential purchases and structuring deals with investment bankers is alien to the generation of his 60-year-old father, Akber, who is in charge of purchasing for Gencom.
"The older generation is still very cautious about sharing information, like the cost of hotels," said Jay Patel of Colorado Springs, a 43-year-old native of Zimbabwe who is part owner of seven hotels in Colorado and California. "The younger generation is much more forthcoming."
There are other differences.
"When you come from India and Africa, your view of labor is very different," Mr. Alibhai said. "People are thankful just to have a job. That's their bonus. Here, employees also want to feel appreciated. I prefer this system." Most of Gencom's corporate employees are given stock or bonuses, he said.
In the early years, Indian-Americans had problems typical of many newcomers in trying to get financing and insurance. By their account, insurers in the early 1980's suddenly canceled property insurance to all Indian hotel owners, believing them to be part of an Indian conspiracy to buy properties and burn them down to collect insurance money.
"We were turned down by about 200 insurance companies, until we convinced underwriters that these immigrants were outstanding risks," said Ron Thomas, a vice president of United Insurance Agencies in Muncie, Ind., who is widely admired by Indian hotel owners for his early efforts on their behalf.
Discrimination also took other forms, including boasts by rivals that their properties were "American owned."
Much of the more blatant bias began to wane with the formation of an Indian hotel owners' association in 1989, vigorously supported by Henry R. Silverman, the chairman of HFS Inc., and Michael A. Leven, then president of Days Inn. Starting with about 100 members, the group now numbers more than 4,000 hotelkeepers.
"Indian franchisees have been the engine of growth for the entire economy-hotel sector," said Mr. Silverman, whose company's franchises include Days Inn, Knights Inn and Super 8. "They were willing to build with their own capital when no one else was willing to."
For all their success, though, Indian-Americans have stayed away from luxury hotels and five-star resorts, and often from full-service hotels, mainly because of their cost but also for cultural and religious reasons.
"Most Indian hotel owners here are Hindus from Gujarat state and don't do well with anything involving alcohol and meat," said Mr. Patel of Colorado Springs. (Most Hindus from the western state of Gujarat are vegetarians, according to the Indian Embassy in Washington, and most Gujarati women do not drink.)
But younger Indians feel differently. "They realize you can offer meat and alcohol to your guests, because it's all part of the hotel business," Mr. Patel added.
"Within the next five years you'll see a lot of us owning luxury properties, like Ritz-Carltons," said Tushar Patel, the 31-year-old president of Tarsadia Hotels in Costa Mesa, Calif. About half of Tarsadia's 13 properties -- including the 440-room Clarion Hotel at the San Francisco airport -- are full-service hotels, with restaurants and bars.
Tushar Patel, by the way, is not related to Jay Patel of Colorado Springs, unless distantly, or to most of the thousands of other Patels who own hotels in the United States. Almost all Patels, even those from Africa, trace their ancestry to Gujarat, where hospitality is highly regarded.
In the United States, many Indian immigrants turned to lodging because they could buy cheap motels, they could live rent free and the family could work the front desk, clean rooms, do laundry and make repairs.
When they stepped up to franchised properties, for as little as $20,000 plus 8 percent of revenues, the Indians acquired not only toll-free reservation systems and the benefit of bulk purchases, but an education about prices, payrolls and bookkeeping.
"We'll soon have eight hotels and we're looking to open a 200-room one soon, and it's no big deal," said S. Jay (you guessed it) Patel of Alpharetta, Ga. "Now we're experienced enough to know we can handle it."
His father, J. K. Patel, left a 20-year career with Barclays Bank in Kenya to come to America in 1978, spending six months looking for a business before buying a hotel in South Carolina. The elder Mr. Patel attributes the Indians' success in this country to "the way we were brought up."
Parents instilled the need for education and trust between families and among their own ethnic group. "In January I did a deal with an Indian partner in Dallas for two hotels," said Mr. Alibhai of Gencom. "We shook hands, and before the contracts were signed I wired him several million dollars."
Arvind Patel, who with his wife, Bhavna, owns a 39-room Days Inn in West Point, Miss., cites another factor -- the willingness of extended families and acquaintances to provide financial help.
"We work together as a team," said Arvind Patel, a native of Tanzania. "A lot of families give you $10,000, even $30,000, without charging you interest and without any collateral. They figure one day you may help them."
But like many Indians, these Patels are branching out and moving up, building an 81-room Wingate Inn and a 58-room Hampton Inn elsewhere in Mississippi. Meantime, both continue working a full shift each day behind the desk of their Days Inn, with their 12-year-old son and 10-year-old daughter pitching in on weekends.
"And if our help doesn't show up," Mrs. Patel said, "my husband and I still clean the rooms."
Many of the older Indian-owned motels were long ago refurbished, if only to measure up as franchises -- a method the Indians quickly saw as a route to financial independence. Some properties have been kept for the next generation, but most have been sold to a newer wave of Indian immigrants.
When Indian-Americans graduate from college, many have chosen to become doctors, engineers, lawyers and accountants. "But in most families at least one son or daughter will become hoteliers, because they realize it isn't the hard work it was for us," said J. K. Patel, the former Barclays banker. "The difference is, we used to man the desk ourselves. The new generation likes sitting in the office and delegating the work."


GRAPHIC: 
Photos: At 32, Karim Alibhai has worked every job at his family's motel from the fromt desk to driving the van. Today, he runs Gencom American Hospitality, a $200 million hotel group in Houston that operates Radissons, Sheratons and Hiltons; Building on the inital success of Indian immigrants in the budget motel business, a new generation is running larger and more luxurious hotels like the Sheraton Astrodome in Houston. (Photographs by F. Carter Smith for The New York Times) (pg. D1--
Chart: "Immigrant Niches"
Some successful niche businesses serving the broad community carved out by recent immigrant groups in the United States:
 
Palestinians -- Run many mom-and-pop grocery stores in San Francisco, Detroit and elsewhere.
 
Koreans -- Already successful with small markets in big cities, they are opening bigger stores and dispersing to the suburbs and beyond, especially in Southern California.
 
Vietnamese -- Small store-front parlors for trimming and polishing fingernails, especially in the Los Angeles area.
 
Barbadians -- Short-haul trucking, especially in Brooklyn and Queens.
 
Chaldeans -- Iraqi Christians, who own many convienence/liquor stores in the Detroit and San Diego areas.
 
Chinese -- Started and remain at the center of the toy wholesale business in Los Angeles, and now employ many Vietnamese, Koreans and Hispanic people.
 
Cambodians and Vietnamese -- Donut shops, particularly scattered throughout Southern California. The suppliers to these shops are also Southeast Asians.
 
Sources: Paul M. Ong, professor of public policy at the University of California at Los Angeles, and Joel Kotkin, author of "Tribes" (1993), a study of the global ethnic diaspora, the Chaldean Federation of America. (pg. D9)
 
 
Graph: "American Hotels with a Touch of India" shows percentage breakdownsf hotel franchisees who are Americans of Indian ancestry. (Source: Choice Hotels International, HFS Inc.) (pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KENYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENCOM AMERICAN HOSPITALITY (52%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KENYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; INDIAN-AMERICANS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LODGING (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); FAMILY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); FRANCHISEES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ETHNICITY (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (67%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (60%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN KARIM ALIBHAI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



515 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Product Liability Bill Clears Hurdle, Heads for Passage
The Senate took an important step toward limiting damages available to people who were are hurt by faulty products. By a vote of 60 to 40, the minimum necessary, the Senate cut off debate on the bill. A dozen Democrats voted with the majority, in a repudiation of President Clinton, who has promised a veto.
The Senate appears certain to pass the bill today and send it to the House, which is likely to approve it next week. [Page A1.]
 
Rockwell May Leave Military Field
Rockwell is considering the sale of its weapons businesses, people close to the discussions said. Such a sale would accelerate the rapid pace of change in an industry that, since the cold war, remains highly profitable for a shrinking number of manufacturers. Boeing and McDonnell Douglas were mentioned as companies Rockwell has approached. [D7.]
 
Retail Sales Suggest Strength
Retail sales grew eight-tenths of 1 percent in February, offering evidence that the economy was expanding somewhat faster after skirting recession for much of the winter. Because of special factors, the report was inconclusive, but combined with data on jobs, housing and other indicators, the figures point to an economy picking up steam. [D4.]
 
Stock Prices Retreat
Stock prices retreated with the Dow Jones industrials average losing 14.09 points, to close at 5,655.42. With technology issues weak, the Nasdaq composite index fell 10.68 points, closing at 1,101.82. [D10.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities rose, in response to the weaker-than-expected retail sales report. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 1, sending its yield down to 6.63 percent, from 6.71 percent on Tuesday. [D20.]
 
Oil Price Halts Sharp Rise
West Texas oil traded as high as $25.60 a barrel, the highest in more than five years, then dropped sharply to $23.06 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Analysts attributed the run-up in recent days to heavy winter demand, a new system for gauging inventories, and fear of a supply glut from Iraq. They said they expected prices to decrease with spring's arrival. [D5.]
 
Wheat Futures Soar to Record Price
The expiring wheat contract soared on the Chicago Board of Trade, exceeding the previous record by far. Analysts said that a large commercial grain company, which they identified as Bunge, was caught short of grain and had to buy back futures it had sold. [D17.]
 
Monsanto Patents Synthetic Genes
Monsanto said that it had received a patent for the synthetic genes that it and other companies put in plants to cause them to produce their own insecticide. Monsanto, the leader in agricultural biotechnology, also said that it had sued Mycogen and Ciba-Geigy, which market corn containing the gene. [D17.]
 
Lehman Profit Doubles
Lehman Brothers' first-quarter earnings more than doubled, to $104 million, benefiting from revenue gains in underwriting and trading and a decline in expenses. [D16.]
 
C-TEC: Under the Wire on Taxes?
C-TEC said late on Tuesday that it might spin off one part of its telephone and cable TV operations and selling another. Vague in the extreme, C-TEC's news release might still qualify the company for a "Morris Trust" transaction, a popular way to avoid capital gains taxes when an acquirer wants only part of another company. The Clinton Administration wants to halt the practice. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D10.]
 
Banco do Brasil Loses $4.3 Billion
Banco do Brasil, Latin America's largest bank, lost $4.3 billion last year, more than its net worth. Rushing to the rescue, the Government said it would increase the capital of the state-controlled bank by $8 billion. [D4.]
 
Unfriendly Skies for Air Afrique?
Air Afrique proudly declares itself "the No. 1 Company in Black Africa," but its business appears to be hanging by a thread. Losses are climbing, and creditors are threatening to seize planes. [D4.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,655.42, down 14.09
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.63%, down 0.08
The Dollar -- 106.35 yen, up 0.18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (81%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); MON (NYSE) (51%); NVS (NYSE) (50%); NOVN (SWX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (81%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (81%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (51%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (81%); BOEING CO (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); MONSANTO CO (51%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%); NOVARTIS AG (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LEGISLATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); RETAIL SALES (88%); COMMODITIES TRADING (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CORN MARKETS (87%); BOND MARKETS (86%); GRAIN MARKETS (86%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (79%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); VETO (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); BONDS (75%); RECESSION (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ENERGY MARKETS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); PATENTS (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (68%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (66%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (63%); INSECTICIDES (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



516 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: PATAKI IS SEEKING TO END REGULATION OF HOSPITAL RATES

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 20

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki unveiled a broad plan today intended to lower health care costs by lifting most of the rules that control the fees charged by hospitals.
He also called for the state to make deep cuts in financing for medical education, a proposal that quickly ran into opposition in New York City, where programs that train doctors are one of the pillars of care in poor neighborhoods. 
 Mr. Pataki's aides said that by reducing money for medical education, the state should be able to cut by 30 percent the number of slots for medical residents in New York over three years. Such a move, they said, would help slim down a health care system that is bloated with extra doctors.
The Governor said that ending the state's decades-old practice of setting rates for services provided by hospitals would allow competition to push down costs and offer new incentives for people to seek cheaper treatment outside of hospitals.
"We are just quite confident that this will lead to a stronger and healthier health care system as we move into the next century," Mr. Pataki said at a news conference this morning.
The plan is the latest jolt to hospitals in New York City, which are already facing sharp cuts in Federal and state spending for Medicaid and Medicare. The city, which has one of the largest concentrations of hospitals in the nation, educates far more doctors than any other and relies heavily on government money to care for its poor.
Mr. Pataki's plan stirred a fierce response from some city hospital executives, who contended that the cuts might force hospitals to consolidate or close, hurting medical care in some areas. The proposal could also be a new source of tensions between the Governor and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, two Republicans who have often been at odds.
"This would obviously have a negative impact on the H.H.C. hospitals," said Maria Mitchell, who is Mr. Giuliani's top health adviser and is also chairwoman of the Health and Hospitals Corporation, which runs the 11 municipal hospitals.
The Democrats who control the State Assembly also criticized the plan, saying it would give too much power to insurance companies and penalize consumers. Both houses of the Legislature must pass the proposal. It is intended to replace rules that expire on June 30.
Mr. Pataki expressed confidence that the plan could be passed before the deadline. But privately, leaders of both parties said that with the state's budget on hold because of the Federal budget impasse, it is more likely that the Legislature will extend the old rules for a few months and then tackle the proposal in the fall. Both parties generally agree, however, that the rules governing hospital fees must be revamped.
The Governor's plan would allow private insurance companies to negotiate rates for services with hospitals directly, a right that managed care companies already have. It would not affect the rates for Medicaid and Medicare, which would continue to be set by the state and Federal governments.
Of the $28 billion in hospital revenues annually in New York, $16 billion are covered by the current rules.
Under those rules, the state sets a standardized fee for every procedure that a hospital performs. The State Legislature has periodically passed bills mandating these rules, which the Health Department has then turned into a list of required charges that it sends to hospitals.
Health care experts said that nearly a dozen states moved toward regulating hospital rates in the 1970's to slow the steep increases in health care costs. But by the early 1990's, most of them had reversed field, as Mr. Pataki is proposing, deciding that deregulated systems governed by market forces would be more effective in controlling costs. New York and Maryland are the only states that still set hospital rates.
But deregulation has not always worked smoothly. Among the states that have deregulated their hospitals in recent years, both New Jersey and Massachusetts have had trouble providing enough money to pay for care of the poor.
Today, insurance companies and business groups praised Mr. Pataki. The New York State Conference of Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans said the plan was a "laudable, pragmatic direction for New York's health care system that will help contain costs, enhance access to care and build on the quality of services delivered to citizens."
The exact amount of the cut in financing for medical education was difficult to determine from the Governor's proposal, but it could be several hundred million dollars. Nearly $3 billion is spent in New York on training doctors, including money from Medicare, Medicaid and a surcharge on the mandated rates that hospitals can charge.
Under the new system, the Medicare money would not be affected, but the state would allocate less from Medicaid for medical education. There would be a smaller surcharge, but hospitals would have to make up the difference through their own fees.
The Governor would also allow New York City to raise another $350 million for medical education at its hospitals through the city's own surcharge on health care.
"Let me stress that we are not looking to maintain the status quo with regard to medical education in New York State," said Dr. Barbara A. DeBuono, the State Health Commissioner. "We are looking to scale down the graduate medical education program in New York to reflect the place that the country is at in terms of physician supply and to reflect the changing needs in New York."
Hospital executives said the new rules would put them at a disadvantage in negotiating with insurance companies. While they said they did not necessarily disagree with Mr. Pataki's proposal to deregulate health care, they called on him to find a better way to finance medical education and care for the poor.
Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, which represents 174 hospital and nursing homes in the New York City area, said the state should have some kind of tax on health insurance premiums so that such costs are not just borne by hospitals.
"The ability of hospitals to fight and get some of that money back, like economic gladiators -- it is a frightening thought," he said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH&HOSPITALS CORP (55%); MEDICARE (54%); MEDICAID (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); MEDICAID (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; MEDICAL SCHOOLS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HOSPITALS HOSPITALS (91%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MEDICARE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MAYORS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); EDUCATION REFORM (72%); INSURANCE (65%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (63%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



517 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: NATO Urged to Keep Force In Bosnia After Pullout Date

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: TUZLA, Bosnia and Herzegovina, March 20

 BODY:
As warnings mount that the fragile Bosnian peace could collapse without the presence of NATO peacekeepers, international civilian and military authorities here have begun to press for keeping at least a reduced NATO force in Bosnia beyond the currently scheduled departure at the end of this year.
While the Clinton Administration continues to insist that all 20,000 American troops will be out of Bosnia only nine months from now, key officials here say the delicate tasks of resettling refugees and rebuilding the country are likely to fail without the security of outside peacekeepers. The NATO-led international force, known as IFOR, totals about 60,000 troops. 
 At American insistence -- and consistent with pledges President Clinton made to Congress when he sought support for the peacekeeping mission here -- the NATO forces are to leave at the end of the year. Both Britain and France have said that if the Americans go, the Europeans will pull out, too.
But many international officials in Bosnia say a total withdrawal could be disastrous. "We need something after IFOR, though not a 60,000-man force," said Carl Bildt, the international representative in charge of coordinating civilian efforts to put the peace agreement into effect.
"Refugee return is a two-year plan," Mr. Bildt said. "Reconstruction will take much longer than one year. Almost everything depends on a feeling of overall security for which some kind of military presence will be required."
The Pentagon itself, in an intelligence assessment drawn up last month, warned that without major new aid for economic and political rebuilding, Bosnia was likely to fragment and fall back into conflict after NATO forces pull out at year's end.
Mr. Bildt has already asked officials of the alliance in Brussels to begin thinking about what NATO could do after its one-year mandate here runs out. Secretary of State Warren Christopher and other allied foreign ministers will probably have to make a preliminary decision about what comes next when they meet in Berlin in June.
Some European officials have hinted that they might keep troops in Bosnia after the end of the year if the United States would keep troops nearby, providing logistical support. If so, that would give President Clinton a political break since he could withdraw Americans from the danger zone.
In an interview today, Maj. Gen. William L. Nash, the commander of the American sector for NATO forces in Bosnia, stressed the unwavering American determination to withdraw on schedule.
"The burden for peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina is on the shoulders of those folks that live here," he said. "If they don't want peace, there ain't gonna be peace. If they want peace, one year is more than enough to get them started.
"The military part has gone pretty well. As people gain confidence, some sort of elections take place, and the international police force does its work, by next December things can be in a reassuring posture that will make withddrawal not the concern that it is now."
"Should there be a follow-on force?" General Nash asked. "I don't know."
Allied commanders here say the hardest part of the military implementation of the accords is almost over, with the forces of the warring parties disengaged from the old battle lines and many troops demobilizing.
If by mid-April, as called for under the peace plan, the sides have withdrawn their artillery, tank, and other heavy weapons forces to base areas designated by the NATO commander in Bosnia, Adm. Leighton W. Smith Jr., the allies can start thinking about when to begin withdrawal of the heaviest elements of their own forces.
"Everything has to stay until the Bosnian elections, which have to be held by the middle or the end of September," a high-ranking French official said in Paris. "After that, everybody leaves if the Americans do."
But according to Mr. Bildt and French commanders on the scene here, the threat that international force will be used has been the key to making the warring parties observe the agreements they all assented to in Dayton, Ohio, last November.
"There is some thought that we should wait until the Bosnian elections at the end of the summer before beginning the withdrawal, and some thought that we could begin before then," said Maj. Gen. Robert Rideau, the French commander of the NATO multinational division deploying 14,000 troops around Sarajevo.
"Nothing has been decided yet," he said, "but yes, it does seem that some force should remain in the future. Perhaps the Americans will be prepared to leave some troops at their staging area in Hungary." The United States now has more than 4,000 troops in Hungary supporting the Bosnian operation.
The implication of these and other statements by European officials is that if some Americans stayed, at least in the neighborhood if not in Bosnia itself, then some European forces would stay as well. Several thousand troops from Russia, Ukraine, Malaysia, Morocco, the Czech Republic, Poland, Morocco, and 10 other non-NATO countries are also participating with troops from 15 allied countries.
Mr. Bildt, like just about everybody else in Sarajevo, shakes his head when asked whether a residual peacekeeping force could come under United Nations command, like the ineffectual protection force that NATO replaced in December.
But a smaller, less heavily armed force than the one NATO deployed to be ready to impose peace on the belligerents is essential, in his view, to keep the peace in the future.
Other international officials agree. Sadako Ogata, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, said recently that she could not imagine how to get two million refugees safely back to their homes, or resettled in other areas, over the next two years without the security provided by an effective international force.
Lieut. Gen. Sir Michael Walker, a Briton who is Admiral Smith's principal deputy here, said that NATO military authorities had long assumed a need for a continuing force. "We made the assumption there probably would have to be a follow-on force, but that wasn't acceptable language at the time," he said at his headquarters here.
"I think the argument will go on for some time," he said. "NATO is trying to allow its member states to discuss the issues at the national level before trying to make a decision."
Mr. Bildt is particularly concerned about the need to remove millions of mines scattered around the country, and to resolve a dispute about boundaries in the critical Brcko area, the part of northern Bosnia that links the eastern and western Serb-controlled areas. The Dayton accords called on the parties to name arbitrators by June 14 and put their decision into effect by the end of the year.
"In Brcko all the issues that originated the conflict come together again," he said. "The area was 52 percent Muslim before the war, but Serb ethnic cleansing was brutal, and President Alija Izetbegovic is insisting that his boundary has to extend through Serb territory right to the Sava River. It's nowhere near being sorted out."
In addition, he and other officials point out, there is concern about the road that under the accords is to be built in a corridor through Bosnian Serb territory to the Muslim enclave of Gorazde in eastern Bosnia. The road is unlikely to be planned, let alone built, by the time the peacekeepers are now scheduled to leave, these officials said.
"I've told the alliance in Brussels that the issue has to be confronted within the near future," he said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; GREAT BRITAIN; ; FRANCE; UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PEACEKEEPING (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TRENDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); POLICE FORCES (58%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



518 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Guns For Peace

BYLINE: By Muhamed Sacirbey; Muhamed Sacirbey, the Bosnian ambassador to the United Nations, is special envoy for the implementation of the Dayton peace agreement.

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina

 BODY:
The Dayton peace agreement ended the war in Bosnia, but it is only a small first step in securing a durable peace in the region. Economic redevelopment, the return of refugees and free and fair elections in Bosnia, combined with a movement in the region toward respect for law, are all critical to success. A new Pentagon report warns that more international aid must be forthcoming to speed rebuilding of the country and to lay the groundwork for economic and political stability. But equally important, the international community should support the United States in its pledge to provide the Bosnians with equipment and training to correct the military imbalances in the region.
Bosnia's leaders support regional arms control, as called for in the peace accord, and we will pursue seriously the arms limitation talks now taking place in Vienna. But those like the British, the French and the Russians, who favor a commitment to simple disarmament -- reducing Serb military strength while freezing Bosnian arsenals where they are -- fail to see that this policy is dangerously flawed. It will still prevent the Muslim-Croat Federation from gaining rough military parity with the Serbs. 
 This policy also clearly contradicts the Dayton agreement, which calls for the Bosnians' relative strength to be increased. It was the lack of parity that initially encouraged the Serb aggression against Bosnia in 1992. We lacked the weapons to defend ourselves.
The equip-and-train program should not solely be viewed as a plan to arm the Bosnian Government. Supplying the Bosnians with military aid and equipment would also give them the means and confidence to no longer rely on manpower strength to offset the overwhelming Serbian advantage in heavy weapons. Thus, perhaps 80 percent of the 200,000 Bosnian soldiers could be demobilized and returned to civilian life to help rebuild the country.
Finally, as a condition for the equip-and-train program, the Bosnian Army is working with the Bosnian Croat military forces to form an integrated chain of command, which will bolster the federation and further promote stability.
Are European leaders who support arms limitations yet oppose equipping and training the federation army willing to give Bosnia a guarantee of security? Judging by how well peacekeeping forces protected the "safe areas" of Srebrenica and Zepa, where an estimated 8,000 people were killed, such guarantees would not be trusted. The failure of the United Nations to protect these cities, while helping to defend the Bosnian-protected city of Gorazde, plainly demonstrated that the West only considered coming to the aid of the Bosnians when we were credible partners in our own self-defense.
It was not weapons alone that caused the war in Bosnia but too many weapons in the wrong hands and not enough in the hands of the victim. The Bosnian people are prepared to take on our share of the load, and demonstrate our ability to be a partner for the future and an accountable state committed to military balance and restraint. By equipping and training federation forces while reaching verifiable arms limitations in the region, the international community can send a compelling political and symbolic message of deterrence, and help prevent a new outbreak of fighting when NATO forces leave at the end of the year. That is, it can help achieve peace and stability, the ultimate goal of the Dayton agreement.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 1996, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday by Muhamed Sacirbey, the Bosnian Ambassador to the United Nations, used the term "Muslim-Croat Federation," which he finds unacceptable. The article should have referred to the "Bosnian Federation."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); CROATIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; RUSSIA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); CROATIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: SACIRBEY, MUHAMED

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996



519 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 24; Column 3; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Inside Art

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:

Keeping the Focus on Asia
Is the rarefied world of Asian art moving into the mainstream?
 It certainly looks that way. The Metropolitan Museum of Art's gigantic "Splendors of Imperial China: Treasures From the National Palace Museum, Taipei," which opened this week, is just the tip of an iceberg. Next week, Manhattan will be consumed with Asian art activities. The catalyst is the new International Asian Art Fair, which opens on March 30 and runs through April 2 at the Seventh Regiment Armory, Park Avenue and 67th Street. 
 The show was organized by Brian and Anna Haughton, the London-based show managers who brought the International Fine Art and Antiques Show to Manhattan six years ago. This new show will cover most categories of Asian art and antiques, from the 12th century B.C. to the present.
About 50 dealers are participating, "coming from as far away as Taiwan, Hong Kong, from all over Europe and the United States," Mrs. Haughton said. "It's such a huge subject, we're hoping the show will appeal to a lot of different people." While the Haughtons aren't expecting the crowds attracted to more general fairs, Mrs. Haughton said that "the people who come to these specialized events are passionately interested and therefore, hopefully, potential buyers."
Much as Sotheby's and Christie's time their Americana sales to coincide with the Winter Antiques Show held every January in Manhattan, because they know all the major collectors will be in town, the auction houses moved their Asian sales up a week this year so that they overlap the dates of the new Asian show. They hope that New York will become a center for sales of Asian art.
"With all the political turmoil going on in Asia, and with London in the doldrums, New York has become the sort of adopted home for Asian art," said Leon Wender, a private Manhattan dealer who specializes in Chinese paintings and will be showing at the fair. "This is certainly a calculated risk, but one worth taking."
The dealers aren't the only ones taking a risk. For the last several seasons, the auction market for Asian works has been quite patchy, in part because of a weak economy in Japan and the uncertainty over Hong Kong's political stability as it is returned to China. Both situations are believed to have made buyers more cautious.
Between Sotheby's and Christie's, about $25 million worth of Asian art will be auctioned next week. While both auction houses have a few important offerings, neither has any blockbuster single-owner collections up for sale.
Among the highlights at Christie's sale of Japanese art, on March 30, is a mid-17th-century hand scroll, one of the earliest surviving illustrations from the Taiheiki, or the Chronicle of Great Peace. Christie's estimates that the scroll, which depicts a famous struggle between ruling clans, will sell for $250,000 to $300,000. "This is one of 12 volumes of the earliest known set of these hand scrolls," said Sebastian Izzard, head of the department of Japanese works of art at Christie's in New York. "It came from a European collection." Mr. Izzard said he believed the scroll would appeal to a Japanese museum.
At Sotheby's, Korean art is one of the hottest areas. "Korea is a small country, and the demand far outstrips the supply," said Suzanne Mitchell, head of the department of Korean art at Sotheby's in New York. Among the top works that are to be sold at the Sotheby's sale of Korean art, on Wednesday, is a 19th-century, 10-panel screen depicting a royal banquet celebrating the 80th birthday of the Queen Mother Cho (Queen Sinjong). Sotheby's expects it to sell for $900,000 to $1.2 million. Another work that Ms. Mitchell expects to be especially popular is "10 Girls Drawing" (1961), a painting by the Korean artist Park Soo Keun, who died in 1965. Its price is estimated to be $300,000 to $350,000. "Park Soo Keun has an amazing following right now, in part because he brings out nostalgic feelings in Korean collectors," Ms. Mitchell said.
 
 
 
Growing in the Northwest
 While the Seattle area may be known as Microsoft country, it's never had a reputation as a center for contemporary art. But when the Henry Art Gallery, the museum of the University of Washington in Seattle, reopens a year from now, after a $17.5 million face lift, it hopes to provide the Northwest the kind of cultural center it has never had before.
"This is a rapidly growing area that is economically strong but museum poor," said Richard Andrews, the Henry Art Gallery's director. "Once the renovation and expansion is completed, we will have four times as much space, which will enable us to become a multi-faceted art center."
The museum's two-year renovation will increase its size to 46,000 square feet, from 10,000 square feet. "Right now, we have only one exhibition space, no storage and no loading dock," Mr. Andrews said. "And we have a collection of 18,000 objects that have never been on view."
Charles Gwathmey of Gwathmey Siegel & Associates, the New York architect who designed the renovation and expansion of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in Manhattan, has masterminded the Seattle design, which adds a three-story structure to the museum's 1927 Gothic-style building.
The university, which owns the building and the museum, pays its basic operating expenses. Mr. Andrews said 60 percent of the museum's budget comes from private sources, which finance the exhibitions and special programs. The museum is close to reaching its fund-raising goal of $23 million -- $21 million has been obtained -- for both the museum's new building and its endowment. Paul Allen, a co-founder of Microsoft, gave $5 million toward the new building.
 
 
 
Staying in the Neighborhood
 Robert Pincus-Witten has left the Gagosian Gallery on Madison Avenue, where he was director for more than six years. But he's staying in the neighborhood: he's now exhibitions director of C & M Arts on East 78th Street, where he will put together the kind of historical exhibitions he was known for at Gagosian.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A detail from the 17th-century Japanese "Illustrated Scrolls of the Chronicle of Great Peace." (Christie's New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (93%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HENRY ART GALLERY (SEATTLE); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (83%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HENRY ART GALLERY (SEATTLE); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART; INTERNATIONAL ASIAN ART FAIR ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (88%); ART DEALERS (88%); PAINTING (78%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL SUZANNE MITCHELL (62%); ANNA HAUGHTON (62%); SEBASTIAN IZZARD (58%); PARK SOO KEUN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



520 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Engineers Needn't Fear Worker Influx

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Michael S. Teitelbaum's cry of "Too Many Engineers, Too Few Jobs" (Op-Ed, March 19), on proposals rejected by Congress that would have held down increases in the number of skilled foreign workers allowed to immigrate to the United States, is an echo of the 1970's. 
 I cannot fault Mr. Teitelbaum's statistics on unemployment among engineers, but they are counter to the experience of my Ph.D. students, six of whom have found good jobs in industry in the last two years. In addition, all my Taiwanese students have returned home to find jobs. Students from India are attracted back home to an expanding economy.
As corporations cut research, the role of research universities in training engineers becomes more important. Some universities have seen decreases in their Ph.D. programs in response to anticipated funding cuts. Complex technology will require more engineers with advanced training, not fewer.
 
FRANCIS C. MOON
Ithaca, N.Y., March 19, 1996
 
The writer is a professor of engineering at Cornell University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); IMMIGRATION (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); REFUGEES (71%); 

PERSON: MOON, FRANCIS C MICHAEL S TEITELBAUM (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



521 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Buchanan and the Fish

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
So Patrick Buchanan will not be the Republican candidate for President this year. But he has become a steadily increasing political and moral liability to the Republican Party, to Americans who usually vote Republican and to Democrats thinking of doing so this November.
The burden was not created by Mr. Buchanan all by himself. He would have been a long time gone if he had not had the help of the Republican candidates and party leaders. 
 By selective silence they helped him build national standing and, save our souls, acceptability. They criticized his economics but refused to say why he had no place in political life, when they knew exactly why.
In the primary campaign, he showed himself as he has for years -- intelligent enough to exploit real problems troubling many Americans and superciliously ignored by the mainstream politicians, a rousing orator, and a bigot.
He tried on the stump to control revealing the hate in him during the campaign. But these types find that real hard. So he got what kicks were available at least cost -- slurs about Jews and Latinos meant to be understood beneath the light code-word covering, the ineradicable insult to blacks of promoting use of the Confederate flag, and the sick pride that gutter brawlers take in refusing to apologize for what they do.
But that's old Pat, the quintessential Washington insider hilariously playing a factory hand in overalls, the sidekick of politicians and journalists, the house anti-Jew whom even Jews among them tolerated and "stood by."
Poor chaps must have felt in an awkward situation. But not more awkward than the one William Buckley finds himself in. Some journalists recently said that Mr. Buckley had denounced Mr. Buchanan as an anti-Semite, in 1992, after I made the charge. In fact there were Jews who had taken their impression that a non-Jew was saying Mr. Buchanan was anti-Semitic as permission to say a few naughty-naughty words about him themselves.
Mr. Buckley has felt compelled to write a new column saying he had done no such thing. He is right.
Mr. Buckley points out that while he had written that it was impossible to defend Mr. Buchanan against charges that what he had done and said "amounted to anti-Semitism," he had also explained that Mr. Buchanan was "most probably" driven by an "iconoclastic temperament." You see? Mr. Buckley, my old friend, is irritated that lesser journalistic minds found the refinement "too complicated too handle." You can understand his annoyance.
But a few other noted writers are not finding it difficult to make themselves plain. George Will writes contemptuously of Mr. Buchanan's "eagerness" to use material denying the Holocaust. And in Time magazine Lance Morrow had a fine essay with the magnificently descriptive title: "Stinking to High Heaven."
It is the householder's hygienic duty to toss a fish out when it begins to stink. In the Buchanan matter, Republican leaders are the householders. But while many found fault with the fish's trade policy, most dealt with the fundamental, disqualifying issue of bigotry by looking pained and saying: "What fish?"
But in an open letter, Senator Alfonse D'Amato, Republican of New York, denounced Mr. Buchanan for denigrating women, bashing homosexuals, criminalizing immigrants, insulting African-Americans. I can hear the snickers of New Yorkers who would not give Mr. D'Amato credit if he pulled them out of a burning building: wasn't it easy for him because he led the Dole campaign in New York?
If it was so easy why don't more Dole backers do it -- or Mr. Dole himself? Will he really let Mr. Buchanan light a venom-fire at the San Diego Convention without renouncing him? Will they stand together, arms raised in unity? If so, where will we go to be sick? If not, shouldn't he start the casting-out of Mr. Buchanan before the Convention?
Every day that goes by without the Republican leadership breaking its silence about why American values disqualify Mr. Buchanan allows him to burrow more lastingly into American political life.
Am I shouting into the wind to ask Republicans to risk losing some votes of Buchanan backers by telling the truth about him? Probably, but better a hoarse throat than one more zippered mouth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; BLACKS; JEWS; HOMOSEXUALITY; ANTI-SEMITISM; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); DISCRIMINATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HOLOCAUST (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J PATRICK BUCHANAN (96%); WILLIAM BUCKLEY (76%); GEORGE FREDERICK WILL (59%); ALFONSE M D'AMATO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



522 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 5; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Ruth Chinitz Uris, New York Philanthropist

 BODY:
Ruth Chinitz Uris, a New York philanthropist and chairwoman of the Uris Brothers Foundation, died on Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 86.
Mrs. Uris was the widow of Harold Uris, the developer, and she continued the couple's charitable work after his death in 1982. The beneficiaries have ranged from famous institutions that showed their appreciation by putting the Uris name on a school, a library or a hospital wing to low-income housing in the South Bronx. 
 Recipients of multimillion-dollar gifts from the foundation include the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Junior Museum and educational programs, the Columbia University Graduate School of Business, Cornell University, and Lenox Hill Hospital.
The foundation Mrs. Uris headed also gave grants to projects likely to better the life of a specific neighborhood and its homeless, unemployed and undereducated. She served for many years on the board of the Hudson Guild, a large settlement house in Chelsea.
She was born in Manhattan, the daughter of the restaurateurs Aaron and Rose Chinitz, and attended Smith College.
Mrs. Uris is survived by four daughters, Judith Haber of Germantown, N.Y., Susan Halpern of Manhattan, Dr. Linda Sanger of Cambridge, Mass., and Jane Bayard of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHILDREN (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); HOMELESSNESS (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); 

PERSON: URIS, RUTH CHINITZ RUTH CHINITZ URIS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



523 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Bad Weather Is Blamed for Inventory Rise

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21

 BODY:
Business inventories jumped in January, the Commerce Department said today, but analysts said the surge reflected special factors and not a weakening economy. They similarly dismissed an increase in jobless claims.
Inventories rose six-tenths of 1 percent, the largest increase since a seven-tenths of 1 percent surge last October. At the same time, the Labor Department said that jobless claims shot up by 32,000 last week to the highest level in two months. 
 "It seems to be the weather and the strike," said Jeff K. Thredgold, an economist for Keycorp in Cleveland, who was referring to the blizzards in January and the 17-day strike against the General Motors Corporation, in which a tentative agreement was reached today.
For business in January, sales were down in all categories -- nine-tenths of 1 percent for manufacturers, six-tenths of 1 percent for wholesalers and one-tenth of 1 percent for retailers. Inventories rose as manufacturers and wholesalers had difficulty shipping their goods because of the severe weather, which also kept consumers from visiting stores and shopping malls, Mr. Thredgold said. "People either couldn't get out or chose not to fight the storms, so the stuff on the shelves didn't go anywhere," Mr. Thredgold said.
The G.M. strike was limited to two plants but eventually crippled 26 of G.M.'s 29 assembly plants and 18 parts plants and forced the auto maker to furlough 175,800 of its 250,000 hourly workers in the United States, Mexico and Canada. The strike also affected dozens of other parts plants and suppliers.
The Labor Department said the layoffs contributed to the 384,000 new jobless claims last week, but was unable to say how much. The weekly increase was the largest since a jump of 91,000 during the week that ended Jan. 20.
The Commerce Department said inventories totaled a seasonally adjusted $982.65 billion in January, up from $977.26 billion in December, when they were off four-tenths of 1 percent for their first decline since March 1994.
Both manufacturers and wholesalers saw stockpiles rise seven-tenths of 1 percent, and retailers experienced a two-tenths of 1 percent gain.
Business sales fell six-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $695.64 billion, after rising 1 percent in December. It was the first decline since a three-tenths of 1 percent drop in October and the largest since 1.1 percent last July.
The inventory-to-sales ratio was 1.41, up from 1.40 in December, meaning it would take 1.41 months to exhaust stockpiles at the January sales rate. The ratio was 1.42 in November.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Investory-Sales Ratio" shows total month-end business inventory divided by total monthly business sales from Aug. 1994 to Jan. 1996. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KEY (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (70%); KEYCORP (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); WEATHER; AUTOMOBILES; STRIKES; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); INVENTORIES (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); WEATHER (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SALES (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); 

PERSON: JEFF K THREDGOLD (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



524 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Hint of Rate Cut by Germany Strengthens Dollar in Trading

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar rose yesterday, bolstered by renewed hopes for lower German interest rates.
 The dollar opened New York trading higher on comments by the Bundesbank's chief economist, Otmar Issing, that the next move in German interest rates was likely to be down.
Comments by Theo Waigel, the German Finance Minister, and Klaus-Dieter Kuhbacher, a Bundesbank official, later fueled further dollar buying, briefly pushing the dollar above 1.4800 marks, traders said. 
 Bundesbank officials "have another interest rate cut left in them, and that's helping to buoy the dollar," said Win Thin, international economist at Midland Bank.
The German central bank, which last lowered official interest rates in December, is under pressure to make further cuts to help restart the sputtering German economy and relieve high unemployment.
Lower German interest rates would benefit the dollar by making dollar-based stocks and bonds more attractive versus their German counterparts.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar rose to 1.4785 marks, from 1.4737 marks on Wednesday. The dollar was quoted at 106.70 Japanese yen, up from 106.35 yen. The British pound fell to $1.5375, from $1.5390.
Mr. Kuhbacher of the Bundesbank said he still saw room for further cuts in German interest rates, despite a strong 12.6 percent annualized rise in German money supply in February.
The February data had dampened speculation about a near-term cut in German interest rates, traders said.
"People are putting a little less weight on the money supply data and putting more weight on the fact that German growth is slow," Mr. Thin said.
Comments yesterday by Mr. Waigel that German gross domestic product may have fallen again in the first quarter of 1996, reflecting sluggish economic growth, also supported the dollar, Mr. Thin said.
The dollar remained strong against the yen as a haven currency on continued friction between Taiwan and China, traders said.
Tomorrow Taiwan will hold its first presidential elections, which China is attempting to influence with military exercises and missile tests in the Taiwan Strait.
"With the election in Taiwan coming, people would rather sell yen and buy dollars," said Cynthia Johnson, vice president of foreign exchange at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CM (TSX) (83%); CM (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (96%); TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); MONEY SUPPLY (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BONDS (73%); JAPANESE YEN (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); BRITISH POUND (66%); ELECTIONS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); 

PERSON: KLAUS-DIETER KUHBACHER (66%); THEO WAIGEL (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



525 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Rise On Treasury Securities

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose yesterday on a report that showed regional manufacturing activity slowing slightly. The report served to revive hopes that the nation's central bank could yet lower interest rates.
The Philadelphia Fed's regional survey found that business activity fell one-tenth of 1 percent in March, after a 3.8 percent gain in February. A component of the survey tallying prices paid fell in the month but much less so than in February. With the general signs of sluggishness, economists predict that the next national survey by purchasing managers is likely to decrease. 
 The 30-year bond rose 4/32 , to a price of 921/32 for a yield of 6.61 percent, down from 6.63 percent on Wednesday.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said that other statistics released yesterday did not answer questions about the course of economic activity. Initial claims for unemployment insurance rose sharply because of the General Motors strike and subsequent assembly line shutdowns, but since the increase in claims was less than expected, it prompted some analysts to suggest that labor market conditions possibly improved, excluding the G.M. effect.
"This theory of course cannot be tested at this time," he said, "but since the G.M. work stoppage has just apparently been settled, the uncertainty surrounding the initial claims statistics will gradually lessen over the next few weeks." For the week ended March 18, initial unemployment claims rose 32,000, to 384,000.
But there was nothing ambiguous about the March survey from the Philadelphia Fed, "which was both weaker than anticipated and weaker than February," Mr. Fine said. "Not surprisingly, this was led by a drop in new orders, and although the prices paid and prices received weren't quite as negative as they were a month ago, both price measurements were still subject to downward pressure."
"The Philly Fed index did not really change the market perception of the manufacturing sector; it was simply confirmation of the industrial sector's sluggishness," Mr. Fine said. He said the service and construction sectors accounted for 95 percent of February's huge payroll gain. The March jobs report, due out on April 5, will answer some questions, he said.
The payroll numbers are typically the most awaited economic data of any month, he said, "but this time around the anticipation may establish the all-time record and approach heart-attack proportions."
Bonds were given a small boost yesterday afternoon on news that a tentative accord was reached in the G.M. strike, with a union vote on today. While the strike was mainly about outsourcing, some market participants seem to think the United Automobile Workers was testing General Motors' resolve in case it picks that company as its negotiating target for industrywide contract talks in September. "Based on appearances at the moment, the union has found out that G.M. certainly has more resolve than they anticipated," Mr. Fine said. "The market apparently came to the same conclusion, given its sensitivity to wage pressure and inflation. That's why bonds prices started to rise shortly after the announcement in the afternoon."
Doug Burtnick, senior fixed-income analyst at Technical Data in Boston, commented that the market had finally reached the top of the range, a level not seen since the March 8 release of the employment data. "Traders are questioning where the next round of buying will come from," he said. "Since Friday will not bring any exciting data, the bias is to stay within the current price range and try a a breakout early next week."
He forecast that any testing of higher prices would bring out sellers among American investors. "For the most part," Mr. Burtnick said, "they remained long when the market fell off the cliff a few weeks ago, and wouldn't mind lightening their load before the end of this quarter."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); PRICES OF TREASURY (63%); PHILADELPHIA FED (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (63%); PHILADELPHIA FED (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS PRICE INCREASES (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BONDS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); NEW ORDERS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); STRIKES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (72%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (58%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (84%); DOUG BURTNICK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



526 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Minnesotans Split on Bill Requiring 'Living Wage'

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, March 20

 BODY:
In the hallways and tunnels of the Minnesota Capitol here, Mel Duncan spends his days lobbying for bills that he hopes will house the homeless, feed the hungry and ease the burden of workers who try to support their families on $4.25 an hour, the minimum wage.
Mr. Duncan, the executive director of the Minnesota Alliance for Progressive Action, a coalition of citizens' groups, does not often see eye-to-eye with anti-government conservatives like Patrick J. Buchanan. But these days, the two men and a growing number of Americans from right to left, from St. Paul to Baltimore to Los Angeles, agree on at least one issue: businesses that are getting richer every day, helped in part by corporate tax breaks and other benefits, have a responsibility to more than just the bottom line and should pay all of their workers a "living wage." 
 It is an idea that is spreading across the country like a fire on the prairie in these tense times of layoffs, declining wages and fear about tomorrow.
The flames are especially high and hot right now in Minnesota, even though the state has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the nation. On Tuesday, the State Senate passed legislation that requires businesses with more than 20 employees that receive at least $25,000 in state or local assistance to pay workers whose jobs were created because of the subsidy a minimum of $7.28 an hour in wages and benefits.
Part of the reason for the law, Mr. Duncan says, is that scrutiny is rarely focused on government aid to business, which he calls corporate welfare, and that corporations benefiting from this assistance should be required to give something back to the public.
"Look at all the spotlights we put on mothers and children on A.F.D.C.," said Mr. Duncan, referring to Aid to Families With Dependent Children, the main Federal welfare program. "We spent $116 million on A.F.D.C. in Minnesota, and $1.5 billion on corporate welfare, and we don't even have a flashlight shining on that."
State Senator John C. Hottinger, a Democrat who sponsored the legislation, said in an interview: "What this bill is really about is accountability and responsibility. If we're spending government money, taxpayers' dollars, we should get something in return." He added, "Unemployment is down in Minnesota but more and more people are having a hard time making it because so many of the new jobs are low paying."
The Republican leader of the State Senate, Dean E. Johnson, opposed the bill and rose to his feet in the Senate chambers on Tuesday to condemn the measure as "socialist."
Then State Senator Kevin Chandler, a Democrat, picked up his microphone and said that if businesses "come to us with their hands out" and receive government loans or grants, they must be held to the same standard that ordinary citizens are held to, "that is, they must be responsible." He continued, "All we're asking is that companies keep the social contract they used to have with their workers."
The bill, one of the first of its kind in the country to be so close to becoming state law, is expected to move to the State House of Representatives on Monday and could go into effect as early as Aug. 1 if passed and signed by Gov. Arne Carlson, a Republican.
But Mr. Carlson's deputy chief of staff, Cyndy Brucato, said in an interview that the Governor would veto the bill because it "substantially interferes with the marketplace" by mandating the higher minimum wage. "It impedes rather than promotes business growth," she said.
The Senate passed the bill, 39 to 22, despite the Governor's opposition, which echoes the concerns of the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce and other business groups that warn that the higher minimum wage would chase corporations out of the state, which is known for its lakes, clean cities, cold weather and warm business climate.
"We support accountability but mandating wages like this will have a chilling effect on business development," Judy Cook, president of the Minnesota Retail Merchants Association, said as she lobbied against the measure. "But this is an election year, and common sense is usually the first to go."
Peter Dreier, a professor of public policy at Occidental College in Los Angeles who was a special assistant to Raymond L. Flynn when he was Mayor of Boston, said that the bad-for-business talk was "bogus," and that coalitions of labor unions, church groups, advocates for the homeless and other citizens' groups were forming around living wage campaigns "in a way that is reminiscent of the 60's."
"It's a step in the right direction," he said. "It will help the economy because it will put money in people's pockets."
There are similar "living wage" campaigns in Los Angeles, Chicago, Baltimore, St. Louis and several other cities and states.
But organizers know they have a long way to go. The Minnesota bill's mandated wage is about $3 higher than the minimum wage. But it still just barely puts a family of four on the slippery slope of the Federal poverty line, a place where "nobody can really raise a family," Mr. Duncan said, adding that he preferred to call the measure a "poverty-level wage" rather than a "living wage."
It is unclear how many workers would be affected by the bill, but there are now about 120,000 workers in Minnesota earning the minimum wage. There are also several groups, like Acorn, here and across the country, that are conducting efforts to increase minimum wage levels for all workers, whether their companies receive government assistance or not.
In Minnesota, a coalition of labor unions, advocates for the homeless and other citizens' groups have been lobbying for the legislation for more than two years. Last year, the Minnesota Legislature enacted a watered-down version that did not mandate a wage scale, the most contentious element of "living wage" campaigns around the country.
Last November, St. Paul voters rejected a citywide ballot proposal linking higher wages and government business assistance. The St. Paul measure was broader than the bill the Senate passed on Tuesday and did not exempt small businesses from the higher wage obligation.
The House sponsor of the state bill, Karen Clark, a Democrat from Minneapolis, said she was confident that it would be passed by the House, which, like the Senate, is controlled by Democrats.
"We have the momentum now," Ms. Clark said after the Senate vote. "It's a good victory for working people and those who want to work."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (97%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: F-D-C CORP (53%); STATE SENATE (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA; UNITED STATES (97%); MINNESOTA, USA (97%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MINIMUM WAGE; CORPORATIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LIVING WAGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (88%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); LAYOFFS (67%); CORPORATE TAX (54%); 

PERSON: DUNCAN, MEL; TERRY, DON MEL DUNCAN (76%); ARNE CARLSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



527 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: TENSION IN TAIWAN: THE EXPATRIATES;
Thousands Head Home For the Vote

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 21

 BODY:
Ming-Chau (Mitch) Yang said goodbye to his pregnant wife and 2-year-old daughter today to join millions of other Taiwanese by casting his vote in Taiwan's first direct presidential election.
Mr. Yang is one of nearly 6,000 Taiwanese living in the United States who are flying back for Saturday's election, according to the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office in Washington. In addition, several thousand more of the nearly 300,000 Taiwanese who live in the United States are going to Taiwan to witness the event without voting, community leaders estimate. 
 It was only in the 1980's that the people of Taiwan -- ruled for decades by Nationalist leaders who had fled the mainland as Communists took over -- had a free choice of parties in legislative elections, and Saturday will provide their first chance to vote directly for a President.
"I want to go back and talk to many people and convince them the best chance for Taiwan is independence," said Mr. Yang, explaining why he is spending nearly $2,000 and taking three days off work to vote.
"It's very expensive, but it's all worth it," said Mr. Yang, 36, an electrical engineer who is also working toward his M.B.A. at the University of Southern California. "I want to participate in making history."
Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, 73, who is expected to win the election, has been attacked by Beijing for what it says is his secret ambition to achieve Taiwan's independence from China. China has staged a series of missile tests and war games off Taiwan, apparently in the hope of weakening Mr. Lee by frightening voters from the polls or steering them toward other candidates.
Professor Chi Tsung, who specializes in East Asia and Chinese politics at Occidental College in Los Angeles, said he believed Beijing's attempts at intimidation have worked. Before China's military maneuvers, which began on March 8, tens of thousands had been expected to return to Taiwan to cast their vote. "The military exercises by the mainland has had a clear impact on the number of people deciding to go home," he said, adding that those who are returning are not politically homogeneous.
For example, Joe Chiu, president of the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Organization in Los Angeles, said that about 50 of his group's members flew to Taiwan to vote for President Lee.
Mr. Yang, on the other hand, planned to vote for Peng Ming-min, the candidate of the Democratic Progressive Party, which seeks complete independence for Taiwan from the mainland China. He said he was not worried about his safety, partly, he said, because he did not believe that China would invade Taiwan, but mostly because he is willing to sacrifice his life for Taiwan, to which he hopes to return someday to live with his family.
"If war should break out, I will join the army and defend Taiwan," he said. "I want to show my support for an independent Taiwan in any way I can."
Mr. Yang's wife, Frances, 29, who came to the United States about 13 years ago to attend school, said she would accompany her husband to Taiwan to vote if she were not eight months pregnant.
"I feel very angry toward China," said Mrs. Yang, who holds dual citizenship and will vote in the California primary this month. "I think their actions just show that they have no regard for people's choices and that they don't really know what democracy is. I hope the people of Taiwan stand up for themselves, for independence and democracy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); 

PERSON: MING-CHAU (MITCH) YANG (93%); LEE TENG-HUI (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



528 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1681 words

HEADLINE: Maybe a House Is Just a Home;
Skittish Prices Dull Real Estate's Investment Luster

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ROCKVILLE, Md., March 21

 BODY:
In the 1980's, it was a gold mine. Now, the suburban brick colonial at 8304 Aqueduct Road here about 10 miles northwest of downtown Washington is just a house again.
The price trajectory of Ralph and Elizabeth Mittl's Rockville home -- soaring from $130,000 in 1980 to $283,000 in 1988 and $312,000 in 1991 before falling back to $291,000 when they bought it last December -- has a lot to do with the big changes in the way Americans, and baby boomers in particular, are trying to build financial security. 
 Not that long ago, the common prescription was simple: buy a house you could scarcely afford, borrow as much as possible, and wait to be rewarded for your extravagance. As a Merrill Lynch Realty flier of the day put it, "Put inflation to work for you!"
And it worked. That highly leveraged, tax-advantaged house -- financed at rates otherwise available only to blue-chip corporations -- almost invariably rocketed in value. Was making money in real estate easy, or what?
Today, of course, that's history -- at least in most parts of the country. Big gains are the rare exception these days and some sellers, in fact, wind up in the painful and embarrassing position of having to bring money to the closing, occasionally even more of their own cash than the buyer brings. As an investment, housing is no longer a sure thing.
This reversal in the real estate market is part of a decade-long shift from real assets to financial ones, with the stock market taking off last year in one of the biggest rallies on record.
Today, for the first time since the early 1970's, stock holdings have jumped well past the the value of home equity. In 1993, mutual fund and other stock market holdings of Americans edged ahead of equity -- the value of owner-occupied housing minus mortgage debt -- but last year stock market ownership climbed above $5.5 trillion, easily surpassing the estimated $4.3 trillion equity in the nation's homes, according to Federal Reserve data.
Part of that gain is price appreciation, but much is a reflection of the vastly increased money flowing into stocks. In 1980, for example, Americans purchased only $2.1 billion in mutual fund shares, the prime vehicle for middle-class stock ownership. Last year, mutual fund purchases were close to $200 billion.
"The color of money has changed," said Joseph G. Carson, senior vice president and chief economist at Dean Witter Reynolds. "Housing is not likely to ever regain the investment status it had back in the 1970's," Mr. Carson contended.
Mr. Mittl, a 31-year-old consultant with Price Waterhouse who had lived in a Washington apartment for four years before buying the house, is well aware of the change. "It's a place to live to us," he said, taking a break on a recent Sunday from installing a new brass lamp alongside the front walkway. "It's not really an investment."
Instead, Mr. Mittl said, he's been "pouring more" money into the stock market over the last year and a half, at least doubling the monthly amounts going into a half-dozen stock mutual funds he and his wife own. They bought another mutual fund to set aside money for the college education of their son, 11-month-old Matthew, and just opened an account for an unborn child, the son they expect this June.
Saying that stocks offer the best way to build assets, the Mittls also own a few individual stocks and use tax-advantaged retirement vehicles. "We both max our 401(k)'s, we both do I.R.A.'s," Mr. Mittl said.
Interviews with recent buyers and market professionals alike strongly support the view that families no longer regard housing as the soundest means for accumulating wealth and the foundation of a comfortable retirement.
"They can't count on that as their nest egg that's going to continue to grow at 6 to 8 percent," said Michael P. DeChant, head of a company here that appraises residential real estate. "That's out the window."
These days, said F. Ruth Dickie, who manages a Bethesda, Md., branch of Long & Foster, the Washington area's largest real estate agency, most buyers are not as willing to stretch to buy the biggest, most expensive house. "They know that if they put it in housing," she said, "that it's not going to do as well as in the stock market."
But the sobering lesson in real estate reality, rudely impressed on recent buyers and sellers, is not yet appreciated by many homeowners who have had no exposure to the market since 1989 or 1990, when prices roared to a peak in affluent Montgomery County, which includes Rockville and other prosperous suburbs just outside Washington. The 1990's have witnessed a persistent decline that only recently has begun to show signs of reversing. Median prices here soared from $78,750 in 1985 to $130,000 in 1990, but slipped to $122,500 in 1994 before eking out a modest gain to $125,000 last year.
"Our job is to tell them their baby's ugly," Mr. DeChant said. Homeowners, many of whom have lavished expensive improvements on on their houses, react angrily, he said, when told that their house is worth less than its value six years ago. Often, the news derails hopes of refinancing or taking out a large home equity loan. Longtime homeowners, of course, still enjoy a large equity stake, but those who bought a home after 1988 almost invariably have lost part of their down payment and sometimes owe more than their home is worth.
Most of the decline has been in the lot rather than the house. "The land is the more volatile element -- always has been," said Joseph Blalock, senior financial economist for America's Community Bankers, a trade association for savings and loans.
Shocking as it is, the reaction to falling home prices mainly reflects the mind-set of a generation of homeowners who came to regard the abnormal as the natural economic order. Ms. Dickie, the Long & Foster manager, knows better. She recalls her own days as a "high flying" agent when houses sold within a week or two at steadily escalating prices but recognizes that they are long gone.
Through financial history, "you'll find that houses track inflation," she said. "We're reverting to normal."
The real estate boom of the 1970's and 1980's was also fueled by the demographics of baby boomers reaching prime home-buying years. But today, as baby boomers are entering their 40's and 50's, they are pouring more money into financial assets, spurred by a new-found desire to save for retirement and to pay for their children's college education. A home can no longer be counted on to finance such needs.
In real estate, buyers are well aware of their bargaining leverage, making them extremely fussy. "People come and look so carefully now -- seven or eight times at the same house," said Susan Messitte, whose Chevy Chase residence has been on the market since last April despite three price reductions that have brought it down this month to $519,000 from an initial $599,000. The Messittes' first broker proposed listing at $630,000.
Another sign of the times is the growing number of agents who are leaving the field, with membership in the Montgomery County Association of Realtors down 30 percent from its high in 1989.
And it could get even bleaker, home builders and others in the industry contend, if some version of a flat tax ever became law and eliminated deductions for mortgage interest and property taxes.
Already, weak housing markets in some areas are contributing to making the country somewhat less mobile. According to the Census Bureau, 16.7 percent of the population moved between March 1993 and March 1994, down from 20.2 percent who moved in 1984-85. Long Island has one of the highest proportions of what the Government calls "stayers," said Robert Bonnette, a bureau statistician.
But despite the distress here and in other formerly white-hot markets, like Boston and Southern California, there are other areas, scattered through the Sun Belt, Midwest, Pacific Northwest and in Rocky Mountain boom towns like Boise, Idaho, and Salt Lake City where housing is doing well.
Indeed, home ownership in the fourth quarter of 1995 climbed to its highest point in 14 years. But that rebound mainly reflects improved affordability because of low interest rates and sluggish prices. Demographic projections have underestimated demand, particularly from immigrants, who tend to be avid home buyers.
So all is not lost for homeowners. A recent forecast by Regional Financial Associates, a consulting firm in West Chester, Pa., suggests that housing may not lag financially by as much in the second half of the 1990's as in the first half of the decade. And while it is likely to continue to trail stocks, the average single-family home, the firm predicts, should at least outperform Treasury bills.
"Long term, housing stacks up relatively well against financial assets -- and beats cash," said Mark Zandi, chief economist for Regional Financial.
Others note that homeowners developed exaggerated expectations in the era of inflation. Robert J. Shiller, professor of economics at Yale and a proprietor of Case Shiller Weiss Inc., a company based in Cambridge, Mass., which tracks home transactions, describes residential real estate as "kind of an amateurish market" subject to great volatility. Too many people, particularly on the East and West Coasts, assumed that houses could only increase in value forever.
"People had just wild expectations," Mr. Shiller said. "They used to think real estate was a terrific investment. Now people think stocks are a great investment. It's capricious."
And however traumatic it has been for many homeowners -- real estate being the core of net worth for the middle class -- disenchantment with houses as investment vehicles is probably good for the economy at large, most analysts agree.
"The United States is overinvested in housing," said James F. Smith, who teaches graduate finance at the University of North Carolina. "We now get more investment in other things -- meaning more productivity, higher corporate profits, higher employment and higher personal income. This is long overdue."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many sellers in this buyers' market for real estate have had to reduce prices as has the owner of this house in Silver Spring, Md. (Amy Toesing for The New York Times)(pg. D17)
 
Map/Chart: "Ups and Downs in Housing" shows percentage change in single-famlly home prices between early 1990 and the end of 1995 in selected cities. (Source: Case Shiller Weiss Inc.)(pg. D17)
 
Graph: "Betting More on The Stock Market" shows the value of investments in stocks and the total value of American's equity in their homes from 1981 to 1995. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKS AND BONDS REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); BONDS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ELIZABETH MITTL (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



529 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Stock Market Closes Mixed, With Dow Falling by 28.54

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
The stock market closed mixed yesterday, reflecting investor concern over a deteriorating economy. Although the key market indicators all closed lower, there were more advances than declines on the major exchanges.
"It was a down market, but it was not down with conviction," said Joseph V. Battipaglia, chief investment strategist of Gruntal & Company. "The bigger-capitalization stocks were affected negatively more than the general market." 
 Thus, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 28.54 points, or one-half of a percentage point, to 5,628.88. Among the broader indexes, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks fell 0.79 point, or 0.12 of a percentage point, to 649.19, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 2.03 points, or 0.18 of a percentage point, to 1,099.79.
Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange narrowly exceeded decliners, 1,237 to 1,134. A total of 365.8 million shares changed hands, down from 409.8 million shares on Wednesday and the lowest since 362.9 million shares were traded last Jan. 29.
In contrast to stocks' directionless performance, the bond market was up modestly in the wake of a report on regional manufacturing by the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank that was more sluggish than expected. The 30-year Treasury bond rose 4/32 ; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.61 percent, from 6.63 percent on Wednesday.
"Stock prices are very close to the top," Mr. Battipaglia said. "The day's pullbacks were not statistically significant."
Once again, technology issues paced the decline. The weakness in computer stocks -- partly attributed to Digital Equipment's warning on Wednesday that quarterly earnings would be below expectations -- continued. Digital dropped 2 3/4, to 53 1/4; I.B.M. gave up 2 1/8, to 114 7/8, and Hewlett-Packard declined 2 7/8, to 94 3/4.
Software companies followed the same downward pattern. Microsoft closed at 100 3/4, down 3 7/8; Intuit closed at 47, down 1/4, and Netscape closed at 43 1/2, down 2 1/2.
Networking stocks sagged after some analysts voiced concern over sluggish demand for these products. Cabletron lost 5 1/4, to 69 3/4; 3Com fell 7/8, to 42 1/8, and Cisco Systems dropped 1 1/4, to 44 3/4.
As traders rotated out of the high-tech sectors yesterday, they moved into defensive groups with steady earnings, like pharmaceuticals. Eli Lilly increased 4 5/8, to 66 5/8; Pfizer gained 3 1/2, to 66 7/8, and Merck added 2 1/2, to 65 1/2. The American Stock Exchange's pharmaceuticals index climbed 8.52 points, or almost 3 percent, to 307.7.
Automotive stocks were generally firm, after General Motors and the United Automobile Workers union tentatively agreed to settle a 17-day strike. General Motors rose 1/8, to 53 5/8, and Chrysler advanced 7/8, to 63 3/8. But Ford Motor fell 1/8, to 33 7/8.
Stac Inc. rallied 1 1/8, to 10 1/8, after being upgraded by Smith Barney. Health Management soared 1 7/8, to 4 3/4, after saying that a restatement of earnings would show the company to be profitable in the 1995 fiscal year. And Dawson Production Services jumped 1 1/4, to 11 1/4, on its first day of trading.
However, Philip Morris, plagued by investors' concerns over smoker lawsuits, resumed its recent slide and declined 2 3/4, to 86 3/4. Amcol International, which said that first-quarter earnings would be far below Wall Street estimates, plunged 4, to 12 5/8. And Strawbridge & Clothier, which was downgraded by UBS Securities, dropped 3 1/4, to 21 1/2.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); INTU (NASDAQ) (52%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%); LLY (SWX) (50%); LLY (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GRUNTAL & CO LLC (72%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (67%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); INTUIT INC (52%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%); PFIZER INC (50%); ELI LILLY & CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (66%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD JOSEPH C PAPA (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



530 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Federal Agency Fines Company a Record $1.5 Million for Hiring Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER 

 BODY:
Federal immigration authorities yesterday announced the largest fine ever levied against a company for hiring illegal immigrants -- $1.5 million against a Westchester cleaning business -- as part of a national effort to increase pressure on employers to comply with immigration laws.
A lawyer for the company, Colin Service Systems Inc., based in White Plains, said it had never knowingly hired illegal workers and would contest the fines. The company employs 4,200 people in seven states and had income of $67.5 million in 1994, according to immigration officials. 
 The company, which provides cleaning and maintenance services, said it dismissed more than 2,200 of its employees in 1992 after the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service examined the individuals' work documents and notified the company that it suspected the workers were illegal immigrants.
But Doris Meissner, the agency's commissioner, said the dismissals came only after the agency cited the company for more than 150 instances, dating to 1990, of "knowingly hiring illegal aliens and continuing to employ aliens after their work authorization had expired," and for 2,500 instances of failing to maintain proper employee records.
In addition to the fines sought by the immigration service, Ms. Meissner said prosecutors were seeking a grand jury to bring criminal charges against five of the company's managers. She did not give any more details on the grand jury investigation.
The fine brought against the company is part of the Clinton Administration's strategy to toughen enforcement of a 1986 law that prohibits any person or company from employing illegal workers. Administration officials say the effort will help dry up job opportunities for illegal workers here and their desire to immigrate.
Since last year, the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service has more than doubled the number of inspectors, to 700 nationally and to 60 in New York, devoted to workplace enforcement. And last month, the agency's New York office began detaining all workers arrested for being here illegally. Before, they had been released with an order to return for a deportation hearing, then often never showed up.
The agency is also clearly seeking to maximize publicity for its enforcement actions, magnifying their impact. This week, immigration agents arrested dozens of meat packing workers in Philadelphia, machine operators in Norwalk, Conn., and janitors at the State House in Trenton.
Last month, agents swept through restaurants in a suburb of Washington, arresting 83 people. And the immigration service says it has apprehended 700 illegal garment workers in New York over the last six months.
The agency's offensive comes at a time when Congress is considering stricter sanctions against employers who hire illegal workers and Presidential candidates are heatedly debating who has the best plan to slow illegal immigration.
Ms. Meissner acknowledged that 700 inspectors cannot begin to examine the hiring practices of every employer in the nation. Rather, she said, the agency is counting on random enforcement in industries that have particularly bad records of hiring illegal workers to encourage broader compliance with the law.
"Nobody questions that the people here in an illegal status work hard and that they contribute to the productivity of the economy," she said. But, she added, their presence in the work force "undermines labor standards and working conditions of all workers and sets up situations of exploitation of workers."
Since the law on sanctioning employers was adopted in 1986, the agency has had little money to enforce it, officials said, a situation that is only beginning to change. And the law has been difficult to enforce, in part because the Government has had a hard time proving that employers knowingly hired illegal immigrants.
Some immigration experts say it is hard to predict what impact the new approach will have, while others say it is more likely to push illegal immigrants further into the underground economy than deter them from coming to America in the first place.
The $1.5 million fine announced yesterday is the largest the agency has levied since 1992, when it fined a fruit packing company in Georgia $1.2 million.
Since 1989, the immigration service has collected less than half the fines it had notified companies it was seeking. Last year, for example, the agency levied $10.4 million in fines, and collected $4.1 million.
And officials at Colin Service Systems said that the agency unevenly enforced actions against its workers. The agency's current policy is to deport illegal workers. But in 1992, when the company dismissed more than 2,200 workers whom the agency suspected were illegal, immigration authorities made no attempt to apprehend them, company officials said.
"The I.N.S. didn't arrest any of them," said Aaron Marcu, a lawyer with Howard, Darby & Levin, which is representing the company. "They didn't ask for their addresses."
Immigration officials said their ability to arrest illegal workers was limited by the lack of detention space. The agency is now trying to expand that capacity, they said.
Of the 62 workers at Colin that the immigration service arrested from 1991 to 1994, the agency could only say with certainty that one had been deported, said Mark Thorn, an agency spokesman. Another 53 were placed in deportation proceedings and eight agreed to voluntarily leave the country.
On Wednesday, immigration agents arrested 24 workers employed by the Trenton Janitorial Supply Company after the workers arrived for the nightshift at the New Jersey State House and another state office building. The workers, mostly Central Americans, were ushered to a conference room and asked to produce work documentation. Those who did not have it were taken away in handcuffs.
The 10 women were released on their own recognizance. The 14 men were detained at a facility in Pennsylvania.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7349 BUILDING CLEANING & MAINTENANCE SERVICES, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLIN SERVICE SYSTEMS INC; IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE COLIN SERVICE SYSTEMS INC (72%); US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLIN SERVICE SYSTEMS INC; IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ILLEGAL ALIENS; FINES (PENALTIES) IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); GRAND JURY (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); ARRESTS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); DEPORTATION (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (70%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



531 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: GENERAL MOTORS AND UNION AGREE TO END WALKOUT

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DAYTON, Ohio, March 21

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation and the United Automobile Workers union agreed today to end the biggest auto industry shutdown in a generation, a 16-day strike at two brake factories here that virtually halted G.M.'s operations across North America and caused the layoff of hundreds of thousands of workers.
The tentative agreement, which must be approved by striking workers here, calls for some additional hiring at the brake factories, up to several hundred jobs over the next two years if the operations here hold down costs, a person close to the negotiations said. The pact also contains a few new features allowing G.M. to continue buying some brakes and brake parts from independent, nonunion outside suppliers. This hotly contested practice, known as outsourcing, led to the strike which began here March 5. 
 But G.M. did not achieve its most important goal: new, nationwide rules allowing it to buy many more car and truck parts, not just brakes, from outside suppliers, the person close to the talks said. G.M. could still ask the U.A.W. to follow today's pact as a model in negotiations this summer on the union's nationwide contract with Detroit's Big Three automakers.
Both the company and the union officially declined to discuss any terms of the agreement that was hammered together here at the end of a two-day bargaining session. So it was not entirely clear to labor and auto experts today who won and who lost. But there were considerable concerns that G.M.'s gains fell short of the strike's cost to the company -- estimated at up to $1 billion in pretax profits. No deal covering the Dayton operation alone could justify the strike's cost, said Sean McAlinden, a University of Michigan automotive economist.
When Richard Shoemaker, the director of the U.A.W.'s G.M. division, came out the factory's beige steel doors to announce today's deal, he insisted that the accord addressed local issues and did not set precedents for the national negotiation. "Of course it doesn't set the stage for that; it puts the issues behind us in this dispute," he said, while refusing to discuss any details.
The accord will be voted on by local workers at a meeting Friday morning. Daniel Warrell, the manager of the two brake factories here, said that he planned to reopen the factories on Friday afternoon and begin producing brakes immediately. Industry experts said it could take up to a week to resume production at the 26 vehicle assembly operations that were closed by the strike. G.M. officials said that they would first refresh inventories at the plants that make the company's best-selling vehicles.
Today's deal ends the biggest work stoppage in the American auto industry since 1970, when the U.A.W. staged a general strike against G.M. in a dispute over a new national contract. By contrast, this strike was a local work dispute that shut the two factories that make virtually all of G.M.'s brakes. As the strike lengthened, shortages sprang up and closed all but three of G.M.'s 29 North American automotive assembly plants and dozens of parts factories, idling 177,375 workers.
In addition, layoffs at G.M.'s 1,600 suppliers and other businesses ran into the tens of thousands of employees. Several economic research firms estimated earlier this week that the strike had eliminated $5 billion to $7 billion worth of economic output, trimming the nation's economic growth rate in the first quarter by a third.
After making steady progress through the week in negotiations, G.M. and U.A.W. officials struck the critical compromises on Wednesday night, people close to the negotiations said. Harry J. Pearce, G.M.'s vice chairman, flew down from Detroit this morning and sealed the deal by shaking hands across the bargaining table with Mr. Shoemaker, who also came down this morning, the person close to the negotiations said. Union officials celebrated afterward with a birthday cake for one of their negotiators.
Mr. Shoemaker had insisted on Mr. Pearce's presence as a guarantee that the corporation would stand behind today's deal, a person close to the talks said. The union local here went on strike accusing G.M. management of backing away from a 1994 deal to keep jobs here -- an accusation that G.M. has repeatedly denied.
The corporate guarantee of good faith by the local factory management was the last detail settled. Relations between local factory managers and local union officials have been acrimonious for several years.
G.M. had sought the ability to buy more parts from outside companies and a chance to influence this summer's negotiations on a new national labor contract. Today's deal did allow G.M. to continue its plans to begin buying some anti-lock brakes next year from a German-owned factory in South Carolina.
Close to 3,200 workers here from U.A.W. Local 696 went on strike. They demanded more safety equipment and training, the hiring of more workers so as to reduce the need for seven-day workweeks and an end to the company's plans to buy more parts from outside suppliers.
G.M. officials responded to the strike as a direct challenge to their ability to choose whether to buy parts from outside companies, and resisted the union's demands much more vigorously than they had during previous strikes at critical parts factories.
"If we can be competitive within our divisions that would be great -- if we can't then we need to look outside," Mr. Pearce said in an interview last week.
The strike drew national attention as a possible signal of a new militancy on the part of organized labor. Yet the issues involved were largely local and the U.A.W. made no effort to involve other unions. The Dayton dispute quickly shut down assembly plants because a decision in recent years by G.M. to save on storage and administrative costs by holding minimal inventories of parts and concentrating parts-making skills in a few factories.
The strike also coincided with the Republican Presidential primaries on Tuesday in Ohio and three other Midwestern states. And the strike touched on the same theme of job security that Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative political commentator, emphasized so strongly in his campaign for the Republican Presidential nomination.
Union workers often portrayed their strike as an effort to assure that the children of Dayton could someday find good-paying jobs in the factory. G.M. pays up to $40,000 a year plus overtime that lately has raised pay to an average of $69,000. But today's deal to add more workers may not result in people being hired off the street, the person close to the negotiations said. The existing labor contract between G.M. and the U.A.W. gives hiring preference to unemployed U.A.W. workers elsewhere.
On Wall Street many investors saw the strike as evidence that G.M. would attack its problem of high-cost parts. Unlike its rivals, which buy most of their parts, G.M. makes most of its components at U.A.W. plants like the brake factories in Dayton. When the strike began, General Motors' stock closed at $52.25 a share; today it closed at $53.625 a share, up $1.375 a share over the course of the shutdown.
When the brake factories here reopen, Mr. Warrell, the plant manager, said the first brakes manufactured would go to plants G.M. wants to restart quickly. "We've got a start-up plan to flow product to the most important plants," he said.
While Mr. Warrell refused to identify these factories, G.M. is likely to start by sending brakes to its factory in Janesville, Wis., which makes the popular and highly profitable Chevrolet and GMC Suburban, Chevrolet Tahoe and GMC Yukon sport utility vehicles. G.M. has less than a month's supply of these vehicles, far below the two-month supply that the industry tries to maintain. The Janesville factory closed only on Monday, making it the last G.M. passenger car or light-truck factory to be closed in the United States.
The U.A.W. has traditionally negotiated a labor contract with whichever auto maker among Detroit's Big Three seemed most likely to make concessions, and then demand that the other two companies accept nearly identical terms. The union has chosen the Ford Motor Company for each of the last several contract negotiations, and Ford has used each occasion to negotiate terms that were advantageous to it but that also tended to hurt G.M.'s competitive position.
Most auto industry analysts have been predicting that the U.A.W. will choose the Chrysler Corporation this year, because the company is very profitable and was not a U.A.W. target for many years when it was financially ailing. Chrysler already buys a higher proportion of its parts from low-cost outside producers than Ford or G.M.
Executives at G.M. have been concerned that Chrysler may negotiate a pact freezing all further moves to buy parts from outside vendors. Such a deal might not hurt Chrysler but would hurt G.M., which plans to buy more such parts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After the U.A.W. reached an agreement to end its strike against General Motors, Larry Barton, left, celebrated yesterday with union members outside the Delphi Chassis plant in Dayton, Ohio. (Associated Press)(pg. D4)
 
Chart: "G.M.'s Short Supply" lists number of days of supply for selected G.M. vehicles on Feb. 29 and on Wednesday. (Source: General Motors; Merils Automotive International Service)(pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON (OHIO); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); OHIO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; STRIKES; LABOR; BRAKES; CONTRACTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH RICHARD SHOEMAKER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



532 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1893 words

HEADLINE: TENSION IN TAIWAN: THE POLITICS;
War Games Play Well for Taiwan's Leader

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, March 21

 BODY:
"We hate China and we will fight to the death for Taiwan!"
Chang Ting-sen, an otherwise temperate-mannered professor of Chinese literature, shouted those words into the din of a packed stadium rally in Chiayi, a southern stronghold of Taiwan's pro-independence forces, and then smiled with satisfaction and yelled it again. 
 As the night sky crackled with fireworks and loudspeakers warmed up the crowd with a torrent of political bombast, he and 20,000 banner-waving Taiwanese packed the sports arena on Tuesday to cheer their candidate, Peng Ming-min, of the pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party.
Like many in Taiwan, the crowd had been roused to indignation by the missile tests and war games China has carried out in an attempt to intimidate the 12 million voters of Taiwan, who on Saturday will hold their first direct presidential election.
But even many independence advocates conceded that they are not the real beneficiaries of the confrontation with China. No one has profited more than Lee Teng-hui, the incumbent and native-born Taiwanese leader, whose own vision of Taiwan's future with the mainland is ambiguous.
Fundamentally, this is President Lee's confrontation with Beijing, brought on by his pursuit of a distinct and independent image for the island of 21 million people. It has transformed the election into a referendum on who should lead Taiwan in its time of crisis. By all accounts, Mr. Lee will win the contest handily.
His critics say this is exactly what the 73-year-old President wanted, an international emergency that would insure his victory and mobilize the United States to strengthen its guarantee of Taiwan's security with a show of naval force and the sale of new weapons.
In whistle-stop appearances through the island and in rousing speeches with nationalistic themes, Mr. Lee, a prodigious campaigner, is siphoning off voters from the pro-independence camp, while holding on to an opposing constituency that simply craves stability, the status quo and a strong leader to face China.
He does so without ever betraying whether he favors reunification or some form of independence.
With the balloting about to begin, the pollsters here say that only his margin of victory is in doubt.
Just a year ago, Mr. Lee's political fortunes were in decline. The legislative majority of his governing Nationalist Party, which has been in power here since 1949, when Chiang Kai-shek appropriated the island as his exile home, was splintering under an assault of anti-corruption sentiment and reformist zeal.
But Mr. Lee's trip to the United States in June, a first for any Taiwan leader and made possible by a well-financed lobbying campaign in Congress, touched off a bellicose response from Beijing that still may not have reached its militaristic peak.
The Communist leaders in Beijing assume that Mr. Lee's image-building campaign is just another way to declare Taiwan's independence and undermine the "one China" principle by which China and Taiwan have lived since 1949.
 
Vagueness on Goals Is a Lee Strategy
But Mr. Lee is deliberately vague about his true colors, so much so that even close associates who have known him for many years are unwilling to venture a guess as to his overall objective.
Chang Tso-chang, president of the island's most influential newspaper, described Mr. Lee this way: "In his heart, he wants independence, but he has never been able to say it. And he is not willing to reunify with the mainland, but he also has never been able to say that."
Added the chairman of a major Taiwan corporation who has known Mr. Lee for many years: "I think Lee Teng-hui shows many different faces to many different people. That's why people are confused by his statements."
Still others see an innate pragmatism in Mr. Lee and a wily political instinct to keep the Communist mainland guessing and at arm's length, while searching for more "living space" for Taiwan in regional and international affairs.
Most Taiwanese today are willing to support such a strategy until some form of greater Chinese democracy emerges in which Taiwan could be confederated. Until then, few people in Taiwan are willing to put themselves in Beijing's hands, as Hong Kong's residents must do in 1997 when the British colony reverts to Chinese rule.
Mr. Peng, the candidate of the pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party, put it more bluntly at this week's rally in Chaiyi. "Lots of people in China are trying to escape their own country," he said. "Why would we want to be a part of China? If you choose reunification, you are out of your mind."
This campaign is taking place in the midst of the worst political and military crisis here since 1958, when Mao Zedong's threat to send troops across the Taiwan Strait to reclaim China's long-separated province was blocked by the United States Seventh Fleet.
 
China and U.S. Exchange Demands
Now, with two American carrier battle groups steaming protectively in the western Pacific, one near Taiwan and the other expected to arrive this weekend, the crisis has led to harsh exchanges between Washington and Beijing.
Chinese Government spokesmen accuse the United States almost daily of "gross interference" in China's internal affairs, first for sending warships to the region and second for selling, most recently, Stinger missiles and other advanced, defensive weapons to Mr. Lee's 400,000-member armed forces.
In the final days of the campaign, the polemics have only increased with Chinese admonitions that American warships stay out of the Taiwan Strait and Washington's assertion of right of passage through the international waterway.
The Communist leadership in Beijing appears to expect that its display of military fireworks this month will reduce Mr. Lee's margin of victory or sober him to the threat China could mount against the island's economy. That, Beijing may believe, would render Mr. Lee more pliant in negotiations to open direct trade and transportation links across the strait, which China sees as the first step toward reunification.
But experience has shown that Mr. Lee, as a tactician, is not to be underestimated.
"Taiwan has created an economic miracle, and we have built a democracy without bloodshed," Mr. Lee told more than 600 foreign journalists who have arrived to cover what he characterized as democracy in the "shadow of war."
Mr. Lee has shrewdly said his victory would represent a mandate from voters to deal with Beijing from a position of strength. It appears he will get it.
"He has asked the Taiwanese to give him a mandate, to support him in this crisis," said Tim Ting, chief consultant to the polling company, Gallup Taiwan. "I believe he wanted a confrontation with the mainland because it has internationalized the problem of Taiwan. He is getting CNN live coverage, and he is drawing world attention to the threat of Chinese nationalism, while also building up Taiwanese nationalism."
In the field of four candidates, Mr. Ting added, it has been clear for some months that Mr. Lee has a lock on 40 to 50 percent of the vote, well ahead of any challenger.
But Mr. Lee's strategy is not without risks, and there are signs of stress fractures everywhere.
First, there was the sudden deployment this week of a phalanx of security men armed with M-16 rifles to protect all four presidential candidates after reports of an assassination plot detected by the National Security Bureau.
The details were sketchy, but Mr. Peng, the Democratic Progressive candidate, said he had been told that the plot involved a team of mainland Chinese infiltrators who were paid $5 million to kill one or more of the candidates. Government officials confirmed that a plot had been detected, but there was no allegation that Beijing was behind it.
Then, there was the Government intervention in Taiwan's stock market, where central bankers thus far have pumped more than $3 billion to give the appearance of stability in this crucial week before the voting.
Mr. Lee has also sought to calm financial markets with hints that he will seek a new accommodation with the mainland to insure that the $25 billion to $30 billion in Taiwan investment on the mainland is protected.
Still, most of the island's business leaders are panicky over a drop in orders for Taiwan's exports and the flight of capital out of the country.
As a native-born Taiwanese, educated in Japan and the United States, Mr. Lee shows little affinity for the mainland or the mainlanders in his party. The mainlanders are often disparaged here as "wai sheng," or foreign-born, intruders who took over the island when Chiang Kai-shek fled the Communist victory and who, for many years, used martial law rule to suppress indigenous democratic stirrings and to build a corrupt party machine, which today is still accused of vote buying and "money politics."
 
Unpredictability Confounds Critics
With his 6-foot-plus frame, striking silver hair and a disarming, Cheshire cat smile, Mr. Lee continues to confound his critics with unpredictable political tactics. He has promised that he could make another landmark trip after the election to a capital that "no one could imagine."
"The people like Lee Teng-hui because he is a strong leader and he stands up for them in the face of China's dictators," said Chen Shui-bian, the popular mayor of Taipei who is a rising star in the pro-independence camp, but who concedes a grudging admiration for Mr. Lee's political style.
Aside from the fact that Mr. Lee sits atop a party machinery that controls the island's television networks and billions of dollars in assets, his greatest advantage is his own formidable campaigning skills arrayed against an opposition that is seriously diluted.
His appeal straddles the colliding politics of reunification versus independence, infuriating some in both groups.
"Mr. Lee Teng-hui directs and acts the play himself and leads the two sides to the edge of war," said one critic, Lin Yang-kang, the candidate of the New Party. Mr. Lin, 69, is among several stalwarts of the governing Nationalist Party who have given up party posts and privileges to work for Mr. Lee's defeat.
Mr. Lin and his running-mate, Hau Pei-tsun, 77, who were both deputy chairmen of the governing Nationalist Party and once close advisers to Mr. Lee, opened their presidential campaign this winter, accusing Mr. Lee of betraying the Nationalist cause, which is to work for the reunification with the mainland.
The Lin campaign now calls for "peace" with the mainland, but ever since the missiles were launched at target sites near Taiwan's ports this month, their approach has been portrayed by Mr. Lee as surrender to "terror."
In the south, where the independence movement was born, Mr. Lee has never uttered a commitment to declaring independence from the mainland. He does not have to. Taiwan's independence forces believe that he is with them.
He speaks the slang of the southern ports and factory towns, riding bull-horn trucks with local candidates and setting off firecrackers to please the deities of local temples.
"There is no question that he is a native of Taiwan and he thinks like us," says Parris H. Chang, a pro-independence legislator, "and there is nothing in his blood or his system that makes him want reunification."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Campaign banners for tomorrow's election line a bridge in Taipei. (Reuters)(pg. A1); Surrounded by tight security, Lee Teng-hui campaigned yesterday for Taiwan's first direct presidential election on Saturday. Despite China's attempts to intimidate voters, Mr. Lee is expected to win easily. (Associated Press)(pg. A10)
 
Chart/Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: An Island Dynamo"
The Taiwanese, who will hold their first presidential election this Saturday, have had a dramatic improvement in living standards since anti-Communist nationalists fleeing mainland China took control of the island in the late 1940's. Chart shows statistics on the people and the economies of Taiwan and China and Taiwan's per capita gross national product from 1970 to 1994. (Sources: The World Fact Book, Taipei Economic and Cultural Office)(pg. A10)
 
Photos/Charts: "SNAPSHOTS: The Candidates"
 
NATIONALIST PARTY
President Lee Teng-hui, 73, has served as President and chairman of the party since 1988, when Chiang Ching-kuo, son of Chiang Kai-shek, died in office while Mr. Lee was serving as Vice President. His running mate, Lien Chan, has served previously as Foreign Minister and Prime Minister.
 
DEMOCRATIC PROGRESSIVE PARTY
Peng Ming-min, 72, a founder of Taiwan's dissident movement. He was jailed in the 1960's and then escaped abroad, where he studied law in Canada and France and then joined the faculty at Wright State University in Ohio. In 1992 he returned to Taiwan to help build the pro-independence party. His running mate is Hsieh Chang-ting, a legislator and former Taipei city councilman.
 
NEW PARTY
Lin Yang-kang, 69, a vice chairman of the Nationalist Party until December. He and his running mate, Hau Pei-tsun, issued an open letter to the party accusing Mr. Lee of "trying to ruin the party and betray the country" in abandoning the party's traditional support for reunification. They were ejected from the party, but their bid to unseat Mr. Lee attracted the support of Taiwan's New Party, which split from the Nationalist Party in 1993.
 
INDEPENDENT
Chen Li-an, 59, educated at M.I.T. and New York University in mathematics and engineering, he taught at the City University of New York during the late 1960's. After returning to Taiwan, he served in senior Nationalist Party posts, including secretary general of the party's central committee. A former Defense Minister, Mr. Chen also rebelled against Mr. Lee's leadership this winter and formed a presidential campaign with Wang Ching-feng, a lawyer. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; ; CHINA; TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); LITERATURE (73%); TRENDS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); SPORTS (70%); LOBBYING (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CORRUPTION (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: LEE TENG-HUI (PRES); PENG MING-MIN; LIN YANG-KANG; CHEN LI-AN ; TYLER, PATRICK E LEE TENG-HUI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



533 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

General Motors and Union Agree to End 16-Day Strike
Negotiators for G.M. and the United Automobile Workers agreed to end the industry's biggest work stoppage in a generation. One person close to the talks said the accord called for some additional hiring at two brake factories, and would give G.M. some flexibility to farm out work to nonunion suppliers.
But U.A.W. members, like the two shown at left, did not give G.M. broad national rules on when it could buy parts outside the company. [Page A1.]
 
Archer-Daniels Shifting Board
Four Archer-Daniels-Midland managers will step down from the agricultural giant's board to make room for an outside majority. A corporate governance committee said the current chummy board had not taken a Federal investigation seriously enough. [D2.]
 
Business Inventories Jump
Business inventories jumped in January, but analysts said that special factors were responsible, and not a weakening economy. They similarly dismissed an increase in jobless claims in the latest week. [D2.]
 
Another Step to Farm Overhaul
A House-Senate panel agreed to overhaul farm programs, ending New Deal policies that pay farmers of certain crops when market prices fall, and replacing them with flat payments that would decline over seven years. The legislation would also end most Government controls over the planting decisions of America's 1.5 million farmers. [A1.]
 
I.B.M. to Hire 3,000 AT&T Workers
I.B.M. agreed to hire as many as 3,000 AT&T workers in exchange for a multibillion-dollar contract with Lucent Technologies, the soon-to-be-independent arm of AT&T. [D7.]
 
Stock Indexes Drift Lower
Stocks closed mixed, with the Dow Jones industrial average losing 28.54 points, to 5,628.88. Broader indexes also slipped, but over all, more stocks rose than fell. The technology sector continued to weaken. [D6.]
 
Citicorp Joins Bidding at Masco
Citicorp said it wanted to invest in Masco's furniture business with other partners. Masco said it expected to raise more than $1 billion from the sale. [D6.]
 
Neighbors Assess a Swindle
Edward J. Reiners, who owned the local video store in Somers, N.Y., also swindled eight financial institutions of $323 million, according to Federal prosecutors. The news has left his neighbors agog. [B1.]
 
Signet's loan exceeded its usual limits, showing, experts said, how banks sometimes stretch disciplines to make a profit. [D2.]
 
Top Fund Managers Leave Hancock
Two of the nation's best-performing equity mutual fund managers are leaving the John Hancock Funds, in a demonstration of how top managers can write their own ticket. [D6.]
 
Higher Costs for Chemical Bank
Chemical Banking and Chase said the one-time costs of merging would be $1.9 billion, or $400 million more than first announced. [D3.]

Marketers Paying Top Dollar for Oscar
When ABC broadcasts the 68th annual Academy Awards ceremony next Monday, 11 blue-chip marketers including Coca-Cola, Eastman Kodak, General Motors and Revlon will pay the network a record average of $795,000 for each 30-second commercial run nationally -- an amount exceeded only by what the networks charge for Super Bowl ads. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]
 
British Beef Is Refused
France and Belgium stopped importing British beef after London linked 10 fatalities to mad-cow disease. [A8.]
 
Safeguards for Municipal Funds
The S.E.C. approved tighter safeguards over money-market funds that invest in tax-exempt municipal securities. [D6.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,626.88 down 28.54
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.61% down 0.02
The Dollar -- 106.76 yen up 0.41

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (84%); ALU (PAR) (66%); ALU (NYSE) (66%); ALU (BIT) (66%); GM (NYSE) (59%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (84%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (84%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (84%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (84%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (84%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (84%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (84%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); CHEMICAL BANK (50%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STRIKES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); OUTSOURCING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); AGRICULTURE CONSOLIDATION (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



534 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: VOICES;
California Voters Seem Wary of Dole

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: COLTON, Calif., March 21

 BODY:
Patricia Schnall, Eric Segura and Mark Ruckman all voted against Bill Clinton four years ago, offering their support instead to George Bush or Ross Perot. They are all Republicans or self-described independent voters who long ago gave up on the Democratic Party. They live in this teeming region east of Los Angeles, which these days is monitored closely for signs of shifts in both California's electoral dynamics and economic fortunes.
Mrs. Schnall, Mr. Segura and Mr. Ruckman have another trait in common, too: They intend to vote against the Republican Party's presumptive Presidential nominee, Bob Dole, and are even considering a vote for the candidate they vigorously opposed just four years ago, Mr. Clinton. 
 Recoiling at the mention of Mr. Dole's name, Mr. Segura, a 33-year-old factory scheduler who is a registered Republican and lives in nearby Ontario, said: "I don't want that guy near the White House. He has a lot of old values that don't work anymore. He's like my Dad -- he means well, but he's too out of touch."
President Clinton, added Mr. Segura, who is preparing to cast his first vote for a Democratic Presidential candidate this year, "hasn't hurt me personally."
Republicans will go through the motions of a Presidential primary here in California next Tuesday. But the serious political attention has already turned eight months up the road, to the contest in November between Mr. Clinton and, presumably, Mr. Dole. And in this mountainous and smoggy stretch of California -- San Bernardino and Riverside Counties, which make up the sprawling Inland Empire, starting just beyond the Los Angeles line and stretching east into the Mojave Desert -- the news for Mr. Dole is not good.
Two days of conversations with scores of voters here suggest that the Kansas Senator's supporters are neither plentiful nor particularly enthusiastic. They are motivated by antipathy to Mr. Clinton rather than loyalty to Mr. Dole. That is particularly true among people who said they voted for Mr. Perot four years ago -- and it seems likely that they will drift back to him if the Texas billionaire decides to run again.
Moreover, among self-described independent voters and some Republicans, there is a wariness about Mr. Dole that suggests the dimensions of the task he faces as he tries to defeat Mr. Clinton in a state that is the bedrock of the President's re-election strategy. They are wondering if Mr. Dole is, at 72, too old, too politically entrenched or too uninspired to bring about the kind of change that many people in this economically battered part of the state say they hope for from Washington.
"He's just a dyed-in-the-wool politician," said Dolores LaJoie, 54, a retail manager from Rialto who until this year considered herself an unwavering Republican. "Dole has just been around so long that I think people just see him as an inside person. People say to him, 'I need,' and he says: 'Yeah. You're going to get it.' "
The conversations with voters here -- from Montclair to Ontario to this small community 60 miles east of Los Angeles, at the side of Interstate 10 -- confirm and amplify polls that have been conducted across California. A poll published in The Los Angeles Times on Tuesday found Mr. Clinton leading Mr. Dole 58 percent to 37 percent. The findings from the interviews, though anecdotal, reflect the opinion of political analysts and help explain the growing speculation in political circles that Senator Dole might in the end cede this state's 54 electoral votes to the President.
And the fact that Mr. Dole is experiencing early difficulties in communities like this suggests problems that go beyond California, a state that Mr. Clinton courted even before he was sworn in as President. For Mr. Dole, it signals difficulties in other critical states with similar communities of independent-minded voters struggling through economic difficult times, from Michigan to Ohio to Illinois.
To be sure, it is eight months until the election, and Mr. Dole is politically on the short end of a stick here. He has neither campaigned nor advertised significantly in California.
But that said, Mr. Dole is well known and does not appear to have a particularly sympathetic base to build on. Indeed, even his attempts over the last two months to flesh out his public image by reminding voters of the crippling war injuries he suffered in World War II may not be having the effect Mr. Dole and his advisers have intended.
"This is tacky to say, I guess, but I'm tired of him going through that bit that he has a lame arm," said Jane Shirkey, a retired oil company worker from Houston who lives in Riverside.
"I know that's terrible," she continued. "I'm sorry. I'm sorry about that. But good grief. That was 50-odd years ago. Get over it."
Mrs. Shirkey, a registered Republican who voted for Ronald Reagan in the 1980's, supported Mr. Clinton four years ago and intends to again.
In the interviews, voters repeatedly raised, without prompting, questions about Mr. Dole's age and his physical stamina and mental acuity. Republicans and Democrats alike said that his choice of a running mate would be particularly important this time around. "What is he 71, 72?" asked Fred Yankee, a security guard outside a store here in Colton. Mr. Dole is 72.
"People always say, 'Look at Reagan,' " said Mr. Yankee, shaking his head. Mr. Yankee, a registered Republican who voted for Mr. Perot four years ago, added that Mr. Dole's choice of a running mate would be a "key thing" in helping him to decide whether to abandon the Republican Party this year.
Mr. Dole also appears, at least at this early stage of the campaign, to be hampered by his association with Washington, particularly among voters who said they voted for Mr. Perot in 1992. Mr. Ruckman, a sales executive who voted for Mr. Reagan in the 1980's and Mr. Perot last year, said he did not like Mr. Dole because "to me, he's a finagler."
The Senator was repeatedly accused of not having articulated a rationale for his Presidency or of being too conservative.
Joe Breunig, a 24-year-old hotel desk clerk who is a registered Republican and who voted for Mr. Bush four years ago, said he was wary of a candidate he now considered to be "too ultraconservative."
Mrs. Schnall, 42, a physical therapist from Claremont who is registered as an independent and who supported Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush, said she was now inclined to vote for Mr. Clinton. "I don't know what it is," she said of Mr. Dole. "I just don't like him. For one thing, he doesn't talk about issues. He's very vague."
Ric Zbinden, 37, an unemployed salesman and registered Republican who also voted for Mr. Bush, said Mr. Dole struck him as uninspired and unsure why he was running for President.
"Dole has to do something to prove to me that he is in touch," Mr. Zbinden said. "If he doesn't do something to show me he's definitely interested in this -- that makes me believe he's got it. I don't think he's too old. I just don't think he's all there."
Mr. Clinton appears slightly more popular here than in recent years, and it is reflected in The Los Angeles Tomes poll, where 56 percent of the respondents said they approved of his job performance.
"He's the lesser of two evils at this point," said Julia Luna, a kindergarten teacher and registered Democrat. "I think he would have accomplished more if he had more cooperation from the Republicans."
There is, to be sure, some support for Mr. Dole. Bill Lloyd, a 67-year-old retired business manager who lives in Ontario, said: "I will vote for Dole. He hasn't really showed me a lot of things. But here again, as far as I know, Dole is pretty honest."
Still, the main thing Mr. Dole seems to have going for him these days is a dislike of the President. When Mrs. LaJoie was asked if she could see any way she would vote for Mr. Dole over Mr. Clinton, she paused for a long moment, staring across the hot parking lot in Riverside, until her 14-year-old daughter, Jennifer, piped up with an answer.
"He's better than Clinton," Jennifer said.
"I don't know if that's the case," her mother responded. "At this point, there really isn't a candidate I care for."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eric Segura said Mr. Dole "means well, but he's too out of touch." Ric Zbinden said Senator Bob Dole struck him as uninspired. Joe Breunig said he considered Mr. Dole "too ultraconservative." (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; SCHNALL, PATRICIA; SEGURA, ERIC; RUCKMAN, MARK; NAGOURNEY, ADAM BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



535 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: Even if Economy Grows, Only a Few Will Gain

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"It's a Slow-Growth Economy, Stupid" (Week in Review, March 17) correctly characterizes the inanity of economic campaign rhetoric. The Federal Government has fewer tools to create real economic growth than politicians will admit. What growth does occur happens because of the diligence, determination and smarts of individual business leaders, entrepreneurs and workers. 
 You miss an important point, though, while reminiscing about the 4 percent growth of the 1960's. The implicit argument that higher growth rates in the gross national product would mean real income growth, better job security and all the things it meant in the 1960's is specious in the global economy.
It is possible that this nation could return to 4 percent growth rates and yet continue to experience mass layoffs and job insecurity as labor is displaced by automation and thrown into competition with the low-wage, unregulated economies of the Southern Hemisphere and Pacific Rim.
Indeed, the nostalgic "consensus" notions of our national economists -- anachronistic measurements like gross national product, trade balances, productivity, efficiency and economic growth itself -- are becoming irrelevant to explaining the economic reality of most Americans.
As national wealth becomes maldistributed, these measures only reflect the economic fate of a small part of Americans at the top whose incomes will be correlated to national growth measures.
The paradox of gross national product growth for some and declining living standards for most has emerged as the most salient feature of the global economy. The more pressing debate is not in defining "acceptable" growth rates but in defining the acceptable distribution of national growth among economic classes.
 
TIMOTHY P. LAW
Elkins Park, Pa., March 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES ECONOMIC GROWTH (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (52%); 

PERSON: LAW, TIMOTHY P

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



536 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Even if Economy Grows, Only a Few Will Gain;
Profit Obsession

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Executive Defends Downsizing" (Business Day, March 19): 
 Chrysler Corporation's chief executive, Robert J. Eaton, deserves the Marie Antoinette award for his callous remarks defending corporate downsizing and his attack on the news media that have reported on this phenomenon.
What troubles me is Mr. Eaton's questionable business sense. He says that "companies that focus on making money become more competitive." Companies that focus on making money become obsessed with quarter-to-quarter performance to the detriment of long-term planning; lack product innovation (research and development do not "make money"); engage in questionable marketing strategies (customer service is less important than making money) and create other problems that have become the legacy of bad management and a contributing cause to downsizing. Mr. Eaton's guide ought to be, "Companies that focus on their customers become more competitive." His customers are getting cake.
 
COLLIN G. MATTON
Fairfield, Conn., March 19, 1996
 
The writer is an adjunct associate professor of business policy at Pace University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; LABOR LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (68%); 

PERSON: EATON, ROBERT J; MATTON, COLLIN G ROBERT J EATON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



537 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Even if Economy Grows, Only a Few Will Gain;
Management's Duty

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Executive Defends Downsizing" (Business Day, March 19): Robert J. Eaton, chief executive of Chrysler Corporation, is on the mark. 
 The global economy and our own economy benefit from taking these hard decisions. Enlightened policies that provide a fair, merit-based, safe, exciting, educational work environment are all that an employee, blue-collar or management, should expect and all that a shareholder-accountable employer should be obligated to provide.
Management has not only the right but also the duty to deploy assets in pursuit of profitability and shareholder value generation. Often this means redeploying labor and middle management from one endeavor to another. Often it means redeploying capital.
When management fails to fulfill this requirement, competitiveness inevitably suffers, and in the end entire enterprises -- capital, labor and management -- will be sacrificed.
 
ROBERT WHITBY
Winter Park, Fla., March 20, 1996
 
The writer is a management consultant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); 

PERSON: WHITBY, ROBERT ROBERT J EATON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



538 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Engineers Needn't Fear Worker Influx

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Michael S. Teitelbaum (Op-Ed, March 19) contributes to the witch-hunt call to curtail the limited legal immigration of skilled foreign workers who fill technical positions. 
 To be eligible for employment in the United States, a skilled foreign worker and the prospective employer-sponsor must submit applications and support documents to the Department of Labor and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which have safeguards that must be met before a foreign worker may secure nonimmigrant status.
An employer must pay the foreign worker a designated "prevailing wage" for the position as determined by the Labor Department. That wage is generally higher than the free-market rate for the position.
In addition, the sponsor company must prove that there are no qualified United States candidates for the job, advertise it in a widely circulated newspaper and post it internally so that employees may also apply. If a United States candidate meets the minimum requirements, he or she is considered acceptable by the Labor Department and the application for the foreign worker is rejected, precluding the company from proceeding to filing an application with the I.N.S.
 
DIANE M. PORGES
New York, March 20, 1996
 
The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (83%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (83%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS FOREIGN LABOR (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (90%); WRITERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REFUGEES (72%); PREVAILING WAGES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); 

PERSON: PORGES, DIANE M MICHAEL S TEITELBAUM (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



539 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Daily Briefing;
Charity Care Measure Fails

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Donald DiFrancesco, president of the State Senate, said yesterday that he did not have enough votes to win passage of the latest proposal to pay for hospital care for uninsured New Jerseyans. Under the plan, so-called charity care would have been reduced by $125, and the state would have continued to draw upon the unemployment insurance fund. 
 Mr. DiFrancesco, of Scotch Plains, blamed Democrats for blocking the plan but refused to say how many members of his Republican majority also failed to back the bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE SENATE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; FINANCES UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CHARITIES (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; DIFRANCESCO, DONALD (SEN) DONALD DIFRANCESCO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



540 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Daily Briefing;
Fast Return to G.M. Unlikely

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: LINDEN

 BODY:
Even though General Motors Corporation and the United Auto Workers Union reached a tentative agreement yesterday to end a strike at two brake-manufacturing plants in Dayton, Ohio, G.M. officials said it could take more than a week before idled workers in New Jersey return to work. [Page A1] 
 Ripple effects from the strike have been felt at a General Motor's assembly line in Linden, which shut down March 11, putting 2,100 people out of work. An additional 800 employees, at the Delphi Interior and Lighting Systems plant in Ewing Township, have been off the job since March 15.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); DELPHI INTERIOR & LIGHTING SYSTEMS (71%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; STRIKES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); STRIKES (88%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (87%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



541 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Team Owners Approve Revenue-Sharing Plan

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, March 21

 BODY:
In what could be considered a do-over, baseball club owners overwhelmingly adopted a second new revenue-sharing plan today, hoping it could serve as a catalyst for a new collective-bargaining agreement with the players.
The two-year plan, termed interim pending agreement on a new labor contract, would transfer about $39 million from 13 high-revenue clubs to 13 low-revenue clubs this year. 
 Union approval is needed to trigger the transfer from rich to poor of a greater share of local revenue -- ticket sales, concessions, advertising, local radio, television and cable. Union opposition killed a plan the owners adopted in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., 26 months ago.
The owners' labor policy committee hoped that the combination of the plan, redrawn along lines that management officials believed the union preferred, and a new proposal that negotiators presented to union representatives tonight would go a long way toward settling the nearly two-year dispute.
Donald Fehr, the players' labor leader, acknowledged that both the revenue-sharing plan and the proposal contained elements that the union had not seen in previous plans. But his only other comment on the two-prong effort was only that "we will study them."
A management person familiar with the new proposal said it eliminates the adjustable tax system that would have tied payroll levels to the percentage of industry revenue, raises the thresholds at which a luxury payroll tax would be triggered and reduces the length of the agreement from seven to six years.
The proposal, in the first year, retains a 2.5 percent tax each player would pay on his salary, but reduces the tax rate in the second year from 5 percent to 3.5 percent. The salary tax was an idea the players initiated in one of their previous proposals. In the third year, the owners raised the luxury tax threshold from $44 million to $46 million and lowered the tax rate from 50 percent to 40 percent. The threshold would rise automatically in each succeeding year by 7 percent to a high of 56.3 million in 2001, the last year of the contract.
Although the owners' revenue-sharing plan was labeled interim, Randy Levine, the owners' chief labor executive, said his goal was to make this the first year of an overall revenue-sharing plan that would be part of a new labor agreement.
Fred Wilpon of the Mets cast the only "no" vote in the 26-1-1 outcome. Peter Angelos of Baltimore abstained.
Wilpon declined to comment, but a person who attended the meeting said that Wilpon had said that he understood the need for the plan and hoped it would be help get a labor agreement, but that the labor deal should come before a revenue-sharing agreement.
Bud Selig, the acting commissioner, who has become a master at mustering one-sided positive votes among the owners, made a bid to change possible "no" votes by modifying the plan that was presented to the owners at their last meeting, two months ago in Los Angeles.
The key change reduced the amounts that the hardest-hit clubs would pay. Based on economic projections for the coming season, the Yankees, No. 1 among contributing clubs, would pay about $5.8 million instead of the nearly $7.5 million projected under the Los Angeles plan. The Orioles would pay about $5.3 million, instead of $6.85 million.
The Kansas City Royals would be the biggest beneficiary, getting nearly $5 million, up from about $4.5 million. Under the redrawn plan, wealthy clubs would pay less, middle-revenue clubs would remain where they would have been and poorer clubs would get slightly more.
The money redistributed this year would represent 60 percent of the amount that the owners ultimately want to move to low-revenue clubs.
Under a complex formula involving two choices of payment, each club would put a percentage of its local revenue into a pool. Each club would then receive 1/28 of 85 percent of the pool. The remaining 15 percent would be disbursed to the 13 low-revenue clubs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FINANCES; LABOR; MAJOR LEAGUES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS REVENUES (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); TICKET SALES (73%); TAX RELIEF (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY FRED WILPON (75%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



542 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Blocks U.S. Builders' Bids

BYLINE: Dow Jones 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21

 BODY:
The World Bank said today that because the United States had fallen behind on contributions, American contractors would be prevented from bidding on about $2.1 billion worth of contracts financed by other nations.
The ban was approved at a meeting this week in Tokyo by more than 30 nations, including the United States, that donate to the International Development Association, World Bank officials said. 
 Lionel C. Johnson, who represented the United States Treasury at the Tokyo meeting, said the development association's lending would not be interrupted. "Other countries felt it necessary to put on those restrictions, for political reasons back home," Mr. Johnson declared.
The International Development Association, an agency of the World Bank, makes loans at less than 1 percent interest to 78 of the world's poorest countries, many in Africa. The money is used to build essential facilities like schools, clinics and water projects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (87%); AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSN INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (87%); AFRICA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); APPROVALS (71%); 

PERSON: LIONEL C JOHNSON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996



543 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Who Benefits by New Jersey Income Tax Cut?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"New Jersey's Tax Cuts Have Worked' (Op-Ed, March 16), by Timothy J. Goodspeed and Peter D. Salins, is political camouflage to help Gov. Christine Todd Whitman in her quest for the Republican Vice-Presidential nod. 
 Considering that the full 30 percent income tax cut did not take effect until this January, it is too early to assess the impact Governor Whitman's fiscal policies will have at the local level.
Cutting income taxes will make less money available for property tax relief.
More than 100 school districts were excluded from Mr. Goodspeed's and Mr. Salins's analysis of how decreasing state aid affects property taxes. The richest 7 percent of the state's taxpayers will pocket 41 percent of the income tax cut savings. But property tax increases are strangling the middle class.
The Governor promised that the income tax cuts would create 450,000 jobs. Not only have the jobs not materialized, but New Jersey's economy has been rocked by corporate layoffs and its unemployment rate is the second highest among industrialized states.
 
JOSEPH V. DORIA JR.
Democratic Leader, N.J. Assembly
Trenton, March 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX RELIEF (92%); INCOME TAX (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); JOB CREATION (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: DORIA, JOSEPH V JR (ASSEMBLYMAN); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



544 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Oil Prices Soar on Low Stocks; Soybeans Rise and Copper Drops

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Crude oil futures soared on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday, a move that helped advance other energy futures as investors bid up prices on concern about tight supplies going into the spring driving season.
In other commodity markets, soybeans futures rose sharply, while copper futures plunged as supplies rose. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 17 commodities rose 1.41 points, to 252.08, nearing a seven-year high. 
 With supplies at a 19-year low, light sweet crude oil for May delivery rose 90 cents, to $21.95 a barrel. April heating oil rose 1.32 cents, to 62.65 cents a gallon, and April unleaded gasoline rose 1.46 cents, to 65.49 cents a gallon. April natural gas rose 12.3 cents, to $2.863 for 1,000 cubic feet.
"The crude looks like it's pretty much off to the races yet again," Tim Evans, an oil analyst at Pegasus Econometric Group in New York, said. "The April contract rose into the $24-$25 range and the logic is the May contract at $22 looks cheap in comparison, considering the supply situation has not eased."
Crude stocks now stand at 299.7 million barrels, 8 percent below levels a year earlier. Gasoline and heating oil stocks have also been tight this winter.
Soybeans futures prices rose sharply on the Chicago Board of Trade, supported in part by rumors that the British Government was considering a soybean meal substitute for traditional cattle feed in an attempt to control the spread of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad-cow disease, which has caused a growing number of countries to ban British beef imports. Such a move would greatly strengthen American imports. May soybeans rose 8.75 cents, to $7.3050 a bushel.
With warehouse stocks of copper rising, futures plunged to a three-week low on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. Bette Raptopoulos, a metals analyst with Prudential Securities, said copper was still poised to rally. "I still believe we will see it move up to the $1.20-$1.23 levels; it may take a little while longer," she said.
May high-grade copper fell 1.75 cents, to $1.15 a pound, the lowest since Feb. 28.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) FUTURES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ENERGY MARKETS (92%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SOYBEAN MEAL MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); MEALS & FEEDS MARKETS (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (87%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (86%); GASOLINE (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); COPPER INDUSTRY (77%); LIVESTOCK FEED (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); BEEF (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (69%); MEATS (64%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); IMPORT CONTROLS (63%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



545 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Jury Rules Against Hospital For Negligent Care of Baby

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

 BODY:
A jury has ordered the New York City hospitals agency to pay $23.3 million to a boy who suffers from brain damage and extensive paralysis because of complications after his birth in 1988.
The verdict in favor of the boy, Jermaine Eccleston, of Brooklyn, was returned late Wednesday against the Health and Hospitals Corporation in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn after a two-week trial before Justice Nicholas A. Clemente. The City Corporation Counsel's office said it is considering an appeal. 
 After deliberating for two days, the jury of three men and three women agreed with Thomas A. Moore, the lawyer for the boy and his mother, that the Kings County Hospital Center was negligent in treating the child after his difficult birth on May 25, 1988.
Mr. Moore said doctors should have known that Jermaine needed careful monitoring because his mother, Claudette Eccleston, had suffered from pregnancy-related diabetes. In addition, Mr. Moore said, Jermaine was born three weeks prematurely in a delivery so difficult that the baby's shoulder was broken.
"This high-risk infant was placed in the regular nursery and examined exclusively by inexperienced trainee physicians," Mr. Moore said after the verdict. "His care was rendered by doctors who had neither the background nor experience to provide the care this infant needed."
When Jermaine was 3 days old, he was placed in a regular nursery, where his heart and breathing stopped, Mr. Moore said. His condition was not discovered immediately, and when it was, resuscitation was delayed because the proper equipment was not handy, the lawyer maintained.
Jermaine is alert and understands the world around him but cannot speak. He has only limited use of his arms and legs and attends a special school, Mr. Moore said.
Eugene Borenstein, chief of the Corporation Counsel's tort division, said the city would ask Justice Clemente to reduce the amount of the award and, depending on the justice's decision, would consider appealing its size or the findings of negligence.
While the verdict is one of the larger ones against a city agency in recent years, it does not approach the biggest verdict returned against the hospitals agency. That verdict, $73 million in connection with a botched delivery, was returned several years ago but was reduced considerably on appeal.
Of the $23.3 million awarded Wednesday, $7 million is for Jermaine's pain and suffering, Mr. Moore said. The remaining $16.3 million is for Jermaine's care until he reaches age 55 and is based on expected inflation.
Assuming that the verdict stands, Mr. Borenstein said the city would not actually pay $23.3 million out of its coffers but would buy an annuity for much less than that for payments to Jermaine in the years ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: KINGS COUNTY HOSPITAL (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: KINGS COUNTY HOSPITAL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MALPRACTICE; BIRTH DEFECTS VERDICTS (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); NEGLIGENCE (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); LITIGATION (89%); PARALYSIS (89%); DAMAGES (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (77%); APPEALS (76%); TORTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); DIABETES (53%); ANNUITIES (50%); 

PERSON: STOUT, DAVID; ECCLESTON, JERMAINE; ECCLESTON, CLAUDETTE JERMAINE ECCLESTON (94%); THOMAS A MOORE (93%); EUGENE BORENSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



546 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Economic Data Show Big Jump In Job Creation in New Jersey

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 22

 BODY:
New Jersey gained a significant number of new jobs last month, and the state's unemployment rate declined slightly, according to economic data released today.
The gain of 29,700 new jobs in February eased concerns among some economists that the loss of 26,500 jobs in January was a signal of a sudden downturn in the economy. State officials had attributed the huge job loss to the severe weather in January. 
 The state's unemployment rate declined from 6.6 percent to 6.5 percent, the new data showed, but continued to lag a full percentage point behind the national average.
Joseph Seneca, chairman of the New Jersey Council of Economic Advisors and a professor of economics at Rutgers University, said the new economic data released today showed that the state's economy would continue to grow moderately in the coming year. "What the February numbers demonstrate is that the economy did not fall off the shelf," Mr. Seneca said. "That is very welcome news."
But he added that while New Jersey would benefit from signs that the nation's economy was improving, the state still faced the prospect of more job losses through corporate downsizing. More than 7,000 jobs alone at AT&T will be eliminated this year. "Downsizing will remain with us," he said.
With 3,200 new jobs created this year, State Department of Labor officials said that the pace of job growth so far was about equal to the monthly increases recorded during the last quarter of 1995. Most of the new jobs were in the service and business services industry, which included temporary help and employment agencies.
"The unemployment rate and the employment numbers indicate that New Jersey's economy has recovered from the effects of the January blizzard," said Labor Commissioner Peter J. Calderone. "It is important to note that even with the setbacks due to severe weather and corporate downsizings we are continuing to create jobs."
But Democrats in the State Legislature noted that the state's unemployment rate remained above the national average. Bernard F. Kenny Jr., a Democrat from Hudson County who is the assistant Senate minority leader, said, "The Whitman administration may feel the state has recovered from the January blizzard, but the tens of thousands of downsized New Jersey workers won't fall for the snow job that her tax cuts have fixed for the economy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (95%); JOB CREATION (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WEATHER (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; SENECA, JOSEPH J JOSEPH SENECA (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



547 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Gay Marriage, an Oxymoron

BYLINE: By Lisa Schiffren; Lisa Schiffren was a speechwriter for Vice President Dan Quayle.

 BODY:
As study after study and victim after victim testify to the social devastation of the sexual revolution, easy divorce and out-of-wedlock motherhood, marriage is fashionable again. And parenthood has transformed many baby boomers into advocates of bourgeois norms.
Indeed, we have come so far that the surprise issue of the political season is whether homosexual "marriage" should be legalized. The Hawaii courts will likely rule that gay marriage is legal, and other states will be required to accept those marriages as valid. 
 Considering what a momentous change this would be -- a radical redefinition of society's most fundamental institution -- there has been almost no real debate. This is because the premise is unimaginable to many, and the forces of political correctness have descended on the discussion, raising the cost of opposition. But one may feel the same affection for one's homosexual friends and relatives as for any other, and be genuinely pleased for the happiness they derive from relationships, while opposing gay marriage for principled reasons.
"Same-sex marriage" is inherently incompatible with our culture's understanding of the institution. Marriage is essentially a lifelong compact between a man and woman committed to sexual exclusivity and the creation and nurture of offspring. For most Americans, the marital union -- as distinguished from other sexual relationships and legal and economic partnerships -- is imbued with an aspect of holiness. Though many of us are uncomfortable using religious language to discuss social and political issues, Judeo-Christian morality informs our view of family life.
Though it is not polite to mention it, what the Judeo-Christian tradition has to say about homosexual unions could not be clearer. In a diverse, open society such as ours, tolerance of homosexuality is a necessity. But for many, its practice depends on a trick of cognitive dissonance that allows people to believe in the Judeo-Christian moral order while accepting, often with genuine regard, the different lives of homosexual acquaintances. That is why, though homosexuals may believe that they are merely seeking a small expansion of the definition of marriage, the majority of Americans perceive this change as a radical deconstruction of the institution.
Some make the conservative argument that making marriage a civil right will bring stability, an end to promiscuity and a sense of fairness to gay men and women. But they miss the point. Society cares about stability in heterosexual unions because it is critical for raising healthy children and transmitting the values that are the basis of our culture.
Whether homosexual relationships endure is of little concern to society. That is also true of most childless marriages, harsh as it is to say. Society has wisely chosen not to differentiate between marriages, because it would require meddling into the motives and desires of everyone who applies for a license.
In traditional marriage, the tie that really binds for life is shared responsibility for the children. (A small fraction of gay couples may choose to raise children together, but such children are offspring of one partner and an outside contributor.) What will keep gay marriages together when individuals tire of each other?
Similarly, the argument that legal marriage will check promiscuity by gay males raises the question of how a "piece of paper" will do what the threat of AIDS has not. Lesbians seem to have little problem with monogamy, or the rest of what constitutes "domestication," despite the absence of official status.
Finally, there is the so-called fairness argument. The Government gives tax benefits, inheritance rights and employee benefits only to the married. Again, these financial benefits exist to help couples raise children. Tax reform is an effective way to remove distinctions among earners.
If the American people are interested in a radical experiment with same-sex marriages, then subjecting it to the political process is the right route. For a court in Hawaii to assume that it has the power to radically redefine marriage is a stunning abuse of power. To present homosexual marriage as a fait accompli, without national debate, is a serious political error. A society struggling to recover from 30 years of weakened norms and broken families is not likely to respond gently to having an institution central to most people's lives altered.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES; HOMOSEXUALITY MARRIAGE (94%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); RELIGION (69%); 

PERSON: SCHIFFREN, LISA GAY MARRIAGE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



548 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up Slightly vs. Yen But Retreats Against the Mark

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar showed slight gains against the Japanese yen and was lower against the German mark yesterday after large institutional investors and European corporations sold the dollar to take profits.
The dollar was supported against the yen by buyers seeking a safe haven ahead of the elections today in Taiwan, traders said. 
 "No one wants to be short of dollars because they don't know what will happen on the weekend," said Norihiko Ogihara, vice president at Mitsui Trust and Banking.
The dollar opened lower in New York trading, retreating from overnight highs above 1.4800 marks and 107 yen, as American hedge funds and other institutional investors sold dollars.
But buying by Japanese companies and others later helped the dollar regain some ground against the yen, traders said.
"The dollar is still firm against the yen," Mr. Ogihara said. "Even after huge profit-taking orders this morning, some investors in Japan still want to buy dollars."
In late trading in New York, the dollar was quoted at 106.86 yen, up from 106.70 on Thursday.. The dollar settled at 1.4761 German marks, down from 1.4785.
The dollar gained against the British pound after several countries banned imports of British beef over worries about the so-called mad-cow disease that is being investigated in Britain.
Eight European countries, including Germany and France, banned the meat, arousing concerns that the disease will hobble Britain's $3 billion beef industry and damage the nation's trade performance.
In New York trading, the British pound fell to $1.5350, from $1.5375 on Thursday.
In addition to the Taiwan election, the currency market is also awaiting results of German elections for state assemblies tomorrow.
Traders said the mark could be bolstered in the long run if Germany's main opposition party, the Social Democrats, did well.
The party is campaigning for a delay in the European economic and monetary union. A strong showing by the Social Democrats could bolster the belief that Europe's efforts to create a single currency are losing steam, and that could increase demand for marks, analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CHUO MITSUI TRUST & BANKING CO LTD (57%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATS (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATS (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY GERMAN MARK (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BRITISH POUND (71%); BEEF (71%); MEATS (71%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (71%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (71%); IMPORT CONTROLS (66%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (66%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%); 

PERSON: NORIHIKO OGIHARA (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



549 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Long-Term Forecast for Taiwan Remains Upbeat

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, March 22

 BODY:
Marinus van Gessel, an American, has been here for 21 years, running a small but thriving import company, and business has never been better.
But increasingly aggressive war games by the Chinese and growing vituperation from Beijing's leaders and uncertainty over Taiwan's first presidential election have stirred anxieties over the future. 
 "I was sweating bullets for a while," Mr. van Gessel said. "Now that a large part of our Seventh Fleet is parked offshore, I feel a lot better. And it's not just for the Taiwanese but for the Americans as well."
Even so, Mr. van Gessel's business -- importing specialty foods like cheeses, Western fish and fine lettuce -- puts his finger on the pulse of foreign activity in Taiwan, and the beat has been a bit fainter in recent days.
There has been no visible alarm on Taipei's streets over China's threats, but beneath the calm, some economic cracks have appeared. Most people, though, see any uncertainty as short-lived and say that in the long run Taiwan's economic might will be unscathed.
 "In my case," he said, "I delayed a shipment coming in. Some people are canceling meetings. Hotel occupancy is down a bit. At some promotions, the band didn't show up. The last two days and the next two days are going to be slow. With all this excitement, people are not going to be doing special things."
In the last 10 days, China has fired ballistic missiles off the northern and southern tips of Taiwan and staged two live-fire war games near islands controlled by Taiwan, all in a declared effort to scare Taiwan's leaders away from visions of independence. China claims Taiwan as a rebel province, but on Wednesday President Lee Tung-hui, who has repeatedly disavowed any desire for independence, continued to describe Taiwan as a "sovereign state."
Mr. Lee, who is widely expected to win the country's first presidential election on Saturday, enraged Beijing last summer when he visited Cornell University, where he received a doctorate in agricultural economics. China denounced his visit as part of his effort to "split" Taiwan from the mainland.
Today, the Government released data that showed exports for the first half of March down 9.9 percent over the period last year; the reason it cited: a sudden caution by shippers.
The stock market, which has seesawed throughout the crisis, has been buoyed by Government intervention over the last week but is still down some 25 percent for the year -- not, analysts say, because of worries about China, but because of a general sense that stocks are overvalued. In a market dominated not by institutional but by individual investors, those small investors have been selling out, analysts say.
For their part, foreign investors regard the tensions between Taiwan and China as transitory, the economy as fundamentally sound and the prospects for investment as good.
"Broadly speaking," said Christian Murck, the country manager for Chemical Bank here and the president of the American Chamber of Commerce, "in a medium- to long-term point of view, the economic fundamentals and the investment climate are very good here. We expect to see continued investment."
Indeed, Taiwan has proved to be one of Asia's most formidable economies, both in terms of size and for having shed its reliance on the United States and focused on Southeast Asia. In fact, Taiwan is now the world's 14th-largest trader, has the world's third-busiest container port, in Kaohsiung, and has emerged as a big provider of capital throughout the region.
It is the largest foreign investor in Vietnam, has invested between $13 billion and $25 billion (depending on who's counting) in China, and has emerged as a big consumer market for Western goods. For Chrysler, for instance, Taiwan is the largest market outside North America, and Citibank makes more money from its credit card business here than in all of Europe, according to the American Chamber of Commerce.
"Foreign companies that are doing business here share a common premise that over the long term there will be stability across the strait and, secondly, that the astonishing process of economic integration will continue," Mr. Murck said. "Eventually there will be direct transport links and an integrated China market."
Yet even in the current climate of uncertainty, Mr. Murck said he knew of no companies that had shelved investment plans here.
"Decisions on investment are being made on medium- and long-term economic considerations," he said. "Most people think that the Chinese pressure will continue in some degree after the election. Obviously, if the situation goes on for a long time and the situation deteriorates, there will have to be a re-evaluation."
Some Americans here even see unexpected benefits from the escalation of tensions. "If anything, it will work in Taiwan's favor," said Warren Gerig, the country manager for United Airlines, "because it will show Americans what Taiwan is all about." At last count, more than 600 foreign reporters had arrived to cover Saturday's election.
"We don't see this as disruptive," Mr. Gerig continued. "We see it as what it is, saber-rattling, to intimidate the people here before the election. It's totally backfired."
In his industry, Mr. Gerig said that Taiwan would continue to be a big regional market, and that the region would continue to boom for 20 years. "The only thing that can stop it," he said, "is if there is some sort of military escapade by some country."
Mr. van Gessel, the importer, said the only way to ease tensions permanently was through closer economic ties, which he said would be possible once the election was over. "Most people here think things are blowing over," he said. "China and Taiwan need to get back to business. From a long-term view, there's a lot of opportunity here. Both sides need each other."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); CHEESE (73%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (65%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (51%); 

PERSON: GARGAN, EDWARD A VAN GESSEL (59%); CHRISTIAN MURCK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



550 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
Killer's Neighbors Saw Trouble
 
Even when he was young, his neighbors knew that Richard Sacchi Jr. was trouble, someone they best stay away from. As he got older, his brooding and bullying personality led to stays in a school for disturbed youngsters, a psychiatric center, a White Plains homeless shelter and an alcohol rehabilitation center. And he had been arrested at least five times. Neighbors of Mr. Sacchi suggested that had someone taken harsher action against him much earlier, the shootings of two police officers Thursday night might not have happened. [Page 1.]
 
The gunman was to start a 30-day jail term next month for stalking his estranged wife, and was apparently despondent at the failure of his marriage and may have snapped, friends and family said. [26.]
 
Officer Michael Frey, described as everyone's friend, enjoyed the friendly house calls on his job. [26.]
 
Suspect to Be Tried as Adult
 
A federal judge ruled that Lemrick Nelson Jr., charged with violating the civil rights of a Hasidic scholar killed during disturbances in Crown Heights in 1991, is to be tried as an adult rather than a juvenile. [23.]
 
City's Finances Look Bleaker
 
With the budget stalemates in Washington and Albany, New York City's financial outlook is more disordered than anyone can remember, raising the prospect of increasingly late payments to city vendors and a 1997 budget plan riddled with even more gimmicks and guesswork than usual. [23.]
 
Another Slap at the Bronx
 
In the movie, "Rumble in the Bronx," friendly yellow cabs stop in a borough dotted with skyscrapers and bordered by mountains. About New York by David Gonzalez. [23.]
 
Audit Faults Child Welfare Unit
 
A state audit has concluded that New York City's child welfare agency has done practically nothing in recent years to improve its oversight of thousands of children in foster care, leading to inadequate treatment and to tens of millions of dollars in state-imposed penalties. [24.]
 
Jury Award in Malpractice Case
 
A jury has ordered the New York City hospitals agency to pay $23.3 million to a boy who suffers from brain damage and extensive paralysis because of complications after his birth in 1988. [24.]
 
Death Penalty Lines Are Drawn
 
A team of prosecutors from Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco's office took control of the grand jury investigation into the killing of a police officer in the Bronx, even as civil rights groups prepared to fight Governor Pataki's decision to remove District Attorney Robert Johnson from the case. The relatively smooth transition belied the heated oratory that continued to swirl around Mr. Pataki's extraordinary move on Thursday to replace Mr. Johnson, because he believed the prosecutor would not seek the death penalty in the case. [25.]
 
Tuberculosis Rate Is Still No. 1
 
Even as the number of new tuberculosis cases fell in New York City in 1995 for the third straight year, the city's infection rate is still the highest in the nation, partly because the disease is continuing to spread among recent immigrants, city health officials said. [25.]
 
NEW JERSEY
 
A Delicate Walk for the G.O.P.
 
In the 15 months since Republicans took control of Congress, the eight Republicans in New Jersey's House delegation have worked to be loyal to their leadership, especially on fiscal issues. But at the same time, they have carved a niche for themselves as the members who are perhaps the most independent, even openly critical of their own party. [23.]
 
Pension Plan Dispute Resolved
 
State officials announced that they had reached an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service, averting the possibility of costly litigation or additional funding requirements for the state's public employee pension system. The state will not have to come up with an additional $1 billion to restore money that was transferred out of the pension systems and into the state's coffers in 1992 and 1994. [27.]
 
Residency Rule Suspended
 
A judge temporarily barred Essex County from dismissing workers who did not live in the county, even though he found that the county's 18-year-old residency requirement had been properly adopted. [27.]
 
Police Salaries at Issue
 
As the Port Authority tries to control spending, it points to the $20,000 average difference in annual pay between city police officers and its own officers. The agency is focusing on police salaries in its negotiations with police unions. [27.]
 
Job Growth Heartens Analysts
 
New Jersey gained a significant number of new jobs last month, and the state's unemployment rate declined slightly, according to economic data. The gain of 29,700 new jobs in February eased concerns among some economists that the loss of 26,500 jobs in January was a signal of a sudden downturn in the economy. [27.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BUDGETS (87%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (77%); LITIGATION (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); FOSTER CARE (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); VERDICTS (72%); JURY TRIALS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); GRAND JURY (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (71%); ARRESTS (71%); PARALYSIS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (68%); CHILD WELFARE (68%); TUBERCULOSIS (67%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (67%); JUDGES (67%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (66%); AUDITS (63%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); HOMELESSNESS (57%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (57%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (56%); RELIGION (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



551 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Bond Buyers Snatch Up Disney Notes

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The Walt Disney Company sold $2.6 billion in debt yesterday, the largest bond offering ever by a top-grade company.
Demand for the Disney bonds was so strong that the size of the offering was sharply increased twice in the last two days. Disney had originally planned to sell $1.5 billion of bonds but increased the sale to $2 billion on Thursday and to $2.6 billion yesterday. The sale drew buyers away from the Treasury market, where prices were lower in light trading. 
 Disney is "a name people would love to have in their portfolio," said Tom Davidson, a bond salesman for BA Securities Inc. "A name that doesn't come to market often."
The strong demand confirmed Disney's high standing on Wall Street. Despite taking on a huge amount of debt for its $19 billion acquisition of Capital Cities/ABC, analysts and money managers remain enamored of the company's cash flow. Disney's balance sheet, many analysts say, is much stronger than those of other media companies like Time Warner Inc. or the News Corporation.
Disney's stock also rose yesterday, closing at $64.875, up 37.5 cents on the day.
The Disney debt offering was split equally between 5-year and 10-year notes and was priced through the joint lead managers Merrill Lynch International and CS First Boston Ltd. Disney plans to use the proceeds to help finance the cash portion of the Capital Cities/ABC acquisition. Disney initially raised the cash for the Capital Cities deal last week, selling $8.6 billion of commercial paper, with the intention to refinance about half of the commercial paper with longer-term debt. Yesterday's bond offering was the first installment of the refinancing.
The sale was larger than the previous biggest investment-grade offering of $1.2 billion of I.B.M. bonds in 1993, according to the Securities Data Company of Newark, a market research firm. But both offerings are dwarfed by the $4.1 billion in junk bonds -- or bonds with ratings below investment grade -- issued by RJR Holdings as part of its leveraged buyout in 1989.
The 5-year Disney notes were priced at par to yield 6.375 percent, or 35 basis points -- or hundredths of a percentage point -- more than a comparable 5-year Treasury note. The 10-year Disney notes were priced at at 99.855 to yield 6.77 percent, or about 47 basis points more than a comparable 10-year Treasury note.
The bonds were sold simultaneously in the United States, Europe and Asia. The securities are rated A2 by Moody's Investors Service and A by both Standard & Poor's and Duff & Phelps Credit Rating. Those ratings are several notches above speculative grade, meaning they carry some risk for investors but not a great amount.
While some traders said the prices of the Disney securities were a bit expensive, they were still impressed by the demand.
But that demand was apparently not as strong in Europe as it was in the United States and Asia. According to calculations by Bloomberg Fair Market, the Disney five-year notes were selling in Europe at a yield of about 6.36 percent, or 11 basis points below yields of 6.47 percent for a comparable security that pays interest in Eurodollars, or dollars held by European banks.
In the Treasury market, prices were lower in light trading.
"No economic data, and Tuesday's pending Federal Open Market Committee meeting kept many positions close to home," said Eric Hamilton, senior fixed-income analyst at Technical Data of Boston, referring to Federal Reserve's chief interest rate panel.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 8/32 , to 9123/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 6.64 percent, from 6.61 percent on Thursday.
Robin Mesch, fixed-income analyst at Thomson Research in Boston, said that with little or no fundamental data to give it direction, yesterday's trading in Treasury futures was technically driven. Few investors sought to hold long positions ahead of the weekend.
The June contract closed yesterday at 11128//32 . Yesterday's expiration of April Treasury bond options, she said, did not add any volatility to the session.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%); TWX (NYSE) (69%); NWS (NASDAQ) (68%); NWS (ASX) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (60%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (60%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (60%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (70%); ASIA (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (96%); ABC INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); TIME WARNER INC (69%); NEWS CORP (68%); SECURITIES DATA CO INC (64%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (60%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (70%); ASIA (50%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATE BONDS BONDS (92%); BOND ISSUES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CASH FLOW (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



552 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: The General Motors Strike

 BODY:
Although the 18-day strike at two General Motors plants in Dayton, Ohio, ended Friday, the issues that provoked it will resurface this summer when the time comes for the United Automobile Workers to renegotiate its contracts with the Big Three auto makers. The practice of "outsourcing," which allows a manufacturer to buy component parts from outside contractors, is seen by the U.A.W. as a grave threat to its members. By buying from companies that pay lower wages, either in the United States or abroad, a manufacturer can save millions. G.M. makes more of its own parts than either Ford or Chrysler, but it believes that increased outsourcing is vital to its competitiveness.
Big employers like G.M. feel that to be competitive they need to cut their staffs to the bare bones. When demand goes up, it is cheaper to require overtime from a leaner work force than to add employees. When even overtime will not keep up with demand, the manufacturers want to be able to turn to outside suppliers. 
 The U.A.W. called the strike when G.M. awarded a contract to Robert Bosch GmbH, a German company that has a non-unionized plant in South Carolina, to supply anti-lock brakes. The U.A.W. said the company broke a 1994 agreement to consult with the union before giving any more work to outside suppliers. The U.A.W. described the strike as a local action, but both sides felt that any concessions made in Dayton could set precedents for the national negotiations this summer.
Union officials are unmoved by G.M.'s concerns about competitiveness, pointing to the company's record profits last year. G.M. management contends that enhanced competitiveness will create more jobs, but union leaders are skeptical, since large corporations have continued to cut payrolls even when profits are up.
With this strike, the union has proved that as long as G.M. continues to manufacture inside the United States, it is going to have to put labor concerns into its economic calculations. Its practice of maintaining only a "just-in-time" inventory meant that G.M. was vulnerable to a well-aimed strike in one plant that brought the whole North American operation to a standstill.
The Dayton settlement was not a clear-cut victory for either side. G.M. did win the right to contract some work out at its Dayton plants. The union won some promises of additional jobs and the promise to honor the union's right to be consulted on work the company wants to place elsewhere.
But all sides agree that this was only a warm-up for the main contract negotiations later in the year. Dayton poses a question that will hang over the entire industry and its workers in the months ahead. In its negotiations with the Big Three this summer, the U.A.W. is likely to target Chrysler, which is now the biggest outsourcer. Industry analysts figure that Chrysler is most likely to agree to a freeze on outsourcing, , setting a precedent that G.M. would then be under pressure to follow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); GENERAL MOTORS CORP GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); ROBERT BOSCH GMBH (68%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); GENERAL MOTORS CORP INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); OHIO, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; STRIKES; LABOR; EDITORIALS; CONTRACTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); OVERTIME (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); STRIKES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE BRAKE SYSTEM MFG (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); LEAN MFG (76%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



553 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Stock Market Revives a Bit, With Dow Rising by 9.76

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
Stock prices advanced yesterday for the first time since Monday, after investors weighed the week's Government statistics and concluded that the economy was expanding moderately.
Volatility has contracted, with the range between the highs and lows of major indicators narrowing from the swings of early March. For the third consecutive day, turnover dropped below the three-month average. 
 "I thought it was August," said Peter G. Grennan, senior vice president of Smith Barney. "There was not much movement during the day, and some brokers wondered if the market had closed."
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 9.76 points, to 5,636.64, marking a gain of 51.67 points for the week. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks increased 1.43 points, to 650.62, while the Nasdaq composite index added 2.43 points, to 1,102.22.
Advances on the New York Stock Exchange topped declines by 1,328 to 966. Slightly under 330 million shares changed hands on the Big Board, down from the 365.8 million shares traded on Thursday.
Bond prices shifted lower, also on thin volume. The bellwether 30-year Treasury bond fell 8/32 , and its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.64 percent, from 6.61 percent on Thursday.
Banking stocks rose amid optimism that borrowing costs would not show any appreciable advance. Citicorp increased 1/2, to 79 1/8; BankAmerica was up 1 5/8, to 75 3/4, and Nationsbank climbed 1 1/4, to 75 1/4. The Keefe, Bruyette & Woods bank index jumped 3.94 points, to 428.03.
Household-products issues benefited from indications that there would be slow economic growth this year. Procter & Gamble closed at 87 7/8, up 3/4; Colgate-Palmolive closed at 80 5/8, up 5/8, and Avon Products closed at 87 1/8, up 3/8.
Electrical equipment companies moved higher, led by General Electric, which was awarded a $2.3 billion, 10-year contract from British Airways to overhaul engines. G.E. advanced 1, to 78 3/8; Emerson Electric rose 1 1/4, to 81 3/4, and Westinghouse Electric increased 1/8, to 19.
But automotive stocks turned downward as analysts weighed the effects of the estimated $850 million cost to General Motors of the just-ended United Automobile Workers strike. G.M. eased 1/4, to 53 3/8; Ford dropped 1/4, to 33 5/8, and Chrysler declined 5/8, to 62 3/4.
Drug stocks, in contrast to their performance on Thursday, were lower. Eli Lilly closed at 64 7/8, off 1 3/4; Merck closed at 63 1/2, off 2, and American Home Products closed at 101 1/4, off 1.
Paper stocks were also depressed as institutions moved funds to other sectors. Georgia-Pacific lost 3/4, to 67 1/4; Champion International dropped 1 1/8, to 44 7/8; Westvaco fell 3/8, to 30 1/4, and Boise Cascade declined 3/8, to 41.
Exide, which yesterday denied rumors that it was being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, gave up 4 1/4, to 26 1/4. Adobe Systems, which reported lower earnings for its fiscal first quarter, fell 2 7/8, to 31 3/8. And Broken Hill Proprietary, which reported lower-than-expected profits, plummeted 2 1/8, to 55 5/8.
Airgas rose 2 3/8, to 41, after announcing a 2-for-1 stock split. Broderbund Software advanced 1, to 38 7/8, after reporting better-than-expected earnings from operations. And Nike increased 2 3/8, to 82 5/8, after being upgraded by Dean Witter Reynolds.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (67%); BAC (LSE) (67%); 8648 (TSE) (67%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AVP (NYSE) (53%); CL (NYSE) (53%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); EMR (NYSE) (52%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); GM (NYSE) (51%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%); LLY (SWX) (50%); LLY (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (52%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (67%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (54%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (53%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (52%); EMERSON ELECTRIC CO (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); PFIZER INC (50%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (50%); ELI LILLY & CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); STRIKES (60%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD ANDREW SMITH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



554 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Workers Return to G.M., But Issues Are Unresolved
Workers began returning to two General Motors plants, ending their 17-day strike without resolving critical issues between the company and the United Automobile Workers union. While a few local disputes were resolved, the national issues are sure to come up again this summer when the U.A.W.'s three-year national contract expires. 
 G.M. and the U.A.W. agreed to no changes in either the national contract or local agreements on the chief issue, the extent to which G.M. can farm out parts production to nonunion companies, a practice known as outsourcing. [Page 1.]
 
Alitalia Sees Need for Bailout
Alitalia, its debt having doubled in the past year to $2.2 billion, needs a bailout this spring to pay salaries, Domenico Cempella, the executive appointed last month to save Italy's ailing national carrier, said. He did not say when the state holding company that controls Alitalia would seek permission from the European Union to provide fresh capital. [36.]
 
U.S. Sues Big Mining Companies
The Justice Department filed suit demanding that several big mining companies, including Asarco, Hecla Mining, Sunshine Mining and Coeur d'Alene Mines, pay for environmental damage across a huge swath of Idaho where toxic wastes from mining and smelting wastes have polluted lakes, streams, groundwater and wetlands over the course of a century. Government officials said the damages might run into hundreds of millions of dollars. [11.]
 
President of Moody's Resigns
In a surprise move, John A. Bohn resigned as president of Moody's Investors Service, one of the top credit rating agencies. No successor has been named. Moody's parent company, the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, is being split into three new companies, and Moody's is facing increasing competition from Standard & Poor's bigger rating service. [37.]
 
Judge Urges Companies to Settle
Chancellor William Allen of the Delaware Chancery Court urged Time Warner and U S West to settle their legal dispute before he rules on it in June. "The law is unclear. The facts are unclear," he said, citing contradictory evidence in the 8-day trial, making any ruling subject to an appeal. U S West sued, seeking to block Time Warner's planned $7.5 billion acquisition of Turner Broadcasting. [47.]
 
Romania Blocks Foreign Banks
The Romanian central bank stripped two more large foreign banks, Chemical Banking of New York and ABN-Amro of the Netherlands, of their licenses to trade currencies on the fledgling foreign-exchange market, leaving only Romanian banks in the market. [36.]
 
Dow Industrials Up for Week
Stock prices advanced as investors concluded that the economy was expanding moderately. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 9.76 points, to 5,636.64, marking a gain of 51.67 points for the week, and the Nasdaq composite index added 2.43 points, to 1,102.22. Volatility has contracted, with the range between the highs and lows of major indicators narrowing from early March. [38.]
 
Oil Futures Prices Soar
With crude oil supplies tight, futures prices soared. Light crude oil for May delivery was up 90 cents, to $21.95 a barrel. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 17 commodities rose 1.41 points, to 252.08, nearing a seven-year high. [34.]
 
Argentines Gloat Over Beef Sales
Argentina was almost euphoric over the prospect that its beef exports could rise sharply this year, as the ban against British beef spread through Europe and to other parts of the world because of mad-cow disease. [36.]
 
Germany and Italy joined the ban on imports of British beef. The ban plunged Britain's $6.2 billion beef industry into a crisis. [3.]
 
A Legal Setback in Implant Case
In a stunning blow to the lawyers handling hundreds of thousands of injury claims against Dow Corning, the judge overseeing the company's bankruptcy proceedings ordered that the lawyers negotiating on behalf of women who say they were injured by silicone breast implants be replaced with a new negotiating committee, made up of the women themselves. [7.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,636.64 Up 9.76
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.64% Up 0.03
The Dollar -- 106.86 yen Up 0.16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (83%); DNB (NYSE) (82%); GM (NYSE) (58%); CDM (TSX) (55%); CDE (NYSE) (55%); ABO (ASX) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (83%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (55%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (55%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (55%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ITALY (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (83%); DUN & BRADSTREET CORP (82%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); COEUR MINING INC (55%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (51%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROMANIA (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ITALY (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); IDAHO, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); CREDIT BUREAUS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); MINES & MINING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); WATER POLLUTION (70%); CURRENCIES (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); LITIGATION (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); LAKES (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); WETLANDS (66%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); STOCK EXCHANGES (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



555 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: White House Snubs China Over Military Maneuvers

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 22

 BODY:
The Administration signaled its displeasure with China on two fronts today, calling off a long-awaited visit to Washington by China's Defense Minister and informally extending the freeze on new financing of American business deals in China.
The two actions are meant to signal Washington's displeasure over China's war games in the Strait of Taiwan, which the Administration charges are intended to intimidate voters before the presidential election on Saturday. 
 On a broader scale, the measures are the latest manifestation of the downward spiral of relations between China and the United States over a range of issues, including pirating of American movies and music, Beijing's poor performance on human rights and sales of cruise missiles to Iran and weapons technology to Pakistan.
Senior Administration officials said today that the United States and China had failed to resolve the dispute over the sale of sensitive nuclear-related technology to Pakistan, which led to the freeze on United States financing.
Complicating the picture is the fact that China is surfacing as a campaign issue. Republicans, including the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole, are threatening to try to withhold China's most-favored-nation trading status this spring. That would put Mr. Clinton, who charged George Bush four years ago with "coddling" China but who now favors renewing those benefits, in the embarrassing position of appearing to be soft on China.
Secretary of Defense William J. Perry abruptly decided to cancel the visit of his Chinese counterpart, Chi Haotian, after China insisted Mr. Chi be given red-carpet treatment, including a meeting with President Clinton at the White House.
"A large-scale official visit is not appropriate in the current climate," Mr. Perry said in a brief statement that did not refer directly to Taiwan.
In addition, a growing number of Republican lawmakers were critical of the invitation to Mr. Chi, who was a key general during the repression of the pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square in 1989.
The visit, scheduled for the first week in April, had tentatively included visits to Sandia National Laboratory in Albuquerque, N.M., where nuclear-weapons research is conducted; the United States Space Command headquarters in Colorado, and an aircraft carrier at the Norfolk Naval Base. Mr. Perry had planned to escort Mr. Chi to the United States military installations.
Mr. Chi's trip was originally scheduled as a way to reciprocate for Mr. Perry's visit to China in 1994 and to deepen military-to-military ties between the two countries. It would have involved a 19-gun salute at the Pentagon, which some Republicans on Capitol Hill said would have made excellent television footage for use against Mr. Clinton in the campaign.
As the strains between the two countries deepened over China's military exercises, it made no sense to go forward with the visit, a senior Pentagon official said in an interview today.
"We tried to feel out the Chinese about whether we could squeeze it down to a straight business trip," the official said. "They wanted it to look like visiting royalty."
James R. Sasser, the American Ambassador to China, asked the Chinese to consider a less formal meeting between Mr. Perry and Mr. Chi in Hawaii or another location in the coming weeks and expressed hope that a formal meeting in Washington could take place in the summer.
 But the Chinese Government said the cancellation was its decision, not Mr. Perry's, explaining that it was acting in retaliation for Washington's show of support for Taiwan.
Last fall, the Chinese declined an invitation to President Jiang Zemin for a working meeting with Mr. Clinton in Washington because it was not a full-fledged state visit with a formal state dinner and a 21-gun salute.
But in a sign that the overall high-level dialogue will continue, the State Department said today that Secretary of State Warren Christopher intended to proceed with his scheduled meeting with China's Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen, in Europe next month.
At the White House today, the spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, suggested for the first time that the Administration intended to ask the Export-Import Bank to continue to defer financing for American companies who want to export to China.
"We are still reviewing the issues and are involved at the moment in bilateral dialogue with the People's Republic on the nature of the transaction that triggered our concern in the first place," he said. "We would hope that the Ex-Im Bank would continue to keep applications on hold."
He later amplified his remarks in a telephone interview, saying, "The existing freeze remains in place while we continue to assess the proliferation issues."
Last month, the United States requested a 30-day freeze on financing for new American deals, pending the outcome of talks over the technology sale to Pakistan. The freeze runs out this weekend, but the bank is not scheduled to take up any new financing applications next week.
Talks in Beijing between Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Robert Einhorn and Chinese officials have failed to resolve the dispute, a senior Administration official said. The Administration had asked China to limit future shipments of nuclear-related technology and equipment to Pakistan, suggesting that in return it could waive some economic sanctions under consideration.
Mr. Einhorn is to report back to the State Department next week, and the Administration will decide whether to make a formal request to extend the financing freeze or to impose other punitive sanctions on China, as required under law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); TAIWAN (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENIOR ADMINISTRATION (68%); WHITE HOUSE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENIOR ADMINISTRATION (68%); WHITE HOUSE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TAIWAN; PAKISTAN; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); TAIWAN (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ELECTION ISSUES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NAVIES (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (71%); MILITARY BASES (65%); FILM (55%); 

PERSON: PERRY, WILLAM J (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; CHI HAOTIAN (MIN); SCIOLINO, ELAINE BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



556 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE CONVENTION;
Parallel Agonizing Over Immigration

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO

 BODY:
Just as the Presidential primaries have often made the Republicans look like two opposing parties struggling within one body, this glittering seaside city on the Mexican border, where the Republicans will hold their convention in August, often feels like two deeply conflicting communities, one of anger, one of hope.
Gilbert A. Partida certainly knows about the hope. Mr. Partida, 33, moved here in 1987 right out of law school, set up the first Mexican trade practice at a big law firm and then three years ago became the first Hispanic president of the Greater San Diego Chamber of Commerce. He has led the chamber from near bankruptcy to buoyant growth, partly by opening to the Mexican-American community and building ties with Tijuana, a neighbor that, though 20 minutes from downtown, was long ignored. 
 And yet, Mr. Partida said, he is all too familiar with the anger. Eighteen months ago, during an emotional battle over a California state initiative to ban public benefits to illegal immigrants, Mr. Partida said he was assaulted by loads of hate mail, much of it racist, for leading the chamber in opposition to the measure.
Mr. Partida said such hostility was a dying vestige of the old San Diego, but it is clearly more complicated than that. San Diego's voters supported the initiative on immigrants, known as Proposition 187, by a lopsided margin of 67.4 percent, compared with 59 percent statewide. The measure's chief supporter was California's Republican Governor, Pete Wilson, a former Mayor of San Diego and a favorite son here.
"Every sector of the economy here is heavily dependent on immigrants," said Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California at San Diego. "They all draw heavily on this labor pool, and most of it is illegal. It underwrites an affluent life style. But the anti-immigrant line is very popular because of all the anger. People really want to have it both ways."
The Republicans, too, are divided in their views on immigrants, trade and Mexico. Senator Bob Dole, traditionally a proponent of free trade, has thrashed Patrick J. Buchanan in the primaries so far. But Mr. Buchanan's acerbic insistence on all but stopping the flow of goods, investment and people across the Mexican border has forced the party and Senator Dole to take a harder line on immigrants.
For San Diego, this comes at an awkward time. The city wants to appear open and optimistic when the convention begins, not angry.
As one local businessman put it, "When Pat Buchanan gets up in the morning and marches down to the border to shake his fist at all those Mexicans, who do you think is going to be making the bed at his hotel? It's the people he says are destroying our society."
This city's business and civic leaders are struggling to put that conflict behind them, but so far with only modest success.
"Historically, you talked about integration across the border and you were almost shot," Mr. Partida said. "This represents a shock to a community that was very isolationist. People are finally starting to see Mexico differently, but there's still a real disconnect between impressions and reality, and there's so much fear."
Susan Golding, the city's Mayor and a proponent of the more open attitude toward Mexico, conceded that it is an uphill battle.
"There are still people in San Diego who would prefer this to be an elegant cul-de-sac, if it could still be elegant," said Ms. Golding, a Republican. "I just don't think that's possible."
With 1.2 million residents, San Diego is the sixth-largest city in the country, and it has long been a Republican bastion. For decades, it was effectively a company town, and the company was the Pentagon. The Navy maintains several huge operations here and numerous aerospace and military factories are in the area.
This was no accident. Early this century, the Chamber of Commerce raised money to buy the land for the Navy. Mr. Partida said recent research into the chamber's minutes showed that the business community had pursued the Navy in part because, at the time, it was regarded as the whitest of the services. Today, San Diego has the largest military payroll, uniformed and civilian, in the country: $3.7 billion a year.
For years, Mexico and Tijuana had little place in the comfortable life that San Diego had created, except as the home of bars and brothels. "Sailors went to Tijuana," said Mayor Golding, who recalled that when she arrived here 20 years ago and suggested a visit south, a friend told her in effect that nice girls did not do such things.
And although tens of thousands of Mexicans came to San Diego to work at manual and agricultural jobs, they were often treated with disdain, many here say.
"I was not prepared for what I found when I started the office here eight years ago," said Claudia Smith, the lead lawyer in San Diego for California Rural Legal Assistance, which represents immigrants. "Even today, the anti-immigrant feelings are raw and much stronger here than anywhere else in the state."
Times began to change a few years ago. The aerospace and military factories were hit hard by the steep, post-cold war decline in Pentagon procurement. Aerospace jobs have plummeted from a peak of 27,800 in 1989 to about 9,000 now. Although the Navy bases will remain, business leaders realized they had to look elsewhere for growth.
"We started to focus on economic integration with Mexico all of a sudden because we had to," Mr. Partida said.
San Diego set up a sister city relationship with Tijuana in 1993. Greater attention was paid to the growth of the maquiladoras, the factories built in Tijuana that were allowed to move parts and finished goods across the border duty free. Often, two plants would be built, one in San Diego to do the more complex work, and one in Tijuana to do the assembly, using the cheaper wages of Mexican workers.
With that opening, the San Diego-Tijuana area has become the largest manufacturer of television sets in the world, many made by companies like Sony, Samsung and Matsushita. Many American companies have also built plants in Tijuana, part of a thriving high-technology sector here.
San Ysidro, one of several crossings here, is the busiest overland border post in the world. San Diego Dialogue, an organization affiliated with the University of California at San Diego, estimates that about 40,000 people legally cross the border for work each day, about 10,000 of whom are American citizens who choose to live in Tijuana. The group also says that Mexicans spend more than $2 billion a year in San Diego's stores.
A recent survey by the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies has found that 51 percent of the labor in the high-technology sector is foreign born, 95 percent of agricultural labor, 63 percent of construction workers and 87 percent hotel workers.
Even the world of sports has changed. Under new ownership, the San Diego Padres baseball team started marketing heavily to Hispanic residents and in Tijuana over the past year. The Padres will play three regular season games this year, against the New York Mets, in Mexico -- a first for the league.
Nevertheless, a battle of perceptions still rages.
"I think they're naive and headed for great disappointment," Roger Hedgecock, a former Mayor of San Diego and now a popular local talk show host, said of those who want a closer relationship with Mexico. "This illegal immigration is a runaway train and we don't know all the consequences. They're coming in in a tidal wave."
Mr. Hedgecock and others argue that immigrants are swamping the welfare system and causing widespread crime. But figures supporting the view are hard to come by.
Violent crime has dropped 24 percent in three years. Only about 10 percent of the 4,892 inmates in San Diego's jails are illegal immigrants.
People here complain that Mexicans are stealing American jobs, but the city's unemployment rate, 6 percent, is significantly lower than the state average of 7.7 percent. The county government is among the leanest in the state, with spending per capita about half the level of Los Angeles County, suggesting that the welfare system is under control.
The number of people caught trying to enter San Diego illegally from Mexico has risen sharply. From Oct. 1, 1995, to March 17, the Border patrol apprehended 237,286 people, a steep increase from 175,891 in the comparable period a year earlier.
But Mark Moody, a spokesman for the Border Patrol, said the jump reflected better policing rather than more people trying to slip in.
The conflicting views have left some people apprehensive about which San Diego will be on display.
"With people here just starting to see Mexico as an opportunity rather than a negative, the last thing we want is a convention directed toward extremist themes," Mr. Partida said. "We want to people to see the new San Diego."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants like Jesus E. Garcia, who came from Ensenada, Mexico, 30 years ago, are at the heart of a furious debate in San Diego. Mr. Garcia repaired fishing nets with the city's downtown skyline in the background. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO (CALIF); MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ELECTION ISSUES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; PUBLIC OPINION; REFERENDUMS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 IMMIGRATION (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); REFUGEES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); GOVERNORS (68%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES PETE BARTON WILSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



557 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Colombia's Beleaguered Chief Hints at Calling Early Election

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, March 22

 BODY:
 President Ernesto Samper, who has spent much of his presidency fending off accusations that Cali drug dealers financed his campaign, opened the way today for his resignation by raising the prospect of early elections, perhaps before the end of the year.
In a speech made as he signed a law lifting judicial secrecy from the proceedings of the Congressional Committee of Accusations, which is hearing evidence against him, the President broached several possible "political options to overcome the crisis." They included a Government of national unity, shortening his term as President or submitting his mandate to a popular referendum. 
 The prospect of early elections, like the President's proposal for a national referendum, first raised several months ago, does not appear to be meeting with widespread support. Some saw it simply as a delaying tactic, in part because the President raised it as the last in a series of proposals, preceded by vague suggestions of campaign-finance reform and judicial reform.
"As President of Colombia, my priority is to find an exit to the crisis that is affecting us," Mr. Samper said. "We have to resume a sense of normalcy."
But if Mr. Samper does decide to step down, it is clear he will not go quietly. Tonight, his attorney, Luis Guillermo Nieto, charged that the President's two main accusers, his campaign manager and treasurer, had raised money from Cali drug dealers in the name of the Samper campaign but had depositng millions of dollars in their personal bank accounts. Earlier this week, the President lashed out at the chief prosecutor, Alfonso Valdivieso, saying he should go after drug dealers instead of Government ministers. Mr. Valdivieso is investigating three members of the President's cabinet.
Mr. Samper did not suggest specific dates in his speech, but radio and press reports said he was planning to propose elections for some time between November and next March. But Mr. Samper has said he will not take any steps until Congress concludes its investigation.
In just the last month, the President has suffered several setbacks, starting on March 1 with the United States decision to declare Colombia uncooperative in the fight against drug trafficking -- an assessment that was directly tied to Washington's insistence that Mr. Samper had accepted more than $6 million in campaign contributions from drug traffickers.
Then, last week, three ministers who have been close allies of the President throughout his travails came under investigation for possible violations of campaign financing rules in Mr. Samper's election campaign and for a subsequent cover-up, which that includes accusations of the widespread use of bribery to force Mr. Valdivieso out of office.
The three could, in short order, find themselves behind bars. They are Horacio Serpa, the Interior Minister, who has been the President's most loyal and indefatigable supporter; Mr. Samper's Communications Director and childhood friend, Juan Manuel Turbay, and his Foreign Minister, Rodrigo Pardo, who had been held in high esteem here and abroad.
With each setback, the President's determination to stay in office appears to be diminishing. The man who went from saying, "Here I am and here I'll stay" a few months ago, to suggesting in individual interviews and through associates that he was seeking a "dignified exit," now appears to be acknowledging that he is unlikely to finish his term, which is to end in 1998.
This week the President met with major figures throughout the country "to hear their opinions and advance some initiatives." They included Mr. Valdivieso; three former Presidents, including Cesar Gaviria, the chairman of the Organization of American States; Liberal and Conservative Party leaders; Vice President Humberto de la Calle, and the writer Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
The President, who was given a standing ovation by business executives and trade ministers from 34 countries when he opened a meeting on trade strategies in Cartagena on Wednesday night, nevertheless has reportedly been criticized by Colombian business leaders for a decline in the country's economic fortunes in the month since decertification.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CALI CARTEL

ORGANIZATION: CALI CARTEL

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ETHICS; BRIBERY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC ELECTIONS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICS (79%); EVIDENCE (78%); BRIBERY (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); ETHICS (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); LAWYERS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); CARTELS (63%); 

PERSON: SAMPER, ERNESTO (PRES); SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN ERNESTO SAMPER (96%); ALFONSO VALDIVIESO (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



558 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Essex County's Residency Rule Faces Setback

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEWARK, March 22

 BODY:
A judge dealt a setback today to an attempt by the Essex County Executive to require employees of the county to live within its borders.
The judge, Alvin Weiss, of Superior Court, temporarily barred the county from dismissing workers who do not live in the county, even though he found that the county's 17-year-old residency requirement had been properly adopted. 
 The judge did not set a date for a hearing on a permanent injunction.
In addition, Judge Weiss found that the requirement should not apply to people who work for the county prosecutor and sheriff because those offices hire and dismiss their own employees.
The county executive, James W. Treffinger, announced earlier this year that he would enforce the dormant 1978 law in the hopes of improving the county's ailing economy.
"The $44 million in salaries paid to nonresident county employees comes from the hard-earned salaries of our Essex taxpayers," Mr. Treffinger said, "and they deserve to see that money pumped back into their own communities." . He set a deadline of July for the 750 county employees affected by the requirement to move into Essex or lose their jobs.
Eleven public employee unions representing 4,000 employees in occupations like corrections officers, clerical workers, supervisors, hospital workers and investigators challenged Mr. Treffinger in court.
After the ruling today, David H. Weiner, chairman of the Essex County Joint Labor Council, which represents all the unions that filed lawsuits, said, "The judge struck a blow against tyrannical misuse of authority by Mr. Treffinger."
Late today, Mr. Treffinger issued a statement indicating that he might consider an earlier offer made by unions to begin the residency requirement this year.
"If the ultimate result of this process proves to be that, at the very least, all persons hired by Essex County government after Jan. 1, 1996, must be Essex County residents, then I will feel that I have done my duty and served our Essex County taxpayers," Mr. Treffinger said.
But Steven Weissman, a lawyer representing four unions, said he had not heard from Mr. Treffinger.
Of the 444 employees on the prosecutor's staff, 180 live outside the county, said John S. Redden, the deputy first assistant prosecutor. "I shudder at the thought of how badly we would have been affected," he said.
Sheriff Armando B. Fontoura said 70 of his 480 employees live outside Essex County. Mr. Treffinger's plan "would have had a devastating impact on law enforcement," Sheriff Fontoura said.
In their legal arguments, the unions had contended that workers had been told by their bosses that they were permitted to live out of the county and had relied on that information in buying homes and settling their families.
But Michael Griffinger, the lawyer representing Essex County, looked at it differently.
"Some county employees chose not to obey the resolution because somebody winked at them," Mr. Griffinger said. "That will be an issue that will have to come up before the judge."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ESSEX COUNTY JOINT LABOR COUNCIL (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: ESSEX COUNTY JOINT LABOR COUNCIL (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ESSEX COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS COUNTIES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (88%); LAWYERS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: TREFFINGER, JAMES W (COUNTY EXEC) JAMES W TREFFINGER (94%); ARMANDO B FONTOURA (62%); ALVIN WEISS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



559 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: STANDOFF IN WESTCHESTER: THE GUNMAN;
Spasm of Gunfire Brought a Man's Troubled Life to a Dismal End

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
With a prayer for forgiveness scrawled on the wall and his funeral clothes neatly laid out, a troubled young man with an arsenal of weapons was found dead in his Westchester County home at dawn yesterday, ending a terrifying, 14-hour siege in which he turned a quiet suburb into a battleground, murdered a police officer by ambush and then killed his grandmother, his dog and himself.
While no one was sure what precipitated the killings, officials noted yesterday that the gunman had pleaded guilty in Manhattan last month to charges of stalking and harassing his estranged wife and was to begin a 30-day jail term in April. Friends and family said he was apparently despondent at the failure of his marriage and the prospect of jail, and may have snapped. 
 By 6 A.M. yesterday, when police sharpshooters moved into his sprawling tan home at 17 Morgan Street in Eastchester, five miles north of New York City, and crept upstairs to the back bedroom that had become his final refuge, the suspect, 26-year-old Richard Sacchi, may have been dead all night.
The police acknowledged that hundreds of heavily armed officers with armored and robot vehicles, helicopters and an army of support personnel and equipment had probably laid siege to a dead man through a bizarre night of heavy metal music blaring from his house and searchlights playing over its facade in a frightened, evacuated neighborhood.
They said Mr. Sacchi, after spraying his street with 50 shots from rifles and shotguns for an hour, had ceased firing about 4 P.M. In retrospect, and after examining the scene for clues, officials said Mr. Sacchi had apparently killed his 88-year-old grandmother by mistake, and then himself deliberately, in the hour after he killed Officer Michael Frey.
The 29-year-old Eastchester officer had been the first to respond to what the police yesterday said was evidently an ambush the gunman himself set up with a call summoning the police to his home just before 3 P.M. Thursday. The moment Officer Frey drew up, alone in his cruiser, high-powered bullets crashed through his window, struck him in the chest and killed him.
Fourteen hours later, Mr. Sacchi -- whose unhappy life was a chronicle of mental problems, violence, petty crimes, reform schools, jails, unemployment and tumultuous relationships, including a recently broken marriage -- was found lying on his back on a bloodsoaked bed beside a 12-gauge shotgun and the 30.06 rifle that he had apparently used to blast a hole in his stomach and abdomen.
It was a gruesome, eerie scene. On a hanger, the gunman had left out a black shirt and a grayish black suit, with a note that said, "clothes for me funiral." His white terrier, shot to death, lay nearby. Six rifles and shotguns were found in various rooms.
On the wall above his body, he had scribbled last words in pencil: "Jesus, forgive me for my sins. I will see you in eternity." And, "My dad is the best dad in the world." Richard Sacchi Sr. had arrived home from work only to find himself pinned down with seven officers by his son's gunfire from an upstairs window.
Lying at the bottom of the steps, the gunman's grandmother, Catherine M. Sacchi, was found dead with a gaping wound of the torso. Investigators said she had apparently been shot through a door, perhaps mistaken by her grandson for an approaching police officer, and had tumbled backward down the steps.
In a denouement laden with strange paradoxes, family acquaintances recalled yesterday that the gunman's grandmother had been an almost lifelong friend of Viola Morrissey, the 83-year-old mother of Officer Richard Morrissey, 45, the other officer who was shot. He suffered a graze wound of the head and was pinned down for hours by the gunfire and its aftermath.
Even in the light of day yesterday, it was difficult to say where the origins of the nightmare began. Mr. Sacchi had been troubled all his life, a bully in school, an adolescent out of control, who was sent to a school for disturbed youths, a psychiatric center, an alcohol rehabilitation program and lived for a time at a homeless shelter.
His parents were divorced, his mother moved away and he continued living with his father and grandmother in the big house that she owned in Eastchester. Since 1987, he had been arrested and convicted five times -- for criminal trespass, menacing and third-degree robbery.
He married Denise Marie Wiggins in 1992 and for a time was happy. He loved hunting and fishing, collecting rifles and shotguns. They worked together for a housecleaning service. But Mr. Sacchi was said to have abused his wife and the marriage fell apart last year.
She took a boyfriend, and Mr. Sacchi became violently jealous. She got an order of protection and he was arrested with a shotgun and pleaded guilty on Feb. 23 to a charge of aggravated harassment. A judge sentenced him to 30 days in jail beginning April 12.
Reconstructing the events of Mr. Sacchi's final day, officials said that the failure of his marriage and the prospect of jail may have caused him to snap. The Eastchester Police Chief, James Maher, said that Mr. Sacchi had called acquaintances and relatives on Thursday and "indicated that he would not be around too much longer."
At 2:55 P.M., he called the Eastchester police number, not 911. "He said there's a suspicious person in front of 17 Morgan Street," his own address, Chief Maher said. He said Mr. Sacchi was apparently setting up an ambush. The gunman took up a firing position in an upstairs living room, moving to a front window overlooking the lawn and street of middle-class homes. He had to wait only a few minutes.
Officer Frey responded, driving up alone in his patrol car and parking at the curb. There was no hint that a deadly situation confronted him, the Chief said.
Without warning or provocation, Chief Maher said, five copper-jacketed bullets from a high-powered 30.06 deer rifle crashed through the window of the cruiser and struck Officer Frey, who was wearing a bullet-resistant vest that covered his front and back, but left a gap on his right side -- where the fatal bullet entered his chest. He was the first officer ever killed in the line of duty in Eastchester.
Chief Maher said a female neighbor saw the the bleeding officer slumped at the wheel. She went to Mr. Sacchi's door to get help -- and then noticed the barrel of the gun out the window above, and quickly retreated and called the police.
Officer Dominick Santoianni, a 20-year veteran, arrived next and immediately came under fire and took cover. Officer Morrissey arrived with the next wave of officers and was wounded as he tried to approach the house. He took cover behind a patrol car. Reinforcements poured in and were pinned down by gunfire, as was the rifleman's father.
"He was very helpful," Chief Maher said of the father, who provided information about his son, his mother -- who was presumed then to be a hostage -- and on the layout of the house. Scores of officers from other communities joined the siege, but it was not until New York City police officers arrived with a tanklike armored car that the authorities were able to rescue those who were pinned and retrieve Officer Frey's body.
The police fired numerous bullets into the house, but officials said they did not believe Mr. Sacchi or his grandmother were hit.
As the gunfire subsided, the police settled into what seemed an all-night standoff. Efforts to reach the gunman by phone and bullhorn drew no responses. For most of the night, heavy metal rock wailed from the darkened house. Just before midnight, a police robot with a video camera found Mrs. Sacchi's body, and a team of officers went in and carried the victim out.
The robot -- a waist-high marvel that goes 5 miles an hour and climbs stairs -- was sent back in. It searched everywhere, but failed to maneuver into the back bedroom. German shepherds went in to sniff for signs of life. They found none. With time on their side, the police waited all night before moving in.
They found Mr. Sacchi face up on his bed in the gray dawn, his funeral suit laid out beside him, his last prayer scrawled on the wall, his midsection blown away.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A candle was placed in front of a house where an officer was killed. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)
 
Diagram: "A LOOK INSIDE" The Wake of a Shooting gives the floor plan of the house and shows what was found in each room.(Charles M. Blow and Archie/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EASTCHESTER (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ATTACKS ON POLICE SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FIREARMS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); MURDER (77%); SUBURBS (77%); DOGS (76%); STALKING (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (70%); MISDEMEANORS (70%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (70%); HELICOPTERS (51%); POP & ROCK (50%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; SACCHI, RICHARD; SACCHI, CATHERINE; MORRISSEY, RICHARD (POLICE OFFICER); FREY, MICHAEL (POLICE OFFICER) CATHERINE M SACCHI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



560 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: Who Benefits by New Jersey Income Tax Cut?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Timothy J. Goodspeed and Peter D. Salins (Op-Ed, March 16), in their praise of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's tax policies, overlook the 60,000 state workers who have been subjected to four-year contracts with two-year wage freezes that mean 5 percent effective wage cuts. 
 We have seen our health benefits gutted and our pensions and retirement health care attacked. My contacts with state workers suggest a level of anger that may not be measurable in immediate dollars but will come home to haunt the taxpayers.
 
RICHARD W. FRANKE
Upper Montclair, N.J., March 20, 1996
 
The writer is an executive board member, Local 1904, American Federation of Teachers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION INSURANCE CO (83%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX RELIEF (87%); WRITERS (86%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); FRANKE, RICHARD W CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



561 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: SHOWDOWN AT G.M. LEAVES BIG ISSUES STILL UNRESOLVED

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DAYTON, Ohio, March 22

 BODY:
Workers began returning to two General Motors brake factories this afternoon, ending their 17-day strike with local disputes resolved but not critical national issues between the company and the United Automobile Workers.
The national issues are sure to come up again this summer when negotiations begin before the expiration on Sept. 14 of the U.A.W.'s three-year national contract. But for now, both sides have paid a stiff price for a strike that paid off mostly for the local workers. G.M. lost considerable production, and by the end of the strike, 177,775 U.A.W. members were laid off. 
 G.M. and the U.A.W. made no changes in the national contract or local agreements on the extent to which G.M. could farm out parts production to nonunion companies, a practice known as outsourcing. This was the most important battleground in the strike for G.M. and the national leadership of the union.
The union let G.M. proceed with plans to buy some anti-lock brake systems and other parts from outside companies. But G.M. agreed to hire more workers here and promised to continue making many other brake parts here. G.M. also agreed to pay $1,700 to each local worker in compensation for buying parts from outside companies in violation of the U.A.W.'s national contract.
Both sides claimed victory in the agreement, which was reached on Thursday and approved this morning by close to 3,200 striking brake factory workers. The workers began returning to their jobs and G.M. officials said the company would reopen 26 shuttered assembly plants by the middle of next week and rehire the laid-off G.M. workers.
For his part, James M. Hagedon Jr., a G.M. spokesman, said that the company had preserved its ability to buy parts from outside companies. "We have the flexibility we've always had," he said.
Richard Shoemaker, the director of the U.A.W.'s G.M. department, said the agreement provided job security for current workers, some new jobs for Dayton residents and improvements in unsafe working conditions.
"Once again, the U.A.W. has proven that when working people stand together in defense of their rights and their livelihoods, and to demand a better future for their families and their communities, we will win," he said.
G.M. finally settled the strike several days after closing its last and most profitable factory in the United States, a plant in Janesville, Wis., that makes sport utility vehicles.
In the national contracts this summer, G.M. is likely to find itself at a disadvantage because the U.A.W. will probably seek a deal first with the Chrysler Corporation and then demand that the Ford Motor Company and G.M. accept an identical arrangement.
Chrysler already buys most of its parts from outside companies and may prove willing to cut a deal that puts a freeze on any further outsourcing, in exchange for other concessions. Any freeze on outsourcing would prove a big problem for G.M., which makes more of its own parts than any other large auto maker in the world.
One of the most unusual features of the strike here has been the very visible participation of Harry J. Pearce, G.M.'s vice chairman. Mr. Pearce is a combative lawyer who used to be G.M.'s general counsel and is now a strong candidate to someday succeed John F. Smith Jr. as G.M.'s chairman and chief executive.
Mr. Pearce made his reputation several years ago when he unearthed evidence that an NBC television program on safety defects in G.M. pickup trucks had used model rockets to make sure that a truck exploded during a videotaped collision.
Mr. Pearce, with the support of G.M.'s board, took a much more aggressive approach to the strike talks than Big Three labor negotiators had in the past. He gave interviews contending that G.M.'s survival was at stake if the company could not become more competitive by holding down its auto parts costs.
He also had G.M. ask state governments nationwide to deny unemployment benefits to U.A.W. workers, contending that the union was engaging in a national strike disguised as a local action.
Auto industry experts said today that Mr. Pearce's hardball tactics prolonged the strike. But Mr. Pearce's willingness to challenge the unemployment benefits may also make the U.A.W. think twice before starting large strikes in the future.
With the U.A.W. strike fund already depleted by an unsuccessful strike against Caterpillar Inc. last year, and with national contract negotiations approaching, Mr. Pearce's maneuver of challenging unemployment benefits represented a real financial threat to the U.A.W.
But Mr. Pearce found an equally pugnacious opponent in Joe Hasenjager, the president of U.A.W. Local 696, which represents the brake factory workers here. While Mr. Pearce could put financial pressure on the national leadership of the U.A.W., he had less leverage with Mr. Hasenjager, at the local level.
Once on strike, Mr. Hasenjager refused to lead his men back to work without numerous guarantees of jobs. Mr. Pearce and Mr. Shoemaker ended up having to fly to Dayton on Thursday and personally guarantee the jobs to Mr. Hasenjager -- a rare step for the second-ranking executive at a company with close to 800,000 workers globally.
Mr. Hasenjager has been the president of the union local here since 1987 and his father was president of the same local here in the early 1950's. He is running for re-election as president of the union local and is widely expected to win.
In interviews over the last 10 days, many members were vague about the details of the dispute and said they were on strike partly because they trusted Mr. Hasenjager's view that a strike was necessary.
The result, people close to both sides of the negotiation said today, was a final strike settlement that accommodated the local union's concerns without resolving broader tensions between G.M. and the U.A.W.
 
How Each Side Fared
 
The General Motors Corporation and the United Automobile Workers union released yesterday some of the details of the agreement that settled a brake factory strike in Dayton, Ohio. Here are the agreement's key provisions, reached Thursday:
 
WHAT THE U.A.W. WON
 
Hiring. The U.A.W. says G.M. will hire 417 workers, most of them in 1996 and 1997. G.M. says some workers will retire or leave, so overall employment will rise by only 47 workers.
Less unwanted overtime. The U.A.W. says weekly overtime for a worker will fall to 8 hours from 16 hours.
Money. G.M. will pay $1,700 to each worker as compensation for company violations of the U.A.W. national labor contract's rules on purchases from outside companies.
Safety equipment and training. The U.A.W. says G.M. will spend $6.5 million. G.M. says it planned spend more anyway.
Information. The U.A.W. says G.M.'s car and truck assembly division will provide a list of future brake needs, to help the U.A.W. and the factory bid to build them. G.M. refuses to comment.
Technology. The U.A.W. says G.M. will invest to keep the factories up-to-date. G.M. says it planned to do so anyway.
 
WHAT G.M. WON
 
Buying parts outside. The right to keep recent contractors to buy some anti-lock brakes and other parts from outside companies.
End of the strike. the ability to resume production at 26 assembly plants across North America.
 
WHAT EACH SIDE CLAIMS IT WON
 
Future outsourcing . No changes were made. The U.A.W. says it prevented G.M. from gaining new freedom to give future contracts to outside companies. But G.M says it protected existing flexibility.
 
(Sources: General Motors, United Automobile Workers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (91%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); GENERAL MOTORS CORP NATIONAL LATEX PRODUCTS CO (91%); NATIONAL SUPER SERVICE CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); GENERAL MOTORS CORP INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON (OHIO); UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; BRAKES; CONTRACTS; STRIKES OUTSOURCING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE BRAKE SYSTEM MFG (90%); STRIKES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (79%); GARMENT WORKERS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (74%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (73%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (73%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (73%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH HARRY J PEARCE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996



562 of 784 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; WEB; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 3366 words

HEADLINE: The Grunge American NovelA New York Times Magazine Profile

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
NERVOUSNESS AND DREAD frequently chase David Foster Wallace, and when they catch him, as they have now, he writhes and twitches and prattles at a breakneck clip, his incessant quips running the gamut from marvelous to mundane. ''Do you have my saliva?'' he asks a companion in his cab, reflecting on the way his jitters have drained all moisture from his mouth. ''Somebody took my saliva, because I don't have it.''
 The Sunday-night traffic is negligible and the taxi's route is a fairly straight shot down Broadway from Wallace's hotel in midtown Manhattan to a club downtown where he will kick off a 10-city book tour. But the trip seems to take an awfully long time, perhaps because it represents such a pivotal passage -- as close as anything else to a dividing line between what Wallace was and what he is becoming, between modest literary recognition and immodest literary fame.
 ''I'm sort of nervous,'' he says as the cab creeps ever closer to its destination. ''I have no saliva.'' 
 The taxi pulls up to a dark building that could easily pass for abandoned. K.G.B. is a smoky, shadowy club with a Muscovite motif and a weekly reading series, largely for avant-garde writers. Wallace steps inside to find a narrow staircase mobbed with people. They are merely the spillover. The real crowd waits in a room at the top.
 Wallace's lips almost curl into a smile, then beat a hasty retreat. He wants this, he doesn't want this, he is still sifting through his feelings. He is also trying to find precisely the right face to put on them, because he knows that the way he plays this scene and similar ones could color his whole career.
 He pushes up the stairs, through the tangle of bodies, and somehow, inch by crushing inch, makes his way to the front of the room, where a lectern stands before about 125 people. After a short wait and a fawning introduction by the club's co-owner, he opens a copy of his sprawling 1,079-page novel, ''Infinite Jest,'' and begins to read three snippets.
 For the first, concerning a bungled burglary by two drug addicts, his voice is halting and the crowd's laughter is tentative. During the second, about a bizarre fitness guru, both his confidence and the crowd's response grow strong. And by the end of the third, about the use of video telephones in the near future, he sounds positively exultant, and the audience answers him with sustained applause. Bathed in that delicious noise, Wallace looks beatific.
 Nervousness? Dread? For this moment, at least, they seem distant memories, banished by the heady thrill of it all.
 a DECADE AGO, IT WAS MCINERNEY. DECADES earlier, Mailer. Right now, it is Wallace, the first young novelist in several years to pique such intense curiosity.
 He is a 34-year-old writer with the ardor, arrogance or sheer audacity to produce a book so bulky that, as he jokes, customers at Barnes & Noble may need help carrying their purchases to their cars. ''Infinite Jest'' is not only massive but also forbidding, and more than a few of the hardy souls who set out to scale it will neither make it to the summit nor care to.
 Set mostly at a tennis academy and a drug rehabilitation center in the not-too-distant future, ''Infinite Jest'' tells a jumble of tales that often seem loosely related, if at all. Front and center is the story of the three Incandenza brothers -- a promiscuous football punter, a brainy tennis prodigy and a dwarf -- and the long shadow cast over them by their father, who committed suicide. Off to the side are a band of terrorists in wheelchairs who are on the hunt for a copy of a movie, the eponymous ''Infinite Jest,'' said to be so entertaining it puts anyone who watches it into a permanent, blissed-out stupor. And way down below, struggling to the surface for air, is Don Gately, an old drug addict with a new religion.
 All of these strenuously eccentric characters inhabit a narrative that proceeds in a distinctly nonlinear fashion, lurching from abrupt, trumpetlike blasts of information to sentences so long only a supercomputer could diagram them. Wallace is to literature what Robin Williams or perhaps Jim Carrey is to live comedy: a creator so manically energetic and amused with himself that he often follows his riffs out into the stratosphere, where he orbits all alone. ''Infinite Jest'' is best read with a dictionary and maybe even a pharmacology textbook at hand, for it employs an often arcane vocabulary (''strabismic,'' ''erumpent'') and makes reference to a bulging medicine chest of psychoactive drugs. Some are explicated in the 96 pages of footnotes that Wallace has appended to his tome.
 The critics -- or most of them, anyway -- are smitten. ''Next year's book awards have been decided,'' began a review in New York magazine by Walter Kirn. ''The plaques and citations can now be put in escrow.'' The normally saturnine Sven Birkerts, writing in The Atlantic Monthly, proclaimed that ''Infinite Jest'' had ''internalized some of the decentering energies that computer technologies have released into our midst.'' Will Blythe, of Esquire, after grousing about the novel's heft and hype, came right out and declared that ''it shows signs, in fact, of being a genuine work of genius.'' Even those critics with qualms about the novel's loquacity and opacity gave it high marks in the end. Michiko Kakutani, who reviewed ''Infinite Jest'' for The Times, was highly dubious, but ultimately anointed Wallace ''a writer of virtuosic talents who can seemingly do anything.''
 The critics aren't the only ones angling to prove that they get it. Wallace's contemporaries have shown up at his public appearances in force. When he read at K.G.B., Elizabeth Wurtzel, the author of ''Prozac Nation,'' claimed a spot near the front of the room. The following night, at another jampacked reading, this time at Tower Books in the Village, Ethan Hawke lurked in the back. And at the official book party two nights later at an East Village club, M. G. Lord, the author of ''Forever Barbie,'' can be seen chatting up another novelist of the moment, A. M. Homes. Between puffs of their cigarettes, many people whisper what Wallace says he does not want to hear: he is the current ''it'' boy of contemporary fiction.
 For a long stretch Wallace retreats to an office above the club's kitchen to decompress. There are moments when the full measure of his success hits him and he feels what he describes as ''unalloyed happiness.'' But there are moments, too, when he feels besieged, disoriented and even a bit terrified.
 ''Something is slightly off about this whole thing,'' he says on the eve of his tour, as he sits on a sofa in his house in Bloomington, Ill. The smaller of his two dogs, a black Labrador retriever mix named Jeeves, keeps trying to climb into his lap and lick his lips, a gesture not unrelated to the fact that Wallace is eating a bologna sandwich. ''They pretend they're kissing you,'' Wallace says of his dogs, ''but they're really mining your mouth for food.''
 He is as suspicious of the attention coming his way as he is of Jeeves's motives. ''I keep getting the feeling that all of this is about some initial surge of excitement, and now it's created excitement about the excitement,'' he says. Elated as he is about his achievement and eager as he is to promote the book, he maintains that the hoopla almost makes him want to become a recluse.
 This assertion plays in part like a canny pose of tactful modesty and in part like a nod to such literary idols as J. D. Salinger and Thomas Pynchon, whose work Wallace's resembles. But Wallace's friends say that his desire for privacy is genuine. They cite his decision to live far away from the publishing hubbub, in the flat farmland of the Middle West, and to teach at Illinois State University, a school without ivy. Jonathan Franzen, a fellow novelist and confidant, says Wallace is like many serious writers who, by necessity, spend most of their time alone. ''You tend to develop the personality that corresponds to that solitude,'' Franzen says.
 This helps explain why sudden fame is often more awkward for a serious writer than for a serious actor, who does his work in public and is accustomed to being the subject, rather than the agent, of observation. An actor can mug his way through a fairly long string of parties and fashion shows before he is accused of overexposure and ridiculed; a writer hits that threshold sooner. ''Then his subsequent work isn't looked at directly, but through the glare of all that publicity,'' says the editor Gary Fisketjon, whose stable of writers at Knopf includes Jay McInerney. The more a writer indulges the news media, Fisketjon observes, the more vulnerable he is to deflation. ''It raises the stakes on everything he does in the future.''
 Wallace has a virtually innate awareness of this danger. ''When I won't do things like appear on network television, it's not because I have a lot of integrity,'' he says. ''Part of it is that I feel I'm going to turn off exactly the people whose approval I'm most hungry for.'' While he is not greedy about money, he explains, ''I'm real greedy about respect.''
 In one sense, the success of Wallace and ''Infinite Jest'' are a complete surprise. No one knows who and what will hit the jackpot at a given moment, and publishers constantly squander large cash advances and aggressive publicity campaigns on books that land quickly in the remainder bin. ''It really depends on so many things that are impossible for you to align by yourself,'' says Bret Easton Ellis, who has had more than a decade, and plenty of disappointments, since the publication of ''Less Than Zero'' to reflect on the process. ''It's the mood of the public, the times -- all these intangibles.''
 But in another sense, what is happening to Wallace was predictable and painstakingly engineered. When Michael Pietsch, the book's editor, convinced his colleagues at Little, Brown and Company to fork over a figure estimated at $90,000 to buy ''Infinite Jest'' as a work in progress, he argued that Wallace had developed a significant cult following with his first two books, ''The Broom of the System'' and ''Girl With Curious Hair,'' and was due for a breakthrough.
 Pietsch also apprehended several other realities that have influenced Wallace's success. Many years had passed since the so-called Brat Pack of the mid- to late 1980's -- McInerney, Ellis and Tama Janowitz -- turned putatively serious literature into a fashion statement, and it was long past time for a new Wunderkind to do something similar. More to the point, the members of so-called Generation X had yet to claim definitively a maverick, idiosyncratic literary voice all their own. Wallace's work spoke both to this generation's shtick and to its soul.
 ''Infinite Jest'' is sardonic, jaded and steeped in references to all strata of popular culture, from high to low. It exhibits both a savvy grasp of the cyberfrontiers on the horizon and a deep, abiding distrust of them. It is mildly subversive, occasionally ribald and sporadically crude. Think David Letterman with a postgraduate degree and diction, and you get at least some idea of the sensibility. ''This has become a very hip book to read,'' says Alice K. Turner, the fiction editor at Playboy, who encouraged Wallace early in his career. ''We've had a lot of skimpy fare for a long time.''
 Indeed, executives at Little, Brown quickly realized that the sheer length of ''Infinite Jest'' could work in their favor, and although Wallace was asked to cut about 300 pages from his initial draft, he was still allowed to exceed 1,000 pages, which meant that the book would be priced at $30. ''We decided to play it as importance -- that the size lent a certain weight to the book, that there was a certain undeniability about it,'' says Amy Rhodes, head of marketing for the company. Her strategy revolved around a kind of dare: are you reader enough for this book?
 To create that elusive, ephemeral entity known as buzz, the company compiled a list of 4,000 booksellers, industry insiders and media types and sent out a staggered series of six postcards that cryptically heralded the release of an at-first-unspecified book that gives ''infinite pleasure'' with ''infinite style.'' And when blurbs to that effect became available from other authors and critics, Little, Brown put them on postcards and dispatched another series of three. Says Paul Slovak, senior vice president of publicity for Viking Penguin, ''The promotional campaign has been brilliant.''
 And Wallace -- wittingly or unwittingly -- has served it well, projecting the perfect measure of aloofness, particularly in his appearance, which flouts conventional vanity in a manner that doth protest perhaps a bit too much. He often wears a bandanna wrapped tightly around his head, as if to avoid combing his shoulder-length hair and to coddle his febrile mind. His wire-rimmed glasses, stubble of beard and hole-ridden sweaters lend him the aspect of a doctoral candidate so deep in thought that he cannot afford the time or energy for grooming. Yet he runs regularly to stay fit, and his bathroom contains special tooth polish to combat the effects of the tobacco he chews. There's also a special acne medication to keep his skin unblemished.
 He hates that his publicity tour involves so many photography sessions. ''Whenever the picture comes out, it's absolutely appalling to me,'' he says. ''I just so wish that wasn't what I looked like. I've just figured it out: I'm not going to look at them anymore.''
 DO YOU GUYS KNOW 'THE CHARLIE ROSE Show'?'' Wallace asks two of his faculty friends at Illinois State, a married couple many years older than he, when he visits their house to say goodbye before his three-week tour. ''Would you think it was whorish if somebody went on it?''
 ''No, no,'' says Charles Harris, a professor of English. ''It's on late at night, and it goes into things at length. Are you going on it?''
 ''I did have a no-TV pledge,'' Wallace sighs.
 ''Until they asked?'' jokes Harris's wife, Victoria.
 After considerable introspection, Wallace nixes ''Charlie Rose,'' just as he turned down the ''Today'' show before it. In the interviews he does grant, Wallace draws sharp boundaries about what he will discuss and begs assurances about how it will be presented. ''If you quote that,'' he will qualify something he has just said, ''I'd really like you to quote that I acknowledge it sounds banal and cliched.''
 Friends say there are powerful currents of ambition and competitiveness in Wallace that can be traced back to his childhood in Urbana, Ill., and his career as a junior tennis player of some local prominence. Wallace's father, a philosophy professor at the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign, and his mother, an English teacher at a community college, ferried him to tournaments throughout the Middle West.
 At Amherst College in Massachusetts, however, it was the life of the mind that he pursued, and with a similar vengeance. His major was philosophy. He recalls that during his sophomore year a professor told him he was a genius: ''It was the happiest moment in my life. I felt like I would never have to go to the bathroom again -- that I'd transcended it.''
 Mark Costello, a classmate, says Wallace was pegged by professors there as someone who could become an important philosopher. So when Wallace turned his intellectual energies toward fiction writing, it was a decision fraught with ambivalence and fear. ''He was a guy under tremendous internal pressure,'' Costello says. ''I think it was important to him to get a little external confirmation that he hadn't made an absurd choice.''
 His senior thesis at Amherst became the first rough chunk of ''The Broom of the System,'' his 467-page Pynchonesque debut novel; shortly after he graduated and went on to what he derisively calls a ''master of flatulent arts'' program in creative writing at the University of Arizona, he had a contract with Viking Penguin, which published ''Broom'' in 1987. That same year he won a prestigious $25,000 Whiting Writers' Award. Two years later Norton published ''Girl With Curious Hair,'' a collection of short fiction.
 But Wallace was tormented and miserable. Was he really brilliant, as some people told him? Or was he a fake, as he sometimes felt? By this point he was drinking heavily, taking drugs and sleeping around, self-destructive behavior that he figured was consistent with the life style that a cool, serious writer was supposed to have. Wallace is intentionally vague on this period of his life, and what he divulges sometimes contradicts the recollections of friends. He says he never formally entered a recovery program; Alice Turner says he did. He mentions a single suicide scare and subsequent stay in a psychiatric ward; friends allude to more than one.
 There is agreement, however, that he halted his downward spiral around 1990 and began to cultivate a saner, stabler existence. He eventually took a job as an associate professor at Illinois State in Normal and bought a middle-class house on a road that winds past fields of feed corn and a slaughterhouse. He adopted Jeeves and another black Lab mix, the Drone.
 For a while, a woman lived there, too, but she is gone now, her departure marked by the absence of any furniture in the living room. ''I hate that room,'' Wallace says. ''I always walk fast through that room to get to other rooms.'' His relationships, he confesses, have been many and short-lived. Before moving back to Illinois, he became involved for a time with the writer Mary Karr, author of ''The Liar's Club,'' and had her name tattooed on his upper arm. He blames himself for the brevity of his attachments. ''I'm massively selfish about my work, and I don't seem to be able to be very polite or considerate about other people's feelings,'' he says.
 His friendships appear to be more durable, and he finds them in unexpected places. Back in Illinois, he began to attend Sunday services at various churches around town -- there is something about religious faith, which was missing from his rearing by two atheists, that entices and calms him -- and he formed his closest social relationship with an older, married couple, Doug and Erin Poag. They met at a Mennonite house of worship.
 The Friday night before the Sunday start of his book tour finds Wallace watching ''The X-Files'' with the Poags in their living room. They are eating Kentucky Fried Chicken and Italian heroes on trays.
 The Poags mention that another of Wallace's favorite shows is ''Baywatch,'' and his face reddens. ''There are very complicated esthetic reasons why I watch it,'' he protests. ''It's why I used to watch 'The Love Boat' -- it was soothing, like a narcotic. You knew all problems would be resolved in 15 minutes and many lush platitudes would be exchanged.''
 wALLACE ACTUALLY BRINGS ERIN POAG ALONG to his readings in New York. The trip was a Christmas present to her from both Wallace and her family, but it clearly serves Wallace as well, reminding him of his other life outside the limelight.
 It will be difficult to balance the two existences. Although Wallace had initially decided not to read reviews of ''Infinite Jest,'' telling his agent to save them for some later date, he made a special trip to the campus library to find one of the first ones. He even donned sunglasses, ''because I'm an idiot who imagines that people have nothing better to do than sit around and watch me read my reviews.''
 Five days into his tour Wallace says that what he finds scariest about the whirlwind is his ability to tune out the aspects that make him uncomfortable and to let himself be borne along on its velvety currents. By the time he reached his 12th photo shoot, he says, he had learned to travel far away from the moment in his mind: ''I have actually gotten to revisit, in my head, all the museums I've ever gone to.''
 Very soon, he says, he will go home and get back to work. He will even change his telephone number. But there's a subtle note of worry in his voice. At some level, he knows how hard it will be to stop the ringing, and how hard it will be to resist it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); CELEBRITIES (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); WRITERS (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



563 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3344 words

HEADLINE: The Grunge American Novel

BYLINE: By Frank Bruni; Frank Bruni is a reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
ERVOUSNESS AND DREAD frequently chase David Foster Wallace, and when they catch him, as they have now, he writhes and twitches and prattles at a breakneck clip, his incessant quips running the gamut from marvelous to mundane. "Do you have my saliva?" he asks a companion in his cab, reflecting on the way his jitters have drained all moisture from his mouth. "Somebody took my saliva, because I don't have it."
The Sunday-night traffic is negligible and the taxi's route is a fairly straight shot down Broadway from Wallace's hotel in midtown Manhattan to a club downtown where he will kick off a 10-city book tour. But the trip seems to take an awfully long time, perhaps because it represents such a pivotal passage -- as close as anything else to a dividing line between what Wallace was and what he is becoming, between modest literary recognition and immodest literary fame. 
 "I'm sort of nervous," he says as the cab creeps ever closer to its destination. "I have no saliva."
The taxi pulls up to a dark building that could easily pass for abandoned. K.G.B. is a smoky, shadowy club with a Muscovite motif and a weekly reading series, largely for avant-garde writers. Wallace steps inside to find a narrow staircase mobbed with people. They are merely the spillover. The real crowd waits in a room at the top.
Wallace's lips almost curl into a smile, then beat a hasty retreat. He wants this, he doesn't want this, he is still sifting through his feelings. He is also trying to find precisely the right face to put on them, because he knows that the way he plays this scene and similar ones could color his whole career.
He pushes up the stairs, through the tangle of bodies, and somehow, inch by crushing inch, makes his way to the front of the room, where a lectern stands before about 125 people. After a short wait and a fawning introduction by the club's co-owner, he opens a copy of his sprawling 1,079-page novel, "Infinite Jest," and begins to read three snippets.
For the first, concerning a bungled burglary by two drug addicts, his voice is halting and the crowd's laughter is tentative. During the second, about a bizarre fitness guru, both his confidence and the crowd's response grow strong. And by the end of the third, about the use of video telephones in the near future, he sounds positively exultant, and the audience answers him with sustained applause. Bathed in that delicious noise, Wallace looks beatific.
Nervousness? Dread? For this moment, at least, they seem distant memories, banished by the heady thrill of it all.
A DECADE AGO, IT WAS MCINERNEY. DECADES earlier, Mailer. Right now, it is Wallace, the first young novelist in several years to pique such intense curiosity.
He is a 34-year-old writer with the ardor, arrogance or sheer audacity to produce a book so bulky that, as he jokes, customers at Barnes & Noble may need help carrying their purchases to their cars. "Infinite Jest" is not only massive but also forbidding, and more than a few of the hardy souls who set out to scale it will neither make it to the summit nor care to.
Set mostly at a tennis academy and a drug rehabilitation center in the not-too-distant future, "Infinite Jest" tells a jumble of tales that often seem loosely related, if at all. Front and center is the story of the three Incandenza brothers -- a promiscuous football punter, a brainy tennis prodigy and a dwarf -- and the long shadow cast over them by their father, who committed suicide. Off to the side are a band of terrorists in wheelchairs who are on the hunt for a copy of a movie, the eponymous "Infinite Jest," said to be so entertaining it puts anyone who watches it into a permanent, blissed-out stupor. And way down below, struggling to the surface for air, is Don Gately, an old drug addict with a new religion.
All of these strenuously eccentric characters inhabit a narrative that proceeds in a distinctly nonlinear fashion, lurching from abrupt, trumpetlike blasts of information to sentences so long only a supercomputer could diagram them. Wallace is to literature what Robin Williams or perhaps Jim Carrey is to live comedy: a creator so manically energetic and amused with himself that he often follows his riffs out into the stratosphere, where he orbits all alone. "Infinite Jest" is best read with a dictionary and maybe even a pharmacology textbook at hand, for it employs an often arcane vocabulary ("strabismic," "erumpent") and makes reference to a bulging medicine chest of psychoactive drugs. Some are explicated in the 96 pages of footnotes that Wallace has appended to his tome.
The critics -- or most of them, anyway -- are smitten. "Next year's book awards have been decided," began a review in New York magazine by Walter Kirn. "The plaques and citations can now be put in escrow." The normally saturnine Sven Birkerts, writing in The Atlantic Monthly, proclaimed that "Infinite Jest" had "internalized some of the decentering energies that computer technologies have released into our midst." Will Blythe, of Esquire, after grousing about the novel's heft and hype, came right out and declared that "it shows signs, in fact, of being a genuine work of genius." Even those critics with qualms about the novel's loquacity and opacity gave it high marks in the end. Michiko Kakutani, who reviewed "Infinite Jest" for The Times, was highly dubious, but ultimately anointed Wallace "a writer of virtuosic talents who can seemingly do anything."
The critics aren't the only ones angling to prove that they get it. Wallace's contemporaries have shown up at his public appearances in force. When he read at K.G.B., Elizabeth Wurtzel, the author of "Prozac Nation," claimed a spot near the front of the room. The following night, at another jampacked reading, this time at Tower Books in the Village, Ethan Hawke lurked in the back. And at the official book party two nights later at an East Village club, M. G. Lord, the author of "Forever Barbie," can be seen chatting up another novelist of the moment, A. M. Homes. Between puffs of their cigarettes, many people whisper what Wallace says he does not want to hear: he is the current "it" boy of contemporary fiction.
For a long stretch Wallace retreats to an office above the club's kitchen to decompress. There are moments when the full measure of his success hits him and he feels what he describes as "unalloyed happiness." But there are moments, too, when he feels besieged, disoriented and even a bit terrified.
"Something is slightly off about this whole thing," he says on the eve of his tour, as he sits on a sofa in his house in Bloomington, Ill. The smaller of his two dogs, a black Labrador retriever mix named Jeeves, keeps trying to climb into his lap and lick his lips, a gesture not unrelated to the fact that Wallace is eating a bologna sandwich. "They pretend they're kissing you," Wallace says of his dogs, "but they're really mining your mouth for food."
He is as suspicious of the attention coming his way as he is of Jeeves's motives. "I keep getting the feeling that all of this is about some initial surge of excitement, and now it's created excitement about the excitement," he says. Elated as he is about his achievement and eager as he is to promote the book, he maintains that the hoopla almost makes him want to become a recluse.
This assertion plays in part like a canny pose of tactful modesty and in part like a nod to such literary idols as J. D. Salinger and Thomas Pynchon, whose work Wallace's resembles. But Wallace's friends say that his desire for privacy is genuine. They cite his decision to live far away from the publishing hubbub, in the flat farmland of the Middle West, and to teach at Illinois State University, a school without ivy. Jonathan Franzen, a fellow novelist and confidant, says Wallace is like many serious writers who, by necessity, spend most of their time alone. "You tend to develop the personality that corresponds to that solitude," Franzen says.
This helps explain why sudden fame is often more awkward for a serious writer than for a serious actor, who does his work in public and is accustomed to being the subject, rather than the agent, of observation. An actor can mug his way through a fairly long string of parties and fashion shows before he is accused of overexposure and ridiculed; a writer hits that threshold sooner. "Then his subsequent work isn't looked at directly, but through the glare of all that publicity," says the editor Gary Fisketjon, whose stable of writers at Knopf includes Jay McInerney. The more a writer indulges the news media, Fisketjon observes, the more vulnerable he is to deflation. "It raises the stakes on everything he does in the future."
Wallace has a virtually innate awareness of this danger. "When I won't do things like appear on network television, it's not because I have a lot of integrity," he says. "Part of it is that I feel I'm going to turn off exactly the people whose approval I'm most hungry for." While he is not greedy about money, he explains, "I'm real greedy about respect."
In one sense, the success of Wallace and "Infinite Jest" are a complete surprise. No one knows who and what will hit the jackpot at a given moment, and publishers constantly squander large cash advances and aggressive publicity campaigns on books that land quickly in the remainder bin. "It really depends on so many things that are impossible for you to align by yourself," says Bret Easton Ellis, who has had more than a decade, and plenty of disappointments, since the publication of "Less Than Zero" to reflect on the process. "It's the mood of the public, the times -- all these intangibles."
But in another sense, what is happening to Wallace was predictable and painstakingly engineered. When Michael Pietsch, the book's editor, convinced his colleagues at Little, Brown and Company to fork over a figure estimated at $90,000 to buy "Infinite Jest" as a work in progress, he argued that Wallace had developed a significant cult following with his first two books, "The Broom of the System" and "Girl With Curious Hair," and was due for a breakthrough.
Pietsch also apprehended several other realities that have influenced Wallace's success. Many years had passed since the so-called Brat Pack of the mid- to late 1980's -- McInerney, Ellis and Tama Janowitz -- turned putatively serious literature into a fashion statement, and it was long past time for a new Wunderkind to do something similar. More to the point, the members of so-called Generation X had yet to claim definitively a maverick, idiosyncratic literary voice all their own. Wallace's work spoke both to this generation's shtick and to its soul.
"Infinite Jest" is sardonic, jaded and steeped in references to all strata of popular culture, from high to low. It exhibits both a savvy grasp of the cyberfrontiers on the horizon and a deep, abiding distrust of them. It is mildly subversive, occasionally ribald and sporadically crude. Think David Letterman with a postgraduate degree and diction, and you get at least some idea of the sensibility. "This has become a very hip book to read," says Alice K. Turner, the fiction editor at Playboy, who encouraged Wallace early in his career. "We've had a lot of skimpy fare for a long time."
Indeed, executives at Little, Brown quickly realized that the sheer length of "Infinite Jest" could work in their favor, and although Wallace was asked to cut about 300 pages from his initial draft, he was still allowed to exceed 1,000 pages, which meant that the book would be priced at $30. "We decided to play it as importance -- that the size lent a certain weight to the book, that there was a certain undeniability about it," says Amy Rhodes, head of marketing for the company. Her strategy revolved around a kind of dare: are you reader enough for this book?
To create that elusive, ephemeral entity known as buzz, the company compiled a list of 4,000 booksellers, industry insiders and media types and sent out a staggered series of six postcards that cryptically heralded the release of an at-first-unspecified book that gives "infinite pleasure" with "infinite style." And when blurbs to that effect became available from other authors and critics, Little, Brown put them on postcards and dispatched another series of three. Says Paul Slovak, senior vice president of publicity for Viking Penguin, "The promotional campaign has been brilliant."
And Wallace -- wittingly or unwittingly -- has served it well, projecting the perfect measure of aloofness, particularly in his appearance, which flouts conventional vanity in a manner that doth protest perhaps a bit too much. He often wears a bandanna wrapped tightly around his head, as if to avoid combing his shoulder-length hair and to coddle his febrile mind. His wire-rimmed glasses, stubble of beard and hole-ridden sweaters lend him the aspect of a doctoral candidate so deep in thought that he cannot afford the time or energy for grooming. Yet he runs regularly to stay fit, and his bathroom contains special tooth polish to combat the effects of the tobacco he chews. There's also a special acne medication to keep his skin unblemished.
He hates that his publicity tour involves so many photography sessions. "Whenever the picture comes out, it's absolutely appalling to me," he says. "I just so wish that wasn't what I looked like. I've just figured it out: I'm not going to look at them anymore."
"DO YOU GUYS KNOW 'THE CHARLIE ROSE Show'?" Wallace asks two of his faculty friends at Illinois State, a married couple many years older than he, when he visits their house to say goodbye before his three-week tour. "Would you think it was whorish if somebody went on it?"
"No, no," says Charles Harris, a professor of English. "It's on late at night, and it goes into things at length. Are you going on it?"
"I did have a no-TV pledge," Wallace sighs.
"Until they asked?" jokes Harris's wife, Victoria.
After considerable introspection, Wallace nixes "Charlie Rose," just as he turned down the "Today" show before it. In the interviews he does grant, Wallace draws sharp boundaries about what he will discuss and begs assurances about how it will be presented. "If you quote that," he will qualify something he has just said, "I'd really like you to quote that I acknowledge it sounds banal and cliched."
Friends say there are powerful currents of ambition and competitiveness in Wallace that can be traced back to his childhood in Urbana, Ill., and his career as a junior tennis player of some local prominence. Wallace's father, a philosophy professor at the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign, and his mother, an English teacher at a community college, ferried him to tournaments throughout the Middle West.
At Amherst College in Massachusetts, however, it was the life of the mind that he pursued, and with a similar vengeance. His major was philosophy. He recalls that during his sophomore year a professor told him he was a genius: "It was the happiest moment in my life. I felt like I would never have to go to the bathroom again -- that I'd transcended it."
Mark Costello, a classmate, says Wallace was pegged by professors there as someone who could become an important philosopher. So when Wallace turned his intellectual energies toward fiction writing, it was a decision fraught with ambivalence and fear. "He was a guy under tremendous internal pressure," Costello says. "I think it was important to him to get a little external confirmation that he hadn't made an absurd choice."
His senior thesis at Amherst became the first rough chunk of "The Broom of the System," his 467-page Pynchonesque debut novel; shortly after he graduated and went on to what he derisively calls a "master of flatulent arts" program in creative writing at the University of Arizona, he had a contract with Viking Penguin, which published "Broom" in 1987. That same year he won a prestigious $25,000 Whiting Writers' Award. Two years later Norton published "Girl With Curious Hair," a collection of short fiction.
But Wallace was tormented and miserable. Was he really brilliant, as some people told him? Or was he a fake, as he sometimes felt? By this point he was drinking heavily, taking drugs and sleeping around, self-destructive behavior that he figured was consistent with the life style that a cool, serious writer was supposed to have. Wallace is intentionally vague on this period of his life, and what he divulges sometimes contradicts the recollections of friends. He says he never formally entered a recovery program; Alice Turner says he did. He mentions a single suicide scare and subsequent stay in a psychiatric ward; friends allude to more than one.
There is agreement, however, that he halted his downward spiral around 1990 and began to cultivate a saner, stabler existence. He eventually took a job as an associate professor at Illinois State in Normal and bought a middle-class house on a road that winds past fields of feed corn and a slaughterhouse. He adopted Jeeves and another black Lab mix, the Drone.
For a while, a woman lived there, too, but she is gone now, her departure marked by the absence of any furniture in the living room. "I hate that room," Wallace says. "I always walk fast through that room to get to other rooms." His relationships, he confesses, have been many and short-lived. Before moving back to Illinois, he became involved for a time with the writer Mary Karr, author of "The Liar's Club," and had her name tattooed on his upper arm. He blames himself for the brevity of his attachments. "I'm massively selfish about my work, and I don't seem to be able to be very polite or considerate about other people's feelings," he says.
His friendships appear to be more durable, and he finds them in unexpected places. Back in Illinois, he began to attend Sunday services at various churches around town -- there is something about religious faith, which was missing from his rearing by two atheists, that entices and calms him -- and he formed his closest social relationship with an older, married couple, Doug and Erin Poag. They met at a Mennonite house of worship.
The Friday night before the Sunday start of his book tour finds Wallace watching "The X-Files" with the Poags in their living room. They are eating Kentucky Fried Chicken and Italian heroes on trays.
The Poags mention that another of Wallace's favorite shows is "Baywatch," and his face reddens. "There are very complicated esthetic reasons why I watch it," he protests. "It's why I used to watch 'The Love Boat' -- it was soothing, like a narcotic. You knew all problems would be resolved in 15 minutes and many lush platitudes would be exchanged."
WALLACE ACTUALLY BRINGS ERIN POAG ALONG to his readings in New York. The trip was a Christmas present to her from both Wallace and her family, but it clearly serves Wallace as well, reminding him of his other life outside the limelight.
It will be difficult to balance the two existences. Although Wallace had initially decided not to read reviews of "Infinite Jest," telling his agent to save them for some later date, he made a special trip to the campus library to find one of the first ones. He even donned sunglasses, "because I'm an idiot who imagines that people have nothing better to do than sit around and watch me read my reviews."
Five days into his tour Wallace says that what he finds scariest about the whirlwind is his ability to tune out the aspects that make him uncomfortable and to let himself be borne along on its velvety currents. By the time he reached his 12th photo shoot, he says, he had learned to travel far away from the moment in his mind: "I have actually gotten to revisit, in my head, all the museums I've ever gone to."
Very soon, he says, he will go home and get back to work. He will even change his telephone number. But there's a subtle note of worry in his voice. At some level, he knows how hard it will be to stop the ringing, and how hard it will be to resist it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At 1,000 pages plus, the jest is virtually infinite. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIZZIE HIMMEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: WALLACE'S HOTEL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); CELEBRITIES (75%); WRITERS (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; WALLACE, DAVID FOSTER DAVID FOSTER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



564 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 34; Column 4; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: WORD & IMAGE;
A Tawdry TV Pageant

BYLINE: By Max Frankel 

 BODY:
IS THERE AN adolescent in America who did not know, weeks before its premiere, that "N.Y.P.D. Blue" -- yes, blue -- set out to stretch the boundaries of permissible sex on broadcast television? Is there any parent who doesn't know that "E.R." depicts anguished hospital scenes and gory medical procedures that might frighten a child? Does anyone need a ratings chart to discern the porno promise of a typical hour with Sally Jessy Raphael entitled "Mom, I'm a Teen Prostitute"?
Why, then, does President Clinton put any stock in a new law requiring a V-chip in television sets to enable parents to lock out undesirable programs? And why did the media moguls acquiesce so quickly in a scheme they had vowed to fight all the way to the Supreme Court? Suddenly and dutifully, they accepted President Clinton's election-year summons to the White House and promised, by next year, to invent a ratings system to measure and proclaim the intensity of sex and violence in their programs. "They're handing the TV remote control back to America's parents," Clinton exulted. 
 Don't believe it. The television industry has not lacked for means to reveal the content of its programs or to cancel the trashy ones. It has been no more reluctant to advertise violence and smut than to produce them. Contrary to the headlines, the President and the broadcasters are colluding to give only an appearance of doing something for "family values."
In the process, they have dealt a serious blow to the cause of improving the quality of children's television. And, not so incidentally, they have virtually wrecked all hopes of compelling, or even persuading, the networks to give political candidates free air time in the last weeks of an election campaign.
DOING SOMETHING FOR TV-hooked kids and TVdependent candidates is the last remaining item on the agenda of those who think broadcasters owe society a good amount of "public service." A leader of that effort is Reed Hundt, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, who thinks that a few hours of desirable programming is the least that Government should ask in return for the industry's free use of the airwaves. He believes that broadcasters, like other spectrum users, should pay for their channels both in cash and time. The President, the Congress and the industry, however, seem eager to settle for mere gestures. This pageant of media pretense has played out with remarkable speed. In December, Congress finished writing the most comprehensive telecommunications law in half a century to stimulate phone and cable competition. It mandates the V-chip and tries to outlaw pornography on the Internet, but otherwise provides for the gradual elimination of virtually all Government supervision of prices, services, profits and operations. The bill was held up in the Senate, however, when Bob Dole, the majority leader, protested its continuing "give-away" of spectrum space to broadcasters. He relented on Feb. 1 only on the promise that the spectrum issue would be revisited later this year.
State of play: The most likely Republican candidate for President threatens to tax industry profits with spectrum fees.
Hundt, meanwhile, held F.C.C. hearings to emphasize the public's stake not only in the spectrum but also in the five or six additional channels each television station would acquire in the coming era of digital transmissions. The value of that additional spectrum space was said to be at least $40 billion, maybe double that. So besides urging auction or rental of that space, many witnesses suggested trading it for public-service programming.
State of play: Industry senses an urgent need to outflank the forces gathering around the liberal Hundt and the conservative Dole.
Enter Bill Clinton, discoursing on the State of the Union's "values": "I challenge the broadcast industry" to rate its programs -- with something resembling the movies' G, PG-13, R and NC-17 -- "and I invite the leaders of major media" to discuss "concrete ways to improve what our children see on television."
State of play: President begs the industry to help him seize the "family values" issue from the Republicans and implies he could help seize the spectrum issue from Hundt and Dole.
The entertainment industry is seized with a change of heart and promises a ratings system by next January. Its moguls bask in the President's praise. They promise nothing about better children's programs and he, revealingly, says nothing about the public's stake in the spectrum.
State of play: Clinton, having once signed the spectrum's "give-away" without complaint, stands ready to be the only Presidential nominee who would sign again.
The White House meeting isolated Dole just when his campaign needed broadcasters' good will the most. It also blunted Hundt's pitch to have broadcasters pay for some of their spectrum space with three hours a week of educational children's programs and free air time for candidates. It cheerfully ignored the public's hypocrisy in complaining about the depravity of programs that it rushes to watch and about negative political ads to which it obviously responds.
So instead of using its muscle to promote instructive new programs, the Government is settling for ratings and labels that no one seriously expects will change anything. Years will pass before the V-chip is in many homes. And, whatever the ratings system, what will be a warning to one viewer will be a come-hither for another.
AH, BUT DIDN'T RUPERT Murdoch come to that White House meeting promising Clinton and his opponent an hour of free time on Fox stations? Didn't he ask the other networks to help liberate candidates from the high cost of TV commercials -- that "cancer in our political system"? Yes, indeed. Murdoch was said by his aides to prefer giving air time valued at $2 million to making the cash contributions politicians keep asking for.
Murdoch also prefers thus to ward off complaints that Fox makes no sustained effort to cover political, economic or foreign news. Since CBS, ABC and NBC look upon their news divisions as a costly and significant public service, they had good reason to dismiss Murdoch's challenge as "grandstanding." But now the good idea of replacing the clash of costly and violent political ads with a calm presentation of the candidates and their views has also been tainted, defined on excellent authority as just another cynical ploy.
Outcome of the play: Broadcasting is freed from most regulation. More valuable spectrum is given, or "lent," to all stations free of charge. The public's concern is assuaged with a few pious program ratings, and television as we know it, tawdry television, is made safe from even reasonable obligations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY STEPHEN KRONINGER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; TELEVISION SETS; SEX; VIOLENCE; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (77%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); PORNOGRAPHY (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (72%); FAMILY (72%); PROSTITUTION (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (60%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



565 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 17; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Visions and Revisions

BYLINE: By Michael Kazin; Michael Kazin's most recent book is "The Populist Persuasion: An American History." He is currently teaching history at the University of Utrecht in the Netherlands.

 BODY:

William Appleman Williams
The Tragedy of Empire.
By Paul M. Buhle and Edward Rice-Maximin.
318 pp. New York:
Routledge. Cloth, $65. Paper, $16.95.
A SURPRISING paradox lurks within the history of the American left. A sizable number of radicals have been motivated, at least in part, by rather traditional beliefs. The revolutionary socialist Eugene V. Debs was a devout Christian, while the militant labor organizer Mother Jones dismissed woman suffrage as a cause for "parlor parasites." The Roman Catholic anarchist Dorothy Day glanced fondly back at the pious peasant villages of the Middle Ages. Many leftists, hostile to what modern corporations and efficiency-minded thinkers call progress, have dreamed of egalitarian communities organized around an old-fashioned ethic of cooperation. 
 Another who combined radicalism with a sense of tradition was William Appleman Williams. Among budding New Leftists in the 1960's, no historian was more influential than he was. In two passionately written volumes published while he was a professor at the University of Wisconsin, Madison ("The Tragedy of American Diplomacy" and "Contours of American History"), Williams argued that the United States had, from its birth, been a nation addicted to imperial expansion. From the conquest of Indian lands to the botched intervention in Indochina, he identified a ferocious impulse to spread individualist ideas and unceasing economic growth.
This sweeping, critical interpretation broke sharply with the upbeat view of the nation's past that held sway in most universities at the end of the 50's. Revisionism, Williams-style, gave young radicals the confidence to denounce the argument, made by many liberals at the time, that the bloody debacle in Vietnam was a minor "mistake" in an otherwise laudable diplomatic record. No real change could occur at home, New Leftists warned, until the roots of empire -- economic and ideological -- had been uncovered and destroyed. Of course, Williams's perspective enraged many liberal cold war historians; some, like Arthur Schlesinger Jr., accused him of misreading key documents and promoting a new isolationism that made the Soviet Union seem innocent of any international wrong.
Yet "William Appleman Williams: The Tragedy of Empire," a fluid and insightful biography by two independent scholars, makes it clear that the intellectual godfather of revisionist history was always animated by a profoundly conservative vision. Born in 1921, Williams grew up in the small but prosperous locale of Atlantic, Iowa -- where extremes of wealth and poverty were as rare as loyal Democrats. When he went off to military school on a sports scholarship and then on to the Naval Academy, he left his old hometown for good. But throughout his life, Williams believed that the only alternative to restless imperial striving was to decentralize political power and distribute it to contented, homogeneous communities. In tune with utopian and environmentalist thinkers, he viewed marketplace thinking as the "great heresy of human history," and he endorsed the virtues of the small and bounded life. At the height of his renown in the late 60's, he left the academic limelight of Madison for a rural town in Oregon and a post at an undistinguished college.
Williams did not view all past American leaders as equally culpable in the rush to empire. Among his prime villains were some of the nation's most revered icons -- Jefferson, Lincoln, Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt. He accused these men of having waged territorial and commercial expansion with a missionary zeal, of attempting to save people who had no inclination to save themselves. Although his grasp of narrative and quotation was impressive, Williams did betray, as Paul M. Buhle and Edward Rice-Maximin note, "an almost obsessive determination to overturn the accepted hagiography of American heroes, including many of the traditional favorites of liberals and radicals."
Williams's alternative pantheon included such unlikely figures as John Quincy Adams and Herbert Hoover. Hoover, he wrote, was "the last great conservative to honor the bedrock principle of self-determination," as well as a shrewd critic of Roosevelt's international maneuvers in the years preceding World War II. These qualities mattered far more to Williams than did Hoover's admiration of big business and hatred of the New Deal.
Such iconoclasm -- what his biographers call "horse sense and moral pleading" -- appealed to New Left intellectuals, even if they didn't agree with every twist of Williams's logic or his quirky choice of a usable past. His central idea that American diplomacy was a tragedy of hubristic designs made the past seem a continuous drama of clashing world views that required probing interpretation by activist scholars. Devoted former students like Walter LaFeber, Thomas McCormick and Lloyd Gardner rewrote the history of United States foreign policy -- extending, refining and qualifying the ideas of their mentor but never departing from his basic critique.
Even though Mr. Buhle and Mr. Rice-Maximin appropriately focus on Williams's writings and politics, they do not scant his personal life, much of which was painful. When he was 8, his father, a military pilot, was killed in a plane crash. Two of his three marriages ended badly, with unhappy children predictably struggling in the wake. And after leaving the University of Wisconsin, he began to drink heavily. Williams had made his intellectual mark by 1961, when he was only 40, and he produced little that was original from then until his death in 1990. His biographers, themselves former students of his at Wisconsin, describe these travails in melancholy, affectionate, always sensitive terms. Warm supporters of Williams's general perspective, they clearly wish he had grown more, both as a thinker and as a man.
With his one big idea about America's imperial affliction, Williams occupied a small but distinguished intellectual precinct. Like his fellow historians Christopher Lasch and Eugene Genovese, he flailed liberal individualism with eloquence and wit and had a nostalgic affinity for communitarian values and modest achievement. In 1957, he wrote that the United States was "neither the last best hope of the world nor the agent of civilization destined to destroy the barbarians," adding, "We have much to offer, but also much to learn." Perhaps that was his best legacy -- as preacher of humility to Americans possessed of more power than wisdom.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WILLIAM APPLEMAN WILLIAMS: THE TRAGEDY OF EMPIRE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); HISTORY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CONSERVATISM (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); COLD WAR (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RELIGION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%); LITERATURE (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ETHICS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); POLITICS (60%); 

PERSON: KAZIN, MICHAEL (PROF); BUHLE, PAUL M; RICE-MAXIMIN, EDWARD WILLIAM APPLEMAN WILLIAMS (98%); HERBERT HOOVER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



566 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Lindenhurst, L.I.;
An Involved Village on Great South Bay

BYLINE: By VIVIEN KELLERMAN 

 BODY:
RESIDENTS of the Village of Lindenhurst, a South Shore Long Island community 70 minutes from Manhattan, believe in fighting to preserve their neighborhoods.
When burglaries and vandalism aroused one neighborhood residents organized a volunteer night-time crime patrol. When a chain-link fence owned by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority began to fall apart, another group of residents banded together to get the fence, and its blighting effect, removed. 
 Other groups work to clean the streets, to plant trees and to get laws on the books to go after people who would destroy the community.
"The civics really challenge people who don't maintain a decent environment," said Gary Biggs, of the Southwest Civic Association. "Our problem is we may expect too much. Many of us know what Lindenhurst was in the 60's and 70's, and we want it to be that way again."
With its well-tended neighborhoods (some with houses on the water), its own marina, village parks, access to major roads, an active community center, and good shopping Lindenhurst considers itself a good bet for first-time home buyers.
Jo Ann Boettcher, an agent with Prudential Long Island Realty in Lindenhurst, said that single-family homes in the village range in price from $85,000 to $285,000, with a median of $128,000.
Neighborhoods are made up of developments of Cape Cods, split-levels, high-ranches and colonials mostly built after World War II. But some on Great South Bay were originally summer cottages that date back to the 20's.
A typical listing would be a 35-year old three-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath ranch with a finished basement and one-car attached garage. The house, on an 80- by 202-foot lot, is being offered for $148,990. Taxes are $5,548.
There are no condominiums or co-ops in the village, but legal rental apartments in single-family homes are available. One-bedroom units go for about $650 a month, two-bedrooms for about $750.
Ms. Boettcher said that many of the people she sells to have grown up in Lindenhurst. Among them are Jane and Tom Hennessey, who have lived in the village nearly all their lives. Mr. Hennessey is a corrections officer who commutes to Riverhead about an hour east of Lindenhurst. Mrs. Hennessey is an emergency medical technician in Queens, about an hour west.
When the couple, who have four children ranging in age from 3 to 20, decided they wanted a larger home, they thought about moving out of Lindenhurst, primarily, said Mr. Hennessey, because he wanted more land. In the end, they decided to stay in the village.
Last April, the couple moved into a 30-year old, 5-bedroom, 2-bath colonial with an oversized two-car garage. The house, for which they paid $147,000, sits on a 75- by 100-foot lot.
"The commute is fair for both of us," said Mr. Hennessey. "But we also have a lot of family and friends here. Many have also lived here all their lives. That's a lot of history. When it came right down to it, we couldn't leave."
ALL of the Hennessey children have gone through or are in public schools in Lindenhurst, which has seven kindergarten-to-fifth-grade elementary schools, one 6th-to-8th-grade middle school and one high school, with a total enrollment of 6,659.
Margaret McKenna, the acting superintendent, said that 78 percent of last June's high school graduates went on to higher education.
Last year, to encourage even more students to go to college, the district took part in a program with Dowling College in Oakdale, enabling high school seniors to earn as much as a first year's worth of credits in special classes.
Students pay $50 a credit for classes in the high school taught by teachers that have been certified by the college. The program differs from advanced-placement courses in that the student actually works with the Dowling curriculum and uses the same books.
This year, said Ms. McKenna, 18 students are enrolled in the program, all taking a full year of college credits. She added that all credits earned by the 17 enrolled last year had been accepted at the colleges of their choice.
Ms. McKenna said that the district had an all-day kindergarten program and an alternative high school designed to prevent students from dropping out. Sixty-five high-risk students are enrolled in the program, in which class sizes are smaller than normal and job training and placement in jobs in the community are offered.
Ms. McKenna said that the high school also had a graffiti-removal program. And despite the fact that the district is on an austerity budget, she said, it has managed to update its entire heating system in an attempt to improve air quality, which became an issue three years ago when spores and mold showed up in two of the elementary schools.
"Maintenence is an issue we've worked very hard on," said Ms. McKenna.
The district also has a gifted-and-talented program for grades 3 to 6; 175 pupils meet one day a week in one of the elementary schools.
Seven hundred prekindergarten-to-8th-grade students are enrolled in the school of the Our Lady of Perpetual Help Roman Catholic parish, which is celebrating 125 years in Lindenhurst. The original buildings have been demolished, but part of the school dates back 1941.
Most shopping in Lindenhurst is along Wellwood Avenue, which has about 60 stores. John McDermott, the president of the Chamber of Commerce, said that about 10 percent of the stores were vacant.
In 1994, Waldbaum's built a new 60,000 square foot store in an area off Wellwood Avenue. The supermarket houses several smaller businesses including a bank, dry cleaner's and a photo shop.
Along Montauk Highway, another business area, there are mostly marine-related business, reflecting the fact that Lindenhurst is on the water.
Mr. McDermott said the chamber, which had been inactive for some time, regrouped in 1990 in response to problems with minor vandalism. It now has 55 members who are working together and with the police to protect the shopping area.
ABOUT seven minutes either east or west of Lindenhurst are two shopping malls. Sunrise Mall, with 150 stores including Sears, J.C. Penney, Stern's and Macy's, and the 830,000-square-foot South Shore Mall, which has a Macy's and a J.C. Penney.
There are several parks in Lindenhurst, including the nine-acre Village Park, which has a pond, ballfields, three tennis courts, and a playground. Shore Road Park has 12 acres, with ballfields for soccer, football and baseball. Lincoln Park comprises five acres of undeveloped wetland. There is also a public dock for fishing.
Shawn Cullinane, the administrator of the village, said that there was a 47-slip municipal marina at the dock with fees ranging from $450 to $650 a season. An additional 200 village slips, for smaller boats, are available at a nearby canal for $250 to $450. When a slip becomes vacant, (no more than a couple a year, Mr. Cullinane said) the next occupant is chosen by lot from the waiting list.
The Lindenhurst Community Center serves the elderly alone from 9 A.M. to 4 P.M. five days a week and offers them free door-to-door transportation. In the evening, the center is used by civic groups.
The village also runs an annual Oktoberfest, which is held the first Sunday in October. The one-day event, featuring a beer garden and including vendors, rides and food, attracts about 10,000 people, Mr. Cullinane said.
The Old Village Hall Museum, which houses local artifacts, is run by the Lindenhurst Historical Society. It is open Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays 2 to 4 P.M. from June 1 to Sept. 30 and Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays from 2 to 4 P.M. Oct. 1 to May 31. Admission is free. Built in 1914, the building, originally a residence, served as a dry goods store and then as the village hall until 1953.
The 1901 Restored Depot and Freight House at the Irmisch Historical Park is open Monday through Friday from 2 to 4 P.M. in July and August. On exhibit, among other things, are a history of the restoration, old trunks, crates and uniforms. Admission is free.
THE area that became Lindenhurst was purchased by English settlers from the Secatogue Indians in 1657. For more than 200 years they and their descendants farmed the land. But in 1867 the South Side Rail Road, an antecedent of the Long Island Rail Road, laid a single track from New York City to Babylon and opened the area to development.
Thomas Welwood and his wife, Abby, of Brooklyn, began purchasing land in 1861 and by 1870 had bought so much that the railroad's timetable listed a Welwood Station.
Welwood joined with Charles D. Schleier, a Brooklyn German newspaper editor, to build a place where German immigrants could live and work. They formed a company to develop the "City of Breslau," which was dedicated on June 6, 1870. It had a population of about 200
In 1889, hard times, unemployment and clouded land titles tainted the community's name and led to a movement to change it to Lindenhurst, a nod to linden trees planted by the German immigrants.
The first attempt was voted down, but two years later the name was changed. In 1923, Lindenhurst was incorporated. Development began in earnest after World War II and today, Mr. Cullinane said, its 27,000 population makes it the fourth largest incorporated village in New York State.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 47-slip village marina in Lindenhurst is augmented by 200 slips on a nearby canal. Most of homes were built after World War II. (Photographs by Steve Berman for The New York Times); On The Market: 3-bedroom, 1-bath Cape Cod with 1-car garage at 630 South Sixth Street, $115,000. 3-bedroom, 1-bath ranch with finished basement at 484 North Fulton Street, $139,484. 5-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath ranch with 2-car attached garage at 353 Wellwood Avenue, $285,000.
 
Chart: "Gazeteer"
 
POPULATION: 26,977 (1994 Lilco estimate).
 
AREA: 3.8 square miles.
 
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $56,255 (1994 census estimate).
 
MEDIAN PRICE OF A ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $128,000.
 
TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $4,200.
 
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $126,000.
 
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $140,000.
 
MEDIAN RENT FOR A ONE-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $650.
 
PUBLIC SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $9,560.
 
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 40 miles.
 
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 70 minutes by Long Island Rail Road; one way, $8.50, monthly, $181.
 
GOVERNMENT: Mayor (Frederick Keinle) and four trustees, all elected to four-year terms.
 
CODES: Area, 516; ZIP, 11757.
 
CRIME PATROLS: Last summer, when burglaries and vandalism began to afflict her neighborhood, Betty Dean, a 30-year Lindenhurst resident, decided to do something about it. So she organized the Triangle Civic Association for the 500-home Triangle neighborhood. In October block captains were designated and volunteer weekend car patrols began at the end of the month from 8 P.M. to 2 A.M. The first night, a patrol car spotted some youths stealing porch furniture and ran them off. The volunteers, who keep in touch by newsletter, radio the police in case of real trouble, said Ms. Dean.
 
Map of Lindenhurst.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LINDENHURST (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); VANDALISM (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (79%); BURGLARY (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); WORLD WAR II (64%); PARAMEDICS (60%); MARINAS (52%); 

PERSON: KELLERMAN, VIVIEN TOM HENNESSEY (74%); MARGARET MCKENNA (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



567 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2526 words

HEADLINE: The Three Tenors Juggernaut

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL 

 BODY:
THE IDEA WAS BIG, and fittingly it came from the big man himself, Luciano Pavarotti. It came to him at a big event, the 1994 sellout "Three Tenors" concert at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, an extravaganza beamed to 1.3 billion television viewers worldwide, four years after the trio's smash debut in the ruins of ancient Rome, which generated the largest-selling classical recording of all time.
Backstage at the stadium, behind the mock rain forest, with its four-story waterfalls and pseudo-classical pillars, Mr. Pavarotti turned to his partners, Jose Carreras and Placido Domingo, and said (as he later rendered it in his fluid if slightly stilted English): "Why not doing this around the world?" 
 And so it has come to pass. In June, the tenors will embark on a ballyhooed four-continent circuit of some of the world's largest outdoor arenas -- "Three Tenors III," in effect. Already it is growing to colossal proportions in a triumph of marketing and song. The original five stops -- including one American appearance, at Giants Stadium on July 20 -- have ballooned to at least nine, counting newly booked concerts in Goteborg, Sweden, and Dusseldorf, Germany, and a New Year's Eve gala yet to be announced. There are also plans for a concert at the World Cup soccer championship in Paris in 1998.
Although the onslaught is still almost three months off, the heart of the event, the marketing, is already churning at full tilt. Crews around the world have been working for months readying and tuning instruments of commerce and technology that render the musical instruments almost incidental. The "Three Tenors" phenomenon has become an indomitable force.
But music aside, as skeptics say it is, could these bookings overexpose an act that has already been beamed to half the world's population -- and recently became a running gag on "Seinfeld"? It is a risk the tenors are willing to take.
"If it's too much, we don't do any more," said Mr. Pavarotti in a recent conversation from Barbados, where he was vacationing. "But for the moment, it's better we do while we are still here."
The repertory should hold few surprises, he said: "More or less the same as last time." So get ready again for the likes of "Granada," "La donna e mobile," "Vesti la giubba," a medley of "My Way," "Moon River" and "Singin' in the Rain," and Mr. Pavarotti's signature crowd-pleaser, "Nessun dorma" from "Turandot."
If it's not high operatic art, it's aimed unashamedly at a vast, adoring and financially supportive audience. From the moment the three kick off their tour in Tokyo on June 29, records -- the Guinness kind -- are likely to go flying.
The tour is costing the promoter, Matthias Hoffmann of Mannheim, Germany, about $100 million (including an insurance bill of $1.5 million to cover refunds in case of cancellation). If all 500,000 seats are sold at an average price of $240 each, ticket revenues would reach $120 million, not counting merchandizing tie-ins, pay-per-view and other television rights.
For their appearances, Maestros Carreras, Domingo and Pavarotti stand to make close to $10 million each: about $500,000 per concert in fees and a like amount in licensing income. James Levine, who is replacing Zubin Mehta as conductor, will get a flat $500,000 per concert.
"Good money, eh?" Mr. Pavarotti said. "By God, it's good money!"
Whew! Was classical music ever like this? No and yes.
 
Hoopla Old and New
Barnum and Beyond: A Tale of Hoffmann
The numbers are certainly groundbreaking. In their first two concerts, the tenors reached a combined television audience of about two billion people. Audio and video recordings have sold 23 million copies, to become far and away the best-selling classical recordings of all time (more or less matching what Michael Jackson achieved with a single album, "Dangerous," in 1991).
Clearly, even for tenors -- who have historically won adulation for their acrobatics on the high C's -- the three have achieved an enviable crossover: opera singers adored like rock stars, classical icons clasped to the collective bosom of millions of fans who have never stepped inside an opera house. But although modern technology has spectacularly magnified the effect, the phenomenon itself is hardly unique.
"I wonder if P. T. Barnum would have anything to learn from today's marketing," said Morris Dickstein, a cultural historian at the Graduate School of the City University of New York. Barnum, the shameless showman, repackaged the soprano Jenny Lind as a popular attraction and booked her around the tent circuit that served as the mass entertainment of the 19th century.
"Classical music has always brought us a few superstars, usually in opera," said Mr. Dickstein. Certainly, the tenor Enrico Caruso, who lived from 1873 to 1921, was a cult figure who inspired widespread fan hysteria in his prime. "I'm sure that when he made his first recordings for RCA Victor," Mr. Dickstein said, "people thought he was betraying opera."
Even the three tenors' propensity to mix arias with pop repertory has venerable precedents, Mr. Dickstein added. The early operatic tradition was much more open to opera lite, including operetta and Neapolitan songs. Wagner, he explained, helped steer opera toward serious, unified productions. Verdi, on the other hand, might have fancied "The Three Tenors."
"Americans have a long history of adoration of the virtuoso," said the cultural historian Ann Douglas, author of "Terrible Honesty: Mongrel Manhattan in the 1920's." At times, she said, the fixations have verged on the campy, as when Caruso was lured to the vaudeville stage to appear with Al Jolson.
"It's as if we say, 'The great artists are ours; we can rough them up, have fun with them,' " she said. At times, she added, the three tenors "seem on the edge of satirizing themselves."
Tibor Rudas, Mr. Pavarotti's Hungarian-born promoter, disdains the carping of music and social critics. "We didn't realize in Rome that we created the Beatles for the senior citizens," he said. "It's something the people have been waiting for for a long time. Only nobody knew they were waiting for it."
Michael Sampliner, the New York director of Hoffmann Concerts, agrees: "You could say the three tenors have created their own form of alternative music."
Mr. Hoffmann does not begrudge the tenors their hefty fees. "If Janet Jackson can sign a deal for $80 million," he said, "the three tenors are totally, totally underpaid."
Whatever the ultimate musical judgments, the marketing blitz seems clearly aimed at fomenting a global tenor mania.
Behind the latest hoopla is a modern-day tale of Hoffmann -- Matthias Hoffmann, that is, promoter of Mr. Carreras and Mr. Domingo. By persistence or default, Mr. Hoffmann assumed the presenter's role from Mr. Rudas, a Las Vegas-trained impresario who put on the Los Angeles concert during the last World Cup festivities.
Mr. Hoffmann, a 45-year-old entrepreneur who dropped out of Mannheim University in 1970 to present a rock festival that became known as the German Woodstock, said that Mr. Pavarotti worried initially that no promoter would be crazy enough to take on an international tour of such proportions. Whereupon Mr. Carreras and Mr. Domingo responded more or less in unison, "Oh, we have one, and he's crazy and waits for nothing more than to do a 'Three Tenors' concert." Mr. Pavarotti said he was at first dubious about putting the tour in the hands of any promoter other than his own, but he realized that his colleagues' promoter deserved a chance.
Mr. Hoffmann said that he had offered to make Mr. Rudas a joint presenter of the tour -- sharing both risk and potential profits -- but that Mr. Rudas declined. Instead, Mr. Rudas sold Mr. Hoffmann his Los Angeles production to insure the quality of amplified sound and lighting at the concerts for around $500,000. "I would have been prepared to present it; yes, I would have, but I'm a very fair man," Mr. Rudas said from his office in Pacific Grove, Calif. "It was quite a fair request."
 
The 1990 Concert
A Rotten Deal Is Still a Deal
Feelings are still sensitive from the experience of the first "Three Tenors" concert in Rome. That event, timed to the 1990 World Cup finals and staged in the Baths of Caracalla before 8,000 spectators, was presented by an Italian concert manager, Mario Dradi of Bologna. The tenors, who had already turned away some 50 offers to sing together, agreed this time, they explained, as a way of celebrating the soccer championship and hailing Mr. Carreras's comeback after a near-fatal bout with leukemia. Indeed, all three donated their portions of ticket revenues to charity.
Mr. Dradi, who declined to be interviewed, sold recording rights to Decca/ London for a large fixed fee, which provided for no royalties to the artists. "We wanted to pay a royalty and share the risks," Roland Kommerell, Decca's president, said recently from his office in London. But Mr. Dradi rejected the offer in favor of a one-time payment that Mr. Kommerell described as "a horrendous mountain of risk" for the label. When, to almost everyone's amazement, the concert and the record emerged as a sensation, Decca reaped the profits.
"We got nothing," said Mr. Pavarotti, who has an exclusive recording contract with Decca. A deal was a deal, he maintained, and he had no complaints. But Mr. Domingo was furious and has ostracized Decca ever since. "Placido suspects us of paying Pavarotti a royalty," Mr. Kommerell said. He denied it and shrugged off the fracas. "We pushed the frontiers quite far," he said. "Now it's like the real-estate business."
 
The 1994 Concert
'Tibor Rudas Is an Old Fox'
The tenors were not about to make the same mistake four years later. This time, Mr. Rudas was the presenter. Born in Budapest in 1926, he studied voice and toured Europe singing in variety shows before establishing a dance studio in Australia. He took his "French style revues" to Las Vegas in 1963 and expanded into casino entertainment, including classical performances, in Atlantic City. In 1982, Mr. Rudas hooked up with Mr. Pavarotti, presenting him first in a tent in Atlantic City, then in recitals and arenas around the world.
Shrewdly, Mr. Rudas made the concerts attractive to television. "These TV shows brought him more and more to the crowd and away from the opera," Mr. Rudas recalled. "I just proved that he has another audience." Actually, Mr. Pavarotti had already been introduced to movie audiences in 1982 as a lovable Lothario in the film "Yes, Giorgio."
When the World Cup matches came to the United States for the first time in 1994, Mr. Rudas contracted with soccer authorities to provide the closing entertainment. With the arena locked up and Mr. Pavarotti in his stable, he was in position for his coup: the return of "The Three Tenors."
Mr. Rudas was still shy two tenors, but their promoter, Mr. Hoffmann, recognized that he had been outmaneuvered and could do little but allow his counterpart to put up the money and collect the profits. "Tibor Rudas is an old fox," he said admiringly.
Mr. Hoffmann's beginnings as a concert promoter did not go back as far as Mr. Rudas's, and his rise was more precipitous. Born in 1951 to two music teachers, he left the economics program at Mannheim University at 19 to organize what became the British Rock Meetings in Speyer, open-air concerts that drew crowds of 100,000 to hear Pink Floyd, Deep Purple and the Doors.
By the 80's, he had founded his own concert bureau in Mannheim. He met Mr. Carreras in the mid-80's and, drawing on his experiences as a rock promoter, booked him as a V.I.P., arranging for limousines, bodyguards and other trappings of celebrity, and taking out full-page ads in newspapers to announce his appearances.
"Half a year later," Mr. Hoffmann said, "Jose Carreras was a famous person in Germany." Word spread to Mr. Domingo, who also became a client. Then Mr. Carreras took ill, battling cancer. But after his striking recovery, he returned to the Hoffmann fold.
"My accomplishments as a promoter and the incredible international success I have the privilege of enjoying with the 'Three Tenors' is sheerly a result of these two men entrusting me with their remarkable talent and allowing me to work on their behalf," Mr. Hoffmann said. He put his company's annual gross at $130 million.
Still, in 1990, he, like Mr. Rudas, was reduced to watching, amazed, as his clients catapulted to new fame as part of a trio in Rome. He was not resentful, he insisted. "I said I will have a huge benefit out of this. It was a changing of the classical concert business. I was happy, happy, happy."
Yet when Los Angeles beckoned four years later, he was too slow off the mark. "Let's face it," he said. "Rudas did his homework. He was the first to go to the football people in Los Angeles and say, 'Give me the rights.' I was not tough enough. But I was sure that when this is done and there should be another 'Three Tenors,' I must be the one."
The tenors, too, had learned their lesson. This time, they were paid about $1 million each plus royalties. The concert was recorded by Warner and telecast to more than 100 countries. Not surprisingly, given its runaway commercial as well as popular success, Mr. Pavarotti quickly rallied his partners for the world tour.
 
1996 and After
Pulling Aces From a Sleeve
Finally, it was Mr. Hoffmann's turn. But he was sobered to learn that Mr. Rudas's 1994 contracts with Warner barred lucrative recording or international telecasting rights until 1998.
The tenors, for their part, were dismayed to learn that Mr. Mehta's bookings left him unavailable to conduct, and they talked of postponing the tour. "Postpone it?" Mr. Hoffmann responded. After he had gotten all three together? Soon they all endorsed Mr. Levine.
Mr. Hoffmann had other aces up his sleeve. Arguing that a "Three Tenors" concert would bring a commercial windfall wherever it might alight, he played off arena against arena, angling for the best terms and winning rent-free stadium space in three European cities.
The Giants Stadium concert, moreover, will be carried to a potential audience of hundreds of thousands on pay-per-view television at $30 per viewing. Domestic telecasts in the other countries visited are also planned. Additional commercial opportunities include sales of programs and souvenirs and payments from sponsors and "media partners."
Working around crowded opera and recital calendars, Mr. Hoffmann and the tenors agreed last fall on a five-city tour with stops this summer in Tokyo, London, New York and Munich and next March in Melbourne. A sixth was wedged in this July in Vienna.
But in recent weeks the schedule has grown more hectic, with the added concerts in Goteborg and Dusseldorf, and another under discussion for Johannesburg. A concert is planned for New Year's Eve in an undisclosed city.
After 1997, Mr. Rudas said, it will be his turn again. "We have already obliged them, so from then on, we would be controlling the rest."
Mr. Hoffmann isn't so sure. "Never change a winning team," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Indomitable Force Placido Domingo, left, Jose Carreras and Luciano Pavarotti in 1994--The act has been beamed to half the world's population and provided a gag on "Seinfeld." (Associated Press); Brave New World Technology has transformed the marketing of classical stars beyond anything Enrico Caruso (left, in Bizet's "Carmen") or Jenny Lind (below, in a daguerreotype by Mathew Brady) could have imagined; "The Three Tenors" now rival Michael Jackson. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times; Library of Congress) (pg. 37)
 
Drawing: Placido Domingo, left, Jose Carreras and Luciano Pavarotti. (Hirschfeld)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%); BARBADOS (66%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MY WAY (51%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%); BARBADOS (66%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; FINANCES STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MUSIC (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (72%); CLASSICS (71%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (67%); SOCCER (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: PAVAROTTI, LUCIANO; CARRERAS, JOSE; DOMINGO, PLACIDO; HOFFMANN, MATTHIAS; BLUMENTHAL, RALPH LUCIANO PAVAROTTI (92%); PLACIDO DOMINGO (71%); JOSE CARRERAS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



568 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2571 words

HEADLINE: A Successful Company Is Acquired. Will It Remain on L.I.?

BYLINE: By CAROL STEINBERG 

 BODY:
EMPLOYEES at Fiber Options, Inc., first sensed something amiss last fall when strangers began parading through their Bohemia headquarters. Rumors began circulating in the executive suite and in the factory where fiber optic transmission systems undergo final assembly.
Then, at the company's Christmas party, Robert DeLia Sr., the founder and president, made an announcement. Mr. DeLia had indeed put Fiber Options on the block, and it was being acquired by the Sentrol Lifesafety Corporation of Tualatin, Ore. 
 Immediately, employees began questioning whether their jobs were at risk. "I was a little concerned at first about how things would change," Rodney Cormier, a test manager, said. "I was concerned about being asked to relocate."
At the party and in the months since, Mr. DeLia has tried to calm these fears. According to Mr. DeLia, Sentrol is committed to keeping Fiber Options on Long Island for "a reasonable amount of time."
"I don't know if it's going to be for the next 50 years, the next 20 years, but I know it's at least two to three years," he said. He acknowledged, however, that Sentrol "has made no guarantees about 'forever.' "
The uncertainty over the long-term outlook reverberates far beyond Fiber Options' modest offices and low profile. Albeit a small company, with 70 employees, itrepresents a vital piece of the Island's manufacturing potential. And it is not the only company that has been acquired by a large off-Island giant. The acquisitions raise questions about whether these companies can or will remain on the Island and be competitive in their industries.
These questions, and others, come at a time when several attempts are being made to rebuild the manufacturing segment of the Island's economy. Manufacturing jobs on the Island fell to 114,400 at the end of 1995, from a peak of 170,500 in 1988. While the Island unexpectedly added 18,600 jobs overall last year, the net job loss in manufacturing continued -- at 3,200, slightly less than a year earlier.
Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the New York State Department of Economic Development, said there was always a concern when an out-of-state corporate acquirer enters the picture. "You never know if it's buying the company for its production facility or if it's buying the technology and will run out with it," he said.
Barry Greenspan, acting regional director of the department's Long Island office, agrees. "It absolutely is a red flag," he said.
Since 1990, at least 14 mid-sized to large high-technology companies on Long Island have been acquired, according to state officials. Of these, eight plants have closed or moved -- to North Carolina, Puerto Rico, Florida, and New Jersey, among other places. Six companies have remained here.
Fiber Options, because of its small size, is not counted in these statistics, although it is one of the fastest growing private companies on the Island.
The Grumman Corporation's acquisition by Northrop, based in Los Angeles, in 1994 eventually reduced the work force of what was once the Island's largest corporate employer from a high of 23,000 in 1987 to 3,700 today.
Other smaller-scale acquisitions also have taken their toll. When Pass & Seymour/Legrand bought Slater Electric, a manufacturer of electrical wiring devices, its 300 employees breathed easy for a while. But in 1994 the $2 billion French company, with North American headquarters in Syracuse, closed the Glen Cove operation and moved to near Greensboro, N.C. Only 25 employees were asked to move south; the remainder got pink slips.
Edward Braxton, vice president of operations, said the company left because "the total operating cost on Long Island is the highest of just about anywhere in the U.S." He noted, for example, that the company now pays 4.5 cents per kilowatt hour for electricity, compared with 11 cents on the Island, and that was after the Long Island Lighting Company granted a rebate. Mr. Braxton said the state made "feeble" attempts to provide incentives to remain on the Island.
Jeffrey Bass, chairman of the Long Island Venture Group, said local companies -- high-technology or not -- would not "in theory" be more prone than out-of-state companies to be acquired and relocate. "But when a company is confronted with maintaining a competitive advantage, then we might have a slight disadvantage because of the cost structure of the Island's economy," he said.
Richard Kalenka, managing partner of the high-technology practice in the Long Island office of Price Waterhouse, said a decision to relocate after an acquisition often depends on the industry, possible integration with other operations, and a company's dependence on the Island's skilled work force and research centers. "Many times what a company is buying is management," he said. "If the management wants to stay put, the company generally stays put.".
Robert DeLia Sr., 48, has spent his professional career on Long Island. He had started two real estate companies and, in 1974, he co-founded Communitronics, a manufacturer of radio communications. He sold his share in Communitronics just before its acquisition by a Vermont company; it subsequently relocated.
In 1988, after working for a competing fiber optics company, Mr. DeLia founded Fiber Options to manufacture and market communications equipment for the transmission of video, audio and data signals over fiber optic cable networks.
From the beginning, Fiber Options grew rapidly, by at least 30 percent annually. In 1992, a Boston company invested an undisclosed amount for a 30 percent stake. Last year, Fiber Options' revenues were $13 million.
The company has built its reputation on customer service. It contracts out about 90 percent of its manufacturing to Long Island companies to try to maintain fixed manufacturing costs and avoid cyclical employment. It does final assembly in-house. Last year, the company set up a subsidiary in Britain.
Mr. DeLia said that the company would have sustained steady growth on its own over the next few years but that he wanted a management team and strategic expertise to protect Fiber Options' position in the industry.
"To grow bigger and faster, it would take a lot more resources than we have," he said, adding: "We did not need money as much as horsepower."
In January 1995, Mr. DeLia hired an investment broker to pursue an acquirer. Among his top criteria was remaining on Long Island. "From day one, point blank, I told anyone I spoke to that we are not moving," he said, citing a personal desire and a commitment to long-time personnel. He said he rejected some higher priced deals for that reason. "I was not going to come out of this with a nice fat wallet and let the people that helped me get here go on the unemployment line," Mr. DeLia said.
Sentrol, a privately-held subsidiary of the $500 million Berwind Industries Inc. of Nashville, Tenn., and a manufacturer of security, alarm, and fire detection systems acquired Fiber Options on Jan. 12. Mr. DeLia said only that the purchase price was in the "millions of dollars."
Kenneth Boyda, Sentrol's chief executive, declined requests for an interview. A spokeswoman, Meg Kenagy, said Fiber Options will continue to operate independently, and there are no plans to move the company off Long Island.
"I don't know what will happen in 10 years," she said. "That's where it is today."
Mr. DeLia said he felt comfortable with Sentrol's acquisition history, noting, "The best I can tell, they've left things alone at other companies." Ms. Kenagy said that not all of its acquired companies have remained in place, but she did not give details.
She confirmed that Sentrol was looking at shifting Fiber Options' outside contracting off Long Island -- about $1 million in annual business -- to its North Carolina operation, while keeping final assembly on the Island.
Mr. DeLia said that the company benefits from good service and minimal shipping costs by outside contractors on the Island. He said that Sentrol's "input to me was it depends on cost. If you can build it on Long Island for less, obviously, why change it?" He added: "They did say that if the time ever came if we wanted to pull it off, they would do it in a way to phase it out."
Fiber Options' growth has not gone unnoticed by development officials in other states. Even before it was ranked on Inc. magazine's list of the 500 fastest-growing private companies last year, Fiber Options received solicitations at least once a month. Mr. DeLia said he had not considered leaving Long Island because "I never wanted to disrupt what we've had here; it's working."
Besides, he said, Fiber Options does not face competitive pressures like high-volume manufacturers. Its final assembly is in custom work, not mass production. It needs a skilled work force. And profit margins are not tight. He said: "If we were in a very, very competitive situation, my guess is it would be too expensive here."
To reassure employees following the acquisition, Sentrol executives were hosts at a champagne reception and made a presentation, including slides of its plant in Hickory, N.C. Sentrol executives have visited corporate headquarters since, looking for ways to help Fiber Options manufacture more cost-effectively and soliciting employee ideas.
Mr. DeLia said that he was excited about future growth prospects. With the new support, he said he foresees more aggressive international expansion and possible acquisitions in similar industries. Thirty percent annual growth should continue, along with more opportunities for skilled workers.
Fiber Options' employees now participate in Sentrol's profit-sharing plan. About a dozen existing employment contracts have been maintained, although the Sentrol spokeswoman would not comment on whether these agreements will be renewed. Mr. DeLia himself has a two-year contract. "Employees know I'm here now so that gives them a level of comfort," he said.
Mr. Cormier, who has been with Fiber Options seven years, said his initial fears about job security have been put to rest. "I'm sure there are employees who are concerned, but they're probably feeling much more comfortable now than the day they were told," he said.
Cathy Barbour, the company's production supervisor, held off buying a new car when rumors spread about a possible take-over. She recently went for it, figuring her job will be secure at least for the duration of the loan. "I have no idea what the future will hold," she said.
Concerns about whether acquisitions will diminish employment on the Island coincide with fears that some leading technology companies are, independent of a takeover, weighing moving elsewhere.
According to a Price Waterhouse study of Long Island technology companies released last May, 60 percent of the nearly 300 respondents said they had seriously considered relocating in the previous 12 months. Fifty-two percent of the respondents said they were satisfied with Long Island, and 48 percent expected to add jobs.
Another survey found that 10 percent of a cross-section of businesses plan to relocate this year, down from 17 percent the year before. Reasons included selling the business, as well as costs and incentives from other states. The survey was conducted by Dowling College's School of Business and Albrecht, Viggiano, Zureck & Company, a Hauppauge accounting firm.
The threat of any further erosion in employment comes as local officials are trying to rebuild the Island's manufacturing base. Project Long Island, initiated by the Long Island Association, hopes to generate programs to create long-term jobs in selected manufacturing industries.
In the past four years, the Long Island Research Institute has helped create six new high-technology companies here, and has given technical and other assistance to about 30 others. One company, Moltech, a manufacturer of lithium batteries, has relocated, to Tucson, Ariz. The state plans to develop more business development incubators, in addition to the one at the State University at Stony Brook.
Mr. Gargano said the state economic development department also was forming an advisory board of Long Island businessmen to work closely with the regional office to identify companies considering relocation. "The problem is we don't always know," he said. "We'd like to intervene as early as possible," he said, because "It's much more difficult when the decision has been made to move out."
State officials, for example, are talking with the St. Louis-based parent of Hazeltine Corporation to try to head off the possible loss of 800 jobs if the military contractor is sold.
Mr. Gargano said he was just as concerned about the potential job losses of smaller companies, noting: "One job is important."
The state had not contacted Fiber Options prior to or immediately after its acquisition.
Mr. Gargano pointed out that unlike in past years a number of companies that have been acquired recently are staying on Long Island, which in some cases could result in expanded operations here. "We're not as concerned as we used to be," he said.
He said that state efforts toward reducing taxes and unnecessary regulations, and incentives are helping stem the tide. Of the five acquired companies that have remained on Long Island since 1994, three received cash or other incentives.
Gary Huth, regional labor market analyst at the New York State Department of Labor, said it bodes well that most of the manufacturing left on Long Island is highly skilled. "Most of the purging has been done in those industries where you gain significant savings in labor costs by moving," he said.
Bennett X-Ray Technologies is among the high-technology companies that have stayed put after an acquisition. The manufacturer of advanced radiography and mammography products was acquired last September for $43 million by Trex Medical Corporation, a newly created subsidiary of the ThermoTrex Corporation of San Diego. The agreement included a commitment to remain at Bennett's Copiague operation at least for the term of its 10-year lease.
In January, Cal Kleinman, who had negotiated the deal and was Bennett's president, abruptly left the company without explanation. Despite that, Hal Kirshner, president of Trex Medical, said, "The plan never was to move. It still holds true as long as we continue to grow profitably."
Walter Schneider, who replaced Mr. Kleinman and is vice president and general manager, said Bennett was dependent on its solid, high-technology work force on the Island. "There's a success on Long Island, a work ethnic and closeness between management and employees. It would be foolish to change that," he said. Bennett recently spent $750,000 to renovate and expand and plans to add 100 jobs in the next two years.
Meanwhile, local officials expect more acquisitions in the future, especially if efforts at developing Long Island high-technology companies prove successful.
According to Philip Palmedo, president of the Long Island Research Institute, the difficulty lies in that most of the Island's high-technology companies are small. "Once these companies are allowed to grow, they will be the acquirers. Now that they're small being acquired is a risk," he said.
While this raises the odds of a relocation, Mr. Palmedo said, "I'm not sure we could do too much about it except to make the companies productive and happy here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Krzer Kwiatkowska, top left, at Bennett X-Ray Technologies. Ajay Parmar, left, with Ed Tordahl, center, and Robert DeLia Sr., president of Fiber Options. (Steve Berman, top, and Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Israel Cordoba working with a milling machine at Bennett X-Ray Technologies. (Steve Berman for The New York Times) (pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LIL (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CORDOBA, ARGENTINA (59%); 

COMPANY: FIBER OPTIONS INC; SENTROL LIFESAFETY CORP LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIBER OPTIONS INC; SENTROL LIFESAFETY CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CORDOBA, ARGENTINA (59%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FIBER OPTICS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); DISMISSALS (79%); TRENDS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, CAROL ROBERT DELIA SR (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



569 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 15; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: An Audio Manufacturer Remembers Its Roots

BYLINE: By CAROL STEINBERG 

 BODY:
THE HMG Digital Technologies Corporation of Hauppauge was what its founder calls "a textbook case of a company under pressure to economically justify staying on Long Island."
When the 700-employee company, which copies audiocassettes, videocassettes and compact disks, merged with Allied Film Laboratory Inc. of Detroit in January 1995, "it became even more pointed," said the founder, George N. Fishman, who started 15 years ago as a record manufacturer. "We merged with people that had other locations and land to expand on." 
 The new company, the Allied Digital Technologies Corporation of Detroit, had to decide whether to move or continue and expand operations on Long Island.
Mr. Fishman, co-chairman of the new Allied, said he felt a loyalty to the region and his experienced employees. He approached the state's Empire State Development Corporation and the Town of Islip Industrial Development Agency.
"I told them if they want to be competitive and keep us here, I'd need accommodations," he recalled. He obtained $750,000 in cash and a low-rate mortgage. In exchange, Allied made a commitment to add 60 jobs.
The company has proceeded with a 55,000-square-foot expansion, from a 90,000-square-foot plant in Hauppauge.
In April the company transferred the HMG video division to Allied Film's videocassette plant in Clinton, Tenn. "The cost of production was perceived to be less," Mr. Fishman said.
Among Long Island employees, 20 moved to Clinton, 50 were laid off, and 100 transferred to the compact disk division.
Despite the move, Mr. Fishman said, local officials agreed to the economic assistance because "there would have been a much larger erosion otherwise."
As it turned out, Allied, which had $161 million in sales last year, made what Mr. Fishman called an "economic error," one that cost $1.5 million in sales. In four months video production returned to Hauppauge. Even with economies of scale and somewhat lower labor costs, "it didn't work, because we lost the efficiency of our labor force," Mr. Fishman said, adding:
"It's productivity that counts. Our people are so tuned to this that their efficiency more than made up for the efficiency of combining the two units."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HDT (AMEX) (94%); ADK (AMEX) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561910 PACKAGING & LABELING SERVICES (93%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (93%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALLIED VAUGHN INC (93%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MAGNETIC & OPTICAL MEDIA MFG (77%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); RELOCATIONS (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, CAROL; FISHMAN, GEORGE N HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (67%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



570 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 8; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Coastal Geologist Questions Plan for Restoration of Barrier Beach

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
WHEN Federal and New York State officials reached final agreement recently on a $30 million project to restore the storm-battered western end of the Westhampton barrier island, property owners applauded.
But one coastal geologist said the new project was a mistake, and another said it involved an experimental erosion control method that may have unexpected results. 
 The project is part of a settlement a $200 million Federal lawsuit brought by the property owners against the Army, the state and Suffolk County. It involved erosion damage blamed on a never-completed groin field the Army constructed in 1966 and extended in 1970.
Coastal experts for the Army, the state and property owners said they were convinced the project would stabilize the barrier island west of the groins. The Army said work would begin in June.
But a Duke University professor of geology, Dr. Orrin Pilkey, said the Army and the state were acting irresponsibly by going ahead with a project he said was doomed to failure.
"If ever there was a futile effort, this is it," said Dr. Pilkey, the director of a program for the study of developed shorelines at Duke. "The Westhampton area is smashed by every storm, it's extremely vulnerable and the rate of erosion is extremely high. They are trying to hold the shoreline out where it no longer wants to be.
"I would stake whatever reputation I have on this; it's not going to work," Dr. Pilkey said.
The project, which also entails 30 years of periodic beach replenishment at an estimated cost of more than $100 million, addresses one of the most widely known and vexing shoreline erosion problems in the coastal United States. It may also mark the start of an era of increased public spending for erosion control on Long Island's South Shore.
The Federal Government will pay 70 percent of the cost. New York will pay 21 percent and Suffolk County will pay 9 percent.
The project involves the tapering of the two westernmost groins in a 15-groin field. A new groin will also be constructed between the two tapered groins. The area between the 11th and 15th groin will be filled with sand pumped from offshore.
Beaches west of the groin field will be rebuilt and backed by a 13-foot-high dune. Property owners will be permitted to rebuild on the inland side of the dune, but the new beach will be public. Five access points on Dune Road, the road that runs along the barrier island, are also included in the plan. In the past, private property blocked beach access.
The state will hold a conservation easement from the seaward toe of the dune 25 feet inland.
Project engineers said tapering the groins and filling the four westernmost compartments with sand would help restore the predominant east-to-west movement of sand along the shoreline.
The groins -- massive stone fingers stretching from the beach into the surf -- are blamed for trapping sand that would otherwise replenish the eroded shoreline to the west of the groin system. Wide, sandy beaches within the groin field are a stark contrast to the flattened, narrow strip of barrier island to the field's west.
"The tapering is to help relieve the very severe anomaly that the groin field represents," said William W. Daley, the chief of the erosion management program for the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. "We are convinced that this project will work and that time will show us it worked."
Mr. Daley said he was "not aware" of the high rate of natural erosion Dr. Pilkey referred to. "Dr. Pilkey is certainly allowed his opinion in this," he said. "He has staked his reputation on things in the past and been wrong."
Aram Terchunian, a coastal geologist and a consultant to property owners and municipalities, said the project "combines the best engineering and science we have, and I believe it will work."
"Dr. Pilkey hasn't been here in a long time," he said. "He should visit before he makes such strong statements."
But another coastal expert, Jay Tanski of the New York Sea Grant program, called the tapering of groins "a rather unique approach" that could bring surprises.
"It hasn't been tried anywhere else so in a sense its experimental," he said. "When you start dismantling structures in the water, there is a certain amount of uncertainty about what will happen. The groins are not just piles of rocks. They were very carefully engineered, and the groin field operates as a system."
Mr. Tanski said that changing the field's configuration could alter sand transport patterns in unexpected ways. "Of course the key is going to be careful monitoring of how the shoreline responds," he said.
Mr. Terchunian, who said he participated in the original design for the project in 1986, called it a "a textbook example of groin-field tapering."
"I share Jay's opinion that there are certain unknowns," Mr. Terchunian said. "We are dealing with the Atlantic Ocean, and there are no absolutes, but the cost of doing nothing exceeds the risk of us making mistakes by a hundred times."
Mr. Terchunian estimated that 90 to 95 percent of sand placed on the beach west of the groin field remained in place. He said this refuted contentions about a rapid erosion rate.
He referred to an $8 million emergency project by the Army to close a half-mile breach in the barrier island caused by a December 1992 storm and widened by a storm in March 1993.
About 200 summer houses west of the groins were destroyed by the breach and earlier storms. About 65 houses remain in the area, which is now incorporated as the Village of West Hampton Dunes. It has about 560 seasonal residents.
The village Mayor, Gary Vegliante, said the court settlement allowed property owners -- including some who lost most or all of their property to erosion -- to rebuild within an envelope no more than 75 feet in depth from Dune Road on the inland side of the new dune. "I'll bet every one of the houses will be rebuilt," he said. He said property owners would be eligible for Federal flood insurance.
Mr. Vegliante said the settlement was "a model for coastal management that protects the rights of private property owners while affording public access."
If the settlement became a model, Dr. Pilkey said, "then we will have to shut down the Defense Department to pay for these things."
"The absurd thing is, it's going to let these people build in what is probably the most storm-vulnerable area in the United States," he said of the settlement.
"What should we have done, just left it so Orrin Pilkey and his friends could walk on the beach?" Mr. Vegliante said. "He's an elitist and an exclusionist, and he has no data."
John J. O'Connell, the lawyer for the property owners, said the project would create a highly protected area west of the groin field and stimulate property values. He said Suffolk County was now one of the largest landowners because of tax defaults and would benefit from the higher values if the properties were resold.
"People who want to build near the ocean are going to go where they have the greatest protection," he said. "Now that this project has been announced, the market is beginning to heat up."
"As a result of this litigation, there is a recent recognition of the enormous inherent value of the barrier islands to the economy economy," Mr. O'Connell said. The governments, he said "have come to realize their value, and to admit responsibility for the fragility of a large part of the South Shore."
"The lawsuit yapping at their heels gave them the impetus to act on their good intentions," he said.
Paul Sabatino, the counsel to the Suffolk County Legislature, said the county would have to appropriate its 9 percent share of the project cost. "It was a good settlement," he said. "In the end, it was a bunch of reasonable people trying to solve and erosion problem, as opposed to trying to hit the jackpot with a multimillion-dollar lawsuit."
Dr. Pilkey said he was skeptical of a project that resulted from the settlement of a lawsuit. "Everybody has got the lawyers off their necks and they're breathing a sigh of relief, but it's very irresponsible," he said.
Mr. Daley of the State Department of Environmental Conservation said he believed the project would have been done even had there been no lawsuit.
The work at Westhampton is termed by the Army to be an interim project. The Army is currently completing plans for another interim project on Fire Island, where erosion has accelerated in recent years in many areas.
Under current plans, the Army will eventually undertake a massive coastal reformulation project along the South Shore of Long Island from Fire Island to Montauk. But the start of the omnibus project is probably at least 10 years away, officials said.
The Suffolk County Department of Parks said that a public beach at the western end of the barrier island, Cupsogue Park, would open for the summer season.

GRAPHIC: Map of Long Island showing beach area to be restored.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTHAMPTON (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COAST EROSION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT COASTAL AREAS (93%); EROSION (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); BEACHES (90%); WEATHER (90%); EROSION CONTROL (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); LITIGATION (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN ORRIN PILKEY (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



571 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 6; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: A Sports Proposal for Pilgrim Site

BYLINE: By LINDA TAGLIAFERRO 

 BODY:
FOR 20 years the Pilgrim State Psychiatric Center in West Brentwood has been the subject of many redevelopment proposals: a regional incinerator, a juvenile detention center and a state prison. Community opposition was instrumental in defeating those plans.
Whether the latest, a proposal for a sports complex similar to the Chelsea Piers in Manhattan, will gain acceptance remains to be seen. 
 The cost for the sports project is estimated at $290 million, to be supplied by private developers.
Weyman Jones, whom the state appointed as chairman of a 12-member panel to seek out local reactions, said, "I see it as my job to produce a plan that is acceptable to the community and to avoid a repetition of the waste of time, money and effort in the past."
The panel held a hearing in January in Islip Town Hall and another is planned before the panel makes its recommendations. Gov. George E. Pataki has the power of final approval.
Pilgrim State was built in the 1930's, and by the 50's it was home to 16,000 mental patients. With the advent of drug therapy and the trend to deinstitutionalization in the 1970's, the number of patients began to decline steadily, to its present 750. Although the site has 84 buildings, many are unusable.
The Pilgrim Center sports proposal was created by the Empire State Development Corporation, formerly the Urban Development Corporation. The center would be built around what would remain of the psychiatric hospital.
The centerpiece would be the Sportsplex, which would radiate outward from the existing central water tower and encompass an area larger than the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan.
The redevelopment would include offices and 500 housing units.
The Sportsplex would include indoor and outdoor recreational activities like ice skating, swimming, rock climbing, tennis, gymnastics, general fitness, in-line skating and basketball and other court games.
Another sector would include a nine-hole golf course and playing fields, and the third would feature housing around a public green.
A preliminary report estimates that the complex would create 2,900 permanent jobs, as well as 1,800 during the construction.
The officials forecast that the project, which does not have a price tag, would generate $296 million a year for the Long Island economy during the construction phase and $421 million a year after that.
Nearby communities have raised concerns. A co-founder of the Pine Barrens Society, John Turner, said the area had oak brush plains that provided a habitat for rare or declining species like the buckmoth, the prairie wobbler and the pine wobbler.
"Because of this," Mr. Turner said, "the oak brush plains have gotten the attention of ecologists. It has also gotten the attention of people concerned about water quality, because in the western end of Suffolk County, where there has been so much development, not only does the Pilgrim property and the adjoining Edgewood Preserve provide respite, but they also recharge large volumes of clean water to the underlying aquifers."
In the late 80's, Mr. Turner said, the State Legislature amended the Environmental Conservation Law to designate a series of Special Ground Water Protection Areas. "The largest of these was the pine barrens," he said. "But another was the Edgewood-Pilgrim State site."
He added that his society was working closely with the State Environmental Conservation Department to join part of the Pilgrim site and Edgewood preserve.
Although his group does not oppose the sports plan, Mr. Turner said, "it will be a challenge for the applicant to square the proposal with the recommendations in the water-protection report."
James Tripp of the Environmental Defense Fund said the proposal indicated that the site was in a protection district, "but it says nothing further about it."
The president of the Brentwood Civic Association, Frank Signor, said his group favored the proposal, adding, "The Brentwood School District has been substantially cut in state aid, and we look forward to this project as a way to help the school district raise funds."
His only reservation, he said, is that the complex might generate heavy traffic.
A member of the citizens' panel, Laura Mansi, said, "All along I've been saying that we have to look at what else already exists in the area."
She noted that a Price Club warehouse store had opened in the area, that the Commack Multiplex movie theater was nearby and that Suffolk Community College was planning a conference center for the area.
"All of these are in the same immediate area," she said. "So there will be major traffic impacts."
A representative of the Town of Huntington, George Hoffman, said that he and other officials had been surprised by the extent of the proposal. "We also did not expect a sports-complex proposal," Mr. Hoffman said. "There is still going to be a psychiatric population that needs to be serviced, and we are not sure that a sports-complex development would be a good match for the existing psychiatric facility."
Mr. Hoffman said he was also concerned about proposed major road improvements. "This is very expensive," he said. "We certainly don't want to put a burden on our taxpayers to provide for this.
"We recognize that a project of this scope creates jobs and economic development, but there has to be a balance between economic development and the environmental quality of life for the community. We're not sure that the draft plan actually fulfills this, and we would like to see further modifications."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Water tower at former Pilgrim State Hospital would be on logo of proposed sports complex. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PILGRIM STATE PSYCHIATRIC CENTER; EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (67%); PILGRIM STATE PSYCHIATRIC CENTER (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PILGRIM STATE PSYCHIATRIC CENTER; EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP PILGRIM STATE PSYCHIATRIC CENTER (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST BRENTWOOD (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); BASKETBALL (72%); CLIMBING (72%); APPROVALS (72%); TRENDS (71%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (69%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); CITIES (68%); GOLF (67%); MENTAL ILLNESS (66%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (64%); ICE SKATING (62%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (60%); APPOINTMENTS (56%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (50%); ROCK CLIMBING (50%); 

PERSON: TAGLIAFERRO, LINDA EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); EDDIE GEORGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



572 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Live Animal Use Spurs Protests

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON 

DATELINE: VALHALLA

 BODY:
LIVE animal experiments that some doctors call essential and others say are useless are stirring protests at New York Medical College here.
After experiments using dogs were conducted in a first-year physiology course last month, several students, including one who took the course last year, contacted People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. This led another advocacy group, Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, which is based in Washington, to sponsor advertisements condemning the college for using the dogs, which were later killed. 
 The students declined to be interviewed or give their names, but several doctors connected with the college said the experiments were no longer justified in teaching human physiology.
"In addition to being cruel, they are useless," said Dr. Don M. Sloan, an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology, who is a member of Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine. "Lower animals don't have the same metabolism humans do. We have a different adrenaline flow, different thyroids and different mechanisms that guide us. Our brains are different and special."
Dr. Marjorie Cramer, a plastic surgeon at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan and a clinical assistant professor at the college, said she believed the experiments were detrimental to students. "I remember being just horrified," she said of her own experiments on cats as a medical student. "I think it interfered with my ability to learn."
New York Medical College is among 77 of 125 medical schools in the United States that still use live animals, mainly dogs and pigs, in teaching undergraduate courses in physiology, pharmacology and other subjects.
Thirty other schools have discontinued the practice since 1982. Stan Ammons, a staff associate with the Association of American Medical Schools, said the trend away from animal laboratories was continuing.
The reasons more often involve economics and curriculum changes than ethics, he said. At New York Medical College, the dog laboratory is conducted once a year and students are not required to participate.
Dogs are anesthetized, and surgical experiments, which include drugs, are conducted to show the functioning of their cardiovascular and respiratory systems.
Dr. Gabor Kaley, chairman of the physiology department here, said the students, many of whom grew up with dogs as pets, were well prepared to take part in the laboratory.
"We talk to them first, and explain why it is important," he said. We try to desensitize them." He said no students had chosen to abstain this year from the experiments, which he called an "absolutely necessary" part of the curriculum. "All consider this the highlight of the course in the first year," he said. "You're dealing with living tissue."
But Dr. Sloan, who practices in Manhattan and is also a sex therapist, said the experiments were outmoded in an age of sophisticated computers and techniques like high-resolution ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging, which can produce accurate simulations of the human body.
"It's not only not necessary to use animals," he said, "it is detrimental." He described a procedure to treat glaucoma, which was successfully tested on rabbits but caused blindness in humans. "You can't apply the same principles," he said. "The college is holding on to old ways."
Dr. Ralph Dell, chairman of the animal care and use committee at Columbia University's schools of medicine, nursing and public health, said animals had become too expensive to use in teaching undergraduates.
Instead, students observed demonstrations of cardiac catheterizations and other procedures on patients, as instructors explained what was taking place.
Dr. Dell said, however, that he had found animal laboratories very useful when he was a medical student. "I support New York Medical College in their efforts," he said. "If they have the money for it, that's absolutely fantastic."
Research animals are expensive not only because their treatment and upkeep must conform to Federal and state regulations but also because 14 states, including New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Pennsylvania, prohibit pounds or shelters from providing animals for use in teaching or research.
Dr. Robert F. Case, a veterinarian in charge of enforcing animal welfare laws for the State Health Department, described an industry of licensed dealers who can provide the only legal supply of dogs and cats to medical schools and research laboratories.
The breeders raise mongrel puppies for teaching purposes and purebred dogs, usually beagles, for use in research, while other dealers obtain unwanted animals from their owners, who are required to have raised them from birth. All dealers must be registered with the United States Department of Agriculture.
Dr. Case visits sites unannounced to inspect the living conditions of animals and oversee the humane use of anesthesia. He said purpose-bred mongrels between the age of 6 and 8 months sold for $370 each, while dogs over 8 months sold for $525 each. Purebred beagles, which are most often used for research, cost between $325 and $385 each.
Second-hand dealers, who buy from the original owners, charge by weight rather than age; their prices range from $174 to $194 for dogs.
Room and board for dogs, which are usually kept for several weeks before experiments take place, as well as staff members to take care of them, also drive up the animal's cost to medical schools.
Dr. Kaley said about 20 dogs had been used in last month's laboratory class here. Dogs are preferred over rodents, for example, because "you need a larger animal to be similar to the human," he said.
Other medical schools have taken a different approach. The physiology course attended by 80 percent of undergraduates at Harvard Medical School, for example, was redesigned last year to emphasize human, rather than other mammalian, physiology. "We wanted the students in that course to study more closely the human body and its responses to physiology and stresses," said Dr. Bruce R. Zetter, a professor of surgery who directs the course. "We felt it was most important to understand the integrated workings of the body, and since they're going to be physicians, we wanted that to be the human body."
Dr. Zetter said the decision to stop using dogs and rats in the course, a practice that began at Harvard 35 years ago, was made for educational reasons. "We asked how in thinking about physiology in the 1990's we could design a course that emphasizes humans and teaches about the heart," he said, "and we came up with about 20 different ways." These include observing cardiac surgery and taking part in a new exercise laboratory, he said.
The other 20 percent of Harvard's undergraduate medical students attend a physiology course involving animal experiments taught in the school's Health Sciences and Technology Division, a joint program with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Officials at New York Medical College said the animal laboratories and use of dogs would continue.
"We firmly and strongly believe that what we are doing is necessary to the education of our future doctors," said Ellen F. Carr, vice president of communications.
Dr. Kaley called supporters of Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, who include 3,500 doctors and 65,000 other people, single-minded fanatics with a "crazy pseudo-philosophy that animals have rights or are as good as people."
He added: "There is only one side to this story. They are 100 percent wrong."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Don M. Sloan, associate professor at New York Medical College in Valhalla, who opposes live animal experiments. (Roberta Hershenson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MEDICAL COLLEGE (VALHALLA, NY); PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS; PHYSICIANS COMMITTEE FOR RESPONSIBLE MEDICINE PHYSICIANS COMMITTEE FOR RESPONSIBLE MEDICINE (91%); PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (PETA) (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MEDICAL COLLEGE (VALHALLA, NY); PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS; PHYSICIANS COMMITTEE FOR RESPONSIBLE MEDICINE PHYSICIANS COMMITTEE FOR RESPONSIBLE MEDICINE (91%); PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (PETA) (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ANIMALS; RESEARCH; ETHICS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (90%); ETHICS (90%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); DOGS (89%); CURRICULA (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); CATS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); PETS (73%); PHARMACOLOGY (69%); TRENDS (68%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (67%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (63%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (58%); 

PERSON: HERSHENSON, ROBERTA; SLOAN, DON M (DR)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



573 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 6; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Discover All Kinds of Friends

BYLINE: By SAM LIBBY 

 BODY:
GOV. JOHN G. ROWLAND has been stung by beekeepers. And by farmers, horticultural-business owners, environmentalists, foresters, public health officials and householders who do their own landscaping.
All were among the hundreds of people at two recent public hearings who testified against the Governor's $4.5 million budget proposal to eliminate the state's Agricultural Experiment Station. Last week, legislative leaders conceded the proposal was dead. 
 Mr. Rowland -- citing soil, water, fertilizer and pesticide tests -- had said the station's services benefited only a small portion of the state's population. He also argued that the station's essential services (like certifying state-produced plants for export or shipment out of state), research on Lyme disease and other tick-borne diseases, as well as research on tree and plant blights and diseases, could be taken over by other agencies or institutions.
The Governor questioned the role of the state in undertaking the diverse research that has made the Agricultural Experiment Station -- with its 38 scientists, six-acre campus in New Haven, 73-acre research farm in Hamden and laboratory and research farm in Windsor -- world famous.
Among the station's achievements are the development of hybrid corn (a vital food source throughout the world), the discovery of Vitamin A and the development of the first tests to detect Lyme disease.
This is about making state government more efficient, said Nuala Forde, a spokeswoman for Mr. Rowland.
This is about the Governor being a city person who doesn't have a clue about the economic value of the state's agricultural and horticultural businesses, said State Representative John D. Mordasky, a Democrat of Stafford Springs and one of two farmers in the General Assembly.
Agriculture, and its related industries, is a growing sector of the state's economy that employs about 9,300 state residents and annually contributes $844 million to the state economy, according to a recent report done by UConn's Department of Agricultural and Resource Economics.
If the Governor has the opportunity to see the station's work, said John Lyman 3d, he would be able to see how efficiently essential services are provided to state businesses, businesses that generate millions of dollars for the state's economy and employ thousands of state residents.
Mr. Lyman is a Republican selected by Mr. Rowland to serve on the experiment station's board of control and the vice president of farm operations at Lyman Orchards in Middlefield. (The board of control includes the Governor, two of his appointees, the Commissioner of the State Department of Agriculture, and representatives from the University of Connecticut, Wesleyan and Yale.)
"The Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station is about value rendered to the citizens of Connecticut," said Larry Carville, executive director of the Connecticut Nurserymen's Association. The state's $600 million horticultural and nursery industry has more than 2,500 full- time employees, and 2,000 seasonal workers, said Mr. Carville. The experiment station is essential to the industry, he said.
Only 15 percent of White Flower Farm's products are sold in Connecticut, the rest is sold out of state or internationally, said Elliot Wadsworth, owner of the Litchfield-based business. Inspectors from the station certify Connecticut-grown products for shipment out of state and for international markets, he said.
Scientists at the station developed a beautiful and hardy new strain of mountain laurel, the state flower, which has become a very popular ornamental plant, said Mike Johnson, owner of Summer Hill Nursery Inc. in Madison.
A third-generation fruit grower from Ledyard, Richard Holmberg, recalled that during his gubernatorial campaign, Mr. Rowland had said that he and the state government wanted to be partners with business and to generate new jobs together. Mr. Holmberg described the Experiment Station as "a partner in New Haven for three generations, a partner and a friend that has never let me down."
"If the state of Connecticut really wants to be my partner," Mr. Holmberg said, "don't eliminate my most valuable asset."
The station's success in tick-borne disease is something that definitely couldn't be transplanted, said Louis Magnarelli, the state's entomologist and the assistant director of the Experiment Station.
The station's work with Lyme disease began in 1975 when a cluster of 30 juvenile arthritis cases was noted among children and young teen-agers in Lyme and Old Lyme. Station scientists were some of the first to recognize that the disease was tick-borne.
Dr. Magnarelli and Dr. John Anderson, the current director of the station, have done extensive research on the ecology of Lyme disease and other tick-borne disease. In 1989, station scientists discovered that tick-borne babesiosis, was present in Connecticut. Last summer, Dr. Magnarelli identified H.G.E., a potentially fatal tick-borne disease, as being entrenched in the state.
Station scientists have developed tests to diagnose such diseases, and Dr. Magnarelli is currently investigating whether a single tick bite can transmit more than one disease. He is also searching for diagnostic methods that can detect more than one tick-borne disease infecting a person simultaneously.
Station scientists are able to do this kind of work and achieve this kind of success, Dr. Magnarelli said, because they have been studying these pathogens for 20 years. Eliminating the Agricultural Experiment Station would wreck this research, he said, and destroy the experience and knowledge of tick-borne disease gained by station scientists.
At the March 11 hearing, about 70 state residents wearing green ribbons spoke in support of the Agricultural Experiment Station at the legislative office building in Hartford.
They talked about the work of station scientists in developing the first organic fungicide, the station's progress in protecting the state's hemlock trees from the woolly adelgid, and the station's work in producing clean compost from municipal sewage sludge.
"I definitely hear you," said State Senator Catherine W. Cook, a Republican of Groton and chairwoman of the Environment Committee.
Senator Cook said Republicans did not support elimination of the station, but many in the General Assembly did support charging user fees for laboratory tests and services.
Each year, station employees answer about 25,000 question from the public, and analyze about 10,000 soil samples from farms, lawns and gardens. They also do tests for disease on tens of thousands of ticks sent in by residents who have removed the insects from themselves or pets.
Dr. Anderson said that only about $100,000 to $200,000 could be generated by fees and that fewer residents would be likely to use the station's services under a fee system.
State legislators also want the station to seek out royalties from its research as well as support from private foundations and the Federal Government.
Following the hearing, the state's Deputy Budget Director, Donald W. Downes, conceded there weren't enough votes in the General Assembly to eliminate the Agricultural Experiment Station.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION (CONN) AGRICULTURAL&RESOURCE (74%); EXPERIMENT STATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION (CONN) EXPERIMENT STATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (92%); LYME DISEASE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HORTICULTURE (90%); CROP RESEARCH (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BITES & STINGS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); APICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (75%); TICK BORNE DISEASES (74%); PESTICIDES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); FERTILIZERS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); 

PERSON: LIBBY, SAM; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) JOHN G ROWLAND (90%); RICHARD HOLMBERG (60%); LYMAN ORCHARDS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



574 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2041 words

HEADLINE: At UConn, How It Was With Harry at the Helm

BYLINE: By JACKIE FITZPATRICK 

 BODY:
HARRY HARTLEY is a pump-your-hand kind of guy. He walks around campus in a UConn sweatsuit, nor does he mind when a man in a pick-up truck dispenses with the formality usually offered a university president and shouts, "Hey Harry -- howsit goin'?"
"Fine," he calls back, chuckles. 
 As he walks, it keeps happening -- these hey's and hi's from all over. Then, suddenly, Dr. Hartley sprints away, toward a crowd he has spied in front of the UConn Co-op.
It is a group of high school students and their parents taking a tour of the university. Dr. Hartley steps right in, introduces himself as the president of the University of Connnecticut and quickly engages the prospective students, especially a couple of quiet ones standing on the fringe.
"Where are you from?" he asks.
"New Canaan," a young woman answers.
"Ahh, Fairfield County," Dr. Hartley says. "Is that part of New York or Connecticut? I always forget."
At first, they don't quite know what to make of this joke-cracking man, but then the corners of their lips turn up. Parents' shoulders relax.
Alena Cybart, the UConn senior giving the tour, says this happens all the time. "He's very accessible," she said. "You see him at a lecture or an event or a game and he's so approachable. I'd have to think that's rare."
On Sept. 1, after almost six years as head of the state's largest public university, Dr. Hartley will step down. He plans to take a year to travel and then return to the classroom. Why?
"People keep wondering what the big mystery is, why I'm leaving," he said. "Six years is a long time for a state university president. There are political factors, stress, budget shortfalls, so many competing constituents."
Among students, he has become one of the most beloved presidents in recent history. Politicians genuinely like him. He has, according to numerous op/ed pieces lamenting his retirement in newspapers across the state, helped to raise UConn's profile across the country.
But he has also ruffled the feathers of some traditional academicians with his man-on-the-street affability and what they see as an undue emphasis on sports.
"When it comes down to dealing with difficult, substantive academic issues, he simply doesn't engage himself," said Antonio Romano, a former dean of liberal arts and sciences and a professor emeritus of molecular and cell biology. "He does not want to hear problems."
"If he wasn't so besotted with his gym rat image, he wouldn't have been bad," added Julius Elias, also former dean of liberal arts and sciences and a professor emeritus.
Dr. Hartley replies that his commitment to academics is not to be doubted and that his enthusiasm for sports is simply to be expected. "Most of the top 10 schools you see in basketball rankings are also first-rate academic institutions -- Duke, Stanford, University of North Carolina," he added. "Academic success and athletic success are absolutely compatible."
Dr. Hartley is by all accounts likeable and has a multitude of supporters. Peter L. Halvorson, a professor of geography and a member of the executive committee of the University Senate, said "I think something Harry has done quite well as president was to lay on our doorstep UConn 2000. That was a tremendously important achievement."
Dr. Halvorson said faculty at any university hopes for a balanced view of academic and athletic programs and UConn is no different. "There is a sizable contingent of people here concerned about that balance, feeling it needs to be adjusted," he said.
But Dr. Hartley stands by his own academic achievements, and those of others that have occurred during his tenure at UConn. "I was a professor for 24 years," he said. "I achieved the distinguished rank of university professor -- the only president so named."
As for sports, he said, "I don't set society's priorities. Society in Connecticut set its sights on our basketball teams. One hundred thousand people turned out for a parade in their honor."
If the same happened for a debating team or a physics club, Dr. Hartley said, he'd be there banging the drum just as loudly.
Dr. Romano, for one, begs to differ. Last April, on the day the UConn women's basketball team returned to campus following their National Championship win, it was also UConn Scholars' Day, when the university honors its highest achievers in academics.
Dr. Romano said that while Dr. Hartley was on hand for all the basketball team's hoopla, he did not stop in to speak at the Scholars' Day, which he said speaks volumes about Dr. Hartley's priorities.
"Absolutely false," said Peter McFadden, executive assistant to the UConn President. "Harry Hartley was at the event." He also was at several others that day. Dr. Hartley very much believes what Peter Flawn, president emeritus of the University of Texas at Austin, said in his book, "Primer for University Presidents," Mr. Fadden said: "You show up at everything. You do not stay at anything."
Last May, Dr. Romano went head to head with Dr. Hartley after the university president approved tenure for a professor who had been denied throughout the ranks. Feeling that Dr. Hartley had "destroyed the integrity" of the tenure process, Dr. Romano retired rather than continue to work with him.
Dr. Romano and Dr. Elias said that under Dr. Hartley's tenure, graduate and PhD. programs have slipped in ranking.
Dr. Hartley acknowledged that some graduate program rankings have dropped, but said one of the key areas in need of improvement is graduate study in the area of liberal arts and sciences -- which he shot back to Drs. Elias and Romano as happening "during their watch."
He said the structure of the president's office changed last year with the hiring of Mark A. Emmert as chancellor, a position that has long been recommended. Dr. Emmert will focus primarily on academic issues and one of his first priorities, said Dr. Hartley, is to revamp the graduate and PhD. programs.
To the complaint that sports matter more to him than academics, Dr. Hartley said he was charged by the board of trustees to strengthen the school's athletics. "But it was not done at the expense of academics," he said. "During my presidency, the faculty's Federal research funding increased from $77 million in 1990 to $109 million." As he noted, UConn set up an economic partnership with the state, for research and development.
William Servedio, department head of sport, leisure and exercise sciences, said Dr. Hartley "was the best president to get us through very tough times."
"I don't think a lot of people realize how far he got our university, academically, with so little," he said.
"Harry's been visible at the sports games because that's where the cameras are but I've seen him at student government functions, United Way events, all kinds of student academic activities, Special Olympics," he said. "He's everywhere."
Adds Regina Barreca, associate professor of English, "I applaud what he did. He had an agenda and he accomplished it. He got the name of the university out there," she said. "A university president can never please everyone. It's a terrible job. If I were going to be a president on call seven days a week, answering to everyone . . . I'd do it at Chemical Bank where I'd make gobs and gobs of money."
A college presidency was hardly at the top of the dream list when Harry Hartley was a boy. He was going to be a stockbroker. He was born in Aliquippa, Pa., the same town that brought us Pistol Pete Maravich and Mike Ditka. "We were right outside of Pittsburgh, a steel mill town," Dr. Hartley said. "I like my blue collar roots."
His parents were both teachers but he didn't lean that way. He studied economics at Geneva College and later at the University of Pittsburgh. After a stint in the National Guard, he found work as a substitute teacher. He also found his calling. He went on for his Ph D. in educational administration at Penn State, worked for SUNY-Buffalo and then moved to Greenwich Village to become an associate dean at New York University.
He also wrote a book on time management and fiscal management, "Educational Planning-Programming-Budgeting," and dropped into Storrs on a book tour. In 1972 he was named dean of the school of education at UConn, where he taught and later became vice president for finance and administration.
"I loved Greenwich Village but when I came to UConn, I came home," he said. "I bought my first house, a dog. I put down roots."
He was named interim president for a month in 1987, then, three years later, when the Board of Trustees had concluded a national search, it went with the "local fellow," naming Dr. Hartley UConn's 12th president.
"It was what the board and the faculty wanted -- someone who was one of us," Dr. Halvorson said.
During his tenure, Dr. Hartley orchestrated efforts to put together UConn 2000 -- a sweeping plan that allows the university to issue bonds and spend $1 billion to address physical plant problems throughout the campus. He called its passage by the legislature his "finest moment," resulting from a "family effort" on the part of university officials, faculty and legislators.
But he also faced many a budget battle and faculty layoffs and has grown weary, he said, in the face of more operating budget woes on the horizon. "We have the same funding in 1996 that we had in 1989," he said, noting that Connecticut is near the bottom of the list in terms of state spending on higher education.
If UConn 2000 is his crowning achievement, the increasing cost of tuition and fees and the possibility that "the sons and daughters of Connecticut may not be able to afford UConn" is his biggest fear.
Dr. Hartley said he's also most proud of the strides made in the area of diversity during his presidency. He instituted a 100 Years of Women Celebration in 1991 and oversaw the creation of the Asian-American Cultural Center, the Asian-American Studies Institute and Puerto Rican and Latino Studies. The percentage of minority freshmen rose from 5.2 percent in 1990 to 18.9 percent in 1995.
"He's constantly putting issues having to do with culture and gender on the front burner," said Irene Quong Conlon, director of the office of diversity and equity.
While he worries over the financial picture for the university and his students, Dr. Hartley finds this generation of students to be one of the most motivated he's seen in years, realistic about the competition they face in the job market and genuinely concerned about other people.
"They also like to have fun and I like that," he said. "That's what I love about the job. I like being an ambassador for UConn and these people, a living logo."
He wears his National Championship Husky ring with pride. His office is hung with framed photographs of himself with President Bill Clinton, who was on campus last year, and Michael Bolton and Rebecca Lobo.
A search is underway for his successor and cards and notes from Senators, alumni, faculty and students crowd his windowsill. Despite the hubub and the usually hectic schedule, he manages to dart out of his office, to one the places he loves best -- the horse barn.
There in one of the stables is UC Harry H, a chesnut, 15 hands tall, 975 pounds strong. As Dr. Hartley explained it, "Each spring when the foals are born, visiting school children can write down the names they'd like for the horse and among all the names, the barn staff picks one."
One year, a child scribbled "Harry" and a lightbulb went off in John Bennett's head. "I thought, 'Let's name him for Harry Hartley,' " said Mr. Bennett, manager of the barn. "It was perfect."
Dr. Hartley said, "Nobody told me about it for months, but when I found out I was delighted. I love this guy."
The UConn president has become a fixture in this part of campus. He even was at the helm with UC Harry H. and a makeshift sleigh with Santa on board for for a snowless holiday event a couple years back when 400 children and their parents gathered at Christmastime.
"We stuck a sign on the back that said 'Student Driver' so no one got their toes run over," Mr. Bennett said and Dr. Hartley burst into laughter.
"You did? I didn't know that," the president said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry Hartley, soon to step down as president of UConn, has a word with his namesake horse. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (57%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (57%); CO-OP '82 UA (57%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (57%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (57%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (57%); CO-OP STAR RT (57%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (57%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (57%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (57%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (57%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); POLITICS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); BIOLOGY (60%); BUDGETS (50%); 

PERSON: FITZPATRICK, JACKIE; HARTLEY, HARRY J HARRY HARTLEY (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



575 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2029 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Giving, Falling Behind as the Needs Grow

BYLINE: By DIANE SENTEMENTES SIERPINA 

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT'S biggest money givers -- its businesses -- are having a hard time meeting demand. The state's largest corporations did give away millions of dollars in 1995, but the pot may be shrinking as the needs keep growing.
Corporate grant makers say they are proud their budgets have remained largely stable in the past few years, but they say continuing cutbacks by Washington and by Hartford will mean even more requests than the thousands they already receive each year. 
 "We understand everybody needs money," said Carmella Piacentini, contributions manager for the Olin Corporation in Norwalk, which has a $2 million budget for philanthropy. "But we are not going to be everything for everyone. There's not enough money to go around."
"I think we do a pretty good job," added Zelda Jacobs, who manages corporate contributions for the Perkin Elmer Corporation in Norwalk, "but, God knows, we could do better."
Robert Bothwell, president of the National Committee for Responsive Philanthrophy based in Washington, D.C., is warning corporate grant makers to "barricade their doors." There will be an onslaught of requests for assistance coming soon, he said. It has happened before, with a weak economy and government cutbacks causing requests to companies to soar. "And it will happen again," Mr. Bothwell said.
Gail Promboin, assistant director of the Aetna Foundation in Hartford, has already seen a rise in requests. "Not only are the needs increasing," she said, "but they break your heart more." Aetna dispersed nearly $4 million in Connecticut from a $9 million national budget last year; most, she said, went to Hartford-area nonprofit agencies for children's health and educational opportunities for minorities and women.
But Mr. Bothwell says America's businesses aren't doing enough. National figures show that corporate giving has risen just 11 percent since 1987, while corporate profits over the same period increased by 84 percent. Companies used to donate an average 1.8 percent of domestic pretax income annually to charity, he said. In 1994, that figure dropped to 0.9 percent, according to the latest figures from the Conference Board, a research group based in New York. Audris Tillman, a research analyst with the board, described a dip below 1 percent as "cause for concern."
To Mr. Bothwell, the low figures mean businesses are shortchanging their social service communities nationally by $4 billion a year. "In the last six years, corporate giving has plateaued at $6 billion, hovered there and essentially gone nowhere," he said. "It is a very serious contraction."
On the bright side, said Ms. Tillman, the 383 companies that participated in the Conference Board's annual survey indicated their budgets for contributions would increase an average 3 percent in 1995 and another 5 percent in 1996. (Figures for 1995 will not be available until the fall.)
The concern about business community giving hasn't escaped the attention of SACIA (Southwestern Area Commerce and Industry Association), the Business Council of Fairfield County, said its president, Christopher Bruhl. The council expects to sponsor a conference for chief executives this fall to address changing philanthropic demands. "Business as usual can't do it anymore," he said. "Corporate giving needs to be re-examined. There hasn't been a broad national look at this in at least a decade."
Mr. Bruhl said corporate giving today is "more objective-driven and not need-driven." That is, companies are more motivated to give grants to specific sectors of their communities for a bigger impact rather than for the public relations rewards they sought in the 1980's, he said.
The education field is the big winner, as companies recognize the need to redefine basic skills for the future work force and to offer long-term learning opportunities for the current one. William Pitt, whose business is real estate, recently gave Sacred Heart University $3 million, to be used for a new health and recreation center.
Corporate grant makers around the state say that they have encouraged more employee volunteerism and offered matching funds to employees' charities. Some provide more services like classes and conferences, supplies and equipment, rather than cash. All have chosen to focus their grants in specific areas like education, foster care, health, culture, economic development and the environment. All, too, say they have written guidelines for giving that make it easier to say no to many other requests for donations.
Although many corporations do not disclose the size of their annual budgets for contributions, unless they are in the form of a legal foundation or trust, an informal survey of grant makers places the range at anywhere from $10,000 to $70 million, including United Way, matching gift and employee donations.
Many of the budgets -- the General Electric Corporation's estimated $70 million, for example -- encompass offices and divisions worldwide. Others are national in scope. It's difficult even for the professionals to compare apples with apples when considering the wide variety of budgets, the grant makers say.
In general, these grant makers say, budgets are set each year by the chief executive officer, board of directors or a committee of senior managers. Typically larger and multi-year donations are set; smaller donations that coincide with the company's grants agenda are made at the discretion of a manager. Only 10 percent to 15 percent of the annual budget is usually available for new requests.
The strength and size of a corporate contributions budget often reflects the attitude of the company's chief executive officer.
Linda Zemo, contributions manager at the Champion International Corporation in Stamford, says she knows this firsthand. Despite several lean years for the paper manufacturer, there are two things the retiring chief executive officer, Andrew Sigler, never did, she said: "fire people or reduce contributions, and that's very admirable."
Champion, which has a $7 million annual contributions budget, is widely recognized for its support of the Stamford Center for the Arts, lending of corporate executives to the city government and a five-year commitment to improve the middle schools in Stamford and three other American cities where its mills are situated.
Sometimes the favorite charities of the company's senior management get preferred treatment, so it behooves the nonprofits to get these managers on their boards of directors, grant makers said.
Although some firms have made it a full-time responsibility, corporate contributions often is only a part of a manager's duties, making it difficult to visit or monitor the agencies supported.
Many managers for the major corporations belong to regional contributions committees based in Stamford, Bridgeport, New Haven and Hartford, which meet regularly to exchange information.
Corporate budgets and expenditures are not discussed, but grant makers often learn which company is supporting which projects and programs and they try to avoid duplication.
"We have to maintain a watch on our shareholders' dollar," said Kathy Buccy, director of contributions and educational programs for the SNET Corporation in New Haven. "We're under additional pressure to reassess our giving every year and focus on trying to provide more where we think we can make a difference."
SNET provides more in telecommunications tools and training sessions for educators than in cash, she said. Each year since 1988 the company has connected 25 new schools to the Internet through its Links to Learning program. Because of its work force reduction, it also had the bittersweet pleasure of opening its warehouse three times so nonprofit agencies could pick out office furniture and computers.
With industry money so tight, Ms. Buccy suggests charities with similar missions collaborate more on their projects and not make duplicative requests for contributions. Other managers suggested that agencies do more homework and learn about a corporation's policies before making their proposals.
Jane Polin, program manager for the $30 million G.E. Fund at G.E.'s Fairfield headquarters, an estimated $3 million of which is spent in Connecticut annually, said her company created the first matching-gift program in the nation during the 1940's and is always trying to be innovative with its funds.
Among other things, she said, the company conducts training conferences for the managers of social service agencies so they can do their jobs better. "We don't just give them fish," she said, "we teach them how to do the fishing."
G.E. also encourages current and retired employees to become dues-paying volunteers in its Elfun Society, which has 2,500 members in its three Connecticut chapters. Jack Batty, the paid director of the Connecticut chapters, said members provide tutoring, mentoring, time, talent and labor for various programs. Mr. Batty said other Connecticut firms have contacted him about starting similar programs.
The president of the Coordinating Council for Foundations in Hartford, Nancy Roberts, said that the area has received "very generous" support from its business community. But mergers and layoffs in the military, insurance and banking industries have apparently cut dollar totals.
Since 1992, Ms. Roberts said, contributions from 16 corporations surveyed by the council has decreased $1.9 million to $16 million, most of the shrinkage showing up in the banking and insurance sectors.
One major Hartford-based provider has been the United Technologies Corporation, whose contributions budget increased nearly 16 percent for 1996 to $12.8 million, $4 million of which is to be spent in Connecticut.
The company's contributions administrator, Leah Bailey, said that neither cash gifts nor volunteer hours have dropped. "The more we ask people to help out, the more they continue to sign up," she said. Last year, an estimated 4,000 employees volunteered to help at the Special Olympics World Games in New Haven.
Support for education account for 46 percent of the budget, and most grants are spread over many years. "We tend to be in there for the long haul," said Ken Green, director of contributions, who receives up to 40 new requests a day. Smaller projects, particularly in the arts, also are supported. Last year, United Technologies awarded the Mark Twain House in Hartford a two-year, $250,000 grant to renovate the home and create new programs.
At the end of 1995, with some discretionary funds left in the budget, the company bought $2,500 worth of cribs, bedding and furniture for six homeless shelters -- then delivered them unannounced. The company also presented each shelter with a $2,500 check. "That was one of the highlights of the entire year," said Mr. Green. "On a personal level, it was extremely gratifying." Unsolicited donations are the best, the UTC staff agreed.
Managers of contribution programs love their jobs.
"It makes it easier to get up in the morning," said Ms. Promboin of Aetna.
"Obviously, you feel like Santa Claus," added Ms. Jacobs of Perkin Elmer, whose company is recognized for its support of foster care and science/technology education. "I know it's through the largesse of the company, but my name is on the check and I'm the vehicle through which the money comes."
Richard Manz, assistant treasurer for the General Reinsurance Corporation in Stamford, who spends most of his day crunching numbers, said he gets the greatest pleasure visiting the organizations his company supports, particularly in the areas of health research and education. "No matter how much we give, it's great to make people happy," he said.
What he doesn't want to get from the agencies are fattening lunches or free tickets in appreciation. "That tells me they're using our money to wine and dine people," he said.
Who benefits most from business donations?
Mr. Bruhl of SACIA says its the companies themselves. "The corporations are completely dependent on the quality of their communities," he said.
"That's why they give and that's why they should give."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At United Technologies, employee volunteer efforts back up corporate dollar donations. In his Hartford office, Earl Flowers tutors Pao Keola. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: OLN (NYSE) (71%); PKI (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332992 SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (71%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (56%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (56%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: OLIN CORP (71%); PERKINELMER INC (56%); AETNA FOUNDATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AETNA FOUNDATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; CORPORATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CORPORATE GIVING (92%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); 

PERSON: ROBERT BOTHWELL (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



576 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 28; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: THEATER FINANCING;
Post-War Survivors

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Dinitia Smith's article "Curtain Calls With No Help From Uncle Sam" [March 3] generates more than respect for struggling theater artists. It also illuminates the drive in creative people who transcend economics and technology to keep their art alive. 
 A little history pre-dating those pocket theaters, not in Paris but here in New York City, seems timely. It was the late 1940's and early 50's. WPA support for the arts was over. World War II lingered in its aftereffects. And in the basements of libraries all over the city, Equity Library Theaters were flourishing on $50 grants from John Golden. I produced Chekhov's "Cherry Orchard" and Gorky's "Lower Depths" in a space the size of a handkerchief. We did Moliere with a line of dancers restricted to moving two feet in either direction. Our repertory included great plays of the Greeks as well as those of Odets and O'Casey.
 
ROSILYN WILDER
New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (90%); WORLD WAR II (87%); DANCERS (72%); 

PERSON: WILDER, ROSILYN; SMITH, DINITIA JOHN F GOLDEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



577 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Paper Threat

BYLINE: By Peter Passell; Peter Passell writes about economics for The New York Times.

 BODY:

POP INTERNATIONALISM
By Paul Krugman.
221 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
The MIT Press. $22.50.
Now that the cold war is over, the terms of global competition have shifted from ideology to economics. And while this is arguably a more civilized form of competition, the combatants are just as dedicated and the stakes are just as high. On the one hand, the United States must fend off economic challenges from Japan and the European Community. On the other, it must find ways to compete with third world countries that gobble up our capital and technology while flooding our markets with goods produced by low-cost labor. 
 You've heard all this a hundred times before. Business analysts, labor leaders, prominent academics -- even the Rhodes scholar Bill Clinton -- apparently find it persuasive. There is just one catch: it is unadulterated nonsense that anyone who got a passing grade in Economics 101 should be able to refute. Why, then, has it become the conventional wisdom for so many?
That is the subject that loosely binds "Pop Internationalism," Paul Krugman's new book of essays. Like most other writers' collections of previously published work, it suffers occasionally from repetition and datedness. It is hard, for example, to recall why people were so obsessed with the professional qualifications of Laura D'Andrea Tyson, President Clinton's surprise choice to head his Council of Economic Advisers. Still, everything Mr. Krugman has to say is smart, important and even fun to read.
Paul Krugman is no household name, but probably should be. A former professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who recently migrated to Stanford University, he is one of a handful of very bright, relatively young (age 42) economists who do everything well, and he was expected to represent the economics establishment in the big leagues of liberal policy wonkery. Indeed, his analysis of widening income inequality was used with great success by the Clinton campaign in 1992. But for reasons that reflect badly on the White House -- mostly Mr. Krugman's unwillingness to kowtow to the mushier-minded Friends of Bill -- he didn't make it into the Clinton inner circle.
The consolation is that Mr. Krugman now feels free to say whatever is on his mind. And much of it is not pretty. "Something really strange was going on," he writes of the President-elect's economic summit in Little Rock, Ark., in December 1992. "It was as if a high-profile conference had been convened that was billed as a gathering of the world's leading experts on human psychology -- and up there on the podium, giving the lead address, was John Bradshaw, telling me how to get in touch with my inner child."
The thesis of "Pop Internationalism" is that untutored views about international economics, mostly derived from the experiences of businessmen, soldiers and diplomats, are dead wrong. Corporations do compete for survival with other corporations: those that fail to please consumers, keep down costs or stay on the cutting edge of technology eventually disappear. "Countries, on the other hand, do not go out of business," Mr. Krugman writes. "They may be happy or unhappy with their economic performance, but they have no well-defined bottom line."
More to the point, the foreigners' gain is rarely our loss. When the Japanese build a better computer screen or the Brazilians mass-produce cheap shoes, American consumers enjoy the fruits of their innovation. Individual jobs held by Americans may end up in Osaka or So Paulo, but total employment in the American economy, Mr. Krugman reminds us, is largely determined by credit and monetary policy. Thus while the mix of jobs changes, there is no particular reason to believe that the losers outnumber the winners.
The grain of truth to the "trade as war" metaphor is in the exceptions to the rules -- exceptions that Mr. Krugman himself wrote about in the 1980's. Take the example of commercial aircraft. If there is room for only one low-cost manufacturer in the world market, a country that gets there first by subsidizing its industry or discouraging imports may reap the rewards of an effective monopoly. But potential gains from what has come to be known as strategic trade policy, Mr. Krugman notes, are elusive. All too often, the winners turn out to be losers: remember the race to be first in high-definition television?
One way or another, a country's gain at the expense of others must show up in improvement in its terms of trade -- how much more we get in imports in exchange for what we sell in exports. And by this objective measure, Mr. Krugman explains, the battle among global titans has amounted to shadow boxing. America's imports are a bit more expensive than in the 1960's. But the impact on American living standards has been trivial, a virtually unmeasurable ripple in the stormy seas of productivity change.
The puzzle, of course, is how so many influential people can be so wrong. One explanation, Mr. Krugman says, is that the global-competition bogyman is a wonderful diversion for politicians facing serious economic problems without obvious solutions. Another is that all sorts of people who know better go along with the fiction because it encourages virtuous behavior at home. It is easier, for example, to rally the nation around deficit reduction or investment in education by waving the flag than by arguing that a particular policy will increase the annual rate of economic growth from 2.1 percent to 2.3 percent.
But Mr. Krugman reserves his serious scorn for some of his most prominent colleagues. Lester Thurow, a very sophisticated economist, wrote a best seller entitled "Head to Head: The Coming Economic Battle Among Japan, Europe and America." "Would Thurow have sold a tenth as many books," Mr. Krugman wonders, if the subtitle had been "The coming struggle in which each big economy will succeed or fail based on its own efforts, pretty much independently of how well the others do"?
"Pop Internationalism" probably won't improve the sophistication of the public debate over Nafta or GATT, or encourage Japan to sell us more of those great products at bargain prices. But at least it is there to be read by those eager to get beyond the slogans that too often pass for economic wisdom.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: POP INTERNATIONALISM (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (66%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LITERATURE (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); WRITERS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); PUBLISHING (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; KRUGMAN, PAUL (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



578 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Dress Rehearsal For G.M. Closing

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: NORTH TARRYTOWN

 BODY:
THREE decades and what seems like a lifetime ago, Otto Rivera, a lanky youth from the Bronx, drove to his first day of work here in a sporty, light blue 1963 Chevrolet Bel Aire. Since those first years working on the assembly line at General Motors, there have been promotions, a wife and family, a home in the suburbs and a series of newer model cars. Life was everything Mr. Rivera had hoped for, until his 47th birthday this year.
Now the shop chairman for the United Automobile Workers is facing unemployment because the automaker will close the plant once the current model year ends this summer. The shutdown is part of an accelerated consolidation and idling of 22 selected factories in the United States and Canada. So far, 13 plants have been closed or sold. 
 Many of the 2,000 members of Local 664 at the plant here have been offered similar jobs at other factories, and although Mr. Rivera said he was not ready to retire, he has decided not to go.
Perhaps it is a matter of his age, he said, but he has put down roots here since he first began assembling speedometers when he was 18, and he does not want to start anew. Working at this hulking factory along the Hudson River, where Chevrolet Lumina Minvans, Oldsmobile Silhouettes and Pontiac Trans Sports are assembled, has been the only job he has known.
"I thought I would be here forever," he said. "I never dreamed things would come down to this."
As Mr. Rivera must now prepare for life after General Motors, so must the village of North Tarrytown along with the shopkeepers on Beekman Avenue who depend on the trade generated by the plant.
But the departure of General Motors is not a surprise to any of these groups -- the workers, the governmental units dependent on payments in lieu of taxes that the company makes to them or the merchants. Plans to close the assembly plant were announced four years ago, when 3,450 workers were employed here. At first, the shutdown was set for 1995, but an extra year's reprieve was later granted because the minivans were selling well.
Even though there has been ample time to adjust and to make plans, the reality of the impending shutdown was accentuated on March 14 when the plant was forced to stop production because of a shortage of brake parts -- the result of a strike at the Delphi Chassis plant in Dayton, Ohio.
That strike, which followed a long-simmering dispute over General Motors' decision to buy components from outside suppliers, resulted in production stoppages at 26 other North American plants and idled more than 166,550 workers by the middle of last week.
Sympathy for the strikers notwithstanding, Mr. Rivera said that for workers here the layoffs have added insult to injury. "We already knew D-Day was coming," he said, "just not this soon."
Union workers here earn as much as $840 a week, compared with maximum unemployment benefits of $300 a week. Those benefits were in doubt for awhile because the automaker had said it would fight workers' efforts to obtain unemployment benefits, but last Wednesday the New York State Department of Labor rejected the argument that the shutdown was the result of a strike and not the company's fault.
Once the plant closes for good, General Motors' severance package should help ease the pain for workers like Mr. Rivera. The company is offering permanent, full-time employees a $60,000 severance payment and $16,000 in vouchers and cash toward a new car, according to the New York State Department of Labor. The automaker will also give them $1,000 a month for two years while they look for a new job.
"G.M. has a heart," said Charles Licari, a spokesman for the automaker's North American operations in Warren, Mich. "No one is going to be left out on the street."
A transition center has been set up for workers, and many have been offered work in Doraville, Ga., where the minivans are now being built.
The severance package notwithstanding, the outlook is extremely poor for workers who do not accept transfer offers, said Frank M. Surdey, a regional economist with the state's Department of Labor. Referring to the work force at the plant here, Mr. Surdey said, "Once these 2,000 jobs are gone, there are only about 400 jobs of that kind left in the transportation equipment industry in New York." Re-employment prospects for welders and assembly-line workers are especially grim, although electricians may be able to transfer skills, Mr. Surdey said.
Meanwhile, at Village Hall, Mayor Sean Treacy was also weighing options for the future. While Mr. Rivera considers retraining alternatives, Mr. Treacy is negotiating a departure package with the automaker and leading a task force studying how best to use the waterfront property once it becomes vacant.
General Motors had filed, but has subsequently dropped, a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Manhattan seeking an injunction against North Tarrytown's Environmental Protection and Abandoned Industrial Property Reclamation Law, the first ordinance of its kind in the state and one of the first in the country.
In effect, the local law holds General Motors -- or any other large company leaving town -- responsible for cleaning up after itself. The ordinance is intended to prevent problems that have occurred in other waterfront communities like Hastings-on-Hudson, where large companies moved away and left behind hazardous waste.
With the threat of a lawsuit out of the way, the village is demanding that General Motors either sell the 97-acre site to an appropriate user within three years or start demolishing the buildings.
In addition, the Mayor has requested that the automaker continue to make payments in lieu of taxes for another two years, worth $5 million to the village, the school district and the town of Mount Pleasant.
The village is also seeking an option to buy 1.3 acres of the General Motors property to obtain a permanent easement for the Greenway Belt to connect Sleepy Hollow Landing here with Kingsland Park and Rockefeller State Park.
"We've agreed on the major points," Mr. Treacy said. "We're just hammering out the details."
A task force appointed four years ago by former Gov. Mario E. Cuomo to study reuse options for the property recently hired the consulting concern of Arthur Andersen & Company in Manhattan.
The company's preliminary study suggested these alternatives: housing for the elderly and others; a tourist center, including boutiques, outlets, restaurants and craft studios; a recreational center, including a sports complex, marina and public promenade, or a business complex with a hotel and office space.
But Noreen L. Preston, an economist with the county's Planning Department and County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke's representative on the task force, said the group was taking a cautious approach.
"We need plans that will fly in the marketplace," she said, "not something that just looks good on paper."
Meanwhile, merchants were also taking a hard look at the future, and many said they were worried about whether there would be enough customers to support their businesses once the automaker left. In the last 10 days, since the most recent layoffs, business has dropped off precipitously for many situated near the assembly plant.
"It's like a sad dress rehearsal for the real thing," said Christopher Rezza, co-owner of Greene County Importing, which makes pasta products and runs a delicatessen for walk-in customers. "We're sitting around playing cards."
Other merchants, however, were more optimistic. Margaret O'Brien, owner of the Catering Deli, said she opened her shop four years ago "knowing full well the plant was going to close."
She added: "Tourism has begun to boom along the Hudson River, and the village is all fixed up and ready for it. There are new storefronts, new trees, new sidewalks. We're going to change with the times."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chester Usiak, left, retired from General Motors, and Otto Rivera, shop chairman, outside union hall in North Tarrytown. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)
 
Charts: "BY THE NUMBERS: Westchester's Changing Population" list immigration figures in New York and Westchester for 1990-1995.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH TARRYTOWN (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LABOR; STRIKES PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); STRIKES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); 

PERSON: RIVERA, OTTO; BRENNER, ELSA OTTO RIVERA (93%); FRANK M SURDEY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



579 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: 'Reviving Lower Manhattan';
Uptown at Columbia, A Panel on Downtown

 BODY:
Its cavernous streets and skyscrapers -- both historic and glassily new -- are "the glory of the place," according to the architect Robert A. M. Stern, who will be presiding over a forum Friday to discuss the future of Lower Manhattan.
The free symposium, called "Reviving Lower Manhattan: Preserving the Past to Insure the Future," will start at 1 P.M. at Wood Auditorium in Avery Hall at Columbia University, where Mr. Stern heads the historic preservation program of the School of Architecture. 
 With guests like Deputy Mayor Fran Reiter, the symposium will target hot issues for the downtown financial area: rezoning and redeveloping some of the archaic office buildings as apartments.
But it will also feature other preservationists and architectural historians, including Richard Plunz and Andrew S. Dolkart. "We're trying to make it an intersection between the world of academe, the world of practice and the world of politics," said Mr. Stern, who helped to launch the symposium, which is based on a report on Lower Manhattan prepared by preservation students.
With what forum participants say is 20 million square feet of vacant office space, and streets that become a ghostland after 6 P.M., there is a "need to try to diversify Lower Manhattan's economy so it's more of a 24-hour place," said Richard L. Schaffer, a panelist, who was Planning Commission chairman under Mayor David N. Dinkins. "How do you keep the appeal of the place, the irregular old 17th-century Dutch streets and the early 20th-century skyscrapers, when you bring in the restaurants?"
"The issues are all up for review," said Richard Kaplan, another panelist and co-chairman of the J. M. Kaplan Fund, which has recently launched a series of tours of lower Manhattan. "The area had the first skyscraper, the first subways, the first zoning, the immigrants, the first Indians, the first Presidential inauguration and the first $100 million woman investor. It's going to take a while for Lower Manhattan to turn into SoHo or TriBeCa, but the seeds are being planted now."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ZONING (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); 

PERSON: STERN, ROBERT A M

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



580 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Redeveloping the State's Industrially Polluted Sites

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
IN passing a new law that provides tax abatements to developers who clean up industrially polluted sites, the state has taken another step forward in spurring the redevelopment of such sites and, in the process, stoking the economy.
The new law mirrors a national trend of offering incentives and steering development to such sites. Indeed, earlier this month when President Clinton made a campaign stop in Bergen County, including a visit to a contaminated tract in Wallington, he talked of a $2 billion proposal to grant Federal tax breaks to businesses that clean up sites in poor neighborhoods. 
 The state's Environmental Opportunity Zone Act became effective Jan. 10. The measure permits municipalities to offer up to a 10-year tax abatement to reclaim abandoned or underutilized industrial tracts they designate as such a zone -- most of them in cities.
The abatement defrays the cost of cleaning such sites, which state law requires be rid of any contaminants before they are redeveloped. Brownfields, as these sites are known, are less polluted than a toxic-waste dump, but need a more extensive cleanup than undeveloped suburban or rural sites.
An Environmental Opportunity Zone can consist of one site or several that a community wants to revive for industrial or commercial use to help shore up an economic base weakened by the loss of industry. Last year New Jersey had 492,500 manufacturing jobs, down from 506,000 jobs in 1994 and from a peak of more than 900,000 in 1969, state data show. Estimates by the state's Council of Economic Advisers are that there will be a 2 percent decline in such jobs in this year.
"The law attempts to combine a cleaner environment with a more productive economy," said State Assemblyman Richard H. Bagger, a Westfield Republican who was its sponsor. "The two are not mutually exclusive."
Mr. Bagger said the law seeks to preserve open space and redirect jobs into cities while bolstering the state's Development and Redevelopment Plan. A central tenet of the plan is to encourage growth in cities.
Of New Jersey's 22,000 known or suspected contaminated sites 7,000 are being cleaned or investigated, and they could be helped by the new law, said Richard J. Gimello, assistant commissioner of the Division of Site Remediation at the Department of Environmental Protection.
Though many developers, municipal leaders and industry experts are still assessing the new law, they say another tool to recyle old industrial sites is welcome.
"The abatement could help neutralize some of the financial disincentives that go along with developing these sites in older cities," said Ira Whitman, who heads an environmental consulting firm bearing his name in East Brunswick.
Thomas Consiglio, a partner at Resource Realty, an industrial brokerage in Edison added: "It will not make or break a deal. Developers still must be comfortable with the environmental risk and how to address it."
BASICALLY, the law borrows a page from the state's existing tax-abatement program, but with a significant twist.
Businesses that clean up and redevelop Environmental Opportunity Zone properties can receive the up-to-10-year tax abatement on the new project as it is being built, permitting a 100 percent abatement on real estate taxes for the first year, phasing out to zero abatement in the 10th.
The difference is that the developer's payments during the tax-abatement period would be based on the assessment of the unrenovated property, "to offset the cost of the remediation," said Mr. Bagger. The abatement applies only to sites revived for commercial and industrial use. And it runs only until the developer recoups the cleanup cost, but cannot exceed the 10-year cap, Mr. Bagger said.
While the existing program provides for a tax abatement of up to 15 years, it is based on taxes attributable to the new construction or to the project's projected income.
Under the new law a developer, for its part, must complete the cleanup according to a state approved work plan. Doing so garners other benefits: Zone sites undergo an expedited approval process and their developers are not required to post a bond at the start of the remediation.
In addition, at least 5 percent of the $25 million left in the $55 million state fund set up in 1993 to help developers and municipalities finance cleanups has been reserved for such properties.
Participation in the tax-abatement program is voluntary and relies on the establishment of public-private partnerships.
Karen Waldron, manager of Trenton's six-year-old brownfields project, said that "we're interested in anything that can help draw developers into the city, and this law could be another piece to the puzzle."
"It can't hurt," she added.
Trenton has identified 50 plus brownfield sites and is working to reclaim them. It is also the only city in the state to receive a $200,000 grant under the Federal Environmental Protection Agency's 1993 Brownfields Economic Redevelopment Initiative, which gives such grants to communities to identify sites, determine how much pollution they contain and promote them to developers.
Lawrence D'Andrea, brownfield coordinator at the E.P.A regional office in Manhattan, said that so far 40 communities had received $200,000 grants each and that the last 10 of the 50 allotted to the program would be awarded this June.
"Developers must feel comfortable they will get a return on their investment," he said. "This law is a way to do that."
Ms. Waldron said Trenton initially was investigating three sites to market to developers for re-use and will explore the "possibility of applying the new law" to help achieve that. Among the sites is the former four-acre Champale brewery on Lamberton Street, across from the city's new minor league baseball stadium.
SOME observers say that the law is limited since it does not apply to the re-use of such properties for housing. And others say implementing the law may be difficult at a time when municipalities are struggling with how to diversify their tax base without increasing the burden to homeowners.
Assemblyman Bagger countered that "the idea is to recycle sites that are producing little or no tax revenue, so there is no immediate loss and a definite long-term gain."
Newark, which is facing a property-tax re-evaluation after 39 years, has such a struggle. But it also has identified 130 brownfields that it ultimately would like to bring back to useful life. To that end it is applying for one of the last 10 E.P.A grants, said Joel Freiser, project development officer at the semi-autonomous Newark Economic Development Authority.
"Notwithstanding the pending re-evaluation, I think Newark should also try to use the new law because it offers resources and tools that before now were unavailable," said Mr. Freiser.
New Jersey made it a bit easier to develop such sites in 1993 when it made changes to the state law governing their cleanup. Essentially, the 1993 law, the Industrial Sites Recovery Act, set up different procedures for residential and nonresidential cleanups. It also permits alternative methods including fences and impermeable caps to stop waters from seeping out instead of requiring their removal.
In addition, it has provided other redevelopment incentives, including the creation of the $55 million fund to assist with cleanups.
Yet, the cost of cleaning up such sites and the potential liability risks they still carry remain hurdles. While the law he sponsored provides incentives that will help defray the cost, said Mr. Bagger, it is not "a magic wand and more needs to be done" on the liability side. A provision of the original bill that would have given innocent purchasers of Environmental Opportunity Zone properties immunity from liability for past environmental conditions was deleted.
Mr. Bagger said he would introduce a bill this legislative session to address the liability issue, adding that several others were already in the hopper. "This law combined with closing the liability loophole would give New Jersey a significant brownfields redevelopment policy," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Assemblyman Richard A. Bagger, the sponsor of a law giving incentives for redeveloping industrially polluted sites like former Champale brewery in Trenton, at left. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TAX CREDITS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; WATER POLLUTION; AIR POLLUTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TAX INCENTIVES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); TRENDS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LANDFILLS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BROWNFIELD SITES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (74%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



581 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
Housing Programs Strained as Cutbacks Take Hold

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
SINCE 1983 Denise Crowell and her two school-aged sons have lived in a two-bedroom apartment at 2665 Decatur Avenue in the Bronx. Her housing has not changed in 12 years, but her living conditions have vastly improved. And her rent has declined.
The building was taken over by the city in 1985, when conditions were dire. Eventually building improvements were made. Ms. Crowell received a Section 8 rent certificate, relieving her of most of the burden of paying rent from her modest welfare allowance. Three years ago the building passed to tenant ownership, under the management of the Fordham Bedford Housing Corporation, a nonprofit operator. 
 "It took two years to get the Section 8 certificate," said Ms. Crowell, who hopes to complete her college education when her two sons, now 17 and 12, can support themselves. "Before that I was really scuffling to pay the rent."
The stability that the system of Federal rent payments have brought to Ms. Crowell's life is complemented on a broader scale by the stability it has brought to buildings in lower-income neighborhoods.
Thousands of tenants, whether on public assistance or not, lack the income to pay rent sufficient to maintain decent building conditions. Vouchers or certificates pay the difference between what tenants can pay (figured at 30 percent of their income) and what buildings require to offer decent housing (sometimes called the economic rent).
Tenants who are issued vouchers or certificates use them to go out and find their own housing, in buildings where owners will accept voucher tenants. But sometimes they are made available for tenants in place, as at 2665 Decatur Avenue, to support the economic rent required after rehabilitation.
But Congressional cutbacks are now taking hold. Since summer, new commitments have been frozen, and the 1995 financing of new commitments was actually rescinded. With $16 billion in Federal contracts under these programs expiring by the year 2000, the long-term approach to sustaining housing where these subsidies are already in use is a key national issue. Solutions are unlikely in this Presidential year.
In New York City, Federal rent payments have become a key component of the maintenance of the rental housing stock, especially in high-density, lower-income communities. Another component is the use of privately raised tax-credit financing to supplement city or state capital contributions.
Since the certificates or vouchers go to tenants rather than buildings, their rent contributions form varying percentages of the total rents in different buildings, and often less than 20 percent.
The work of the Fordham Bedford Housing Corporation in the West Bronx shows how housing improvement activity in low-income districts relies upon the Federal rent program . The corporation manages 55 buildings with 1,250 apartments in an area just north and south of Fordham Road.
"Probably 40 percent of our tenants are on some form of public assistance and almost all our tenants have income under $25,000 a year," said John M. Reilly, executive director of the corporation. "Some of those tenants on welfare just eke by."
BUT over-all the housing is well maintained because vouchers or certificates are available for about 20 percent of the tenants. A handful of buildings Fordham Bedford manages are still city-owned and in the rehabilitation pipeline.
"In time we're going to find it harder and harder to find tenants able to pay the rent we have to charge," Mr. Reilly said. His concern is that if the Government starts supplying funds to the state in block grants, as is sometimes suggested in the debate in Washington over the administration of social programs, "Will these tenants already getting assistance continue to get it?"
At 2352 Walton Avenue, Diane Hoard is a tenant who has hung on for years during decline under private ownership and stabilization in city hands. Now the 25-unit building has been rehabilitated; she contributed $250 from public assistance for her apartment and a Federal subsidy will pay the rest of the $508 rent when the building transfers next month to nonprofit ownership.
She is raising her granddaughter, Stephanie Mercado, after having raised four children who are now adults with little help from the mother, who lives elsewhere. She says she is thrilled to have the new management of the Fordham Bedford Housing Corporation. "It makes us feel good that someone out there is listening to us when something goes wrong," she said.
The rent-up of the moderately rehabilitated vacant apartments is still under way. The very-low-income tenants in place already have their commitment for rent certificates, assuring economic rents for their 15 apartments.
But the lack of new Federal commitments has held up city-assisted rehabilitations of 30,000 apartments planned in 1994 through 1996, said Deborah C. Wright, Commissioner of Housing Preservation and Development. About 9,000 certificates are needed for tenants who are to move into these apartments.
Over-all the housing agency has about 11,000 tenant-based certificates or vouchers in use under various rehabilitation programs. And 3,200 more that were issued by the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal are also in use in the city.
But the principal issuer of housing vouchers and certificates in the city is the Housing Authority. Since the program began in 1976 it has issued them to 71,000 households, officials said. Tenants who get them show up in all sorts of buildings. Housing Authority officials say that 15,700 vouchers or certificates are in use in rent-stabilized postwar apartments; 17,900 are in one- to five-family buildings; 26,600 in older rental buildings and the rest are scattered throughout the publicly assisted housing stock.
On average, tenants with vouchers pay only $138 a month of their own money as rent; the average true rent for the apartment is $628 a month.
FOR the entire country, 305,000 vouchers and 1.8 million Section 8 certificates are outstanding. The cost to the Government is about $6.5 billion a year in tenant-based subsidies alone, or $4,950 an apartment a year. But in the budget-cutting atmosphere in Congress, there have been no new commitments in the last two years.
"The appropriations are being eaten up by renewals, and no new families are coming in," said W. Donald Campbell, a Washington housing consultant.
Among the programs now threatened are the city's efforts to rehouse homeless people who have spent months in city shelters.
"Going forward, we won't be able to set aside empty apartments for the homeless unless we can find a new source of subsidy," said Marc Jahr, program director for the Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC), which gets the private capital for many low-income rehabilitations.
In projects assisted by LISC, 30 percent of the tenants come from the city's shelter system and usually derive all their income from public assistance.
Already the financial planning for projects in development reflects the decline in Federal subsidies. In the early days of the city's rehabilitation programs, tax-credit financing could be used to lower the city's cost of construction. Now the money raised through LISC is being used to support operating reserves. The city carries the full cost of rehabilitation.
Amid the cutbacks in financing for low-income housing, at least one major project managed to get in under the wire. State commitments to the rehabilitation of the former Morrisania Hospital on East 168th Street in the Bronx into a development called Urban Horizons -- sufficiently generous to make rent certificates or vouchers unnecessary -- were made in Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's administration. They have been honored by the Pataki administration.
Construction has therefore begun on a project that represents the effort to provide "more than housing." Besides 132 apartments, Urban Horizons will have space for day care, health care and job training. At a community kitchen, home-based mothers will be able to run a catering business.
This $23 million project is getting $6.3 million in 1 percent financing from the state's Housing Trust Fund; $4.5 million from the state's Department of Social Services and $11 million in tax-credit financing, of which $3 million is for operating reserves. The developer is the Women's Housing & Economic Development Corporation, a Manhattan-based nonprofit company whose executive director is Nancy Biberman. The architect for the project is Becker & Becker Associates of New Canaan, Conn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of rebuilt Morrisania Hospital in the Bronx. (Becker & Becker Associates, New Canaan, Conn.); Diane Hoard and her granddaughter in their apartment. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FORDHAM BEDFORD HOUSING CORP (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); BUDGETS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (67%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S DENISE CROWELL (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



582 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
Pine Barrens Landowners Say Rights Are Denied

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

 BODY:
ALL Joseph F. Gazza wants, he says, is a way to use property he owns in the Central Pine Barrens or a way of selling it at a fair price.
His 222 acres lie within the 52,500-acre core of a protected 100,000-acre watershed area in eastern Suffolk known as the Central Pine Barrens, which was established by the Long Island Pine Barrens Protection Act of 1993. Virtually all development in the core has been stopped under the law. 
 Only 12,000 acres of vacant land in the core are still privately owned. The rest of the land either already is publicly owned or otherwise protected or already developed. Controlled development can continue on the 47,600 acres abutting the core, which has been designated a compatible growth area.
Earlier this month, Mr. Gazza, a Quogue lawyer who is one of 3,200 owners of vacant land in the core, was told by state officials that his hardship application had been denied and that he could not build any houses on the 9.8 acres he owns fronting the Riverhead-Moriches Road in Remsenburg.
The same day, his application to plant beach grass on 6.5 acres he owns on Westhampton-Riverhead Road in Westhampton also was denied on the ground that the property's natural vegetation would be disturbed.
"I have now written state officials a letter to which they have not yet responded, that they either let me use my land, or that they buy it, or find me a buyer for my transfer of development rights," Mr. Gazza said. "If they don't, I will then have been deprived of the full use of my property and I will then have a case with which to go to court."
Mr. Gazza said he was using the Remsenburg and Westhampton properties, which front on highways in developed areas, "as key test pieces to see what the Pine Barrens people are going to do with property owners with similar situations."
His frustrations are shared by many other owners who feel their property rights have been taken away, while they continue to pay full taxes and payments on any mortgages they owe.
About 500 owners have formed Civil Property Rights Associates, which plans to file a lawsuit in Federal Court challenging the constitutionality of the 1993 statute.
"They are creating a preserve on the backs of people who own the land," said John J. O'Connell, a Manhattan lawyer who represents the group. "If this preserve was created for the benefit of all the people of Long Island and New York State, then all the people should pay for the land they are trying to acquire."
The fair way would be for the state to pass a bond issue and purchase the property from the owners at fair market value, Mr. O'Connell said, adding; "At the moment, if they are lucky they get a pittance. And if they are unlucky, nothing happens while they continue to pay their taxes."
THE 100,000-acre Central Pine Barrens tract extends generally from Route 25A south to Sunrise Highway starting at Exit 63 of the Long Island Expressway and ending just west of the Shinnecock Canal. About 60 percent of the area is in Brookhaven, 30 percent is in Southampton and 10 percent is in Riverhead.
State officials point out that owners in the core area have several ways to use or dispose of their land.
Development permits can be granted under a hardship provision of the law. Land that had development approvals prior to the statute can still be developed. A land acquisition program is under way, financed in part by state allocations and in part by a special quarter-penny sales tax first adopted by Suffolk County in 1987 and in force until 2000.
Finally, a key component of the plan is a development-rights transfer mechanism known as the Pine Barrens Credit Program, which allows owners to receive credits for their property in return for granting conservation easements. The allocation is based on the property's size and zoning. Credits can be used to increase density on land outside the core area.
Landowners must apply to receive a letter of interpretation of how many credits they could receive for their land. The determination can be appealed. About 24 applications have been filed and 12 determinations have been made. The proposed allocations range from 40.43 credits to 0.10 credits, but 7 of the 12 are less than one credit. A full credit is needed to increase density by one unit above what is otherwise allowed outside the core area.
Although the goal is outright purchase of 75 percent of the 12,000 privately owned acres, the credit program, which is expected to affect only 3,000 acres, is important because "it attempts to maintain some of the growth that would have occurred," said Raymond P. Corwin, executive director of the Central Pine Barrens Joint Planning and Policy Commission.
To that end, the commission, which administers a comprehensive land-use plan adopted under the statute, recently created a credit clearinghouse, which has received $5 million from the state to purchase credits from landowners. The clearinghouse may will then sell the credits to developers.
Credits may also be sold privately by landowners on the open market in negotiated deals, but the clearinghouse will only pay a fixed amount, which has not yet been determined.
Special receiving zones have been established where credits can be used as of right. In other areas, builders would have to seek a variance to use them. Critics argue that communities in receiving zones are going to be unduly burdened by higher density.
Builders support the program. "It accomplishes two things," said Edwin M. Schwenk, the executive director of the Long Island Builders Institute. "It saves the taxpayer money and it helps economic development."
But owners say that these proposals to compensate them are deceptive. For one, they note, there are not enough public funds available to acquire their land, so that purchase offers, which they also feel are largely unfair, could be years away while they must continue to pay full taxes on land they cannot use.
SINCE 1993, the state and county have bought 2,156 acres, generally paying $7,500 to $10,000 an acre. The state has so far appropriated $20 million; the county has spent $12.4 million and has pledged $12 million more through the year 2000, when the quarter-penny tax expires.
But, said Henry R. Dittmer, vice president of Civil Property Rights Associates, $250 million is needed to buy the remaining 12,000 privately owned acres in the core area at a fair-market value.
Owners also fear that if they give up their development rights in return for credits, the credits will be almost valueless. Expectations are that builders will pay less than $10,000 a credit. Because of the core's five-acre zoning, residential property holders will be allotted one credit for every 5.5 acres they own.
"They are placing values on land that are ridiculously low," said Walter H. Olsen of Flanders, the president of Civil Property Rights Associates. "The thing we are fighting for and the only thing we will settle for is fair market value for the properties involved."
But some builders say that owners have exaggerated notions of what their land is worth. Because of market conditions and zoning restrictions "much of the land in the Pine Barrens is not worth very much," said Donald M. Eversoll, a Commack builder.
"The principal issue raised by the Pine Barrens Act is whether the state can say to a property owner, 'You no longer have the use of your land, and the way you will be reimbursed for your loss is a Pine Barrens credit,' " said William W. Esseks, a Riverhead lawyer.
He is representing the W.J.F. Realty Corporation and Reed Rubin of Manhattan in a case against the county and the state's Department of Environmental Conservation, which has been brought in State Supreme Court in Riverhead. W.J.F. owns 278 industrially zoned acres in Southampton.
"If the state comes in and takes your house, wouldn't you want want just compensation, even if it's over a water source?" Mr. Esseks said.
"The Federal and state constitutions say the state can take property but not without due process, which means compensation -- meaning money," he said. "The state assumes here that due process means transfer of development rights. We don't think that's true, and this case will determine that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph F. Gazza on his 6.5-acre property in Westhampton. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)
 
Map of the Pine Barrens shows the core preservation area and the compatible growth area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CIVIL PROPERTY RIGHTS ASSOCIATES (ORGN) RIGHTS ASSOCIATES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CIVIL PROPERTY RIGHTS ASSOCIATES (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); PINE BARRENS (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); LAWYERS (75%); LITIGATION (73%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA JOSEPH F GAZZA (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



583 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Southbridge, Mass.;
Future Brightens for Depressed Massachusetts Town

BYLINE: By MICKY BACA 

DATELINE: SOUTHBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
MORE than a decade after its major employer took most of its operations and jobs elsewhere, this small community in south-central Massachusetts is still trying to work its way back to full recovery. With help from the Department of Defense, it is now taking a major step forward.
The American Optical Corporation was once the lifeblood of a sprawling mill complex here and the largest manufacturer of eyeglasses in the world. But it has steadily reduced its local work force from 4,000 in the 70's to just a little over 200 today. While the company, which was founded in 1869, still owns the 150-acre, 1.3-million-square-foot, 14-building complex it now operates in just 200,000 square feet of what is now known as the Southbridge Business Center. 
 Now the Department of Defense is about to establish a finance and accounting training school in the 370,000-square-foot building that was formerly American Optical headquarters. Congress approved $88.8 million for the project in January and President Clinton endorsed it in February.
The measure authorizes $19.6 million for training and the rest for a 20-year lease with American Optical, according to John Raines, director of the Defense Business Management University, an agency of the Department of Defense.
Robert Miller, senior vice president of Franklin Realty Advisers, which is handling the development of the Southbridge Business Center for American Optical, said the company and the Defense Department were about to begin negotiating a lease agreement.
The training of finance and accounting personnel, now done piecemeal in offices throughout the country, will be consolidated at the school here. It will have 20 to 30 classrooms and 326 residential rooms where some 8,100 trainees a year are expected to live during their training. Mr. Raines said that 5,000 more people a year outside of Southbridge will get instruction through teleconferencing using satellite technology or through traveling teachers.
While the school is only expected to employ 450 to 500 people, community and company officials say it will generate spin-off businesses and a renewed interest in Southbridge.
"To get people back into the complex is the very best chance we have," said Southbridge Town Manager Florence Chandler, who helped lead a community campaign to bring the training school to her town. "This is a company town. Everybody relied on them for employment. I think the pendulum is about to swing back in Southbridge."
FOR Southbridge, a community of 17,000 that is considered the birthplace of the optical industry in the United States, landing the Defense Department center was a civic triumph.
In 1993, the town was one of three finalists in line for a much larger facility, an accounting center employing 4,000 people. But the late Les Aspin, who was then Secretary of Defense, decided that rather than concentrating the operation in one city he would spread it over five large cities, according to Ms. Chandler. "It was quite a shock," Ms. Chandler said. "It was like being handed a medal for crossing the finish line and then being told the race was canceled."
After an extensive civic campaign and a push by the local Congressional delegation, Southbridge was chosen for the smaller training center last May. The project had been wending its way through Congressional channels since then, stalled in part by partisan wrangling over the Federal budget.
American Optical now hopes to begin renovations and 100,000 square feet of additions to the century-old brick headquarters building to accommodate the Defense Department project by late summer, according to Mr. Miller. The company will use privately marketed bonds to finance the construction, which is expected to take some 18 months, said John van Dyke, American Optical's senior vice president and chief financial officer.
There is other activity at the Southbridge Business Center as well. A newly formed nonprofit fiber-optics organization called the Center for Advanced Fiberoptic Applications recently set up an office in 3,000 square feet. The group was set up by regional private fiber-optic companies, Massachusetts Electric Company and the University of Massachusetts to do applied research for fiber optics.
Mr. Miller said the center was expected to "create a new company or two every six months" and should attract people from all over the country. He envisions the business center -- which he says is now half full with about a dozen tenants other than American Optical -- as incubation space for such new ventures.
Ironically, Mr. Miller said, it was American optical scientists who were the first in the 1950's to discover fiber optics, but it did not emerge as a major focus for the company.
American Optical has been a subsidiary of M & R Industries of Greenwich, Conn., since 1982, when it was purchased from Warner Lambert Pharmaceutical Company, which had owned it since 1967. Before that it was a family-owned company, run by descendants of George Washington Wells, who incorporated the company in 1869. Wells worked with a jeweler named William Beecher, who began making spectacles here in 1833. Before that, most spectacles were imported from Europe.
BY the turn of the century, Southbridge had become home to the largest optical plant in the world. Most of the town's residents worked at the plant, walking there from the triple-decker housing that still dominates its downtown. It was a place of solid employment opportunities and business prosperity. Today, however, said Charlene Gravel, the town's Community Development Director, Southbridge is ranked 326th of the state's 351 municipalities in per capita income.
American Optical is still a major manufacturer of optical products, employing 1,200 people in Mexico, France, the United Kingdom, Singapore and Canada, according to Mr. van Dyke. In 1982, when M & R Industries bought it, American Optical was still the area's largest employer, with 2,500 workers. According to Mr. van Dyke, M & R Industries began consolidating the company's Southbridge operations to make them more efficient. By 1987, the company had cut its local work force to 1,400. American Optical sold off several divisions and, in 1992, moved its plastic lens manufacturing operations from Southbridge to Tijuana, Mexico.
"The ophthalmic industry is a global industry," said Mr. van Dyke. "Long term, we couldn't compete in a high cost labor environment."
In the late 80's, American Optical decided to begin marketing the portions of its mill complex that it no longer utilized. At that time, some 600,000 square feet of the 19th century complex was vacant.
While the complex is accessible to several major highways and is half an hour from Worcester and no more than an hour from Boston, Providence, R.I., and Hartford, marketing its space was hindered by a recession in the real estate market in the late 80's and early 90's, Mr. van Dyke said.
Michael Coughlin, a lawyer who has worked as a liaison between the Defense Department and Southbridge, said the process of seeking the project re-energized the community. "The citizens learned how to utilize the system, put aside their differences and work together," he said. "You have some of the best technology in the world concentrated in this area."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former American Optical complex once employed 4,000 workers; marble stairs led to company's headquarters. (Photographs by Fred LeBlanc for The New York Times)
 
Map shows the location of Southbridge, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT AMERICAN OPTICAL CORP (85%); SOUTHBRIDGE BUSINESS CENTER (93%); DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT SOUTHBRIDGE BUSINESS CENTER (93%); DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHBRIDGE (MASS); UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (86%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); TELECONFERENCING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS MFG (71%); TRENDS (71%); APPROVALS (67%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: BACA, MICKY BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



584 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 6; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

 BODY:

Decontrol At the End Of a J-51
 
Q I moved into a rent-stabilized apartment in 1978. Though I signed a lease for it, I asked to be put on the waiting list for another unit in the same building on a different floor. When the other unit became available in 1986 I was transferred to it. I was not given a new lease for that apartment until 1988, at which time I learned that the apartment was receiving a J-51 tax abatement. Does that mean that when the tax abatement expires my apartment will be decontrolled even though my first lease in the same building was signed in 1978? I am paying over $2,000 a month for the unit. Does this have any bearing on my situation? . . . Salvator Sciallo, Manhattan.
 
A Sherwin Belkin, a Manhattan real estate lawyer, said that in most cases, rent-stabilization rules apply to the housing accommodation rather than the tenant. Accordingly, he said, the fact that the letter-writer may have occupied another apartment in the building prior to moving to his present apartment in 1986 is irrelevant for regulatory purposes. 
 "Of course, the parties could have contracted for the tenant's rights in his former apartment to travel with him," Mr. Belkin said. "But absent such an agreement, the tenant would only have such rights as are attached to his present apartment."
Based upon the date the tenant moved into his present apartment, Mr. Belkin said, he would normally be subject to decontrol if each lease for the apartment contained a clause advising that the apartment would be decontrolled upon the expiration of the J-51 tax benefits, along with the approximate date of expiration.
"But the fact that the tenant states that he was not given a lease for the apartment until 1988, although he moved in in 1986, may create an issue as to the applicability of decontrol based upon J51 expiration," Mr. Belkin said.
The amount of the rent being paid, he said, would not have any direct bearing on decontrol of the apartment upon J-51 expiration. However, Mr. Belkin said, the tenant might be subject to decontrol if his household income for the past two calendar years exceeded $250,000 each year and the landlord has made the appropriate application with the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal.
 
Special Assessment Tax Deductibility
 
Q You recently answered a question concerning the tax deductibility of special condominium assessments by indicating that, while not deductible, such expenses would probably be for improvements to the common areas of the building and, therefore, allowable as increases to the unit owner's cost basis. Does this apply to co-op apartments also? . . . John P. Strang, Manhattan.
 
A "The rules are similar," said Fred H. Weinshank, a Manhattan tax accountant.
Generally, Mr. Weinshank said, shareholders in a co-op may deduct only that portion of their maintenance charges attributable to real property taxes and interest on the co-op's mortgage. Payments applied toward maintenance or capital improvements, he said, are not deductible.
Under certain conditions, however, a shareholder may be allowed to use his or her proportionate share of a capital improvement expense to increase the cost basis of the shareholder's apartment for tax purposes. (Increasing the cost basis of an asset, Mr. Weinshank said, results in a decrease in taxable gain when the asset is sold.)
For shareholders to be able to use capital-improvement costs to increase the cost basis of their apartments, Mr. Weinshank said, three conditions must be met: There must first be a special assessment for the improvement; the assessment collected must be specifically earmarked for the improvement and the money collected as the result of the assessment must be kept in a segregated account used only for the improvement.
Special assessments for maintenance items like painting, he said, would not qualify.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); ACCOUNTING (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: A SHERWIN BELKIN (90%); FRED H WEINSHANK (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



585 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: SCHOOLS;
Across the State, Teachers Settle for a Slower Rise in Pay

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
New Jersey's teachers are among the best paid in the nation, with an average salary of $45,000. But in recent years, they have been settling for the smallest wage increases since 1968, when the state first allowed collective bargaining for teachers.
After more than a decade of contracts that provided annual raises of at least 8 percent, most teachers' unions have been accepting increases of 5 percent or less since 1993. Frank Belluscio, a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association, said the downward trend started in 1991, when the recession was at its peak. Since then, Governor Whitman's tax cuts and a growing dissatisfaction with public schools have increased pressure for unions to accept more modest contracts, he said. 
 "Communities have been telling boards of education that they want a firmer hand at the negotiating table," Mr. Belluscio said. "We're seeing settlement rates come further down every quarter of every year."
For 166 school districts whose teacher contracts expired in 1995, the average salary increase for 1995-96 was 4.52 percent, according to the School Boards Association. That amounts to about $2,050, based on an average teacher's salary of $45,350. For three-year contracts, the total wage increase has ranged from 9 percent in Riverside, a small Burlington County district, to 17.3 percent in Sayreville, a large Middlesex County district. A district's location and wealth does not seem to have much bearing on contract settlements -- teachers in the wealthy northern counties, whose salaries are usually higher, are generally getting the same raises as those in southern counties where the per capita income is lower.
"Teachers go to the bargaining table with a very real idea of what the economy is like," said Ed Gallagher, a spokesman for the New Jersey Education Association, which represents 130,000 teachers, bus drivers and other school employees. "Nobody ever went into this business to get rich."
But even though public school teachers are agreeing to more modest raises, they have been more successful at the bargaining table than professors at New Jersey's public colleges and universities. Last month, unionized faculty members at nine state colleges agreed to a 6.25 percent wage increase over four years. Meanwhile, the faculty union at Rutgers University is planning job actions because union leaders are so unhappy with the salaries and benefits that the administration is offering. The contract for that union's 4,100 members expired last summer, and mediators have not helped the two sides settle their differences.
Because school boards have adopted more rigid bargaining positions, new teacher contracts take longer to negotiate, and more local unions are calling for job actions to protest the delay, Mr. Belluscio said. In particular, he said, teachers have refused to attend after-school events, have taken unscheduled days off and, in a few cases, have refused to grade homework or write college recommendations. Teachers in two districts -- South River in Middlesex County and Monroe in Gloucester County -- went on strike for several days in 1995, but in both cases the school board did not meet all of the union's demands.
Along with smaller raises, teacher unions are accepting longer work days and school years, Mr. Belluscio said. In Metuchen, a Middlesex County district, teachers agreed this month to add one teaching day to the school year and 10 minutes of instructional time to each school day. And in Monroe, the Gloucester County district where teachers went on strike last September, the union agreed to 20 extra minutes of class time each day.
Mr. Belluscio said that none of the changes in collective bargaining were surprising, especially since New Jersey's 600 school districts are preparing for a new financing system that will force them to be more efficient than ever. The system, which is being developed by Education Commissioner Leo F. Klagholz, is intended to meet a court order requiring that students around the state receive a thorough and efficient education, regardless of how much money their district can spend. At a conference last weekend, members of the School Boards Assocation suggested that school districts should become even more prudent with salaries and benefits, which take up about 75 percent of the roughly $11.5 billion the state and local districts spend each year on education.
In particular, the association is recommending changes to the lifetime tenure system that was started in 1909 to discourage patronage hiring. Instead of granting all teachers automatic tenure after three years on the job, the association wants a system of "renewable contract employment," in which teachers would be re-evaluated every three to five years and districts would have the option of dismissing them.
Mr. Belluscio says the time is ripe for tenure reform because a disproportionate number of teachers are preparing to retire, and they will be replaced by young teachers starting from scratch. But Mr. Gallagher said the New Jersey Education Association would fight changes to the tenure system, because teachers already receive yearly evaluations and job protection is more important than ever if the Legislature approves the new financing plan.
"The Commissioner has not yet defined what he means by efficiencies," Mr. Gallagher said. "But all indications are that he equates efficient with cheap."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Trying to Beat Inflation" shows school districts with the highest and lowest three-year salary increases. (Source: New Jersey School Boards Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); SCHOOL BOARDS (91%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); STRIKES (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (84%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY FRANK BELLUSCIO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



586 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 3; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Q&A: Paul J. McCarthy;
How Corporations Obtain a Bond Rating

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE 

 BODY:
WHEN a corporation or a government wants to issue bonds, it goes to a company like Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Company. It is the job of the company to examine the would-be bond issuer, assess its credit worthiness and give the bonds a rating.
Paul J. McCarthy of Chappaqua is chairman and chief executive officer of Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Company, which has its main offices in Manhattan, a major office in Chicago and affiliates throughout South America. Some of the large area corporations whose bonds it rates are I.B.M., Nynex, Pepsico, Philip Morris, General Motors, Consolidated Edison, the Bank of New York and M.C.I. Here are excerpts from a recent conversation with Mr. McCarthy: 
 Q. What exactly does your company do?
A. Let me first indicate what it does not do. We don't issue credit reports on individuals. We're a nationally recognized statistical rating organization by the S.E.C. We publish credit ratings or bond ratings on fixed-income securities; we're talking about notes or bonds or preferred stocks.
Q. Are you also involved with government bonds?
A. We do some government. But it's mostly corporation and asset-backed securities. Most of what we do are taxable fixed-income securities, but we do some ratings on municipal credits.
Q. Does a company come to you and choose you to rate them?
A. We do not do unsolicited ratings. We only do ratings where we have access to management and where we have the ability to get the information that we need in order to create the securities.
Q. Can a company shop around for a rating, so to speak -- meaning if it doesn't like the rating it gets from one firm, try another?
A. Well, basically there are very few statistical-rating organizations. One of the things that we do is that we tend to bring senior-level people to the ratings meetings and we tend to communicate our information to institutional investors. We have relationships with institutional investors who very frequently request our rating.
Q. Companies care about your opinion because their bonds are more marketable if you give it a good rating, correct?
A. Typically the higher the rating, the lower the interest cost that the company has to pay. Also it broadens the market. Higher rated securities have a broader market than, for example, a junk bond or a lower rated security.
Q. Aren't some bonds insured, in which case people might give less weight to the rating?
A. They are insured, but frankly people care about the quality of the insurer. It's part of our business to rate insurance companies.
Q. In judging a bond to determine its rating, what factors go into the equation and is the state of the economy a factor?
A. Let me first define what a bond rating is. It's basically an opinion of the bond issuer's long-term fundamental strength. I emphasize long term. What we are trying to assess is the likelihood that the corporation will make ultimate and timely repayment of the rated issue in accordance with the terms under which it was sold. We communicate that in terms of symbols -- double-A, triple-A, single-A, triple-B, and so forth.
Basically, what we are trying to assess is the issuer's ability to withstand whatever cycles it is likely to go through and its financial strength throughout that period. We look at things like its ability to generate cash flow relative to cash needs to assess whether it can repay its debt. So we would have to take into consideration whether the economy stinks or not. And we do expect that there will be certain stress points over a time span. We would expect for some companies that are cyclical that they would be stressed more during periods of economic instability.
Q. What's the methodology of analyzing?
A. We would get the financial statements of the company. We would have our analysts go through these statements, try to understand the basic business, what drives the business. We would probably have several meetings with management and go into strategic items as to how they intend to manage the business. After a series of ratings and evaluations of the indenture and the legal side of it, we would have a committee meeting and issue a rating.
Now some of the factors that we would look at would then be the type of company, the industry it's in, how stable its business is, how fast it's growing, what its capital requirements are, how they would intend to finance the business -- whether they'd use a lot of short-term debt or a lot of long-term debt. We would assess the equity part of it. And you have to assess the suitability of all those things and, given that structure, the company's ability to service its debt over time.
Q. What are the trends out there versus, say, 10 years ago?
A. There are some trends. A lot of the buyouts and financial engineering that went on 10 years ago has subsided. So, frankly, we see debt being used more for the basic businesses than we saw a number of years ago. We think there is a more rational use of debt than there was 10 years ago.
Q. Have you been very wrong on some companies you've rated?
A. Well, things do change. You make certain assumptions that a company is going to operate in a certain way and maybe a new management comes in and makes drastic changes. Those things are often surprises to us, but we do react. If we're not yet ready to change our rating, we put the bonds on a watch list and inform the general public.
Q. Does it become a hard decision to downgrade a bond, or is is really almost a mathematical formula?
A. It's not mathematical. We continually monitor these credit levels and when you set a credit level you hope to be able to maintain it over a long period. But frankly, from time to time and through the monitoring process, changes occur. You want to make sure you are right in what you do. So you ask a lot of questions, you go through a lot of projections, and you come up with whatever rating you feel is appropriate.
Q. What are the consequences of defaulting? Did people's lives change when New York City defaulted, for example?
A. I think -- and I'm not an expert on this -- that New York City has its own unique set of problems. The county of Westchester is one of the strongest credits in the municipal market so it would be a different situation. But one of the reasons New York City defaulted was that they weren't going to close down certain essential services that took priority over the bonds. So they had a restructuring of their debt. And they set up the Municipal Acceptance Corporation. But I think there was a change in how things were done after that -- they had to come toward a balanced budget, and certain austerity things were set in place. And it certainly did affect the level of municipal services for a certain period.
Q. If a firm fails to pay its bonds, say for a day or two only, does it really matter?
A. Yes, it matters. It depends on how it was rated, obviously. But you would probably have a very significant rating change, and it would very much impact their ability to sell bonds in the future. Investors would have a much lower confidence level. Investors want the issue to perform in accordance with the indenture, That means timely payment. If investors require interest at a certain point in time, they want to get it. Trust is very, very important.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul J. McCarthy, head of Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Company, in his Manhattan office. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (57%); BK (NYSE) (57%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (93%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DUFF & PHELPS CREDIT RATING CO FITCH RATINGS LTD (93%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); PEPSICO INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUFF & PHELPS CREDIT RATING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS BONDS (94%); CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); BOND ISSUES (90%); INSURANCE (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%); 

PERSON: GREENE, DONNA; MCCARTHY, PAUL J PAUL J MCCARTHY (63%); BOND RATING (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



587 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 3208 words

HEADLINE: Muddy Water

BYLINE: By Thomas Powers; Thomas Powers is the author of several books on politics and current affairs. His most recent book is "Heisenberg's War: The Secret History of the German Bomb."

 BODY:

BLOOD SPORT
The President and His Adversaries.
By James B. Stewart.
Illustrated. 479 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $25.
In the annals of greed and easy credit, few land purchases look dumber in retrospect than the one that closed at the Citizens Bank and Trust Company in the town of Flippin, Ark., at 10 A.M. on Aug. 2, 1978. It was dumb because much of the 230 acres was brush-covered and inaccessible by road; because only part of it fronted on the White River, which was its sole attraction; because the price of $203,000 was double what its sellers had agreed to pay for it only months earlier; because the entire purchase price was borrowed and the loan would have to be repaid or refinanced at the end of six months; because even a quick resale of the 44 projected lots promised at best a modest profit; because interest rates were about to go through the roof; because the principal active partner, James McDougal, had the attention span of a rat terrier; and because the principal passive partner, Hillary Rodham, was married to a man she expected to be President someday. 
 The fateful die had been cast one evening in a Little Rock restaurant called the Black-Eyed Pea when Ms. Rodham and her husband, Bill Clinton, who was running for governor of Arkansas that summer, chanced upon their friends Jim McDougal and his wife, Susan. Mr. McDougal was full of excitement about the piece of land he'd just seen; he invited the Clintons to join him in the deal -- no money necessary, he'd take care of everything. Mr. Clinton and his wife were both graduates of the Yale Law School, but they might have been rubes at a country fair. They said they'd love to go in on the deal.
The Clintons have now had 18 years to reflect on all the omens of failure that should have been obvious from the beginning. Their sole motive was hope of a quick buck. They knew nothing about real estate or land development or the financial strength of their partners. They never saw the land they were buying, never met the bankers lending them the money, did not attend the closing, had no money to pay back the loan if it was called and were potentially liable for the whole of the borrowed sum plus interest in the event that the project failed and their partners were broke.
The history of this ill-conceived and highly speculative enterprise, formally known as the Whitewater Development Company Inc., comes to splendid life in one of the best books on American politics in recent years, James B. Stewart's "Blood Sport: The President and His Adversaries." Mr. Stewart was invited to undertake the book in March 1994 by Susan Thomases, a friend of Mrs. Clinton who plays an occasional role in the story herself. But after one 90-minute meeting with Mr. Stewart, Mrs. Clinton apparently changed her mind, saw him no more and, according to recent Washington rumor, has been biting her nails in nervous anticipation of what Mr. Stewart will say.
It is not hard to see why she is worried. Hillary Rodham Clinton is at or close to the center of every episode gathered under the big tent called Whitewater. She supported the original Whitewater investment and tenaciously held on to the Clinton family half for 14 years. With the help of an Arkansas friend, she turned $1,000 into nearly $100,000 in less than a year trading cattle futures, then sought refuge behind the claim, ridiculous on its face, that she had made all her own buy and sell orders, basing them on her reading of The Wall Street Journal. As a partner in the prestigious Rose Law Firm of Little Rock she represented the savings-and-loan bank owned by Mr. McDougal, which went bust in 1989, costing the taxpayers $68 million. She brought her close friend and Rose partner Vincent Foster to Washington, and after he committed suicide she was suspected of ending up in possession of Whitewater files that had been in Foster's office when he died. An attempt to fire the seven employees of the White House travel office and give the business to a Clinton crony is said to have been prompted by Mrs. Clinton's demand that the job slots be made available for "our people." About all of these matters Mrs. Clinton and people speaking for her have said things that are thickly defended by lawyerly constructions like "As best I can recall. . . ."
Bill Clinton has weathered his share of hard questions about the past. In the 1992 Presidential primaries he was nearly knocked out by a one-two combination of tabloid sleaze involving, first, his alleged Little Rock girlfriend Gennifer Flowers and, second, a painfully extended deconstruction of his explanation of how he avoided the draft during the Vietnam War. But Mr. Clinton's reputation as a screw-up is cast into shadow by the chain of troubles centering on Mrs. Clinton, which Mr. Stewart lays before us in gripping detail, and the portrait of her character that emerges in "Blood Sport" is a troubling one.
In their single meeting Mr. Stewart found Mrs. Clinton an attractive person, vital and lively, and many others say much the same. But her responses to the public's questions about her motives and behavior reveal a closed, secretive and rigid personality. William Safire, a columnist for this newspaper, has called Mrs. Clinton a "congenital liar," and she has certainly made some statements that seem conspicuously unsupported by the available evidence -- the denial, for example, that she took more than a passing interest in the travel office affair; the denial that she ever did much legal work for Mr. McDougal's bank; the assertion (soon dropped) that she made all that money in cattle futures without help. But to label these claims lies is to miss the character trait that appears to inspire them. Mrs. Clinton seems to have carried into adult life the world view of a little girl determined to be perfect. She did not spill the milk; the cat spilled the milk, her friend spilled the milk, the milk only looks spilled, it is not actually milk. . . . With each question and response the jaw clenches tighter and the lips draw thinner.
Mrs. Clinton is not going to enjoy reading this book. But she may console herself that she was wise to let Mr. Stewart do his research and reach his conclusions on his own. "Blood Sport" is by far the most complete, the best and the fairest account of the Clintons and their troubles to date, and it concludes that the Whitewater grab bag of scandal, controversy and unanswered questions does not justify the attention it has received. The land deal was stupid but not criminal; the Clintons, and especially Mrs. Clinton, did many things in Arkansas and later that were stupid but not criminal; and their attempts to respond to the hailstorm of charges against them have been variously na<arrow up>ve, impetuous, evasive, foolish, misleading and stupid, but not criminal. If Mr. Stewart -- a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and the author of several books, including "Den of Thieves" -- were the independent counsel in the Whitewater affair, the Clintons could rest easy.
The story Mr. Stewart tells is simple in outline. The few Whitewater lots the McDougals managed to sell brought only a trickle of installment income, rarely enough even to pay interest on the loan. In the first year the Clintons were required to come up with $22,620 in working capital, thereafter with additional sums periodically; Mr. McDougal coughed up even more. The McDougals and the Clintons both lost all the money they put into the project, and the tax deductions they claimed (in some cases wrongly) at best only soothed the pain.
Easy credit is the mother's milk of real estate speculation, and like many another aspirant tycoon of the 1980's Mr. McDougal tried to secure a flow of ready cash through the purchase of his own bank, a recently deregulated savings-and-loan institution that he renamed Madison Guaranty. In the eight years he ran it Mr. McDougal managed to lend himself, his businesses and various friends and partners (but not the Clintons) quite a lot of money that could not be paid back. Along the way, probably at Mr. Clinton's request (although Mr. Clinton denies it), Madison Guaranty retained Mrs. Clinton's law firm to help it with a preferred stock offering and to perform other legal services.
In the years between the original Whitewater investment in 1978 and the company's formal dissolution in 1992, the McDougals and the Clintons encountered many opportunities for the commission of blunders, crimes and misdemeanors. Among the blunders, pride of place must go to Mrs. Clinton's rejection of three separate offers by the McDougals to take over her share of Whitewater with all its attendant troubles. In 1985, when Mr. Clinton called up furious about Whitewater's failure to pay property taxes, Mr. McDougal offered to assume all remaining liabilities and obligations in return for the Clintons' half of the company. "Fine with me," said Mr. Clinton. "Just run it by Hillary."
But Mrs. Clinton was convinced the McDougals were trying to pull a fast one. She was furious, Mr. Stewart says. "Jim told me that this was going to pay for college for Chelsea," she told Susan McDougal. "I still expect it to do that!" Her response was much the same again in 1990 and early 1992.
When Mrs. Clinton wakes up in the middle of the night to fret, she probably asks herself why, oh why, did she hold on to that worthless stock? Trouble has been the only reward.
But it isn't Whitewater, the land deal gone sour, that has haunted the Clintons since Jeff Gerth, a reporter for The New York Times, first brought it to public attention in March 1992. The real trouble began more than a year later with the suicide of Vincent Foster.
Mr. Stewart walks the reader through this tragic affair with great care and considerable narrative art. Books on current events are not often written with this much attention to effect. To cite only one example that I particularly admired: the book opens with the discovery of Foster's body in Washington's Fort Marcy Park. When the park police informed Foster's wife, Lisa, later that evening, she asked, with reference to the gun, "Did he put it in his mouth?" It is a chilling and disturbing question; the policeman (like the reader) immediately wonders why she has asked him that. The detail intensifies the air of violence and mystery that did so much to impress the whole Whitewater affair on the public imagination in the first place. That incident is on page 32.
On page 287 Mr. Stewart returns to this subject, but by now the air of ominous mystery has been largely dispelled and we understand fully the slow accretion of pain and self-doubt that led to Foster's suicide. Shortly before he killed himself, Mr. Stewart now tells us, Foster watched the film "A Few Good Men," in which one of the characters cannot bear to testify against an old friend in a murder case. Instead he puts a pistol into his mouth and fires.
This is narrative writing of a high order. It is representative of the book, which is rich with beautifully drawn characters and dramatic incidents. The obvious care with which Mr. Stewart has gone about his work lends weight to his conclusion that Foster's death was a suicide only tangentially connected to his White House duties. The effect is thoroughly to dampen the dark suspicions aroused when it was learned that one of Foster's White House jobs had been to prepare tax returns for the Whitewater project and, more ominous still, that the Whitewater files in Foster's office at the time of his death had been turned over to the Clintons. Mrs. Clinton's role in this matter, and especially what she and others in her employ have said about her role, have done as much as the relentless Senate hearings led by Alfonse D'Amato to keep the Whitewater affair alive. Contributing to the air of mystery surrounding Foster's suicide may have been Mrs. Clinton's biggest blunder of all.
But blunders are not indictable offenses. Those, if any, remain to be identified by Kenneth W. Starr, the former Federal judge appointed to serve as independent counsel in the Whitewater affair. Many observers seriously doubt that it is possible, either practically or constitutionally, to indict a sitting President for a crime. The President's wife, of course, is unprotected, but in any case the counsel's final report is not expected until after the election in November. In the meantime, the lesson relentlessly driven home by "Blood Sport" is that no progress to high political office in American life is proof against the determined scrutiny of an aroused press or an independent counsel with the scent of blood.
Craven White House attempts to placate critics were vigorously attacked by Bernard Nussbaum, President Clinton's first legal counsel. "All this will do is feed the beast," he warned. But none of the follies of appeasement alarmed Mr. Nussbaum more, Mr. Stewart tells us, than Mr. Clinton's decision to appoint an independent counsel. Mr. Nussbaum argued that the very institution of independent counsel was "evil," that even a saint in the job would find himself under "enormous pressure to come up with something" and that once he started to hunt he was inevitably going to find that "somebody did something wrong."
Mr. Clinton ignored Mr. Nussbaum's warning. He was desperate. "We can't get health care hearings, we can't pass a bill." Other advisers said appointing an independent counsel would satisfy the critics and make Whitewater go away. So Mr. Clinton asked Attorney General Janet Reno to find someone for the job. In a Greek play the chorus would break into wails of lament at this point. Soon Mr. Nussbaum and many other White House staffers were retaining their own lawyers to deal with questions -- all potentially criminal charges -- about their efforts to handle (hinder the investigation of?) the Whitewater affair.
The first independent counsel, Robert Fiske, opened an office in Little Rock and staffed it with 15 lawyers backed up by an investigative team of 25 F.B.I. agents. Whose conduct of business or professional life is so free of ambiguity and error that she might cock a snook at 15 lawyers and 25 F.B.I. agents? Soon Mr. Fiske was gone, replaced by Mr. Starr. By title Mr. Starr was independent, but one of the judges who chose him had lunch not long before with Senators Lauch Faircloth and Jesse Helms, both conservative Republicans from the judge's native state of North Carolina. Did they perchance discuss Mr. Starr's replacement of Mr. Fiske as independent counsel, which was announced shortly thereafter? The conversation, according to Senator Helms, was restricted to "Western wear, old friends and prostate problems."
"Blood Sport" ends with the resignation of Mr. Nussbaum in March 1994, and with an epilogue to summarize the story since. Mr. Nussbaum's fears of the independent counsel's "roving searchlight" have been fully justified, but Mr. Starr's independence has been questioned recently by the reporters Joe Conason and Murray Waas in The Nation. Not only has he remained as a senior partner at the law firm of Kirkland & Ellis, which paid him compensation of $1.1 million in 1994, according to Mr. Conason and Mr. Waas, but he failed to make public a presumptive conflict of interest of his own -- the fact that one of the targets of his investigation, the Resolution Trust Corporation (R.T.C.), was actively suing his own law firm for allegedly helping officers of a failed savings-and-loan institution to conceal a diversion of bank funds for their private use. According to documents obtained by Mr. Conason and Mr. Waas, Mr. Starr convened a grand jury to investigate the R.T.C. and other Whitewater matters in September 1994, one week before Kirkland & Ellis began negotiations with the R.T.C. to settle the suit against it. Last December the R.T.C. accepted a Kirkland & Ellis offer of $325,000 in return for the dropping of all charges. In the settlement agreement the R.T.C. promised to keep secret not only the terms but the fact of the settlement. Of course Mr. Starr would deny any wrongdoing in this matter, probably thinks Mr. Conason and Mr. Waas wrenched the facts out of context and will doubtless feel I am being unfair by repeating the case they have made. But if every detail of Mr. Starr's conduct over the past 18 months -- every conversation or exchange of memos with R.T.C. officials and his own staff, every meeting with his law partners -- were subject to the scrutiny of an aggressive independent counsel working under the full glare of national publicity, then Mr. Starr would be disclaiming all knowledge of who spilled the milk.
This fact, like the story of the Whitewater investigation unfolded in "Blood Sport," ought to raise serious questions about the power of the independent counsel and its role in our political life. The problem lies in Mr. Starr's charter, which is extremely broad. He has the right (and the resources) to investigate any "violation of Federal criminal or civil law relating in any way" to the relationship between the Clintons and Mr. McDougal or his bank. He may also investigate any other crime of which he learns in the course of the primary investigation; he may investigate any attempts to hinder or obstruct his own or previous investigations; he may further bring charges against others who may have conspired to participate in the primary or secondary crimes or to hinder their investigation; and finally, of course, he may bring charges of perjury against any of those suspected of lying about any of the above.
In the course of "Blood Sport" Mr. Stewart identifies several problem areas that may attract the attention of the independent counsel -- statements, some of them under oath, that a man as generous as Mark Twain would have called "stretchers." The committee hearings of Senator D'Amato, recently extended, have been getting most of the headlines, but Mr. Starr's quiet investigation offstage is far more important. His technique is the standard one, bringing cases against low-level figures in the hope they will "flip" and testify against those higher up. Several figures in Arkansas have pleaded guilty to felonies and agreed to cooperate with the independent counsel. Mr. Clinton's successor as Governor, Jim Guy Tucker, is currently on trial in a case brought by Mr. Starr. Webster Hubbell, a partner of Mrs. Clinton at the Rose Law Firm who followed her to Washington, is serving a 21-month prison sentence on charges completely unrelated to Whitewater, but he too has agreed to cooperate with the independent counsel. This spring Jim McDougal and his wife, Susan, are expected to go on trial on multiple felony charges of conspiracy, mail fraud, bank fraud and making false statements to financial institutions.
It is not yet clear whether convictions and guilty pleas in these and other cases will give Mr. Starr the witnesses he needs to go after Mrs. Clinton or her husband. Since it is customary to bet on the outcome of contests of sport, I am betting that Mr. Starr will go after the biggest quarry of all, that the chief defendant will take the witness stand under oath and that even Republicans will find little pleasure in watching the blood flow.

GRAPHIC: Drawings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BLOOD SPORT: THE PRESIDENT AND HIS ADVERSARIES (BOOK)

TICKER: PEAS (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN; WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CO CITIZENS BANK & TRUST CO (72%); CITIZENS BANK & TRUST CO (SPRINGHILL, LA) (72%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN; WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; WHITEWATER CASE; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); ETHICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAWYERS (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DOGS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); LITERATURE (60%); GOVERNORS (57%); 

PERSON: POWERS, THOMAS; STEWART, JAMES B; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



588 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MIDTOWN;
2,500 Light Bulbs Waiting for Sponsor

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
For 10 years, the huge Hitachi sign atop the Newsweek building just south of Columbus Circle told passers-by the time and the temperature "in Central Park." Before noon it also reported the day's weather, and after noon the forecast for the following day. But no more.
Last month, Hitachi America, the United States subsidiary of the giant Japanese conglomerate, decided to end its sponsorship of the sign, which went dark on Feb. 29. 
 A spokesman for Hitachi's advertising agency, Dentsu U.S.A., said the company now wants to include a product wherever the Hitachi logo is displayed. Hitachi's time, temperature and weather sign, with its 2,560 light bulbs, may have been eye-catching, but neither a big-screen television nor a notebook computer disturbed its symmetry.
Robert Dianuzzo, the electrical supervisor of Artkraft Strauss Corporation, which built the Hitachi sign in 1985, said it has proved so popular that after some needed repairs, Artkraft Strauss may relight it "as a public service." And the company is negotiating with another large corporation to sponsor the sign atop the 28-story Newsweek building at 1775 Broadway.
The sign cost Hitachi $1 million to build, and the company paid $800,000 a year to maintain it and to rent the space. Maintenance was expensive because of several factors. Each 25-watt bulb would last more than eight months under normal use, but the sign's bulbs blinked on and off continually, which reduced their life quite a bit. Vibrations from subway trains beneath Columbus Circle also took their toll, rattling filaments and hastening burnout. Bulbs usually lasted less than four months, Mr. Dianuzzo said, and 150 to 180 were replaced monthly.
On a sign as large as this one, 10 percent of the lamps, or 256, can burn out before it becomes unreadable, Mr. Dianuzzo said. But, he added, his company doesn't let that happen. Each night, an employee known as a night rider drives around the city acting as a troubleshooter. As soon as he "sees something amiss -- the message lamps are spotty, a letter is out," Mr. Dianuzzo said, "we're out there relamping." ANTHONY RAMIREZ

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hitachi America has turned off its sign. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THIRTY-FOURTH STREET PARTNERSHIP; GRAND CENTRAL PARTNERSHIP; FIFTH AVENUE ASSN; FASHION DISTRICT; INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS HITACHI AMERICA LTD (58%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: THIRTY-FOURTH STREET PARTNERSHIP; GRAND CENTRAL PARTNERSHIP; FIFTH AVENUE ASSN; FASHION DISTRICT; INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; UNIONIZATION SPONSORSHIP (90%); TRENDS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW ROBERT DIANUZZO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



589 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3497 words

HEADLINE: The Most Polite Pit Bull in Local Politics

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
IT is difficult, but important, to describe the devastating finality with which Betty Cooper Wallerstein says goodbye.
The tone is understated but unmistakable; friendly but nonnegotiable; sing-song, yet flat. Absent are the usual conventions of winding down a conversation: well, it's been nice talking to you; I guess that's about it; hope to see you soon. 
 There is no way to anticipate or preempt the ambush that precedes it: out of nowhere, the heavy-set woman with the helmet of white hair button-holes you on the street, traps you on the telephone, homes in on you at a public meeting. And then, just as suddenly as you were blindsided by a breathless stream of names, dates, times and to-do's, Betty Cooper Wallerstein is gone -- leaving you with leaflets to distribute in your building and little more than a tight, high-pitched "bye-bye."
Ms. Wallerstein may well be the busiest woman in New York City. Certainly, after 12 years of mobilizing her far-east stretch of the Upper East Side, she has earned a reputation as perhaps the city's most tenacious and effective community organizer. "She's a kind of sovereignty in her own locality," said Parks Commissioner Henry Stern. "She's so powerful that she intimidates some local officials. Nobody wants to tangle with Betty Wallerstein. She's rather formidable."
The 59-year-old Ms. Wallerstein knows how to make a meeting happen, how to reach an elected official on the telephone, how to attract the press's attention to a problem, how to line up speakers for a public hearing, how to raise money, how to bring a lawsuit, how to keep the pressure on.
In a city where people often find themselves mystified or cowed by bureaucracy as they approach a problem, Ms. Wallerstein has distinguished herself as a person who knows what it takes to prevail.
"If she is leading a battle, you know we're going to win," said Representative Carolyn B. Maloney. "She just does not stop."
The East 79th Street Neighborhood Association -- which covers 76th to 82d Streets from the East River to First Avenue, as well as 79th Street west to Lexington Avenue -- provides the solid base of support that gives Ms. Wallerstein's leadership its weight.
Driven by a desire to establish Sunday service on "the Bloomingdale's bus," York Avenue's M31, Ms. Wallerstein and a businessman who no longer lives in the neighborhood gathered several members of the community in a dank basement in February 1984. Thus was born the association, which started out with two blocks and now encompasses 36 blocks, 60 buildings and an active membership of several hundred people and businesses.
With Ms. Wallerstein's training as a social worker, family therapist and community organizer -- the kind of person who sounded the alarm about dilapidated benches in her children's playground -- her activism has clearly played to her strengths. But Ms. Wallerstein says the personal sacrifices have taken their toll and has begun grooming two members of her association to take her place as president.
It has been a long time in the trenches. Ms. Wallerstein has lent her strength to battles like the monumental nine-year effort of the late 80's and early 90's to save the City and Suburban Homes, built at the turn of the century as model tenements between 78th and 79th Streets and York Avenue and the East River. In the face of plans by the developer Peter S. Kalikow to raze the 26-building complex, Ms. Wallerstein led the group of 200 zoning, tenant and political organizations that succeeded in designating the apartments as a landmark.
Ms. Wallerstein has also been in the vanguard in the kind of victories that matter most to her fellow far-East Side constituents, namely those related to transportation, preservation and consumer conveniences. She finally won a Sunday extension of the M31 after three years of trying; helped establish a new post office station with six-day service on York Avenue; played a role in keeping the York Avenue Sloan's supermarket from becoming a Rite-Aid, and helped reduce one of two new towers at 79th and First Avenue to 16 stories from more than 30.
Most recently, she helped organize a coalition of 16 organizations, the cunningly named Neighbors "R" Us, to fight the building of a Toys "R" Us superstore planned for 80th Street and Third Avenue. That litigation is still pending and has grown increasingly bitter.
Ms. Wallerstein can play hardball when she has to but prefers diplomacy. The dance of influencing people in power requires more graceful techniques, Ms. Wallerstein makes clear, and her particular repertory could serve as a primer for those aspiring to follow in her path.
Take timing, for example. Before taking on a major cause, Ms. Wallerstein makes sure that she has some kind of consensus behind her. "The issue that I will work on has to be an issue that affects a large number of people," she said. "Generally it's a precedent-setting issue, which means that it has the potential to impact other communities and other areas.
"You want to make sure it's an issue for enough people," she added. "If it's an issue for a few people that doesn't mean you don't do it. But if you have support then the job is easier."
Shoring up that support tends to be the hardest part of Ms. Wallerstein's work. People lead busy lives; politicians tend to be conservative about getting out in front on a controversial subject.
"Very often what happens is you have an opponent who is formidable and people are afraid to take that opponent on," she said. "And so they wait, and you're out there by yourself for a long time. And then you make some progress and you have a win.
"And once you've made a win, and once there's been an opening, then people come in. I'm always happy when we get help. I would love to have it at the beginning, but I'm happy to have it in the middle and sometimes we don't get it until the very end."
 
 
 
ONE HECTIC DAY
 Ms. Wallerstein's turf represents a particular slice of the Upper East Side -- more small-town than tony. On Park Avenue, people hurry in and out of their town cars; on York Avenue, they stroll and stop to say hello. The population ranges from the rent-control elderly who enjoy the river breezes in Carl Schurz Park to high-rise young professionals who order in and work long hours with an eye toward old-money addresses farther west. In large part, these residents are defined by their distance from mass transit: it gives them a sense of isolation at once galvanizing and unifying.
While Ms. Wallerstein's rules of engagement may be guided by a set of grand maxims, her leverage seems to lie in large part in a dogged tending of details. The approach pays off. People rarely get involved until a problem affects them directly; Ms. Wallerstein maintains an infrastructure that may preempt problems or at least prepare for them.
In any given day, the logistics can keep her moving till midnight: updating the association's bulletin boards in each of six banks, checking the post office box and spending hours on the telephone.
Ms. Wallerstein consistently stays in touch with the streets. She makes a point of getting to know the local merchants -- eating in every restaurant, shopping in each new store. Her gray vinyl bucket purse carries key supplies -- a calendar jammed with scribbled appointments, yellow 3-by-5 index cards, a compact Kodak camera.
"I might see a pothole," she said. "I'll see broken sidewalks, I'll see an illegal van. And the best way is often just to take a picture."
On one recent morning, she stood on York Avenue and 79th Street to monitor a taxi stand that takes East Siders down to Wall Street, four at a time. Ms. Wallerstein's association helped establish the cab service to ease what is usually a long commute.
But lately members of the community have complained about those cabs refusing riders bound for less distant -- and therefore less lucrative -- destinations. Ms. Wallerstein is working with the Taxi and Limousine Commission as well as the local precinct to put a stop to that.
Having climbed into a cab to test the taxi line herself, Ms. Wallerstein lectured the driver after he protested taking her to 77th Street and First Avenue on the ground that the quickest way there would require an illegal left turn.
She then set off on her rounds. She stopped in at the Tortoise and the Hare, a new children's haircutting salon on York at 78th to drop off fliers announcing a public meeting about a new law that enables police to seize bicycles ridden illegally on the sidewalk. There, she chatted with the owner, Joseph Panasci, who credits Ms. Wallerstein with helping him win approval for his store's permanent hunter-green awning.
Then she was off again -- past the fruit vendor at 78th and York who used to operate in front of a deli that also sold fruit until Ms. Wallerstein and her association made him move across the street.
She popped into the post office to meet the new part-time manager of the branch. He suggested she bring her concerns -- a full-time manager and a spot for the association's bulletin boards -- to his supervisor, and Ms. Wallerstein agreed to do just that. The moment seemed entirely casual; yet all the while, Ms. Wallerstein was making mental calculations.
Ms. Wallerstein knows she could take her problems over their heads. But, she explained later, "I need to work with this manager. So even though I could do a short cut, I'm not going to do it. Time is not of the essence here; the relationship is important."
While out on these rounds, Ms. Wallerstein, who has lived in the neighborhood for 20 years, could barely get from one end of the block to the other. In front of the post office, a longtime resident asked her advice about finding a home for his aging aunt. In a crosswalk, another man launched into the latest chapter of his landlord woes. This is typical. Moving on is an art all its own, and Ms. Wallerstein has mastered it.
"I have a hard time getting to the bus stop from my house," she said. "I don't get stopped for long. I try to be kind, I try to listen, but I also evaluate. There are people who are going to tell me things that are inaccurate. There are people who are going to tell me things that have a hidden agenda. You figure that out quickly. Certain people are chronic complainers -- they could stop and talk forever. And I don't get stuck."
 
 
 
A POLITICAL STYLE
 When holding court with these residents, Ms. Wallerstein tries to contract out their concerns to other community leaders or to elected officials. Often, she nudges people to play a role in solving their own problems, by assigning them some task or advising a possible angle of attack. And always, she urges her neighbors to air their issues at the next association meeting. Then she is off and running, often leaving her supplicants in mid-sentence.
Ms. Wallerstein's manner is part of her success: cold in that she cuts to the chase, warm enough to grease the wheels along the way. With hurriedly painted pink lipstick, stockings with runs in the knees and a canvas tote bag bulging with crime prevention pamphlets, tabloid newspapers and apple pancakes left over from breakfast, Ms. Wallerstein's physical presence is distinctly nonthreatening.
That is partly because she feels she has more important things to do than worry about how she comes across. So, she pulls on her pantyhose in the back of taxis, applies her make-up in elevator mirrors.
This aura of chaos gives Ms. Wallerstein a quaintness that is reinforced by her old-fashioned propriety. She is soft-spoken, exceedingly polite and philosophically opposed to call-waiting because she thinks it's rude and it makes her lose her train of thought -- a position that can be as maddening as it is charming, given that she works out of her home with only one phone line.
There are times when Ms. Wallerstein's single-mindedness can seem myopic. It is a criticism often leveled at fervent neighborhood leaders: that they are so concerned about their particular territory that they lose sight of the city's larger needs.
"I think it's important for all neighborhood zealots to understand that there are issues that the Mayor has to deal with, where he has to prioritize, such as police protection and public education," said Jack Lester, a lawyer who lives on the Upper East Side and represents Neighbors "R" Us. "When you talk about a distribution of scarce resources, choices have to be made."
At the same time, said Mr. Lester, who has represented a number of neighborhood groups, it is the radicals who get results. "It's almost a byproduct of being a neighborhood activist," he said: "obsessiveness about certain details and focus on things which may seem picayune."
Commissioner Stern added, "There is always a fine line between genius and madness, and she treads that fine line."
 
 
 
CHOOSING HER BATTLES
 There is an unspoken rule among the Upper East Side's elected officials: When Betty Cooper Wallerstein is on the telephone, you take the call.
"Woe betide the elected official who does not return her call, who is not responsive to her issue," said Councilman Andrew Eristoff.
They describe her as equal parts mosquito, pit bull and mother hen. While they may roll their eyes or smile at her pushy perseverance, Ms. Wallerstein is no light matter: they want her on their side. Although her association studiously avoids making public political endorsements -- people are not allowed to wear partisan buttons at the monthly meetings -- politicians know a phone call from Ms. Wallerstein is a phone call from a huge pool of potential political supporters.
It isn't just because she might mean votes or gets results or because she won't go away that Ms. Wallerstein gets their attention, officials say, but because she chooses her battles carefully and will not waste their time.
"She never picks a dumb fight," Mr. Eristoff said. "She gets involved in issues that matter, and she never cries wolf."
Some time ago, Ms. Wallerstein's Assemblyman, John A. Ravitz, volunteered to help survey the number of riders on the crosstown bus one Sunday. He received more than a few reminders from Ms. Wallerstein.
"I must have gotten 10 calls Saturday to make sure I was going to do it," he said. "Then Sunday she called to make sure I was up and out and ready to go to work and, 'John, when you've completed your forms, drop them off at my building.' God forbid I hadn't dropped off those forms. She would have stormed my house."
Developers, too, have reason to dread the dogged activist. When the City and Suburban stand-off was heating up, Ms. Wallerstein said Peter Kalikow himself came to talk compromise: you keep 20 buildings, I'll raze 6.
"I said, 'Mr. Kalikow, how do you tear down a piece of a landmark?' " Ms. Wallerstein recalled.
Ms. Wallerstein was also under pressure from her allies to make a deal. She said the Preservation League of New York State told her: "If you lose this one, you're not only going to lose it for City and Suburban, you're going to lose it for all the rest of us that are trying so hard. Because this will set a precedent that the Board of Estimate -- and now the City Council -- will be able to cut down landmarks if you don't win this."
"So that," Ms. Wallerstein said, "was a hard call."
She agonized all of 10 minutes and decided not to fold. Now the City and Suburban is a site on the Circle Line tour. "It's now a city, state and Federal landmark," Ms. Wallerstein says. "Cannot be torn down."
 
 
 
A NEW LIFE AHEAD
 Why does she do it? Because she loves doing it. And because not everyone has the time, money or temperament to devote so much of their lives to improving their quality of life. "I feel that much luckier if I can do it," she said.
Nevertheless, the costs of her unceasing vigilance have recently prompted her to re-examine her priorities.
On one level, there is the economic expense; in the heat of battle her phone bills are astronomical. Her husband of 30 years, a lawyer, supports Ms. Wallerstein's work financially, but not always philosophically.
"He does not share my commitment to giving so much time to community work," she said. "He would like me to spend more time on myself and home furnishings and to be more available in the evenings."
And then there is the personal price. Ms. Wallerstein, the mother of two grown children, has made sacrifices. She has lost sleep, gained weight, missed vacations, worked weekends. She would like more time for the opera and the symphony. As it is, she has barely been able to prepare for her own belated bas mitzvah, coming up in May.
"It's an enormous amount of time," she said. "There are lots of things that I want to have the time to do that I couldn't do because I had to be doing this if I wanted this to be done.
"It is now time for me."
 
Riding Out the Bus Issue: How One Meeting Went
IT is 1:20 on a Friday afternoon and Betty Cooper Wallerstein is in the back seat of a cab with two members of her neighborhood association, heading downtown to meet with the Transit Authority.
The agency plans to reduce service and change the routes of two weekday express buses that travel from the Upper East Side to Battery Park City and the World Trade Center, the X90 and the X92. Because of low ridership, transit officials say they have been losing money on those lines.
As president of the East 79th Street Neighborhood Association, Ms. Wallerstein is bringing with her Jeffrey Gold, chairman of the association's transportation committee, and Carlene Knowlton, one of the two association members Ms. Wallerstein has designated as her successors. On the way down in the hired car, they plot strategy.
First, Ms. Wallerstein lays out the purpose of the mission: they want to make a case for keeping the service in tact and to complain that the agency failed to adequately publicize the express line to increase ridership. But Ms. Wallerstein also makes clear that this visit may prove to be largely symbolic, a show of strength by the association in the presence of elected officials' representatives that may make an impact, but probably won't make a difference.
"They give us the time and courtesy to listen to us but the whole thing is a sham," Ms. Wallerstein says. "They have their minds made up. Their interest is really not in serving the ridership or in responding to the community. It will be frustrating, but it's something we have to do."
Ms. Wallerstein sets the impending scene: seven elected officials will be represented, and several people from the Transit Authority are expected to be present. She suggests that she and her cohorts -- who include an association member they are meeting there -- divide up the subject matter and, above all, stay focused.
Mr. Gold asks whether he should raise the issue of enforcing the bus lanes and Ms. Wallerstein vetoes that idea. "We're not going to bring up anything else," she says, "unless we get somewhere with what we have."
Because Ms. Knowlton has primarily come along to observe, Ms. Wallerstein makes an effort to fill her in on the historical subtext of what is about to transpire.
"Their strategy is to cut service in such a way that the death is done slowly," she says. "They cut the service, don't market it, change the routes and then -- when the ridership falters -- they use the low counts to make an argument to eliminate the service."
The meeting takes place around a conference table in the office of City Council Speaker Peter Vallone -- although Mr. Vallone himself is not present. (That A. Gifford Miller, the Councilman, was able to secure the room is, Ms. Wallerstein later explains, impressive for a freshman council member and something of "a coup" for the association; it says to the Transit Authority that the Upper East Side has clout and means business.)
Some sniping notwithstanding, the meeting seems to go smoothly. Ms. Wallerstein and her fellow association members say the express bus matters to their neighborhood and pass out examples of the questionnaire cards they distributed to East Side residents in conducting their own ridership survey -- as if to say they know from whence they speak.
The transit officials plead financial contingencies. "I feel like I'm in a waltz for eternity here," says Jack Lusk, senior vice president for customer services. "These things don't get done in a vacuum and the T.A. has corporate pressures. We end up butting heads over the same thing and I worry it ain't going away."
Ms. Wallerstein counters, "I never felt that we were waltzing," and insists that "taxpayers have a right to public transportation."
When the meeting ends, Ms. Wallerstein huddles with Ms. Knowlton for a post-mortem. "Do I think we're going to be successful?" she says. "No. But when they sit down in a month and they're going to have to cut again, maybe they'll think twice about the Wall Street lines."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "There is always a fine line between genius and madness, and she treads that fine line," says Parks Commissioner Henry J. Stern. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times) (pg. 12)
 
Chart/Photos: "Winning: Tips From Betty Cooper Wallerstein" provides various photos of Ms. Cooper in action and outlines her top-ten advice list. (pg. 1)
 
Chart/Map: "Betty Cooper Wallerstein: Where She Has Fought" shows sites in Manhattan where Ms. Cooper has been socially active. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: EAST 79TH STREET NEIGHBORHOOD ASSN

ORGANIZATION: EAST 79TH STREET NEIGHBORHOOD ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); POLITICS (79%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); LITIGATION (63%); 

PERSON: WALLERSTEIN, BETTY COOPER; POGREBIN, ROBIN CAROLYN MALONEY (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



590 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Can the Schools Stand or Deliver?

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
"THE answer to all our national problems comes down to a single word: education," Lyndon B. Johnson said in promoting his vision of the Great Society in the 1960's.
In that same spirit -- the eternal American faith that schools can solve all the nation's ills -- the nation's governors and top corporate executives are gathering this week in Palisades, N.Y., for what is being grandly billed as the Second National Education Summit. President Clinton is to address the governors Wednesday. 
 The gathering itself, occurring at a time of faint progress toward the "new era of education reform" that George Bush hailed after the first summit in 1989, reflects the prevailing belief that the nation needs to demand more from its struggling schools, teachers and underachieving students.
 
 
 
Too Much or Too Little
 But some historians and educators are offering the heretical notion that it can be as shortsighted to expect schools to do too much as it can be to accept when they do too little, particularly when enormous social and economic problems are seeping into the classroom and disagreement is rife over how the schools should respond. The critics argue that President Johnson got it wrong: that the nation's educational ills are more the result than the cause of its economic problems, investment decisions, violent culture and urban decay. And without adequate funds and realistic expectations and planning, periodic promulgations on how bad things are or how wonderful they can be will not improve education.
"Americans have always had very utopian expectations of what the schools can do," said David Tyack, a professor of education at Stanford University. "That can be a very positive way of recreating democracy. The problem comes when you promise too much and people get cynical. The danger with the utopian view of education policy is that it's a short jump from seeing education as the ark of the covenant to becoming cynical and disappointed enough to see schools as failures that don't matter at all."
Thus, this second summit is provoking two key questions: Is its agenda of higher standards and better technology the right one? And is America's faith in education realistic?
High expectations, as well as high achievement, have long been a central element of public education. From Horace Mann's millennial view of schools in the 1840's as mighty engines of moral and social uplift to the current view of them as pivotal to the nation's economic future, Americans have put so much faith in learning that a recent book, "Tinkering Toward Utopia" (Harvard University Press, 1995), by Mr. Tyack and Larry Cuban, calls education "almost a secular religion."
President Bush and the governors adopted ambitious national goals for improving schools over a 10-year period.
Since then, however, there has been little real progress in test scores or graduation rates and, worse, there have been some signs that education is sliding farther down in the national priorities. To revive momentum, the governors, each bringing along a major corporate executive, will try to move from the general goals of 1989 toward the establishment of specific, rigorous standards of what students must learn in different subject areas. The intent is to link mastery of those subjects with promotion to the next grade, something that is missing from many state systems. A high school diploma would be more than the worthless scrap of paper that many fear it has become. The other item on their agenda is to bring better computers and technology into the schools.
"The strength that standards have in other countries is that this is what your whole society expects of you," Albert Shanker, president of the American Federation of Teachers, says in materials put together for the conference. "It's so universal that it's not questioned."
 
 
 
School for Citizens
 Proponents of setting specific standards and holding children to them say they would be one antidote to grade inflation, so-called social promotions and institutionalized assumptions, including the widespread belief that many poor and black children cannot learn.
At a time of economic uneasiness and worries that the schools are failing to turn out adequately educated graduates for the workplace, the conference has an unapologetically utilitarian stance, and includes more corporate executives than educators.
Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado said: "The executives are saying, 'We're the customers for your products, meaning the graduates of the schools. We have something to say about what kind of products they ought to be.' And what in the world do you go to school for other than to become good citizens and get a job and raise a family?"
To some educators, that viewpoint, students as little more than future employees-in-training and the conference's emphasis on standards reflects a distressingly mechanistic image of education. Many see the focus on standards as overly simplistic, assuming high standards will overcome myriad social and cultural impediments to learning.
"The public debate and the political debate is mainly about all the wrong things," said Edward Miller, editor of the Harvard Education Letter. "People who actually work in schools are talking about completely different things than governors and politicians are."
While politicians are talking about vouchers and standards, Mr. Miller said, teachers are concerned about motivating children unprepared for and uninterested in learning, teaching disabled ones once routinely excluded or educating students unable to speak English well. Many say that a more useful approach to standards is to specify what money, technology or other materials should be available to all schools.
Few educators argue against standards, but there has been such a strong anti-Washington current since 1989 that few of them are advocating national standards. Many educators share a widely held belief that the sense of educational crisis and failure today represents a curious disconnect between what is wrong with education and how that fits into broader problems of American life.
 
 
 
It's the Culture, Stupid
 "The intellectual level of the schools can be no higher than the intellectual level of the culture in which they float," said Richard Gibboney, an education professor at the University of Pennsylvania and the former Vermont Commissioner of Education. "You look at TV. You look at our commercial culture. What you see in society is what you see in the schools."

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALISADES (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); HISTORY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); RELIGION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MILLENNIUM (69%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER BILL CLINTON (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



591 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: A Modest Strike;
For the U.A.W., It's Not the Revolution

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DAYTON, Ohio

 BODY:
AT first glance, the basic relationship between labor and capital in the United States seemed to be changing last week.
A small band of workers, just 3,000 brake makers here, had shut down the world's largest auto maker, the General Motors Corporation, in the industry's biggest work stoppage since 1970. Some outsiders called for the United Automobile Workers to rally Americans under a banner of resistance to the broad forces of economic change that have produced so much insecurity across the country. And Robert Eaton, the chief executive of the Chrysler Corporation, lamented, "Today, apparently the shame is raising a son who grows up to be a C.E.O." 
 Yet the U.A.W. never took up that banner, negotiating last week's settlement in total secrecy. Even while the Presidential campaign brings fresh attention to the plight of workers, corporate America remains in a season of downsizing. And the brake workers themselves -- with an average age of 50 and an average income of $69,000 a year from working six- and seven-day weeks -- were singularly unenthusiastic about playing the starring role in any social revolution.
 
 
 
Strictly Local
 "We didn't want to shake up the nation, we just wanted to shake up the people in here," said Warren M. Cooper, a 53-year-old picketer at the factory gate who put his three children through college on his earnings here.
Nor did the union have much to say about larger issues like corporate responsibility and economic inequality. In contrast to the U.A.W. of the 1930's and 1940's, this union went on strike here not to galvanize other workers or even to pursue higher wages or benefits, but to insist that G.M. live up to past promises to continue producing most of its brakes in Dayton.
And in the end, the workers here won some job security and cash for themselves while resisting G.M.'s demands for greater freedom to buy parts from outside, nonunion companies. But the union failed to put any new limits on these outside purchases, leaving the overall relationship with the company unchanged.
It was management, not labor, that was on the offensive during much of the strike. G.M. resisted bargaining with the U.A.W. for the first week of the confrontation, which lasted 17 days.
G.M. managers were trying to extract concessions on parts purchases that would boost the profitability of the company and its long-run ability to compete. In doing so, they provided a particularly vivid example of the broader shift of compensation away from workers and toward owners of capital.
"This is one of the skirmishes in one of the great battles over income share in this economy -- this is one of the great issues of how the product is divided," said James E. Annable, the chief economist at First Chicago NBD, the biggest bank in the Midwest. But it was management, not workers, that is trying to shift the balance at G.M., he added.
But the U.A.W.'s willingness to confront management might not be repeated elsewhere as long as Federal law continues to allow companies to hire replacement workers during strikes. The same U.A.W. that appeared invincible here last week lost a bitter 18-month strike at Caterpillar Inc. last year when the heavy equipment maker brought in replacements.
G.M. never even tried to train replacement workers because the company is simply too big to do so. Replacing its 240,000 U.A.W. workers would be a nearly impossible task even if G.M. were not in a market so competitive that a company's market share can melt away in weeks, never to be recovered.
But G.M. is also the nation's largest industrial corporation, with sales in the fourth quarter of last year that were 19 times greater, for example, than the sales of the Microsoft Corporation. Few other companies face the constraints that G.M.'s sheer size imposes.
 
 
 
The Public's Interest
 Labor experts said last week that while the immediate effects of the G.M. strike may have been spectacular, with several hundred thousand workers out of work, real changes in labor relations are more likely to come from political pressures than from strikes. To the dismay of corporate leaders like Mr. Eaton, business decisions affecting employees are increasingly the subject of public scrutiny, including criticism from politicians of both parties.
"Outsourcing and downsizing, those two issues which have to do with corporate behavior, are all out now in the public domain," said Barry Bluestone, a professor of political economy at the University of Massachusetts.
The prospects for political changes are murky for now. Republicans in Congress strongly favor allowing the replacement of strikers, while a Federal court has rejected President Clinton's effort to halt Federal contracts by executive decree for companies that hire replacement workers. Last week the Justice Department filed an appeal of the court decision.
So while a few of the U.A.W. workers here bemoaned the job insecurity and economic inequality that are changing the nation, their strike did not appear to have done much to halt either trend.
"When I got out of high school, there were good-paying jobs -- now, you've got people coming out of college and there aren't any jobs," said Jim Breen, a 48-year-old maintenance worker here who walked the picket line near his shiny black 1994 GMC Sonoma pickup truck. "I know people who have got 25-year-olds sitting on their couch who can't put the money together for the insurance on their car."

GRAPHIC: Photo: G.M. was all but shut down by 3,000 strikers in Dayton, among them Larry Price, stepping into the cold. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (72%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (71%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); GENERAL MOTORS CORP INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON (OHIO); UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; STRIKES; BRAKES STRIKES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE BRAKE SYSTEM MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH ROBERT J EATON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



592 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: When 'Ketchup' Is 'Tomato Achievement'

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE House passed the Immigration in the National Interest bill last week, while the Senate adopted the Common Sense Liability and Legal Reform bill. This week both expect to vote on the Contract With America Advancement bill.
Editorializing in bill naming is hardly a recent invention, even if it seems to have increased exponentially in this Congress. The Democrats who controlled the 103d Congress passed the Goals 2000: Educate America Act (to help states establish school achievement standards), and it tried to pass the Cesar Chavez Workplace Fairness Act (which would have barred hiring of permanent replacements for striking workers). 
 In the previous decade, a tax cut was called the Economic Recovery Act of 1981, while another measure, which preceded higher deficits, was called the Balanced Budget and Deficit Control Act of 1985.
 
 
 
The Best Defense
 Even before that, President Lyndon B. Johnson got a law enacted called the Safe Streets and Omnibus Crime Control Act, and President Dwight D. Eisenhower had both the National Defense Highway Act and the National Defense Education Act.
But in a quieter, less market-driven time, Social Security was good enough for Franklin D. Roosevelt. In those days, the bill could be passed without being called the Dignity in Old Age Act or the Keep Grandma Out of the Poorhouse Act.
Recently, the name game has picked up enormously. The Republicans' Contract With America Advancement bill, which would raise the Federal debt limit, allow line-item vetoes and ease regulation of small businesses, follows a pattern. Every item on the Contract With America had a tendentious name, too, from the Personal Responsibility bill (which would limit how long people could get welfare) to the American Dream Restoration Act (which would cut taxes).
Ed Gillespie, the communications director at the Republican National Committee, wrote those titles, according to Tony Blankley, press secretary to Speaker Newt Gingrich. Mr. Gillespie would not confirm or deny authorship. But he said, "People have a right to know what proponents are trying to accomplish."
The names aren't widely disseminated -- newspapers and television news rarely use them, though they can be found as written on the Internet. Still, using these highly descriptive titles "encourages members to talk about the bills in terms that mean something to people in the real world," Mr. Gillespie said.
As his favorite example of how a name can be changed to get attention, he cited the House Republicans' renaming of last year's Omnibus Budget Reconciliation bill, changing it to the Balanced Budget bill.
Mr. Blankley noted that political figures had always chosen names that they thought would confer an advantage. The most dramatic examples, he said, were Stalin (the former Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili), Lenin (Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov) and, of course, Hitler; "Heil Schicklgruber," after all, did not have much of a ring to it, Mr. Blankley added.
House Democrats take a dimmer view of this style of naming bills, at least when practiced by Republicans. Representative Andrew Jacobs Jr. of Indiana said the practice was an extension of a principle he first saw in action in the State Legislature: "Most evil is sold in the name of good."
 
 
 
Democratic Names
 Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, noting that titles could be amended, wondered aloud if Democrats should not have tried to change the name of the immigration bill to the Statue of Liberty Was Wrong measure.
But some of these critics are not bad at the tactic themselves. Mr. Jacobs sought for years to diminish the perks afforded retired Presidents. His bill was called the Former Presidents Enough Is Enough and Taxpayers Relief Act.
Indeed, he is still at it. With Representative Dan Burton, a very conservative Republican also from Indiana, Mr. Jacobs is promoting a bill to require football, baseball, basketball and hockey to use instant television replay. It is called the What Really Happened bill. He said his first choice for a name had been the It Wasn't a Touchdown, Stupid bill.
No matter how imaginative, however, Congress is in no danger of matching the worldwide record for legislative excess in this department, achieved in 1959 when the South African Parliament passed a bill to remove black students from those universities that would admit them. It was called the Extension of Higher Education Act.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (77%); AMERICA ADVANCEMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (77%); AMERICA ADVANCEMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); VETO (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); STRIKES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (65%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



593 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Mounties Accused of Failing to Protect Their Man

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: TORONTO, March 23

 BODY:
In his scarlet tunic, blue breeches with a yellow stripe and wide-brimmed hat, the Mountie has long been a symbol of Canada. But these days, that figure of fortitude and rectitude who always gets his man is likely -- at least in the nation's irreverent press -- to wear the face of Mickey Mouse.
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police have taken a drubbing lately over incidents that have raised questions about their ability to protect the Prime Minister. 
 In November an intruder armed with a knife broke into the Ottawa residence of Prime Minister Jean Chretien as he and his wife slept. After hearing footsteps, Mrs. Chretien, thinking it was one of their aides, confronted the man in a hallway. She quickly retreated, bolting the bedroom doors and sounding an alarm. The couple had to wait nearly 10 minutes before help arrived.
In February, during Flag Day ceremonies in Hull, Mr. Chretien found himself before a demonstrator protesting cuts in unemployment insurance who shouted in French, "Chretien to the unemployment line!"
Although Mr. Chretien, 62, easily shoved the protester aside, questions were again raised about the Mounties' inadequacies.
"It's deplorable that an incident like that occurred," Mr. Chretien said. "I should not be confronted with situations like that."
Canadians have long valued relatively easy access to their Prime Minister. But in the national soul-searching now under way, many are asking how long this will continue.
"The fact is that times have changed," said Bob Fife, Ottawa bureau chief for The Toronto Sun, "and we are as susceptible to loonies as the Americans."
After what the Mounties themselves identified as a "breakdown in supervision and communications," they have strengthened the chain of command and upgraded the Prime Minister's security systems.
Four junior officers and an inspector were suspended after the incident with the intruder, according to a Mounties report.
The report also said, "The policies are extremely weak relative to what is expected of a member when an alarm situation occurs."
In the Flag Day incident, the Mounties said that Mr. Chretien was never in danger. But his office was furious.
In fact Mr. Chretien, made a point of cutting back his personal security and on Flag Day had gotten in front of his moving security screen.
Corporal Moreau said that "the perimeter will be tighter in the future while still allowing him the accessibility he wants."
The Mounties' image has also been colored by an agreement last June with the Walt Disney Company. Tired of letting purveyors of keychains, T-shirts, dolls and coffee mugs profit from its stalwart reputation, the force sold Disney the merchandising rights for its image. The proceeds will help pay for community police work.
Canada is one of the world's safest countries in the world, so it spends less on security than any other industrial country, said Richard Chenoweth, vice president of Intercom Security Ltd., the country's largest security company,
But, Mr. Chenoweth added, with Canadian politics "heating up and getting more personal, the Mounties are not being given a level of resources appropriate to the task."
A University of Toronto historian, Robert Bothwell, said, "I have a certain sympathy for the Mounties." He said, "It's not always their fault that they don't have the right people at the right place at the right time."
But, he added, the latest incidents raise questions about the way the force is managed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (80%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (80%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLICE FORCES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (62%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (60%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN) JEAN CHRETIEN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



594 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Help Wanted: Deal Makers

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In many ways the immediate Taiwan crisis ended two weeks ago. On March 8, the U.S. national security adviser, Anthony Lake, met privately with his Chinese counterpart, Liu Hua Qui, at Pamela Harriman's farm in Middleburg, Va. The conclusion of their daylong meeting was an "understanding" that went like this: The U.S. would use its influence to try to restrain Taiwan from any more far-reaching moves toward independence, and in return Beijing would not use military force to resolve its current dispute with Taipei.
But having defused the short-term crisis, both sides understood that a longer-term deal had to be struck that would stabilize relations between China and Taiwan. There is such a deal to be had. This is not a Greek tragedy fated to end badly. 
 Taiwan's newly elected President, Lee Teng-hui, should vow that Taiwan will not now pursue full independence by seeking membership in institutions such as the U.N., and China should vow that while it remains committed to eventual reunification with Taiwan, it will only seek to accomplish this through peaceful means. In exchange for assurances from Taiwan that it will not pursue creeping, unilateral independence, China should also commit itself to allowing Taiwan a higher profile on the world stage. This could be anything from observer status in the U.N. to membership in the I.M.F. and World Bank. Taiwan would thrive from such a deal. It would have de facto independence, de jure democracy, flourishing capitalism and time -- time for history to take its course and transform China into a state that Taiwan could more easily coexist with. Beijing, meanwhile, could claim victory -- that its sovereignty was not being dismembered.
What worries me is not that there isn't a subtle, long-term deal to be had. What worries me is that there aren't the subtle deal makers to make it happen.
In Beijing, China's now-incapacitated Deng Xiaoping was the sort of leader who could strike a tough, nuanced deal. But Mr. Deng's successor, Jiang Zemin, doesn't have such clout, and in the ongoing power struggle in Beijing, Mr. Jiang's rivals seem intent on using any sign of nuance on his part regarding Taiwan as a sign of weakness to be turned against him.
In Taiwan, President Lee deserves great credit for skillfully shepherding his country to democracy. But he is a complicated man -- born in Taiwan, educated in Japan and America. His heart is Taiwanese, his grammar is Japanese, his ideals Western and his leadership style Confucian aloofness. Mr. Lee does not have a good feel for mainland China, and by winning 54 percent of the vote in the presidential election, I fear he may get even more cocky in his dealings with Beijing.
As for the rest of Asia, I recently met with one of the region's elder statesmen and asked him why Japan, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand didn't play a more assertive role with China and help the U.S. resolve the crisis. He answered: "China has been around here for 3,000 years. The U.S. has been out here in Asia for about 50 years. We figure you're maybe good for another 20 years. But after that you'll be gone, and we'll be left here alone with China. We can't afford a confrontation." Thanks a lot.
Finally, in Washington, the Clinton Administration has been all over the board on China. It came in vowing to tame the "dictators in Beijing," then opted for a policy of engagement. But without any adult supervision, every arm of the government (and Congress) just engaged Beijing in its own way, with no overall strategy. U.S. China policy drifted aimlessly, which is one reason why this crisis went as far as it did. It is shocking how little attention China has been given compared with Syria or Israel or Bosnia.
It's time for President Clinton to lead on this issue. He will be in Japan in mid-April. Why doesn't he also go to Beijing and try to help foster a new deal between Taiwan and China? If U.S. officials can embrace Slobodan Milosevic, Hafez al-Assad and Boris Yeltsin (who has killed a lot more civilians in Chechnya than the Chinese ever did in Tiananmen), then they can have a sustained dialogue with the Chinese. The opportunities are so great. The stakes are so high. It would be nice if at least one statesman rose to the occasion. Who knows, others might just follow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TAIWAN LTD (90%); BANK OF TAIWAN LTD (90%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



595 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Gunboat Diplomacy

BYLINE: By James Shinn; James Shinn, senior fellow for Asia at the Council on Foreign Relations, is the author of "Weaving the Net: Conditional Engagement with China."

 BODY:
As revelers made their way home through the streets of Taipei yesterday after celebrating Taiwan's first democratic presidential election, Beijing and Washington were no doubt sharing some sobering reflections.
For 20 years, Taiwan has been suspended in strategic ambiguity, with the United States saying, in effect, "If Taiwan declares independence, don't count on us; if China invades Taiwan, don't count us out." Now this ambiguity has been shattered. 
 China's missile tests and military exercises, while provocative, fell short of an invasion. Why did President Clinton up the ante so drastically, sending in the nuclear gunboats and discarding a Taiwan policy that had stood the test of two decades?
If Mr. Clinton consults his diplomatic advisers, they will point out that Taiwan has no allies in Asia. In contrast to the Desert Storm coalition that fought the Persian Gulf war, the United States stands alone on Taiwan. Japan and South Korea would likely resist using American bases on their soil in a conflict with China. Our security system in Asia could unravel.
If Mr. Clinton asks his pollsters, they will tell him that Taiwan is not a popular issue with the American public. Only 26 percent favor sending in the carriers; only 29 percent support the use of American troops if China invades.
If he listens to his generals, they will tell him that aircraft carriers can win any battle around Taiwan -- but then what? If China keeps up military pressure on the island, what is the Seventh Fleet supposed to do? Bombs away? China has a vibrant economy, a huge army and nuclear weapons.
So whom did Bill Clinton listen to? Probably his campaign advisers, who may well have argued that despite the polls, military muscle-flexing in an election year is usually worth a few million votes. The President can bask in the statesman's limelight, which is more fun than haggling with Newt Gingrich over the budget.
But how statesmanlike is it to risk a battle with the wrong adversary? China is not a rogue regime and not necessarily fated to be an enemy. It is not the Evil Empire, yet we hold Beijing to a harsher standard than we apply to Moscow today. We deploy aircraft carriers when the Chinese threaten Taiwan, yet we embrace Boris Yeltsin when he slaughters 30,000 citizens in Chechnya.
Where to go from here? For starters, the White House should state clearly, with more realism and less ambiguity, that if Taiwan declares independence, count us out; if China invades, count us in. But withdraw the gunboats now. Shove Taipei to restart negotiations with Beijing on peaceful reunification -- with China accepting Taiwan's legitimate "international space" for economic and cultural purposes, in exchange for Taiwan's renouncing any bid for political independence. And hope that booming cross-strait trade and investment will strengthen the hand of moderate voices on both sides.
In the meantime, Bill Clinton should hope that neither creeping independence from Taiwan, nor creeping provocation from China, come back to haunt him before Nov. 5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ARMIES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUDGETS (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



596 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: PATRICK J. BUCHANAN;
The Roots of a Populist Who Would Be President

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
At Gonzaga High School, the Jesuit institution in Washington from which Patrick J. Buchanan graduated in 1956, the ideal of education was expressed in a Latin term, eloquentia perfecta, or perfect eloquence. It meant that students, instructed in written expression, in Ovid, Cicero, "The Gallic Wars" and in public speaking, were expected to attain rhetorical mastery as the fruit of their immersion in the liberal arts.
That training has served Mr. Buchanan well, as a columnist, broadcaster, Presidential speech writer and now, Presidential candidate. 
 His campaign, which once seemed as if it was ready to sweep all foes from the field, is fading before Bob Dole's march to the Republican nomination. But in the fervor with which Mr. Buchanan presses his crusade, the tenets of his Roman Catholic education can be seen.
Yet, in looking at where he stands and where he has come from, scholars of American politics say it is hard to categorize him historically or to find any one ideological taproot.
Mr. Buchanan is often called a populist. And in many of his positions, he embodies the populist trend in American history and the anti-elitism of Presidential candidates like William Jennings Bryan and George C. Wallace.
Even Mr. Buchanan's attacks on immigration reflect a dark strain of populism. Historians say, though, that no single American politician has ever worked all the variations that he has on that theme -- conservative Republicanism, protectionism and traditional Catholic stands like his denunciation of abortion.
"In a number of ways I think that Pat Buchanan is a unique figure," said William E. Leuchtenberg, a professor of American history at the University of North Carolina.
Still, Michael Novak, a friend of Mr. Buchanan's who holds the Jewett Chair in Religion and Public Policy at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group in Washington, says Mr. Buchanan's ideology is rooted in his upbringing.
"Pat has the distinctively Irish-Catholic view of a certain generation and a certain wing of Irish Catholicism," Mr. Novak said. "It's a view where one is moved by a kind of resentment, the feeling of 'it's us against them.' "
That Catholicism and world view were imbued in Mr. Buchanan from childhood, he wrote in his 1988 autobiography, "Right From the Beginning" (Little, Brown). He wrote approvingly of his education at the Blessed Sacrament Elementary School and Gonzaga, which his six brothers also attended.
"For eight years, all my teachers were nuns, the sisters of the Holy Cross," Mr. Buchanan wrote. "No nonsense was tolerated," he added, recalling one incident in the cafeteria in which "Sister Sara Ann, a stout and explosive woman who had been my third-grade teacher, walloped one unruly seventh grader with her umbrella."
Mr. Buchanan described the Catholicism of his youth as militant, confident and uncompromising. "Why compromise when you have the true faith?" he wrote.
But it was from his father that he learned the combativeness with which he has confronted the world. William Baldwin Buchanan taught sons how to box, and he expected them never to shy from a fight. He was a man whose heroes were all people roundly condemned by liberals: Gen. Douglas MacArthur, Francisco Franco, the Spanish dictator, and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy.
Like his father, Mr. Buchanan seems to feel some affinity with anybody who is fierce in his defense of American interests or who is fervently anti-Communist.
 
For Buchanan, The Jewish Question
Mr. Buchanan's willingness to lend support to figures scorned by others has aroused criticism. He has opposed the prosecution of former Nazis and the ostracism of Kurt Waldheim, the former Austrian President and United Nations Secretary General who helped deport Jews in World War II.
To the fury of Jewish groups, Mr. Buchanan spoke against the deportations of several former Nazis or suspected former Nazis. These included John Demjanjuk of Cleveland, who was extradited to Israel, convicted and -- in a turn of events that caused Mr. Buchanan to claim vindication -- finally exonerated of charges that he was the guard known at the Treblinka concentration camp as "Ivan the Terrible." Mr. Buchanan has also spoken on behalf of suspected war criminals like Karl Linnas, accused of supervising the murder of children and women at a Nazi concentration camp in Estonia.
Some look at these stands and at statements like Mr. Buchanan's description of Holocaust survivors' memories as "group fantasies of martyrdom" and see anti-Semitism, plain and simple.
In the March 11 issue of The Weekly Standard, a new conservative publication, Norman Podhoretz, the former editor of Commentary magazine, called Mr. Buchanan "an unrepentant anti-Semite" and said conservatives should become aware of Mr. Buchanan's anti-Semitic record.
"What the honor of the conservative movement demands" Mr. Podhoretz added, "is that his anti-Semitism be taken seriously and that he be disqualified as a candidate because of it and because of it alone."
But in February, when the host of a radio show in New Hampshire asked Mr. Buchanan if he was anti-Semitic, he scoffed. "We have Jewish supporters," he said. "We've got rabbis on the board of our campaign. We've had Jewish friends our whole lives."
Several years ago, William F. Buckley Jr. examined Mr. Buchanan's public record and wrote in National Review magazine: "I find it impossible to defend Pat Buchanan against the charge that what he did and said during the period under examination amounted to anti-Semitism."
But Mr. Buckley has recently written that those who saw his article as a condemnation of Mr. Buchanan as an anti-Semite were wrong. "The anti-Semitic pulsations of what he was then saying were prompted not by anti-Semitism but by the allure of audience titillation/shock, the Lenny Bruce Syndrome," Mr. Buckley wrote.
 
Political Lowdown And a Higher Law
In his autobiography, Mr. Buchanan cited Mr. Buckley as one of several people who have had an important influence on his ideas and political identity. He said Mr. Buckley's creation of the conservative National Review in the 1950's came as a revelation at a time when, as a young man, Mr. Buchanan was in need of a model.
"For us," he wrote, "what National Review did was take the word 'conservatism,' then a synonym for stuffy orthodoxy, Republican stand-pat-ism and economic self-interest, and convert it into the snapping pennant of a fighting faith."
Mr. Buchanan also speaks reverentially of a less-well-known role model, his professor of ethics at Georgetown University, from which he graduated in 1961. This was the Rev. Stephen F. McNamee, whose lectures on a natural law of God higher than any government's laws "made us understand the natural code of morality that a beneficent God had left written on the human heart, even for those who disbelieved in the Christian faith."
The theory of natural law seems to be behind Mr. Buchanan's fierce opposition to abortion, even in cases of rape or incest. He has used that concept to justify a variety of things, from the illegal underground railroad for escaped slaves to Oliver North's defiance of a Federal ban on arming the Nicaraguan contras.
David Garrow, a professor of history at American University, finds a striking similarity, though, between Mr. Buchanan and another populist, Mr. Wallace. Both men have railed at "insiders" whom they considered morally bankrupt and whom they said controlled the United States without regard for ordinary, hard-working people. Mr. Buchanan's speeches drip with disgust at Washington bureaucrats and intellectuals, using phrases reminiscent of Mr. Wallace's famous line about "pointy-headed bureaucrats who can't park their bicycles straight."
In his recent biography of Mr. Wallace, the historian Dan Carter recounts that Mr. Buchanan was the adviser in the Nixon White House who first understood the political importance of Mr. Wallace's focus on social issues.
"What Buchanan has done," Mr. Carter said, "is wed the Wallace appeal, emphasizing fear of cultural and moral retrogression, with a kind of economic policy, mainly trashing trans-nationals, but it confronts the issue of insecurity in the way that other candidates haven't."
 
A Populist Twist To Protectionism
The populist tradition in American life spurred many reforms and represented a kind of grass-roots democracy, but it also contained some of the uglier elements in American political life -- paranoia, nativism and anti-Semitism. Mr. Buchanan's critics have accused him of exploiting these elements in coded messages aimed at appealing to the darker side of the electorate.
In urging protectionism, Mr. Buchanan has taken a theme that was once a Republican staple and given it a contemporary populist twist.
Mr. Buchanan's speeches about the working-class victims of capitalism include terms like "bloodsucking multinational banks" and "the moneylenders of the Fortune 500," sounding very much like a Republican William Jennings Bryan.
"On the one side stand the corporate interests of the United States, the moneyed interests, aggregated wealth and capital, imperious, arrogant, compassionless," Bryan said a century ago. "On the other side stand an unnumbered throng, those who gave the Democratic Party a name and for whom it has assumed to speak."
There was a "tincture of anti-Semitism," though, in the populist tradition, the historian Richard Hofstadter wrote -- an identification of Jews with money.
Seymour Martin Lipset, a professor of Public Policy at George Mason University, said Mr. Buchanan echoes this in his references to Jewish names, like those of Robert E. Rubin, the Treasury Secretary, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and the investment firm of Goldman-Sachs when criticizing Wall Street and big business.
"Whenever he picks on an institution that's doing badly," Mr. Lipset said, "he picks on a Jew, not on others."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrick J. Buchanan was a senior in this 1956 file photo from Gonzaa High School in Washington. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); HISTORY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); RELIGION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); WRITERS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); IMMIGRATION (51%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, RICHARD; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J WILLIAM BALDWIN BUCHANAN (98%); PATRICK J BUCHANAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



597 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan's Democratic Election

 BODY:
Yesterday's presidential election in Taiwan was an affirmation of democracy, but not a declaration of independence. It is important that the leaders of Taiwan, China and the United States recognize that distinction in the weeks ahead as they weigh the election results and the future of Taiwan.
Lee Teng-hui, who took power eight years ago after Chiang Kai-shek's son died in office, was elected yesterday in a free vote, the first democratic presidential election in Taiwan. China itself has never chosen its top leader by democratic elections. 
 Mr. Lee won a resounding victory over his three opponents, including a proponent of independence, because he has brought the island from the vestiges of authoritarianism to a level of political freedom rare in Asia. Mr. Lee has also presided over a doubling of Taiwanese living standards since he assumed power.
But if the voters' concerns were primarily domestic, the question of Taiwan's current and future status clearly influenced the campaign. Mr. Lee appears determined to prevent reunification with China as long as the Communist Government remains in power in Beijing, but he stops short of openly supporting Taiwanese independence. Like most Taiwanese, he has no taste for a military confrontation with China that Taiwan cannot win.
China's recent missile tests and military exercises in the Taiwan Strait failed to frighten voters away from Mr. Lee. If anything, China's belligerence backfired not only on Taiwan, but across Asia and in Washington. Beijing's willingness to threaten military force for political ends has shaken the region's assumptions about China's peaceful intentions.
Taiwan today is neither an independent country nor a province governed by Beijing. Its ambiguous status dates to the Chinese civil war. In 1949, Chiang Kai-shek, the defeated anti-Communist leader, fled to Taiwan from the mainland with his armies and political entourage. By the late 1980's, with the mainland pursuing economic reform, Taiwanese businessmen began investing heavily in China. Until last year, the two sides seemed headed toward a pragmatic understanding. Then politics intervened.
Mr. Lee, whose family comes from the island, not the mainland like his predecessors, courted support on Taiwan by needlessly seeking the trappings of independence, including separate Taiwanese admission to the United Nations and unofficial diplomatic ties with countries that recognize Beijing, including the United States. China predictably responded by redoubling its efforts to bend Taiwan to its will.
Strengthened by his election, Mr. Lee should now try to steer relations with China back to a state of equilibrium. China, for its part, should end the military intimidation and threatening rhetoric.
There is an increasingly strong case to be made for eventual Taiwanese independence, as islanders grow used to political and economic freedoms that would probably not survive under Communist rule. But for now the cost of pressing that case -- including possible Chinese disruptions of Taiwan's trade-based economy -- would exceed any potential gain. Mr. Lee should concentrate on building and protecting the freedoms and informal autonomy Taiwan already enjoys.
The United States was right to send warships to stand by Taiwan's coast to counter the Chinese threats. Now it should encourage both sides to step back from confrontation and return to the mutually advantageous cooperation they were pursuing only a year ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ARMIES (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: LEE TENG-HUI (PRES) CHIANG KAI-SHEK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



598 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: A Cleaner, Deeper Harbor

 BODY:
New York Harbor is in danger of shutting down. Thousands of tons of riverborne silt that accumulate naturally every year are choking its bays and tributaries and driving shippers to deeper ports in Nova Scotia, Maryland and Virginia. At risk are billions in annual revenues and 180,000 jobs that depend, directly or indirectly, on the Port of New York and New Jersey.
The politicians of New York and New Jersey face a critical choice. They can take steps to maintain the port's rank as one of the top three terminals in America or they can go the way of Oakland, Calif., which failed to resolve precisely the same problem and dropped from No. 1 on the list of active ports to No. 19. 
 The crisis was described in Andrew Revkin's thorough report in The Times last Monday. Until 1995, the Army Corps of Engineers routinely scooped up 4.3 million cubic yards of mud and deposited it in the ocean at a "mud dump" six miles east of the Jersey Shore. Then the Federal Government changed the rules. It decided that at least two-thirds of the silt at the bottom of the harbor is so tainted with toxic material -- PCB's, dioxin, and heavy metals like mercury -- that it cannot be dumped in the ocean. This ruling brought dredging to a virtual halt, and shipping has already slowed.
The obvious answer is to find a safe place to put the mud, and on this score there are positive developments. Representative Bob Franks, Republican of New Jersey, has introduced a bill that would revise the terms of the Federal Harbor Maintenance Trust. There is $600 million in this fund that can be spent on dredging but not on disposal. Mr. Franks's bill would free up money to build secure containment sites, under water or on land. This is an excellent idea that the New York and New Jersey Congressional delegations should rally around. Meanwhile, Gov. George Pataki of New York has ordered Michael Finnegan -- his counsel and trouble-shooter -- to work with New Jersey officials. Mr. Finnegan helped find a solution to the crisis over New York City's watershed. His new assignment is no less challenging.
There are formidable hurdles to finding a rational solution, not least the need to distinguish between real problems and perceived problems that have more to do with politics than science. A case in point is Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey. Mrs. Whitman has been way out in front on this issue, recognizing early on that the dredging impasse threatened local jobs.
But when a reputable conservation group, the Environmental Defense Fund, tried to convince her that existing technology could create secure dumping pits off the Jersey shore -- deep holes capped by tons of clean sand -- Mrs. Whitman balked. New Jersey beaches have taken a terrible pounding from untreated sewage and medical waste, and the Governor's constituents are convinced that ocean disposal will never be safe.
A similar problem of public perception confronts Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Brooklyn Democrat. Mr. Nadler wants to redirect some of the shipping business to the virtually defunct Brooklyn docks, where the channel is naturally deeper than it is on the New Jersey side of the harbor. That would relieve the pressure to dredge in Newark Bay and help Brooklyn's economy in the bargain. In exchange, however, containment pits would be built inside New York Harbor, an idea many of Mr. Nadler's constituents resist.
There are two agendas here. The first is to make New York Harbor environmentally safe. The second is to make New York Harbor economically sound. Sometimes environmental and economic goals are in conflict, but in this case, they are not. Science suggests that the toxic mud at the bottom of the harbor can be dredged and put to use as landfill or safely quarantined under water. That would mean a cleaner environment. It would also mean deeper channels, more ships and more jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK HARBOR; UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PORTS; WATER POLLUTION; DREDGES AND DREDGING; EDITORIALS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; LANDFILL TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); BEACHES (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENGINEERING (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); WATER POLLUTION (71%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (71%); ARMIES (70%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (68%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); 

PERSON: TRENT FRANKS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



599 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles District Attorney Is Riding High Before Vote

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 23

 BODY:
Little more than six months ago, the Los Angeles County District Attorney, Gil Garcetti, seemed finished. His political obituaries were being written. After all, the man who came to office promising to win the big cases, appeared to have bungled the biggest one of all, the O. J. Simpson trial.
But this week, after having won a resounding victory in the retrial of Lyle and Erik Menendez, Mr. Garcetti finds himself likely to be returned to office as chief prosecutor in the nation's largest district attorney's office. 
 On Wednesday, a jury convicted the Menendez brothers of first-degree murder, rejecting their assertions that years of sexual and emotional abuse had compelled them to gun down their parents in self-defense. The brothers' first prosecution resulted in a mistrial in January 1994 -- and in what was widely considered a fiasco for the district attorney's office -- when separate juries deadlocked between manslaughter and murder verdicts.
And in the time since the Simpson verdict in October, much of the public ire about the verdict seems to have settled on the jury, rather than on the district attorney's office.
"I feel very good right now," Mr. Garcetti, 54, said in an interview, confidently explaining why, in a crowded field of candidates, voters still support him -- an assessment shared by most political analysts here. "The only question is whether I win in March outright, which most political pundits say is possible, or do I win it in November."
Some of his opponents agree.
"No one is going to beat Garcetti outright," said Steve S. Zand, a criminal defense lawyer in Encino. "The question is whether we can get him into a run-off. The Menendez victory totally erodes the candidates who have been running on the 'Hey, Garcetti lost all the high-profile cases.' "
It is not that voters here have all of a sudden forgotten about the Simpson verdict. Indeed, Mr. Garcetti's five challengers have made the primary on Tuesday something of a referendum on what they refer to as his inept management of the Simpson prosecution.
In particular, Mr. Garcetti's critics assert that his decision to rely on the testimony of former Detective Mark Fuhrman, contributed to the Simpson acquittal. More recently, the district attorney's office was roundly ridiculed for the acquittal of the rap performer Snoop Doggy Dog on murder charges.
"People in the district attorney's office are sick of having Jay Leno make fun of them all the time," said John F. Lynch, a 50-year-old veteran deputy district attorney, offering one explanation for why he wants Mr. Garcetti's job.
Mr. Garcetti's other rivals in the coming election are Harold Greenberg, 57, a former law professor now in private practice and two deputy district attorneys, Malcolm Jordan, 54, and Sterling E. Norris, 56. If no candidate wins a majority in the nonpartisan contest, the top two finishers will face off in November.
But unlike Mr. Garcetti, a highly visible political figure in Los Angeles for nearly a decade, his challengers are virtual unknowns with limited campaigns. Perhaps most important, with nearly $1 million in his campaign chest, he has raised more than twice as much as his nearest challenger, Mr. Jordan.
It is not unusual for deputy district attorney's to be challenging the boss. Indeed, no one understands the backbiting and political rivalries of the office better than Mr. Garcetti, who defeated his predecessor, Ira Reiner, in 1992, in large part by harping on his poor record in high-profile cases.
Though Mr. Reiner won convictions in a number of important cases, his name became associated with several high-profile losses, including the McMartin Pre-School child molestation trials and the trial of John Landis, the director of the film "Twilight Zone," in which three actors were killed by a helicopter.
Most stunning was the failure of his office to win convictions in the trial of four White Los Angeles police officers who were captured on videotape beating and kicking Rodney G. King, a black motorist.
"He has put personal publicity first and prosecution of criminals last," Mr. Garcetti said of Mr. Reiner in the 1992 campaign. Facing long odds for a third term after Mr. Garcetti defeated him in the primary, Mr. Reiner pulled out of the run-off, saying he did not have the stomach for a negative campaign.
Certainly Mr. Garcetti is seen as a vastly more complicated public figure than when he was first elected. His work record -- he was Mr. Reiner's second-in-command before fighting with and being demoted by his boss -- suggested a brash, audacious streak.
Then came the difficulty of running law-enforcement efforts in a diverse, politically volatile and economically imbalanced county. And it has been no dream four years for Mr. Garcetti and Los Angeles, he himself acknowledges.
His detractors draw a portrait of a blatantly political office that has bungled many cases both major and minor. In particular, he has been harshly criticized, inside and outside the office, for paying substantial bonuses to the prosecutors in the Simpson case, while some staff members have gone without a raise for years.
But while his support has waned inside the office, which has a staff of about 900 lawyers, Mr. Garcetti has proved to be an astute politican outside and has a seemingly unerring flair for attracting publicity. During much of the Simpson trial, Mr. Garcetti appeared on television numerous times, justifying his offices' handling of the case and attacking defense tactics.
Yet the same penchant for publicity that has brought Mr. Garcetti to prominence may lead to his downfall. He has become so closely identified some of the most famous cases handled by his office that it has proved difficult for him to distance himself when things go awry, as happened in the Simpson case.
Mr. Garcetti would probably prefer not focusing on the high-profile cases, which by any accounting do not reflect well on his tenure. Rather, in television advertisements, he cites his office's overall 93 percent conviction rate, a figure that compares well with almost any other big city prosecutor's office in the country.
Mr. Lynch, who is endorsed by The Los Angeles Times and who is seen by some as Mr. Garcetti's strongest challenger, vows, if he is elected, to keep a much lower public profile.
"The critical difference between Gil and I," he said in an interview, "is that he thinks that the proper role of a prosecutor is to get out there and spin in the media with the defense. I think that is inappropriate. You shouldn't care about the court of public opinion."
Another challenger, Mr. Greenberg, takes an equally dim view of being cozy with the media. "I'm not gong to try my cases in the press," he said. "I would try them in the courtroom. I would get rid of all the monstrosity that Garcetti has created in the press office."
By now, with the smoothness that comes from frequent repetition, Mr. Garcetti has honed his explanations for the cases. He tells audiences that his accomplishments, with some modesty, are "significant" and that fund raising is a "regretful necessity" of political life."
In any event, a convincing re-election victory would make him a formidable contender for statewide office. And Mr. Garcetti has done nothing to dispel the notion that he has larger political ambitions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gil Garcetti is likely to be re-elected as the Los Angeles County District Attorney. Last week, he met with a women's education group. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES COUNTY (CALIF); ; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SIMPSON MURDER CASE ; ELECTIONS VERDICTS (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); MURDER (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); MISTRIAL (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); ACQUITTAL (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MANSLAUGHTER (75%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (70%); REFERENDUMS (65%); RAP MUSIC (60%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B; SIMPSON, O J; SIMPSON, NICOLE BROWN; GOLDMAN, RONALD LYLE; MENENDEZ, ERIK; MENENDEZ, LYLE; MENENDEZ, KITTY; MENENDEZ, JOSE ; GARCETTI, GIL (DIST ATTY) JAY LENO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996



600 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Timing Helped G.O.P. Win Farm-Bill Battle, but a Challenge Is Likely

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23

 BODY:
For months, Democrats objected that a Republican-led overhaul of America's farm programs, ending New Deal crop subsidies to farmers and replacing them with gradually declining flat payments over seven years, would shred a valuable Government safety net.
But after a House-Senate panel struck a deal on that very approach this week, President Clinton and senior Congressional Democrats bit their lips and reluctantly agreed to go along. 
 What happened?
First of all, Congress had to act. The 5-year old law had expired, and everyone agreed that reverting to the permanent 1949 law was impractical and far too expensive. Most important, the new Republican majority was convinced that a change to free-market principles in farming was critical to keep the United States competitive in the world market. They also believed that the changes would eventually save money.
The timing was crucial. The nation's 1.5 million farmers were clamoring for a quick resolution because planting season has started in many areas. And no one wanted to alienate farmers in an election year.
But the apparent surrender by the Democrats could also be a tactical retreat. Lobbyists and members of Congress representing those with small farms, which are most vulnerable to market swings, are already regrouping to take another run at the farm bill next year. And if Mr. Clinton is re-elected this fall, he promises, he will lead the charge to protect farmers against natural disasters or price collapses.
"I am firmly committed to working with Congress next year to strengthen the farm safety net," Mr. Clinton said on Friday, "and I plan to propose legislation to do so."
Congress could not have picked a better time to retool the country's agricultural policy. Under the new approach, farmers are guaranteed $4 billion to $5 billion a year in transitional payments through 2002. At the same time, crop prices are at 10-year highs. So farmers win both ways.
"It's easier to look at change in times when you have better prices," said Bill Northey, president of the National Corn Growers Association, representing 30,000 farmers in 25 states, "but I don't think anyone believes that these better prices will be with us for the whole seven years."
That is what many Democrats fear. "When prices decline, and they will, thousands of farmers will be forced off their land," said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota. "This will not only devastate farms, but also banks and Main Street businesses."
Free market proponents acknowledge that the new approach carries more risk. But the tradeoff is that most government controls over planting decisions will end, letting farmers grow what they want to take advantage of export markets. Current controls affect only the farmers in the program; many others do not participate and have always been able to plant what they want.
Underlying this approach is the Republican goal of reducing Federal spending. Republicans say their bill will cost more initially than the current program but will save $2 billion over seven years. The bill follows trends in France and many other European countries, which have drastically pared farm subsidies.
"If you look at the big picture over the long term, this will require farmers to use their wits and tools of the marketplace more aggressively," Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman said in an interview.
Agricultural economists say the new policy will mostly affect small and medium-sized farms, particularly in the Upper Midwest and Southwest, that grow crops covered by the Federal program, like wheat, rice, cotton and corn.
Mr. Glickman said the Administration wanted to develop more innovative "risk-management" mechanisms for farmers and would explore with private industry changes in the often-criticized crop insurance program. The House-Senate panel ended the requirement that farm-program participants buy crop insurance.
The Agriculture Department has started two pilot programs in Iowa and Nebraska that would safeguard farmers against natural disasters and low market prices. Congressional experts are also looking at various tax-deferred financing mechanisms for farmers.
Democrats are expected to try again to eliminate a cap on the rates of loans that farmers can take out, using their crops as collateral.
The new approach, called Freedom to Farm by its supporters, would accelerate the ongoing consolidation of smaller, less profitable farms into larger, more efficient corporate farms. That has serious implications, not only for the face of farming in America but also for the livelihoods of rural communities.
"The ongoing trend is being driven by changes in technology and in agriculture," said Marvin Duncan, an agricultural economist at North Dakota State University. "Freedom to Farm tends to speed up that process. Whether that's good or bad depends on one's philosophical position."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CORN FARMING (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); KENT CONRAD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996

 
